  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  1
CREATING A 
BRIGHTER FUTURE
2021 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  2
CONTENTS
ABOUT THIS REPORT
This is Lumentum’s inaugural corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) report, covering activities for the 
fiscal year ending July 3rd, 2021. Although this report 
represents FY21, it includes some details from FY20 
where noted. This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards: Core option. We have not sought external 
assurance of this entire report; however, our energy and 
emissions data have been verified by an independent 
third party.
We are excited to embark on our reporting journey and 
plan to regularly update our stakeholders on our CSR 
performance. We welcome your feedback. For any 
questions regarding the report, please contact 
CorporateSocialResponsibility@Lumentum.com . 
See what a brighter future looks like …03 Welcome
05 Introduction
09 Our Business
12 CSR at Lumentum 
15 Integrating the UN Sustainable Development Goals
16 Rising to the Challenge: Our COVID-19 Response  
19 Supply Chain Responsibility  
23 Innovation: Breakthrough Impact  
26 Spotlight on Quality: Building a Kaizen Culture   
29 The Pursuit of Excellence: Lumentum Navanakorn Factory   
33 Planet: Lighter Impact     
40 People: Positive Impact     
46 ESG KPI Data Summary  
50 GRI Content Index
55 SASB Index
56 UN Sustainable Development Goal Index
57 Verification Statement  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  3
A Message from the Board  
 
Thank you for this opportunity to share our progress and 
vision for corporate social responsibility at Lumentum. We 
believe in the value of good corporate citizenship. For years, 
we have incorporated strong governance practices into our 
business, and now we will leverage this foundation to 
illuminate our path toward a more sustainable future. 
We envision a brighter world by accelerating our photonic 
innovations. Over the next decade, organizations’ actions to 
mitigate and adapt to climate change will determine not only 
economic performance but long-term economic strength and 
viability. We recognize that we have a responsibility to all of 
our stakeholders, including employees, our shareholders, 
customers, suppliers, as well as to society as a whole, to act 
now. It is with this great sense of urgency that we have 
committed to a net zero emissions target by 2030.
Our work toward this goal has already begun with the 
transition to renewable energy at our headquarters and other 
sites. Actions such as renewable energy procurement, onsite energy generation, and energy efficiency improvements in 
our operations will continue to be identified and executed 
upon across our global footprint. These efforts not only are 
beneficial for the environment, but also drive innovation 
and enable us to continually improve our organization and 
our products. 
Telecommunications, high-speed internet access, and 
connectivity are ever-increasing priorities for the world. As a 
leading supplier of optical components and subsystems, 
Lumentum plays an important role in the innovation, design 
and performance of virtually all communication networks. We 
are a key enabler in providing internet access to people 
around the world. We optimize our products for best-in class 
performance, improved power efficiency, and best-in-class 
materials and processes.
To carry out this effort, employee health and safety is a key 
priority within Lumentum. In addition to our regular safety 
program and activities, we are proud of our response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. We were successful in ensuring a safe 
workplace for all our employees around the globe.
Social equity and racial justice are other challenges that we are 
taking very seriously here at Lumentum. Our commitment to 
diversity, equity and inclusion is making us a better company. 
We support and develop our employees, partners, and 
communities through this effort, which is driven across the 
company by our Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Council 
that we established in 2019. We work hard to engage 
underrepresented groups and offer an environment in which 
they can shine their brightest. Employing a diverse workforce 
is essential for Lumentum to build a long-term sustainable 
business and foster an inclusive culture that values differences 
and inspires creativity. 
Our Board, our management, and our employees are actively 
engaged in driving change to create a brighter future. We are 
excited that the organization is energized behind this effort, 
from top to bottom. We are proud of what we have 
accomplished to date and where we are going. Thank you for 
joining us on this journey and we welcome your feedback 
along the way.  
 
Respectfully,
Penelope Herscher   Julie Johnson  
Board Member  
and Chair  
Board Member and 
CSR LiaisonWelcome  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  4
Our leadership in product innovation is both a strength and a 
challenge. Maintaining our leadership means attracting and 
keeping the best and brightest employees. We know that 
innovation flourishes in an environment where motivated and 
skilled people can thrive. We recognize that being responsible 
corporate citizens is part of a foundation needed to keep 
innovation alive and well . As we move forward, we continue 
striving for the highest quality in all that we do. This includes 
expanding our CSR efforts to enhance and secure innovation’s 
place in our future. 
As good corporate citizens, we have focused diligently on 
compliance for many years, and we have a consistent track 
record of recognition from our customers in this space.  As a 
result of that commitment and focus, we go beyond necessary 
compliance in many areas, such as conflict minerals and 
restricted substances. Our efforts in other functional areas of 
CSR are in various stages of deployment. As we continue to 
build our CSR program, we are committed to making strides 
across the entire company to match our zero-defect culture 
and focus. To ensure the program’s success, we have 
introduced a cross-functional CSR Council that is sponsored by 
our Chief Quality Officer and Head of Operations. The Council 
consists of representatives and leaders from across our 
company and our business units who collaborate to develop 
and implement the various aspects of the program. A member 
of our Board of Directors serves as a liaison between the CSR 
Council and the Board, enabling awareness, focus, and 
prioritization of our CSR effort at the Board level. As we seek 
to be a leader in CSR, we believe the CSR Council and our 
Board’s involvement is integral to our journey.
Efforts to mitigate our environmental footprint and our 
contribution to climate change are core to the CSR program. 
Our goal of achieving global net-zero emissions by 2030 
exemplifies our commitment to environmental leadership.  
Although we have participated in global initiatives such as CDP 
for several years, this goal formalizes our strong dedication to climate action. Establishing onsite renewable energy 
generation, onsite energy efficiency projects, and entering into 
power purchase agreements highlight our actions in pursuit of 
our goal. We take pride in realizing 100% renewable energy 
procurement at our headquarters in FY21, two years ahead of 
schedule. This investment not only benefits Lumentum, but 
also helps the city of San Jose in reaching its emissions 
reduction goals to provide 100% renewable energy by 2050. 
This is a sign of good things to come.
We support equitable digital access and believe that our 
innovative products foster a global communications 
infrastructure that meets the digital demands of tomorrow. 
The Internet of Things touches education, work, and social 
interaction in ways we could not have imagined a few years 
ago. We will continue to drive our innovation to support new 
ways of doing business and living life. 
Our work toward social equity is a core tenet of our CSR 
program. Our Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging (DIB) Council, 
formed in 2019 with representation from all business units 
and functions, aligns our diversity goals and objectives with 
our company goals and objectives. As part of this effort, we 
provide unconscious bias training that focuses on three areas 
of the candidate and employee experience: attraction, 
development, and retention. One of the DIB initiatives is to 
offer scholarships to underrepresented college students, 
including at historically Black colleges and universities to 
create more opportunities for traditionally underrepresented 
groups. We have introduced employee resource groups to 
foster a culture of inclusion and belonging and to engage 
people of different backgrounds. Our diversity makes us a 
better company.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have reinforced our 
commitment to employee health and safety. Each Lumentum 
facility is assessed for safe and clean working conditions, and 
hygiene practices are amplified. Personal protective equipment is distributed and made readily available to 
employees working on site. To maintain safe distances and 
collaborative communications in our workplaces, we have 
implemented technology solutions such as action cameras and 
wearable proximity sensors. These and other employee-driven 
innovations enable us to excel in our work with reduced travel, 
and we expect several of these improvements to persist.
Finally, we support the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) because we believe that CSR is part of the global effort 
needed to achieve these goals. We have identified several 
SDGs aligned to our business. In our report, we discuss our 
contributions to these SDG’s progress and the opportunities to 
continue our support.
We aim to be a model for doing what is right and just for all 
people and the planet . This ambition spurs us to measure and 
manage our social and environmental impacts with great care 
and dedication. The journey will not be without its challenges, 
but we are ready for what lies ahead. Thank you for the 
opportunity to share our progress and goals with you. 
Sincerely,  
 
Alan S. Lowe  
President and Chief Executive Officer iA MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 
 
Dear Stakeholders,
It gives me great pleasure to introduce Lumentum’s inaugural Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) Report. We are proud to share our many accomplishments in CSR, along with programs 
designed to meet the economic, environmental, and social challenges ahead. This report 
portrays our past and present sustainability efforts and our vision for the future. Introduction
ABOUT LUMENTUM
Lumentum Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: LITE) is an industry-
leading provider of optical and photonic products. We 
provide critical components for integration into end-
market applications such as communication networks 
and industrial machining. With our headquarters in San 
Jose, California, we operate and manufacture in 
various properties in the United States and eleven 
other countries around the world. We compete in three 
primary markets: optical communications, commercial 
lasers, and 3D sensing. Our optical communications portfolio consists of chips, 
components, and subsystems that are the buildings blocks 
for communication networks and data centers that 
connect people around the globe. Our commercial laser 
solutions enable faster, higher-precision volume 
manufacturing techniques with lower power consumption, 
a reduced manufacturing footprint, and increased 
productivity. Our 3D sensing chip technology drives 
leading-edge mobile applications and will improve the 
implementation of future technologies, such as the safety 
of autonomous vehicles.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  6Lumentum spun off from JDS Uniphase (now 
VIAVI Solutions) to become an independent 
publicly-traded company
Completed the Responsible Business Alliance 
(RBA) Self-Assessment Questionnaires, rated 
low risk
Submitted first response to EcoVadis
Established our Navanakorn, Thailand factory
Reported $1 billion annual revenue for the 
first time
Submitted first responses to CDP’s Climate 
Change and Water Security Questionnaires
Acquired Oclaro, Inc.
Achieved an Ecovadis Silver Sustainability 
Rating
Formed our Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging 
Council
Joined the Responsible Business Alliance 
Included, for the first time, on Barron’s Top 
100 Most Sustainable Companies List
Formed our CSR Council
Introduced Lumentum’s first Employee 
Resource Groups
Set our net zero emissions target
Opened our factory in Škofljica, Slovenia 
Published our inaugural CSR report2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021GLOBAL OPERATIONSBY THE NUMBERS 
Lumentum headquarters  
• San Jose, USA
 
Lumentum design site
• San Jose, USA
• Ottawa, Canada
• Milan, Italy
• Škofljica, Slovenia
• Zurich, Switzerland
• Paignton, UK
• Shenzhen, China
• Sagamihara, Japan
• Taipei, Taiwan
• Bangkok, Thailand  
Lumentum manufacturing 
• San Jose, USA
• Škofljica, Slovenia 
• Caswell, UK
• Shenzhen, China
• Sagamihara, Japan 
• Bangkok, Thailand  
Contract manufacturing
• Penang, Malyasia 
• Taipei, Taiwan 
• Bangkok, Thailand  $1.74 Billion  
FY21 REVENUEIntroduction
>5,400  
EMPLOYEES~1,850  
PATENTSOUR HISTORY   CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  7
Releasing the power of light to create a brighter future
Light enables human connection 
and allows systems to thrive. It is 
one of the most influential and 
powerful forces in our world, yet it 
is weightless.We aim to emulate the properties of light, as it lies at 
the core of all our innovations. Our solutions drive 
applications for cloud and networking, advanced 
manufacturing, and 3D sensing. All are shaping the 
way people connect, create, and interact. 
By releasing the full potential of light, we envision a 
future that is brighter for the world. To create a 
brighter future, we:OUR VISION
OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Our guiding principles reflect our core values, driving the decisions that determine our global performance 
and shape our culture. We truly dedicate ourselves to applying them through our work, actions, and the 
conversations we have with all our stakeholders.
innovate  
We foster a culture of 
innovation across the 
organization—where 
everyone is encouraged to 
find new and creative ways 
to solve problems.engage  
We provide a great place to 
work by communicating with 
transparency, learning from 
each other, and making 
meaningful contributions  
to society.deliver  
We feel a sense of ownership 
for achieving results and  
are accountable to deliver on 
our commitments.excel  
We achieve organizational 
excellence by driving a 
zero-defect mindset with 
continuous pursuit of 
perfection. win  
We have a passion for winning 
with a competitive team  
spirit that incorporates fairness 
and integrity in everything  
we do.• Harness the power of light to connect people and 
keep them safe and secure while enabling 
businesses to operate faster and more efficiently,
• Support and develop our people, partners, and 
communities to shine their brightest
• Create products and manufacturing processes 
that improve lives with the lightest impact on 
the environment
  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  8Our ultimate goal is to illuminate the path forward to a more sustainable 
future. We recognize that our actions affect the people and communities 
where we live and work. We take our responsibility to the global community 
seriously, and to live up to that responsibility, we have built our corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) program upon three pillars:  
INNOVATION:  
BREAKTHROUGH IMPACT
Push the boundaries to design products and processes that deliver 
value and delight our customers.
Continuously improve our products and processes to create the safest 
and most efficient products with the highest standards.
PEOPLE:  
POSITIVE IMPACT
Develop our employees to succeed while creating a diverse and 
inclusive culture that values differences and inspires creativity.
Operate to the highest social, ethical, and safety standards within our 
facilities and propagating that model across our value chain.
Contribute to the communities in which we live and operate.PLANET:  
LIGHTER IMPACT
Lighten our environmental footprint by reducing our energy 
consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, and 
waste generation.Introduction
APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR GOVERNANCE 
Our CSR Council develops corporate social responsibility strategy 
and drives performance within Lumentum. Led by the CSR 
Council Chair and the Executive Sponsor, this cross-functional 
team is composed of representatives from all our business 
departments, including Human Resources; Environment, Health, 
and Safety (EHS); Supply Chain; Legal; and Quality, as well as 
leaders from each business unit. Each member serves as a 
representative of their respective department and is responsible 
for determining the relevance of emerging topics, developing 
associated action plans, and disseminating information related to 
CSR at Lumentum to their team. 
CSR Council activities are reported to the CEO and Board of 
Directors on a quarterly basis. The Governance Committee is 
responsible for oversight consistent of the policies and programs 
supporting our CSR strategy. The Board of Directors has also 
nominated a CSR Liaison from the Board who works closely with 
the CSR Council to guide efforts and provide a continuous 
feedback loop between recommendations of the Board of 
Directors and implementation by the CSR Council.
CEO / BOARD 
/parenleft.caseGOVERNANCE COMMITTEE/parenright.case
BOARD CSR LIAISON
CSR COUNCIL/hyphen.case
EXECUTIVE SPONSOR 
AND CHAIR
CSR AND
COMPLIANCE TEAMCSR
COUNCILEHS
DEPARTMENTLUMENTUM WAS 
INCLUDED IN 
BARRON’S TOP 100 
MOST SUSTAINABLE 
COMPANIES LIST FOR 
THE SECOND YEAR  
IN A ROW.
Reprinted with permission of Barron’sOPERATING WITH INTEGRITY 
Lumentum is committed to the highest standards of social, ethical, 
and environmental conduct and responsibility. This applies to our 
facilities, processes, and employees, as well as to the companies with 
which we do business.
Our Business  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  10
BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
At Lumentum, we conduct our business affairs with uncompromising integrity. 
Integrity is at the heart of our reputation for providing the highest-quality products 
and services and ensuring a fair and equitable workplace.   
Lumentum’s Code of Business Conduct outlines the 
broad principles of legal and ethical business conduct 
embraced by the company as part of our commitment 
to integrity. We expect all Directors, employees, agents, 
and contractors to act in a manner that complies both 
with the letter and the spirit of the Code.
The global footprint of Lumentum and the breadth of 
our supply chain expose us to certain regulatory and 
compliance risks. Conducting our business with 
uncompromising integrity means acting ethically and 
complying with all applicable laws and regulations of 
the countries where we do business, and we expect all 
parties affiliated with Lumentum to do so. Local laws 
and customs may differ by country, thus having a global 
code of conduct is critically important. What are 
considered common local business practices may differ 
significantly from, or conflict with, our Code. The Code 
is intended to provide a summary of the beliefs and 
behaviors that are fundamental to our success, principal 
among which is to act in a manner that reflects honesty, 
fairness, and integrity. 
Communication with and training of our stakeholders 
are our best opportunities to ensure understanding of 
and compliance with applicable legal requirements and 
our standard of conduct. During new hire orientation, Lumentum policies, including the Code, are reviewed, 
and a signed acknowledgement is required from each 
worker. We conduct annual training for our employees 
and, starting in FY21, implemented annual training for 
our governance body members.
To strengthen our approach, in FY20 we expanded our 
training to include all contingent employees. This change 
in scope, along with limitations on conducting in-person 
training at certain manufacturing facilities due to 
COVID-19, impacted our FY20 training coverage. We 
have identified opportunities to improve our practices, 
and beginning in FY21, we increased the frequency of 
governance body member training from biennial to 
annual. In addition, we are assessing alternative ways in 
which we can conduct training with employees who 
have historically attended in-person classroom training.
We provide multiple mechanisms for reporting 
concerns, including anonymous reporting. All 
stakeholders are encouraged to report suspected or 
actual violations of the Code, of laws or government 
rules and regulations. To provide a description of the 
suspected violation, complaint, or concern, email  
LumentumLegal@Lumentum.com , visit our EthicsPoint 
site or access our Anonymous Reporting hotline .
Anti-corruption and anti-competitive behavior FY21 FY20 FY19
Percentage receiving communication on anti-corruption policies and procedures
∙ Governance body members 100% 100% 100%
∙ Employees 100% 100% 100%
Percentage trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures
∙ Governance body members 100% * 100%
∙ Employees 100% 77% 99.7%
Percentage of suppliers receiving communication on anti-corruption policies and procedures
∙ Direct suppliers 35% N/R N/R
∙ Indirect suppliers 94% N/R N/R
Total number of confirmed incidents of corruption 0 0 0
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior 0 0 0
 
* *raining previously occurred biennially. N/R – Not previously trackedOur Business  
IN FY21, LUMENTUM  HAD  
ZERO FINES OR 
SANCTIONS   
FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND 
SOCIOECONOMIC LAWS AND 
REGULATIONS.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  11The security of our information systems is critical to our business success. Information 
security can impact both reputational and competitive aspects of our work. It helps us to 
capture our innovations through the protection of intellectual property and it enables 
our everyday work across all our teams. A lapse in protection or an event that threatens 
our network can have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. 
We have developed a Privacy Program Committee 
whose primary purpose is to provide guidance and 
assistance in our oversight of:
• Protection of information and assets belonging to 
Lumentum or our customers, consumers, employees, 
and/or business partners
• Protection of our customers’, consumers’, and 
employees’ privacy, and personal information/data
• Compliance with all applicable global data privacy 
requirements
The Privacy Program Committee is comprised of 
members from various functional groups, including 
Legal, Information Technology/Information Security, 
Human Resources, Sales, Finance, and Marketing. The 
committee is empowered to investigate any matter with 
the necessary access to all records and systems across 
the organization and leverages outside counsel, outside 
security experts, or other experts, as needed.
To prepare our systems and teams, we have developed 
comprehensive policies for IT security, incident 
response, third-party security, and an overarching 
privacy program. Our Information Security Department 
defines information security standards, procedures, 
policies, and other requirements applicable to the entire organization. This includes access control, monitoring of 
security controls, providing training and awareness 
programs to Lumentum associates, and carrying out 
investigations and audits. In addition, third-party 
penetration tests are performed annually, and internal 
tests are conducted periodically to ensure Lumentum 
assets are secure. 
All employees are provided training and resources to 
protect their systems, information, and the Lumentum 
network, while operating their devices. Signed 
acknowledgement and agreement forms are required 
from all internal and external stakeholders that may be 
interacting on, or with, Lumentum networks or 
employees. 
If our systems, networks, or data are threatened, we 
have a clearly defined incident response plan to provide 
an organized approach for handling any such potential 
threats. We created a Cyber Security Incident Response 
Team responsible for the investigation and management 
of any incidents and to execute our response plan. The 
plan describes the nature and scope of handling a cyber 
security incident and includes the functions that make 
up this service, how the functions interrelate, and the 
necessary tools, processes and roles required to 
implement the service. DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY Our Business  
LUMENTUM RECORDED  
NO COMPLAINTS, 
LEAKS, OR LOSSES OF 
CUSTOMER DATA.“WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF SOCIAL, 
ETHICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND SAFE CONDUCT WITHIN OUR 
FACILITIES, PROCESSES, AND THROUGHOUT OUR SUPPLY CHAIN”  
— Alan Lowe, President and Chief Executive OfficerCSR at Lumentum    CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  13Adhering to GRI’s definition of materiality, Lumentum’s material topics are our significant 
economic, environmental, and social impacts or significant topics that influence our 
stakeholders’ assessments and decisions. Mapping our value chain enables us to better 
locate, understand, and manage the material topics that we control or influence. In 
addition, it helps us to identify stakeholders with whom to engage. VALUE CHAIN AND BOUNDARIESCSR at Lumentum  
Wafer Fabrication
Other Support Services: R&D, Sales, Marketing,
Service & Support, Corporate OperationsSUPPLIERS
CONTRACT 
MANUFACTURERSCUSTOMER 
INTEGRATION
END
CUSTOMERAssemblyOPERATIONS WHERE LUMENTUM
HAS DIRECT CONTROLWe work with suppliers and contract manufacturers to 
procure the materials and products to our specifications. 
Our relationships with our vendors are critical to ensure 
product quality and to promote ethical and responsible 
sourcing throughout our supply chain. Our manufacturing 
operations, consisting of wafer fabrication and assembly, 
are areas within our direct control and where we seek 
continuous improvement in everything we do. Our global footprint of support services from research and 
development to service and support are essential to 
enable our business to thrive. Finally, our products are 
integrated by our customers into larger systems and 
delivered to the end users, where we aim to influence 
responsible use and treatment.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  14In FY20, we conducted a stakeholder-informed materiality assessment to build our 
CSR program and identify topics relevant for us to consider and material for us to 
actively manage.
To determine the topics relevant to Lumentum, we used a 
variety of approaches. We referenced GRI’s universe of 
sustainability topics, SASB industries relevant to our 
industry, assessed questionnaires and survey requests 
from our customers and investors, reviewed ESG reports 
from third parties such as ISS, Sustainalytics, and MSCI, 
referred to industry frameworks and conventions such as 
the RBA and Ecovadis, and benchmarked reporting 
practices of peers and customers. 
With this list of relevant topics, we engaged investors 
through direct outreach and four additional key 
stakeholder groups – employees, customers, suppliers, and 
the Board of Directors - via survey. The seven-question 
survey touched on social, economic, and environmental 
topics and asked respondents to rank which CSR issues 
were the most important for Lumentum to address. We 
found strong alignment throughout the nearly 2,000 
responses across stakeholder groups, and the results 
informed our assessment of each topics’ importance to STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT & MATERIALITY
As we continue to evolve our CSR program, we will update 
our materiality assessment as the nature of our business 
or operating environment changes. In addition, we plan to 
evaluate our approach to stakeholder engagement 
periodically to assess opportunities for improvement. We 
consider additional groups, such as industry associations, 
government and regulatory agencies, community 
members, and non-governmental organizations as our 
stakeholders. We closely monitor the development of 
regulations and industry standards impacting our industry; 
however we did not engage these groups in our inaugural 
effort, but rather elicited feedback by proxy via indirect 
methods such as review of public information, client 
questionnaires, and reports.stakeholders. The goal of our outreach was to collect 
critical feedback to help us prioritize CSR issues and 
establish improvement goals to be reported in this report. 
The results of the engagement and our assessment of the 
significance of each topic’s impact has been mapped on 
our materiality matrix. The matrix was then subject to 
internal validation involving a review by select 
stakeholders, including the CSR Council. Any adjustments, 
such as the grouping of related topics, the relative 
weighting of stakeholder groups, topic alignment with 
strategic priorities, and the setting of a materiality 
threshold were determined in this stage. The outcome 
defined two topics that were of high importance and 
significance, ten topics of either high importance or 
significance, and four topics of both medium importance 
and significance. Additional topics fell below our 
materiality threshold and several others were deemed not 
relevant for current reporting. Stakeholder 
GroupEngagement 
MethodsTop 3 Topics
Board of 
DirectorsAnnual interview 
and survey1) Product safety
2) Health and safety
3) Human rights
Customers Annual survey1) Human rights
2) Data privacy and security 
3) Product safety
EmployeesAnnual interview 
and survey1) Product safety
2) Customer satisfaction
3) Health and safety
InvestorsAnnual interview 
and by proxy via 
SASB and ESG 
ratings reports1) Economic performance 
2) Impact on climate change
3) Health and safety
Suppliers/ 
Contract 
ManufacturersAnnual interview 
and survey1) Business conduct and ethics
2) Human rights
3) Product safetyCSR at Lumentum 
Data privacy and security
Health and safety
Human rights
Product safetyEconomic performance
Impact on climate change
Customer value
Innovation
Product environmental impact
Supply chain managementBusiness conduct and ethics
Diversity, inclusion, and belonging 
Talent management
Materials and waste 
Water
Signi/f_icance of Economic, Environmental, and Social ImpactsImportance to Stakeholders
MEDIUM HIGHMEDIUM HIGHGoal (Targets) Indicator Lumentum Topics
                 5 Gender Equality
                 (5.1, 5.5)5.1.1 Non -discrimination
5.5.2 Proportion of women in managerial positionsTalent Management
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging
                 7 Affordable and Clean Energy
                 (7.2, 7.3)7.2.1 Renewable energy share
7.3.1 Energy intensityImpact on Climate Change
                  8 Decent Work and Economic  
                   Growth
                  (8.1, 8.4, 8.5, 8.8)8.1.1 Annual growth rate of real GDP per capita
8.4.1 Material footprint
8.5.1 Average hourly earnings of employees
8.8.1 Occupational injuries
8.8.2 Compliance with labor rightsEconomic Performance
Materials and Waste
Health and Safety
Human Rights
                  9 Industry, Innovation, and       
                  Infrastructure
                  (9.2, 9.5)9.2.1 Manufacturing value added 
9.2.2 Manufacturing employment
9.5.1 Research and development expenditureTalent Management
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging
                 10 Reduced Inequalities
                  (10.4, 10.7)10.4.1 Labor share of GDP
10.7.1 Recruitment cost borne by employeeEconomic Performance
Talent Management
                  12 Responsible Consumption &   
                  Production
                  (12.2, 12.4, 12.7, 12.a)12.2.1 Material footprint   
12.4.2 Hazardous waste   
12.7.1 Sustainable procurement policies  
12.a.1 Installed renewable energy-generating  
capacity in developing countriesMaterials and Waste
Supply Chain Management
Impact on Climate Change
                 13 Climate Action
                 (13.2)13.2.2 Total greenhouse gas emissions per year Impact on Climate Change
Integrating the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals
Lumentum recognizes the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, adopted 
by all United Nations Member States in 
2015, and the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) at its heart. 
These goals, and their underlying targets 
and indicators, will lead our world to the 
brighter future we envision.  
We have aligned our reporting with 
seven of the 17 Goals which we can 
most deeply impact and that are 
relevant to our business. See our SDG 
Index for more information.Protecting the health and safety of our workforce and meeting the 
needs of our customers took on new urgency during the COVID-19 
global pandemic. The health and safety of our employees and their 
families is our number one priority. As information was shared from our 
colleagues in China, who were first impacted by COVID-19, we enacted 
new global practices immediately. Rising to the Ch allenge:   
Our COVID-19 Response   
  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  17Global travel restrictions were implemented in January 
2020 along with limited access to Lumentum facilities for 
external visitors. COVID-19 response teams were 
established at every site and a Scenario Planning 
Playbook was developed that details instructions and 
risk mitigation plans for situations ranging from an 
infected employee on a Lumentum site to a potential 
manufacturing shutdown. We transitioned employees 
who were able to perform their job functions remotely to 
work from home, ahead of national requirements and 
government lockdowns. As a result, our manufacturing 
operations were fully operational within two days of the 
first California lockdown in March 2020.
We evaluated every site and made necessary 
adjustments including social distancing, signage, face 
coverings, touchless temperature sensors, disinfecting 
stations, HVAC upgrades for air purification, seating 
adjustments and physical barriers.  We introduced 
contact tracing via wearable technology, which warns 
employees if a safe social distance is not kept. In 
Navanakorn, Thailand, we installed new equipment at 
entry points for temperature screening and proper mask 
wearing detection. In addition, we developed and 
required online training which informed our employees 
about COVID-19 and prevention measures. 
We responded with site disinfecting, contact tracing, and 
quarantines and are not aware of anyone who has caught 
nor spread COVID-19 at any of our sites. We have taken a 
risk-based approach to COVID-19 testing of our workforce.  
Based on onsite cases, and the situation in the local 
communities, we have implemented a range of solutions 
from weekly mandatory testing to voluntary testing.
We are proud of our COVID-19 response, and we 
continue to work with other companies to share best 
practices. We are a member of CoreNet, The Global 
Association for Corporate Real Estate, and actively 
participate in benchmarking to share tools and 
information resources to help others with business 
continuity planning.  
Rising to the Challenge: Our COVID-19 Response   
SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE WELLNESS 
AND THE COMMUNITY
Through these challenges, our employees have been 
resilient, and we have worked diligently to be responsive 
to their suggestions and needs. To keep employees 
informed, we enhanced our communication practices 
with a COVID-19 section on our intranet site, all-hands 
meetings, and weekly email updates. We notify all 
employees and contractors immediately if an employee 
was on site that has tested positive for COVID-19.
To ensure the wellbeing of our team members, we offer a 
variety of employee assistance programs. Online 
programs include “how to recognize present-day 
emotions with the uncertainty of COVID-19” to 
“addressing work from home and adjusting to lifestyle 
changes.” With additional programs supporting mental, 
physical, and financial health, we aim to enable our 
employees to continue to be kind to themselves through 
these times.  
At the beginning of the pandemic, we compensated 
employees whose job function required them to be 
onsite even if they were unable to perform their duties, 
THE HEALTH AND SAFETY  
OF OUR TEAM IS  
#1 PRIORITY  for a variety of reasons. Those working from home were 
offered a stipend for internet expenses, and ergonomic 
assessments were conducted, when requested, to 
minimize the risk of injury while working remotely. 
During the most challenging times of the pandemic, we 
recognized our essential employees coming into the 
workplace in various ways, including special care 
packages, cash or stock awards. We continued to deliver 
merit and / or equity as part of our employee 
compensation and rewards programs. A portion of our 
bonus program was paid in advance to employees below 
the director level in December 2020, to support 
employees and their families during the holidays, with 
the remainder of the bonus achievement paid on 
schedule in February 2021. 
The efforts and commitment of our employees allowed 
Lumentum to continue to excel and grow throughout the 
pandemic. Hiring continued, and our global team grew 
through the pandemic. Starting in FY21, in 
acknowledgment of the challenging times, both for those 
who are working remotely and those who work onsite, 
we have implemented several paid “thank you” days off 
– a day when the whole company, worldwide, can relax.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  18Our internship program in North America is critical to 
engage the future leaders of Lumentum, and when faced 
with lockdowns, we shifted the program to 100% remote. 
We are proud to have successfully adapted the program to 
provide valuable experience to over 50 interns, 
incorporated team building exercises, and went on to hire 
over 80% of the cohort. As we continue to grow, we are 
identifying ways to effectively train and onboard new 
employees. For example, in Caswell, UK, we are leveraging 
wireless cameras, headsets, and tablets when social 
distancing and production floor noise hinders our ability to 
conduct close proximity, on-the-job training. We initiated a new leave program, the Global Emergency 
Leave, providing employees added flexibility to respond to 
self and family care needs such as homeschooling or 
caring for a sick family member. We are also formalizing a 
flexible workplace policy that enables employees, based 
on the requirements of their specific role, to have the 
flexibility to work remotely even after it is safe for all 
employees to return to the office. CREATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR LASTING CHANGE
Adapting to the “new normal” has transformed the way we work at Lumentum, and 
we have found effective solutions to the challenges of COVID-19. We leveraged 
virtual collaboration tools to transfer the production of our products across our 
global network. These product launches would typically involve engineering teams 
traveling to the manufacturing sites. Due to the pandemic, these transfers occurred 
virtually, with research and development teams and global manufacturing sites  
collaborating online to complete these production transitions.  
R&D team in Zurich, Switzerland (left) and production team in Nava, Thailand (right) collaborated to transfer production seamlessly using virtual tools.Rising to the Challenge: Our COVID-19 Response   Supply Chain Responsibility   
Key to our success is our relationship with, and the performance 
of, our supply chain partners. We engage with over 700 direct 
suppliers and several core contract manufacturers. Strategically, 
we aim to design agility, resiliency, and scale into our global supply 
chain for all new and existing products.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  20Lumentum is committed to conducting our business affairs 
with uncompromising integrity, protecting the 
environment, and preserving the welfare of our personnel, 
our business partners, and the public. This commitment 
means acting ethically and complying with all applicable 
laws and regulations of the countries in which we do 
business or where business is being conducted on behalf 
of Lumentum and our subsidiaries. We have the same high 
expectations of our suppliers. In keeping with our 
commitment, we developed our Supplier Code of Conduct 
in 2018, and initially sent it to our top 100 suppliers by 
spend. All suppliers are required to sign our Supplier Code 
of Conduct upon onboarding, and we expect that all 
suppliers act and conduct business in a manner that 
complies both with the letter and spirit of this code.
Upon onboarding, we leverage RapidRatings’ Financial 
Health Rating (FHR) which helps us to evaluate supply 
chain resiliency through predictive analytics. These 
insights into the financial stability of our supply chain help 
us determine the ability to withstand disruption, identify 
partnership opportunities to support critical suppliers, and 
create contingency plans to mitigate supply chain risks.
Beyond financial health, we partner with our suppliers to 
identify and address potential areas of risk. These may 
include physical impacts of climate change, such as 
extreme weather events, to geopolitical or business risks 
that may threaten our suppliers’ ability to conduct 
business. In addition to working closely with our suppliers, 
we have engaged third-party providers to assist in 
assessing the risk within our supply base. 
Supply Risk Solutions (SRS) is a third-party cloud-based 
software that helps us to monitor and assess physical risks 
and supply chain disruptions. Predictive technology 
enables us to identify the likelihood of future events 
through machine learning, global trends, and statistical 
associations. In addition, SRS requires each of our critical 
suppliers to complete an annual Business Continuity 
Assessment, which allows us to understand where risks lie 
within our supply chain, thus allowing us to partner with 
our suppliers to mitigate them. We can then leverage this 
information to improve Lumentum’s, and our suppliers’, 
business continuity plans. 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ALLIANCE  
Lumentum is a proud member of the 
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), the 
world’s largest industry coalition 
dedicated to corporate social 
responsibility in supply chains. Lumentum 
fully supports the vision and mission of 
the RBA, and the collaborative approach 
to improving working and environmental 
conditions across the supply chain. 
As part of our commitment, 100% of our manufacturing 
sites complete an annual RBA Self-Assessment 
Questionnaire (SAQ). The SAQ risk assessment evaluates 
the labor, health and safety, environment, ethics, and 
management systems of the site and provides a risk 
rating related to CSR risks and compliance with the RBA 
Code of Conduct.  All of our sites have been rated as low 
risk. Since 2019, all of our active manufacturing sites 
completed internal or external social responsibility audits. 
In FY21, we rolled out company-wide training on the RBA 
Code of Conduct to all employees, including onsite 
contingent workers, and achieved 100% completion. This 
training is also required of all new employees. 
We require our next-tier suppliers to acknowledge, 
implement, and comply with all applicable labor, 
environmental, and health and safety laws and 
regulations, including those requirements in the RBA Code 
of Conduct. To verify this practice, we conduct due 
diligence on our supply chain, assessing risk from a 
country level as well as facility level. We require our top 
direct suppliers to complete assessments that evaluate 
facility risks on labor, environment, health and safety, and 
ethics. In addition, all contract manufacturers undergo 
third-party audits covering the full RBA Code of Conduct 
every two years to evaluate their conformance. We work 
with our contract manufacturers on corrective actions 
until closure and require third-party verification audits to 
confirm resolutions of any adverse findings. In FY21, key 
personnel at all of our contract manufacturers completed 
online training on the RBA Code.100% OF OUR 
MANUFACTURING SITES  
COMPLETE AN ANNUAL RBA SELF-
ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE (SAQ) 
AND ALL HAVE BEEN RATED AS 
LOW RISK.
100% OF OUR CONTRACT 
MANUFACTURERS   
COMPLETED AUDITS TO VERIFY 
COMPLIANCE WITH THE RBA CODE 
OF CONDUCT.Supply Chain Responsibility  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  21Lumentum understands the risks of forced labor and has 
implemented practices to ensure it does not exist in our 
operations as well as being prohibited in our supply chain. 
Lumentum pays all fees associated with recruitment and 
ongoing employment, and prohibits suppliers, including 
subcontractors and labor or recruitment agencies, from 
charging workers any fees or deposits for employment. 
This applies to all types of workers, including migrant, 
temporary or subcontracted. All Lumentum sites require 
official government identity documents to verify age and 
right to work. Identity documents are used for verification 
purposes only and retained by the employee. Employment 
is at-will, and each employee is provided an employment 
agreement with clearly defined terms and conditions. 
Suppliers are expected to follow these same requirements. 
Lumentum does not tolerate harassment, intimidation, or 
discrimination of any kind, which is clearly stated in our 
Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct.  
As an equal opportunity employer, Lumentum is 
committed to providing a workplace free of harassment, 
discrimination, and retaliation, as well as disrespectful, 
abusive, or unprofessional conduct. If such cases should 
arise, employees are encouraged to communicate with their manager, Human Resources, or file a grievance 
through our anonymous hotline, EthicsPoint. All reports 
through our hotline of suspected violations, concerns, or 
complaints are directed to the General Counsel. The 
information is promptly evaluated, and the appropriate 
actions are taken, including investigation, in accordance 
with application laws, rules, and regulations.
Lumentum maintains a rigorous audit program. Third-party 
organizations and our internal CSR team conduct regular 
audits of our global facilities. These audits are conducted 
according to the RBA standard, or equivalent, which 
includes the requirement of freely chosen employment 
and no child labor. The scope of these audits includes 
subcontracted labor and contingent workers. Company-
wide training on RBA includes topics relevant to human 
rights, such as forced labor, child labor, and freedom of 
association. We have also delivered specialized trainings to 
our supply chain staff and our global talent acquisition 
teams addressing human rights risks that are relevant to 
their roles.Supply Chain Responsibility
HUMAN RIGHTS
Lumentum is committed to uphold the human rights of workers and to treat each of 
them with dignity and respect. Lumentum enforces several policies to protect the 
rights of its workers. However, we acknowledge our primary human rights risk exists 
in our supply chain, and we expect all suppliers to apply the same level of protection 
to workers’ rights. We prohibit the use or support of any form of child labor, forced 
labor or human trafficking at Lumentum and at our suppliers. This requirement is 
embedded in our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy , Code of Business Conduct , 
Supplier Code of Conduct  and through our commitment to the Responsible Labor 
Initiative (RLI). In addition, we ensure there is transparency in our own business and 
in our approach to tackling modern slavery throughout our supply chain, consistent 
with obligations under the UK Modern Slavery Act (MSA 2015) and the California 
Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657).
LUMENTUM IS   
COMMITTED   
TO UPHOLD  
THE HUMAN RIGHTS   
OF WORKERS AND TO TREAT  
EACH OF THEM WITH DIGNITY  
AND RESPECT.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  22ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
In addition to our commitment to uphold the human rights 
of workers in our supply chain, suppliers must have EHS 
policies and processes in place to demonstrate a 
commitment to safe and environmentally responsible 
operations, services, and management. This includes 
procedures and systems to identify, prevent, manage, and 
track environmental and health and safety hazards, 
including maintenance of emergency response plans. 
Suppliers must have EHS audit programs to periodically 
assess their prevention plans and measures, facilities, and 
operations for compliance and effectiveness. Lumentum 
expects suppliers to maintain compliant EHS systems and 
to provide a record of compliance with all applicable laws 
and regulations when conducting business.  CONFLICT MINERALS
Lumentum is committed to sourcing components and 
materials from companies that share our values regarding 
respect for human rights, integrity, and environmental 
responsibility. Lumentum complies with the OECD Due 
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of 
Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas , as 
well as the applicable requirements of Section 1502 of the 
Dodd-Frank Act, which aims to prevent the use of minerals 
that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or in 
adjoining countries.
Affected suppliers are required to provide a completed 
Conflict Minerals Reporting Templates (CMRT) detailing the 
tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (3TG) smelters in their 
supply chain and source only from conflict-free smelters or 
refiners (SORs). In 2020, the program was extended to 
include cobalt, which follows the same reporting process. 
Lumentum pays additional attention to suppliers reporting 
high-risk smelters (i.e. a smelter that sources from the 
covered countries and is not currently RMAP conformant). 
Lumentum has a dedicated employee to manage and 
review our conflict minerals program work. We engage a 
third-party to collect data from suppliers and review 
smelter information. More than 90% of surveyed suppliers 
respond to our annual reasonable country of origin inquiry 
with a completed CMRT. As a member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative  (RMI) 
we require all our suppliers to source tin, tantalum, 
tungsten, and gold only from smelters conformant with the 
Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) 
assessment protocols. After a review of suppliers’ CMRTs, 
we address the identified risk by verifying with suppliers if 
the declared non-RMAP conformant smelters are used for 
parts Lumentum purchased. If confirmed to be part of 
Lumentum’s supply chain, we require suppliers to actively 
engage either to remove the non-RMAP conformant 
smelters from our supply chain or to encourage such 
smelters to participate in the RMAP audit program. Rather 
than prohibiting high-risk countries from our supply chain 
we seek to work with and support responsible raw 
material sourcing from high-risk countries based on RMAP 
conformant smelters. 
Overall, 80% of 3TG smelters and refiners identified in 
our supply chain in 2020 are verified to be RMAP 
conformant or are actively undergoing RMAP assessment 
process. Based on our due diligence process, an 
additional 15% of smelters can be reasonably considered 
as low risk, however, they did not undergo the RMAP 
assessment. 2% of smelters were identified as high risk. 
These high risk smelters were declared by a single source 
supplier for a legacy product.
Metals Total SORs (2020)# of RMAP 
Conformant/Active 
SORs (2020)% of RMAP Conformant/Active SORs
CY2020 CY2019 CY2018
Gold 154 110 71% 75% 75%
Tantalum 37 37 100% 100% 100%
Tin 73 60 82% 84% 90%
Tungsten 44 43 98% 96% 95%
Total 308 250 81% 79% 82%
  
SOR: Smelters or refinersSupply Chain Responsibility
ZERO SIGNIFICANT FINES  
AND NON-MONETARY 
SANCTIONS   
FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH  
ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS OR 
REGULATIONS
Our Guiding Principles include Innovate and Engage. We look to foster a culture of innovation 
across the organization – where all are encouraged to find and support new and creative ways 
to solve problems. Our legacy of innovation is evident in our product leadership positions and 
extensive intellectual property portfolio. Today, we own nearly 1,000 US patents and 850 
foreign patents, with expiration dates through 2040, and have about 600  patent applications 
pending throughout the world. Our patent portfolio is constantly evolving, with strengths in 
optical switching, coherent transmission, source lasers, 3D sensing, photonic integrated circuits, 
and ultrafast lasers. This is what sets us apart as trailblazers and leaders in the industries we 
serve. We value our innovators, highlight and reward their achievements, and celebrate their 
patents in our company-wide meetings. Innovation:   
Breakthrough Impact   
WE OWN NEARLY 1,000 US PATENTS 
AND 850 FOREIGN PATENTS , 
WITH ABOUT 600 PATENT APPLICATIONS 
PENDING THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  24LUMINARY PROGRAM
An example of these Principles is displayed through our Luminary Program. Twice 
annually, the Luminary Program solicits, evaluates, selects, and corporately funds 
employee-conceived innovative concept investigation projects that address 
challenging topics in technology, products, and applications.   PROGRAMInnovation: Breakthrough Impact
The program offers employees the opportunity to 
develop their innovative ideas through company-
sponsored exploratory projects; ideas that may not 
neatly fit into traditional product roadmaps, address our 
conventional markets, or meet our traditional corporate 
investment profile.
CUSTOMER VALUE
We aim to deliver value and delight our customers by pushing the boundaries when 
designing products and processes. We develop and launch all new products using a 
Lumentum unique Product Development Process (PDP) framework that allows us to 
complete as many design iterations as possible prior to production readiness. This 
enables teams to quickly identify programs that may need to be discontinued or revised 
to strengthen their applications before spending resources on ramping up production. 
This has not only improved product quality and saved production costs, but helped 
teams identify higher power, more efficient, and lower cost solutions for products. 
These benefits can be transferred to our customers and leveraged as added value in 
their businesses. Our robust Quality Management System covers all our sites and fulfills 
the requirements of ISO 9001:2015. Typically, several projects are funded with each 
program cycle and winning participants are presented 
with a monetary reward, recognition, and the 
opportunity to personally see their project come to 
life. Due to the success of the program, we continue to 
grow our corporate support for funding projects 
which have led to several product improvements and 
entrance into new application areas.  
In addition, design review cycles and revisions have led 
to faster product commercialization. We have rethought 
production flows and, in some instances, insourced 
components reducing both component lead time and 
cost. Processes and production indicators are measured 
by shift, rather than by day or week, to quickly adapt 
when areas for improvement are identified. This level of 
review and detail has supported improvements in our 
time-to-market and on-time-delivery rates. The more 
efficiently we can introduce products to market, the 
more value we can create for our customers.Product quality FY21 FY20 FY19
Total number of sites 15 16 14
ISO 9001 certified sites 15 16 14
Percentage ISO 9001 certified sites 100% 100% 100%
  
  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  25manufacturing surveillance to ensure continued safety 
compliance as a condition of product certification. This 
manufacturing surveillance consists of periodic, 
unannounced factory inspections of our certified products 
and factory quality system.  Since FY19, the number of the 
factory inspections has decreased due to the consolidation 
of the manufacturing sites. 
Additionally, we self-declare CE compliance to applicable 
EU directive(s) based upon the formal evaluation 
performed by the third-party certification body.We have formal product development processes covering 
product safety requirements which address design, testing, 
and product safety certification. We assess the safety risks 
arising from the use of our products or components within 
our product development processes. This safety evaluation 
considers all aspects of product safety, including any 
possible negative electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) 
effects on the product.
In FY21 we improved our processes with regards to 
product quality management, formalizing safety reviews of 
100% of product returns and in-field incidents to better 
capture and address any potential safety and health issues 
during product use.
Lumentum typically employs an independent third-party 
certification body to evaluate and certify the safety of our 
products according to national and international product 
safety standards. This certification is maintained 
throughout the product lifecycle including product 
modifications. Each certification body conducts their own 100% OF SIGNIFICANT 
PRODUCTS  ARE ASSESSED FOR 
IMPROVEMENT OF HEALTH  
AND SAFETY IMPACTS.
ZERO PRODUCT RECALLS 
AND ZERO INCIDENTS OF 
NON-COMPLIANCE CONCERNING 
HEALTH, SAFETY, MARKETING, OR 
LABELING OF OUR PRODUCTSProduct Safety 
Lumentum is committed to ensuring the health and safety of our customers, including 
the end users of our products. Product safety is a critical design requirement for all of 
our products, and goals and objectives are specified at the business unit and 
functional engineering level. The strategies employed to meet these goals and 
objectives are reviewed quarterly with assessments reported to management.
Innovation: Breakthrough Impact
Product safety FY21 FY20 FY19
Total number of 3rd-party audits 
or inspections19 22 35
Number of audit or inspection 
failures 0 0 0
  Beginning in 2017, Lumentum embarked on a journey to radically 
reinvent our culture through organizational excellence and establishing a 
zero-defect mindset in everything we do. Using the fundamentals of 
Kaizen (continuous improvement) and based on best practices and 
methods compiled across a variety of industries, we created the 
Lumentum Production System (LPS). At the heart of this system is a 
collective mindset to continuously improve our products and services 
with proactive, data-driven, quality-first systems and processes.Spotlight on Quality:   
Building a Kaizen Culture      CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  27SETTING A STRONG FOUNDATION 
To ensure success of this journey, we weaved the 
knowledge of Kaizen methods into the fabric of the 
entire company, from our production line operators to 
our Board of Directors. We established a new position, 
Chief Quality Officer, and developed a quality policy 
that is displayed prominently at every site and is 
printed on every employee’s badge. Review of this 
policy has been instilled as part of the onboarding 
process for every new employee.  
The next step was to establish a strong, data-based 
foundation with robust measurement systems and a 
specialized team of statisticians and data analysts to 
help engineers and technicians identify potential 
weaknesses and areas for improvement. We scrutinized 
and revised every quality metric, investigated data 
sources, data integrity, and validation methods. We 
standardized and verified that we are using the same 
measures across all sites and design teams. Each 
employee has a stake in these metrics, as the incentive 
plan for every employee at Lumentum is tied to these 
quality measures. Finally, we listened to the voice of our 
customers to align and adjust our measures to meet and 
exceed their expectations. This process of evaluating 
our measurement systems is now done quarterly to 
ensure we are responding to changing conditions and 
the needs of our customers. We even have key 
customers who have endorsed our success by adopting 
our methods!Spotlight on quality:  Building a Kaizen culture  
Kaizen initiatives FY21 FY20 FY19
Total number of Kaizen projects 64 92 89
∙ Closed projects 24 69 55
 ∙ Projects in review 40 23 34
Yearly benefits from Kaizen projects - hard savings $ 13.2M $ 10.9M $ 10.8M
Yearly benefits from Kaizen projects - soft savings $ 600k $ 560k $ 1.8MQuality Policy  
We deliver superior customer value  
through innovative products and services
We strive to continuously improve our 
products with proactive, data-driven, 
quality-first systems and process.AN INCLUSIVE STRATEGY 
Lumentum’s Kaizen-enabling team, known as the Kaizen 
Promotion Office (KPO), works to empower each 
employee. Our goal is to have a trained and tested 
member of the KPO team at each site to build capability 
and apply our continuous improvement methods. They 
engage, train, and enable everyone at the site, from 
operators on the shop floor to management and 
leadership, to play an active role in our success. 
Empowerment of our teams from the boardroom to the 
factory floor as a cornerstone of our quality approach, 
is achieved in multiple ways: 
• We believe the best way to learn is by doing. Each 
site is given training and provided facilitation through 
the first several projects. 
• We have built a culture where employees are 
empowered and encouraged to identify opportunities 
for improvement. Employees, including operators on 
the shop floor, are given the time and freedom to 
suggest and implement improvements in their work 
areas. 
• During day-to-day production line walks, managers go 
to where the work is being done to listen and learn 
from employees on the production floor. 
• We maintain an online portal where all employees can 
access information about the Kaizen team, current 
projects, project resources, and training. 
  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  28At the heart of our Kaizen approach is the goal of 
dramatically eliminating waste and reducing our 
environmental impact. This cultural mindset aligns 
perfectly with our Corporate Social Responsibility 
principles. Lightening our environmental footprint and 
capturing these benefits is even embedded into our 
project report out templates, so that it is top of mind 
for all employees and leaders. Since the beginning of 
our journey, we have successfully completed multiple 
Kaizen projects that have: 
• Reduced the space required to manufacture our 
products, minimizing our footprint
• Shortened the time needed to test our products, 
lessening energy consumption
• Optimized the environmental controls within our 
factory, reducing CO2 emissions 
• Developed new ways to collaborate virtually, 
minimizing the need for travel
• Modified our working stations across factories to be 
reconfigurable and reusable
• Connected operation steps and eliminated 
unnecessary packaging between operations
• Lessened our excess and obsolescent inventory
• Reexamined our recruitment processes to ensure we 
use inclusive hiring practices
Our plant in Navanakorn, Thailand (Nava) is a testament 
to the success of our quality culture. As a greenfield 
site, Nava adopted the zero-defect Kaizen mindset from 
day one. In 2020, the plant received the Thailand Prime 
Minister’s Industry Award for Outstanding Achievement 
in Quality Management, as part of a distinguished list of 
recipients that included the well-established Thailand 
plants of Toyota and Proctor & Gamble. Nava earned the 
honor just three years after its opening, faster than any 
other factory in the history of the award. BEYOND THE FACTORY 
At Lumentum, quality does not stop at the production 
floor. We have embedded quality into our business 
processes and new product development. We have 
taken great strides in improving quality, predictability, 
and reliability of new product introductions. We have 
also embedded Kaizen thinking into our strategic 
planning process, embracing both a top-down and 
bottom-up approach to ensure progress and 
accountability at every level.   
At Lumentum, we are proud of the breakthrough 
improvements our teams have delivered. Our Kaizen and 
quality initiatives help us identify opportunities and 
eliminate potential risks both internally and with our 
suppliers and contract manufacturers. While we have been 
able to deliver great results in a relatively short time, we 
know our improvement journey is just beginning!KAIZEN CONTINUESSpotlight on quality:  Building a Kaizen culture  
Kaizen events and participation FY21 FY20 FY19
Kaizen Academy Participants 0 75 114
Kaizen Event Participants 646 789 599
Monthly Topic Attendees 3,249 2,951 1791
Number of Kaizen Academies 0 3 4
Number of Kaizen Events 64 83 87
Number of Monthly Topic Events 36 36 12
 
Note: Academy events were put on hold in FY21 due to the pandemic.The Pursuit of Excellence:   
Lumentum Navanakorn Factory    
Lumentum’s state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Navanakorn 
(Nava) is leading the way in sustainability, not only for our company, 
but also for others in Thailand.   CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  30A SECOND VISIT FROM HER ROYAL 
HIGHNESS PRINCESS MAHA CHAKRI 
SIRINDHORN  – IN RECOGNITION AS A 
LEADING HIGH-TECH MANUFACTURER IN 
THAILAND The Prime Minister’s Industry Award for 
Outstanding Achievement in Quality 
Management was established in 1981 and 
has become the pinnacle of excellence for 
enterprises across Thailand. The award 
recognizes top performers in quality 
management across industrial companies.  
The pursuit of excellence: Lumentum Navanakorn Factory
THE FACTORY IS  
CERTIFIED ISO 9001, 
14001, AND 45001.
 
 
IN FY21, NAVA 
COMPLETED TL 9000 
AND ESD 20.20 
CERTIFICATIONS.AFTER BEING OPEN FOR JUST OVER THREE YEARS, THE NAVA FACTORY WAS HONORED IN 2020 WITH:
THAILAND’S NATIONAL HEALTH AND 
SAFETY AWARD AT THE SILVER LEVEL  
FOR HAVING ZERO ACCIDENTS
“THIS AWARD IS A TREMENDOUS 
ACHIEVEMENT FOR THE ENTIRE SITE. 
LUMENTUM NAVA MADE HISTORY BY 
WINNING THE AWARD IN ITS FIRST 
ATTEMPT – THE QUICKEST SINCE THE 
AWARD’S INCEPTION.”  
— Dr. Prong Kongsubto,  
Lumentum Senior Quality Director, NavaTHE PRESTIGIOUS PRIME MINISTER’S 
INDUSTRY AWARD FOR OUTSTANDING 
ACHIEVEMENT IN QUALITY MANAGEMENT
Assessed against the ISO9001 standard, the award 
encourages local companies to further advance  
national industrial development and involves an 
evaluation and assessment based upon an 
organization’s leadership vision and strategy, and 
quality management system deployment.
Deploying fundamentals of the Lumentum Production 
System with a continuous improvement mindset and 
maintaining our adherence to ISO9001 demonstrated 
Nava’s unrelenting drive for excellence in every aspect 
of manufacturing.   CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  31
NAVA HAS ACCUMULATED OVER 
15.9 MILLION LABOR-HOURS 
WITHOUT AN ACCIDENT AND 
WAS AWARDED  THE GOLD LEVEL 
STATUS FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 2021  We have achieved zero landfill of hazardous waste 
through the conversion to alternative fuels in the cement 
incineration process, and 90% of non-hazardous waste is 
recycled. In FY21, we had zero major incidents, surpassed 
15.9 million cumulative labor-hours without any accident, 
and more than 97% of employees completed online EHS 
training. In June 2021, we were recognized by the Thailand 
Institute of Occupation Safety and Health for the first time 
with “Gold” level status for our great safety record of zero 
accidents since inception. We also reduced energy use by 
almost 4.5% through improved chiller machine efficiency, 
lighting use management, and process improvements.
The Nava team’s environmental agenda aligns with our 
global goals including initiating the following activities 
in FY21:
• Assessment of installing a rooftop solar array, 
increasing energy from renewables
• Evaluation of onsite water reclamation and recycling, 
reducing withdrawal from municipal sources
• Review of reducing pallet waste to landfill through 
repair or energy recovery30% FEMALE REPRESENTATION 
IN ENGINEERING FUNCTIONS   
AT NAVASTRATEGIC ADVANTAGE
Operating our own factory gives us control and better 
management over all aspects of our business – including 
quality, cost,  research, technology, engineering, and 
environmental footprint – to achieve best in class 
manufacturing.
The Nava management team and manufacturing operation 
are directly accountable to customers and have come 
together with common goals for the plant’s overall success 
to meet customers’ expectations. Our internal and external 
customers select us because we reliably deliver on time, to 
specification, and at a competitive cost, and recognize our 
responsibility for environmental and social stewardship. 
The operation is dynamic and flexible and can go from 
research and development to engineering to market more 
quickly. This shortens the product development time and 
time-to-market, to better serve our customers’ needs and 
demands. In addition, the vertical integration of a variety 
of our products enables a more efficient supply chain and 
demand response. All the while, we are nurturing our 
in-house teams and protecting our intellectual property.
Adapting to the COVID-19 pandemic brought the team 
together as we developed ways to respond and ensure the 
safety of employees and neighbors by increasing security 
and nursing support, checking temperatures with no-
contact sensors, and on-site tracing with dedicated badge 
devices – all without losing a day of productivity. SUSTAINABLE OPERATION
Innovative thinking and a can-do mindset are helping the Nava site tackle 
environmental improvement projects. The plant is tracking energy, water use, and 
waste generation and has set reduction goals in each area to contribute towards 
progress to achieve our global environmental goals.The pursuit of excellence: Lumentum Navanakorn Factory
Nava team celebrates shipping the first product  
produced at the Navanakorn factory in 2017  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  32
A BRIGHT FUTURE
Nava has enjoyed rapid growth in the number of people 
we employ and the products produced there. We are 
poised to continue that trajectory while maintaining our 
mission to reliably deliver on time, to specification, and at 
a competitive cost, while recognizing responsibility for the 
environment and social stewardship. Lumentum and the 
Nava team believe in our mission and will continue to 
pursue excellence in all that we do.  
Team celebrates the first kW fiber laser produced at Nava in 2020Our employees are actively engaged in several committees 
(EHS, Energy, Welfare, Kaizen and e²) and are encouraged 
to share, own, and lead initiatives surrounding their ideas. 
COVID-19 has provided an opportunity for more 
empowerment on site. Rather than external R&D and 
engineering teams flying into the site, our Nava team 
excelled in adopting the Kaizen mindset and approach to 
problem solving. 
The Kaizen culture and strategic planning process are also 
key mechanisms for the team and culture. Kaizen ensures 
that continuous improvement can be implemented at any 
stage of the product life cycle. When a new product is 
being developed or transferred from another site, the 
production development process is utilized to ensure the 
highest efficiency and lowest waste can be achieved prior 
to production ramp-up. This ensures the minimum space is 
utilized, which in turn saves energy and lessens our impact 
on the environment.
We have a strong focus on diversity with 30% female 
representation in engineering functions, but recognize we 
still have opportunities to improve. Fairness is a guiding 
principle at Nava, and we are proud of the team we have 
assembled. Our aim is to build a culture organically, one 
that feels natural and is a blend of Western and Eastern 
influences. We believe we have achieved this goal, and it is 
this unique culture that enables our success. 
LEADING BY EXAMPLE
The Nava factory aims to be a good corporate citizen to 
Thailand, and we seek out ways to engage with and help 
the community. We maintain an internship program with 
Chitralada Technology Institute, an apprenticeship program CULTIVATING OUR PEOPLE
At Nava, we believe in empowering our people to make the right decisions. Our engage and 
excel (e²) initiative guides the team in creating a culture of engagement and a sense of unity 
between staff and leaders. Receipt of over 1,000 suggestions for improvements to our 
operations lead us down a path of continuous improvement in quality, productivity, safety 
and environmental impact. The success of this constant engagement can be demonstrated 
by our average monthly attrition rate of 1.03%, compared to the industry average of 1.25% 
(Mercer 2019 Thailand Remuneration Surveys). 
for students in the last year of their degree programs, and 
collaborate with the Cadet school and universities. These 
programs help students through knowledge and tools 
sharing and provide a hands-on experience in a high-tech 
manufacturing environment. Cooperative programs not 
only benefit the student directly, but provide us the 
opportunity to hire talent who understand our business 
and can hit the ground running. Engineering talent is in 
high demand, and the more we can engage with students 
and young professionals, the stronger our team will grow.
We share what we learn with other companies and 
organizations. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we worked 
with local governments to train communities about safety, 
and we shared best practices with other businesses. Both 
the Princess of Thailand and the governor of Prathum 
Thani province were welcomed to the site during the 
pandemic. The governor highlighted Lumentum Nava as 
the exemplary manufacturer for others to emulate. We 
also worked collaboratively with the provincial office to 
help support community welfare for the citizens in the 
province. 
We shared, with other companies in Thailand, our 
strategies and actions to successfully combat the spread of 
COVID-19, such as 24-hour central command for situation 
monitoring and production shift scheduling techniques.
We are continuing to explore ways to contribute to the 
local community. We have identified initiatives such as 
financial contributions, and Employee Volunteer Days to 
support local projects by closing the plant and transporting 
volunteer employees to a project site. These efforts are to 
strengthen our ties to the community so we can raise 
awareness of our organization and our impact. The pursuit of excellence: Lumentum Navanakorn FactoryPlanet:  
Lighter Impact      
Through our innovations we contribute to a more 
efficient world. Efforts to lighten the environmental 
footprint of our products and operations are core 
to Lumentum.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  34
Our products enable a more connected society, 
allowing for information to flow at faster rates and 
people to interact from around the world. More areas 
of the world are gaining access to the internet, which is 
unlocking vast resources and reducing the burden of 
travel, as education and employment are now more 
accessible from home. Our laser technology unlocks 
more precise and powerful technologies that further 
drive down the scale and increase the power of data 
and communication networks. These factors all further 
Lumentum’s role in contributing to a more efficient 
world that operates with a lighter footprint.
However, the demand for our products and the demand 
on data and communications infrastructure highlight 
our need to offer innovative solutions and actively 
manage our own environmental impacts. It is our 
mission to lighten our impact by reducing our energy 
consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water 
consumption, and waste generation. By integrating 
sound environmental management practices into our 
business, we can offer technologically innovative 
products and services while conserving and enhancing 
resources for future generations.
Our journey to net zero has begun by procuring 100% 
renewable electricity to power our headquarters in San 
Jose, California, USA, a new R&D facility in Milan, Italy, 
and a manufacturing facility in Škofljica, Slovenia. Our 
site leads actively review their energy consumption for 
possible ways to reduce use, and we have already 
implemented projects at several sites. Caswell, UK, for Planet:  Lighter Impact      
NET ZERO BY 2030
The environmental impact of organizations and their responsibility to manage 
their contributions to climate change have become clear priorities for our 
stakeholders. At Lumentum, we recognize the climate change we are facing and 
believe we have a responsibility to act. Therefore, we are proud of our 
commitment to achieve a net zero scope 1 and 2 emissions target by 2030.
example, has completed an LED light retrofit and 
replaced chiller units with newer, more efficient types 
to save energy.
As we grasp the challenges and opportunities that lie 
ahead, we are committed to rising to the occasion.Over 60% of our manufacturing sites have ISO 
14001-certified environmental management systems 
(EMS) and we are continuing to expand this coverage. In 
FY21, we recorded zero significant environmental fines, 
reinforcing the efficacy of our environmental management 
systems. Alignment to a best-in-class framework for 
environmental management allows us to go beyond 
compliance and proactively manage our environmental 
aspects while understanding our environmental risks and 
opportunities. In addition, we integrate our ISO 9001 and 
Kaizen culture to our environmental management to 
further strengthen our program.Environmental management FY21
Percentage ISO 14001 certified sites 67%
Total number of manufacturing sites 6
   CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  35IMPACT ON CLIMATE
Lumentum recognizes the global effort needed to mitigate the worst impacts of 
climate change and align our actions with SDG 7 – Affordable and Clean Energy and 
SDG 13 – Climate Action. We realize the risk that climate change has on our business 
in the short, medium, and long term and have begun to incorporate climate change 
mitigation into our business objectives and strategy.   
020406080100120
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000
FY19 FY20 FY21
MT CO2E /$MMT CO2EGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Scope 1 Scope 2 (Market-based)
Scope 3 GHG IntensityTo monitor and manage our contributions to climate 
change, we have responded to CDP’s Climate Change 
Questionnaire every year since 2017. CDP’s alignment to 
the recommendations from the Task Force for Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) help us refine our 
governance structure and consider the risks and 
opportunities associated with climate change. 
We aim to strengthen our practices and disclose our 
progress, and we are further developing our greenhouse 
gas management program. Our current inventory includes 
accounting for scope 1 and scope 2 emissions associated 
with our facilities’ energy consumption and the scope 3 
emissions from our contract manufacturers, business 
travel and other fuel- and energy-related activities. We 
encourage our suppliers to participate in CDP and leverage 
tools, such as Supply Risk Solutions, to monitor our supply 
chain’s climate-related risks.In FY21, our overall emissions decreased 12%. This was 
driven by an 18% decrease in scope 3 emissions from 
reductions in contract  manufacturing. As we continue to 
expand production at Nava, we are capitalizing on 
process efficiencies and reduced exposure to third-party 
contract manufacturers. We also saw a 6% decrease in 
our market-based scope 2 emissions from the 
consolidation of our own manufacturing operations and 
reduced electricity use. However, counteracting these 
gains, we increased air circulation in cleanrooms due to 
COVID-19, requiring added fuel consumption, which 
resulted in an increase in our scope 1 emissions and 
scope 3 emissions from fuel-related activities.  While we 
continue to explore global opportunities for more 
efficient processing and the procurement of cleaner 
energy, we expect to see a downward trend in our 
overall emissions towards our net zero goal.
As we continue to account for our greenhouse inventory, 
we expect to capture a wider range of scope 3 emissions Planet: Lighter Impact     
categories from supplier emissions to the emissions 
associated with transportation and distribution. We are 
already taking steps to reduce our impact in these 
categories. In FY20, our 3D-sensing team partnered with 
a material supplier to nearshore their operations to a 
key contract manufacturer’s location. This change 
eliminated the need to ship supplies internationally, 
avoiding nearly 2.3 million miles flown, or approximately 
131 million commercial ton-miles. We estimate this 
resulted in an annual reduction of 90 metric tons of 
CO2e attributable to our operations.  
Energy FY21 FY20 FY19
Total energy 
consumption (MWh) 142,299 148,048 149,191
Energy intensity 
(MWh/$MM)82 88 95
Revenue ($MM) 1,742.8 1,678.6 1,565.3
 IN FY20, WE PARTNERED WITH A SUPPLIER TO 
OPTIMIZE OUR LOGISTICS  REDUCING 
NEARLY 2.3 MILLION MILES 
FLOWN OR APPROXIMATELY 131 
MILLION COMMERCIAL TON-MILES ANNUALLY.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  36Planet: Lighter Impact     
Telecommunications and Internet Infrastructure
Internet speed and access is an ever-increasing priority 
across the world. The recent challenges of the global 
COVID-19 pandemic have only heightened the priority of 
national internet infrastructure upgrades. As a leading 
supplier of optical components and subsystems used in 
building internet backbone equipment, Lumentum plays 
an important role in the design and performance of 
these networks and in providing internet access across 
the world. 
One of the key limitations to deploying terrestrial and 
submarine networks is electrical power. The ability to 
provide and dissipate power is often the most 
constraining factor, due to physical space limitations and 
atmospheric conditions.Cloud Data Center Infrastructure
We continually invest in the development of solutions to 
meet the need for reduced energy consumption in data 
centers. With the launch of our 100G B5 PAM4 externally 
modulated laser (EML), the laser power consumption per 
100Gbps (Gigabits per second) was reduced by 53% over 
the preceding 50G B4 PAM4 EML and reduced by 80% 
from the original 25G B2 EML product.
In addition, we have invested in the development of a 
higher bandwidth 100G direct modulated laser (DML) with 
improved temperature control. New lasers can operate at 
higher temperature ranges, enabling less air-conditioning 
and power consumption in data centers. These factors 
enable savings of over 1 watt of power consumption per 
400G 2 km transceiver module in the datacenter, which 
equates to an additional 8% power savings over an EML 
based 400G 2 km transceiver.PRODUCT ENERGY EFFICIENCY  
Our teams are continuing to push power efficiency improvements in our products to 
meet the need for reduced energy consumption in the markets where we operate.
Lumentum’s advances in its products and technologies are 
helping to increase power efficiency. For example, a 
comparative analysis was performed on our high-speed 
coherent optical data transmission modules, which are 
used in internet backbone applications, on a basis of watts 
per Gigabit (W/Gb), from 100 Gigabits per second to 400 
Gigabits per second, and from the Generation 1 (Gen1) to 
Generation 2 (Gen2) modules. We achieved a power 
efficiency improvement from Gen1 to Gen2 of 64% (W/Gb).
In addition, Lumentum’s high power pump lasers are 
critical to the world’s internet infrastructure upgrades. In 
the span of less than 5 years, Lumentum’s new generation 
pump lasers have doubled wall-plug efficiency compared 
to our previous generation. The efficiency increase allows 
our customers to transport more data farther while using 
less power. Additionally, these improvements increase the 
density providing more features and functions in a smaller 
package. Our S35 series pumps with ultra-low power 
consumption of less than 3.5 watts use 50% less power 
than the preceding S34 series pumps to generate the same 
optical output power.
Our leading-edge products and technologies are being 
used today to expand the reach of broadband throughout 
the world.
100G DCO Gen1POWER USAGE IMPROVEMENTS OF COHERENT TRANSMISSION MODULES
LUMENTUM MODULE PRODUCT PROGRESSION OVER TIME 200G DCO Gen1 200G DCO Gen2 400G DCO Gen2RELATIVE /parenleft.case%/parenright.case POWER USAGE
WATT PER BIT64%100%
58%
36%
  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  37
Commercial Lasers
Our commercial laser products are used in a wide range of 
material processing applications in manufacturing, 
including in the medical, consumer electronics, and solar 
device industries, as well as in sheet metal cutting and 
welding. In all of these applications, energy efficiency is an 
increasingly critical performance requirement.
Lumentum’s high-precision pulsed lasers enable reliable 
manufacturing processes and consistent quality for a 
broad range of materials. The evolution of our higher 
power, ultrafast, picosecond laser systems has resulted in 
several efficiency improvements, moving from the 
PicoBlade2 (PB2) to the PicoBlade3 (PB3). We have 
improved wall plug efficiency by 62.5%, which results in 
savings of 47 MWh/year for each PB3 when run 24 hours 
a day, 7 days a week. Optical output power has increased 
3.6x with only a 1.5x increase in size, providing our 
customers a more efficient use of space. We are also able 
to reduce waste and decrease downtime up to 67% with a 
3x improvement in the typical lifetime of consumables. 
The increased performance and reliability of the PB3 led 
to avoided emissions from transportation due to lighter 
weights (on a watt/kg basis) and fewer return-to-factory 
service requirements.In the area of metal processing, Lumentum has partnered 
with a customer, Amada Co. Ltd. (Amada), for over 10 
years in developing multiple generations of kilo-watt class 
fiber lasers for industrial metal cutting and welding 
applications. These leading-edge lasers have displaced 
traditional technologies, including less efficient CO 2 lasers 
as well as water-jet systems, which produce significant 
environmental waste. Our fiber laser technology has 
enabled Amada to accelerate the transition of their 
machine tool portfolio from being 90% CO 2 laser based in 
2012 to their goal of less than 10% in 2022. Our fiber laser 
portfolio includes power levels from 4,000 watts to 
12,000 watts and have a wall-plug efficiency of 30% 
compared to 10% for CO 2 lasers.  
Further, Lumentum and Amada have partnered to develop 
unique laser beam shapes to enable even more efficient 
use of the laser light. This was a fundamental shift for the 
industry that enabled single machine tools to be used for a 
variety of applications. Lumentum continues to innovate 
and develop more advanced lasers in smaller and smaller 
footprints. We have shipped thousands of fiber lasers, 
which are deployed worldwide and have helped accelerate 
the transition to more sustainable technologies.  
Planet: Lighter Impact     
3D Sensing 
Computer and machine vision applications employing laser-
based 3D sensing are emerging to enhance safety, security, 
and functionality in a wide range of products the world 
increasingly relies on. These include biometric 
authentication in the consumer electronic devices we use 
every day that contain our personal information and, over 
the long-term, automobile safety systems. 
Lumentum has shipped over a billion of vertical-cavity 
surface-emitting laser (VCSEL) arrays for 3D sensing over 
the past several years, most of which are used for 
biometric authentication in consumer electronics. We have 
continuously been focused on improving wall plug 
efficiency (WPE) of these products and have achieved 
year-over-year success. The aggregate improvement in 
WPE today compared to four years ago is approximately 
10%. We estimate our efficiency improvements in VCSEL 
products have resulted in a cumulative energy savings of 
approximately 200,000 kWh, assuming typical usage in 
mobile phone applications.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  38WATER AND EFFLUENTS
Lumentum withdraws but does not consume large 
quantities of water in our operations as it is an important 
resource for cooling, cleaning, and hygienic use at our 
production facilities. In addition, several of our 
manufacturing facilities are in areas that experience 
water stress, and over half of our facilities carry out 
activities that could be subject to disruption due to a lack 
of water supply. 
Integrated with our Environmental Management System 
(EMS), we have formal water quality management 
programs in place covering aspects from wastewater 
treatment to storm water runoff and drainage. In addition, 
we evaluate our water impacts through our annual 
submission to CDP’s Water Security Questionnaire, which 
we’ve responded to each year since 2017. 
We understand that water is a key resource within the 
communities where we operate. It is with this mindset that 
we introduced a goal to reduce our annual water 
withdrawal by 5% by 2023. We have taken measures such 
as the installation of closed cooling systems, which reuse 
and recirculate water and minimize our consumption, 
through the installation of efficient fixtures such as push 
taps and automatic taps in our restrooms and canteens. In 
Slovenia, we entered into an agreement with a local 
company for the beneficial reuse of their hot water supply. 
Due to increased insourcing at our Nava factory, our water 
withdrawal increased 14%, however water consumption 
decreased 20%.
In our operations where we do use water, we ensure the 
proper wastewater management steps are taken before 
discharge. We actively monitor and manage wastewater 
quality globally and ensure we are in compliance with all 
local requirements. We have received recognition for our 
wastewater treatment practices and have been awarded 
the wastewater regulatory compliance award from the city 
of San Jose, California, USA. Planet:  Lighter Impact      
 
250300350400450500
FY19 FY20 FY21Megaliters (Ml)
Megaliters (Ml)WATER AND EFFLUENTS
Withdrawal Consumption5075100TRACKING PROGRESS ON 
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
We believe developing and maintaining sustainable, 
responsible practices in our global operations makes 
business sense. By reducing our chemical use and 
transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy, we are 
reducing costs. In a society where companies and workers 
are putting greater value on sustainability, greening our 
operations also gives us a competitive advantage with 
customers, increases employee morale, and aids our 
recruitment efforts.As part of our commitment to a sustainable future, 
we set several ambitious goals in the beginning of 
FY21. Despite COVID-19’s impact on our operations, 
we were able to progress on several of our goals: 
NET ZERO EMISSIONS FROM OUR GLOBAL 
OPERATIONS (SCOPE 1 AND 2) BY 2030  
Achieved 5% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions  
from FY20 to FY2 1
USE 100% RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY  AT 
OUR CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS BY 2023  
Achieved in FY21    
REDUCE OUR ABSOLUTE ENERGY 
CONSUMPTION BY 5% AT ALL GLOBAL 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT SITES BY 2023  
Achieved in FY21
REDUCE OUR EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL 
BY 20% ANNUALLY  
In FY21, air travel was restricted due to COVID-19 
resulting in 0 emissions
REDUCE OUR ANNUAL WATER WITHDRAWAL 
BY 5% BY 2023  
16% increase in water withdrawal from FY20 to FY21.
  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  39Planet: Lighter Impact      
full material declarations, we determined one component 
with PIP 3:1 substance, which was used in an already 
discontinued product. To ensure compliance of all our 
products, we have reached out to over 600 suppliers to 
obtain information on the presence of both substances in 
our components and conducted testing of selected 
high-risk parts. 
We will continuously monitor technical progress and 
work closely with our suppliers to proactively reduce the 
use of hazardous substances in our products. We 
regularly evaluate our products against declarable 
substances included in the International Electrotechnical 
Commissions (IEC) 62474 standard. In FY21, 55% of our 
revenue was of products that contain IEC 62474 
declarable substances, down from 61% and 68% in FY20 
and FY19, respectively, primarily due to lead in 
components covered by RoHS exemptions.
WASTE
We understand the impacts that waste generation can 
have on surrounding communities, particularly if not 
treated properly. We believe organizations have a 
responsibility to reduce their contributions to waste 
streams wherever possible and align our goals with those 
of SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption & Production. 
Our global sites produce both hazardous and non-
hazardous waste through our production processes and 
from general operations. The generation of hazardous 
waste is inherent in our industry, but at Lumentum, we 
ensure strict compliance with all local laws as they relate 
to the generation, treatment, and transportation of 
hazardous waste.
Workforce training and education are critical, and we carry 
out specific training pertaining to the proper handling and 
disposal of general, industrial, and hazardous waste. We 
have introduced a comprehensive program to promote the 
3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) to reduce industrial waste. At 
our Nava factory, recycling rates for both hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste are over 90%.As we continue to develop programs and seek out 
opportunities to reduce waste and the input materials 
required, we will develop a goal in FY22 to drive our waste 
management programs. We have already found success 
with waste generation decreasing over 25% from FY19 to 
FY20. We plan to build upon this success to continue this 
trend as well as increasing the percentage of waste 
diverted from landfill.MATERIALS  
Lumentum is committed to compliance with all applicable 
product environmental laws and regulations, inclusive of 
EU Directive 2011/65/EC (RoHS), Directive 2012/19/EC 
(WEEE) and Regulation 1907/2006/EC (REACH).
Lumentum currently fulfills, and commits to fulfill, all of 
our obligations under these regulatory schemes. We 
participate in technical working groups and stakeholder 
consultations for EU RoHS legislation reviews and RoHS 
exemptions evaluations to ensure we are up to date on the 
latest and future regulations to appropriately plan our 
product development. We have issued position statements 
on REACH , RoHS and WEEE .
We require all of our suppliers to complete Lumentum’s 
Compliance Data Form with material composition and to 
disclose any regulated substances present in parts and 
materials purchased by Lumentum. Compliance with 
substance restrictions is required for component 
qualification, release to manufacturing, and is continuously 
reviewed against new substance requirements until 
product discontinuance.
An example of our commitment was evident when 
Lumentum eliminated four phthalates (BBP, DBP, DEHP and 
DIBP) restricted by the RoHS amending Directive (EU) 
2015/863 from all of our products. In FY20 we reviewed 
18,000 parts and surveyed over 600 suppliers to ensure 
all our products comply with Perfluorooctanoic acid 
(PFOA) restrictions of EU REACH regulation and the 
Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants.  
In FY21, in response to a new restriction of Phenol, 
Isopropylated Phosphate (3:1) (PIP 3:1) and 
Pentachlorothiophenol (PCTP) in articles under the US 
Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) published in January 
2021, we immediately performed an impact analysis and 
identified potentially impacted components. Based on our IN CASWELL, UK 100% OF 
MUNICIPAL WASTE   
IS DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL
REVENUES FROM PRODUCTS WITH  
IEC 62474 DECLARABLE  
SUBSTANCES DECREASED  
6% IN FY21At Lumentum, our people are the key to our success. We offer 
an environment where our employees feel respected and 
appreciated, and we unite our team behind our Guiding 
Principles. We develop our team to enable their success, while 
creating a diverse and inclusive culture that values differences 
and inspires creativity.
We conduct our work to the highest social, ethical and safety 
standards within our facilities, and we propagate that 
expectation across our value chain. We aim to influence those 
around us beyond our value chain and work hard to positively 
contribute to the communities in which we live and operate.People:  
Positive Impact        CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  41TALENT MANAGEMENT 
We recognize the future performance of Lumentum relies upon the strength of our 
team. Consequently, our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, 
engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel is of critical importance. The 
supply of highly qualified individuals–in particular, engineers in specialized technical 
areas and salespeople specializing in the service provider, enterprise, and commercial 
laser markets–is limited, and competition for such individuals is intense. Therefore, we 
understand the importance of creating an attractive work environment for our 
employees and managing our brand in the job market.  
At Lumentum, we invest in programs that help us bring 
our best to work each and every day.  Our 
comprehensive benefits program and wellness initiatives 
reflect the best standards of the high-tech industry, 
promoting healthy minds and bodies for both our 
diverse employee population and their families.  Since 
we are a global company, our benefit programs differ by 
country to meet the needs of our geographically diverse 
employee population as well as statutory requirements 
and industry best practices.  Benefits are one 
component that reinforces our Total Rewards Philosophy, 
and our goal is to be the employer of choice with 
competitive offerings. 
We are proud of the work environment we have created 
and have received recognition at our Lumentum Ottawa, 
Canada site for the fourth year in a row as a best 
employer for recent university graduates under The 
Career Directory, a guide to entry-level recruitment. In 
addition, Lumentum Ottawa was recognized by Canada’s 
Top 100 Employers Project as the National Capital 
Region’s Top Employers for the fifth consecutive year.
BrightPath, our talent development process, is designed 
to light the way for personal and business growth, 
reflecting the future growth focus of Lumentum. This 
process encourages managers and employees to talk 
more often about how employees can raise their 
performance and skill level to support our success. 
Employees and managers are encouraged to meet at 
least monthly, or more frequently as needed, to remove 
roadblocks, refocus priorities, and give and receive 
feedback. At least once a quarter, employees and 
managers have an individual talent discussion. The People:  Positive Impact      
future of Lumentum is bright, and our employees are the 
critical defining factor in our company’s future. Through 
the BrightPath process, we can apply our core beliefs of 
accountability, employee development, and engagement 
outlined in our Guiding Principles to develop a workforce 
that will enable us to achieve our growth objectives.
We offer our employees the opportunity to learn and 
grow as individuals and professionals. The training and 
education of our employees are essential to maintain 
Lumentum’s high standards for design and manufacturing 
of our products along with the safety of our employees. 
Our learning management platform, Percipio, leverages 
artificial intelligence to curate learning paths and gamify 
skills development for recognition and celebration. 
Opportunities are available to learn new in-demand skills 
and reinforce existing knowledge for increased 
confidence, empowerment, and on-the-job engagement.
In addition to self-paced courses, we invest in our 
employees’ development in safety, technical expertise, 
and professional business skills to meet our ongoing 
needs for innovation and quality control. We offer 
support for job-related degree programs and 
certifications through our learning assistance and 
reimbursement program. This program covers all 
full-time Lumentum employees across various learning 
types, from certificate programs to the pursuit of a 
degree at an accredited university.Finally, we maintain an engaged workforce by eliciting 
and responding to feedback regularly. We leverage a tool 
called Glint to help us understand our organizational 
performance and identify areas to improve. We have 
asked employees to rate their level of agreement with 
continuous improvement processes supporting their 
understanding of roles and responsibilities. Between May 
2019 and May 2021, the overall company score has 
increased 7 points from a low of 68 to a high of 75. 
Education on process improvement has taken place 
throughout the company at all levels. Email updates, 
articles, learning sessions, and metrics have helped 
identify areas of opportunity and address them.
Employee engagement remained a priority throughout 
the pandemic, and we saw strong responses in our 
engagement surveys. We believe this was tied to our 
response and ongoing communication regarding 
COVID-19, and we quickly implemented what feedback 
we received. For example, within one week of request, 
we enabled cashless transactions for our entire canteen 
in our Nava factory. 100% OF EMPLOYEES   
RECEIVE REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  42DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, AND BELONGING  
Although we come from all corners of the globe—representing people of diverse 
cultures and perspectives—we share the same goals and vision for our company. We 
are unified in our commitment to live our Guiding Principles: Innovate, Engage, 
Deliver, Excel, and Win. Our differences make us stronger, more creative, and 
capable of delivering better results. As a global, multicultural company driven by 
innovation, we are building a diverse and inclusive culture where differences are 
valued, but we realize there is still room for improvement.     
We have identified a maturity model and vision of progression for the diversity, 
inclusion, and belonging (DIB) program at Lumentum. While early in our journey, 
we acknowledge that diversity is a business benefit but is also the right thing to 
do. By fostering a more inclusive culture, our talent pool will become larger, and 
our competitive advantages will become greater. Our desire is to integrate and 
embed DIB into our daily activities. Our first step in this journey was a Kaizen 
project that launched in the fall of 2020 with a focus on how we recruit new 
talent. Everything from how job postings are written, how interviews are 
conducted, to how we assess talent in the organization were evaluated to ensure 
a consistent and unbiased process. 
We review our DIB initiatives with our Nominating and Governance Committee 
at least quarterly. Progress toward our multiyear DIB strategy for sustainable 
cultural change is measured quarterly for support and accountability by our 
Compensation Committee. Our DIB Council, formed in 2019, aligns our diversity 
goals and objectives with our wider company goals and objectives. The council 
is co-chaired by our Chief Executive Officer and our Vice President of Talent and 
Chief Diversity Officer, with representation by all business units and functions. People:  Positive Impact      
Gender Equality
Aligned with SDG 5 – Gender Equality, Lumentum is 
committed to equal treatment and equal pay of 
employees regardless of gender. 
We regularly conduct our assessment and reporting for 
UK gender pay gap reporting. However, in June 2020, 
we completed a more comprehensive analysis of 
employee compensation with an aim to identify gaps 
based on gender. The analysis resulted in a subset of 
employees who were determined should receive salary 
adjustments, which were quickly implemented. This pay 
equity analysis has been integrated as standard 
practice in our compensation program, as we monitor 
and make necessary adjustments quarterly. We are 
committed to eliminating inexplicable differences in 
pay and monitoring our recruitment, talent, and pay 
practices to identify areas that may be leading to 
unintentional pay differences.
0.13%
58%
2%6%1%2%29%EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY /parenleft.caseU.S.A./parenright.case
American Indian or Alaska Native
Asian
Black or African American
Hispanic or Latinx
Native Hawaiian or Other Paci/f_ic
Islander
Two or More Races
White020406080100
FY19 FY20 FY21% OF TOTALNEW HIRES BY GENDER
Female Male Not Disclosed
We are committed to gender diversity across the organization, from 
female representation in new hires to our goal of women in 21% of 
senior leadership positions.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  43
Social Justice  
In the wake of the protests and conversations about 
race in the U.S.A. sparked by the death of George Floyd, 
we have worked to better share our plans and thinking 
about diversity, inclusion, and belonging with our 
workforce that already started in 2019. Our CEO has 
sent clear messages to all employees that racism of any 
kind will not be tolerated at Lumentum and expressed 
support for our Black employees. Also, in response to 
the increased hate crimes in the U.S.A. against Asian 
Americans and East Asians since the start of the People:  Positive Impact      
To bring employees together, we launched employee-led employee resource groups 
(ERGs) for early career hires, women, Latinx and Hispanic employees, Black employees, 
and AAPI employees, with plans to expand to other employee groups. These ERGs 
provide a safe space for conversation and help us address company-wide challenges and 
communicate with senior leaders across the organization.
We set annual goals to increase the representation of several traditionally 
underrepresented populations in our organization. See our FY21 DIB goals below:
FY21 DIB Goal FY21 Target FY21 Outcome Context
Increase the percentage of women in 
senior leadership positions 21% 20.7%We increased the proportion of women in senior leadership 
roles to 20.7%, just below our 21% goal. We have increased the 
number of women globally to 50% of our population and females 
hold 28% of our people management roles.
Increase the percentage of early career 
new hires 33% 48.0%We exceeded our early career hire goals with 48% of our new 
employees being within the first five years of their career.
Increase the percentage of Black/
African American new hires  
(U.S.A. only) 10% 10.2%We achieved our goal for Black/African American representation 
of new hires and understand this is an important step in 
fostering a more diverse workforce.
Increase the percentage of Latinx/
Hispanics new hires (U.S.A. only) 10% 4.6%In FY21, our Latinx/Hispanic representation of new hires was 
under our 10% goal. Looking ahead, we believe our university 
relations program, increased diverse partnerships, and further 
development of our ERGs will continue to strengthen our reach 
to a diverse candidate pool. These efforts support our desire to 
foster a culture of inclusiveness and a sense of belonging for all 
employees, improving our desirability as an employer.
Less than a 2% gender pay gap, globally <2% <2%We are proud to have achieved our goal and understand it 
takes regular monitoring to ensure we remain equitable in our 
compensation.Less than a 2% pay gap for 
underrepresented minorities (U.S.A. only) <2% <2%
pandemic, our CEO condemned the violence and racism, 
and emphasized the importance that all people stand 
together to support one another. 
Lumentum is committed to creating a space where all 
employees feel empowered, are respected and can 
contribute to the fullest extent of their potential.
Early in 2021, Lumentum committed to the 25×25 
diversity initiative developed by the Silicon Valley 
Leadership Group, of which our CEO is an executive board member. As a participating company, we pledged that by 
2025, at least 25% of our leadership will be comprised of 
persons of color and/or women or that we will increase 
the number of underrepresented executives in leadership 
roles by at least 25%. We will keep the pledge by making 
diversity data and annual progress towards meeting 
committed metrics public. In addition, we commit to 
increase resources for funding and/or community 
engagement in support of underrepresented groups and 
expansion of minority talent pipelines by 25% by 2025.In addition, to progress towards these goals we 
introduced initiatives including unconscious bias training 
focusing on three areas of the candidate and employee 
experience: attraction, development, and retention. We 
expanded our university relations program and 
partnerships to engage with the National Society of 
Black Engineers (NSBE), the Society of Women Engineers 
(SWE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional 
Engineers (SHPE). We also introduced a partnership with 
fourteen universities, of which four are Historically 
Black Colleges or Universities (HBCUs), to provide 
internship opportunities with a $10,000 scholarship 
awarded at the successful completion of the internship. 
We also participate in external initiatives to drive DIB in 
the San Francisco Bay Area. We are a member of the 
Silicon Valley Leadership Group supporting three key 
areas: the Racial Equity Task Force to increase the 
representation of underrepresented minorities in the 
Bay Area through their 25x25 initiative, the Education 
committee to increase partnership with California 
Community Colleges, and the Housing Committee in 
support of affordable housing for Bay Area residents.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  44
Our Lumentum Production System (LPS) extends beyond 
product quality and aims to create a safety culture based 
on safe people and safe places. We apply the zero-defect 
mindset and strive for zero work-related injuries at all 
sites. In Thailand, we were awarded Thailand’s National 
Health and Safety award for operating over 15.9 million 
hours with zero accidents. Practices to support this 
success include the implementation of weekly safety 
walks conducted by local EHS and CSR team members to 
ensure a safe workplace and that employees are adhering 
to safety policies. We conduct more detailed health and 
safety risk assessments at all manufacturing sites on at 
least an annual basis.
We have a comprehensive corporate health and safety 
policy that covers a range of issues from evaluation of 
EHS compliance to hazardous waste management to 
noise exposure and hearing protection. The 
occupational health and safety management system at 
our largest manufacturing facility, based in Thailand, 
has been ISO45001-certified and we will continue to 
advance our program through sharing best practices 
learned and implemented from our global operations. 
All employees are required to comply with all 
Lumentum environmental, health and safety policies.
Global health and safety teams come together monthly 
to discuss incidents, events, and learnings to share best 
practices. Within each facility, meetings are held weekly to identify any risks or problem areas and 
determine action plans for resolution. Regular audits 
and drills are conducted onsite to simulate fire incidents 
or chemical spills.
Employee training and education is critical to ensure a safe 
and controlled workplace. Employees are required to 
undergo mandatory safety training and comply with the 
policies relevant to their work. To encourage engagement, 
in 2020, we held safety fairs in the United States, a safety 
education week in Slovenia and a 2-day safety event in 
Thailand to promote our commitment to safety. People:  Positive Impact      
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY  
Protecting the health and safety of our employees is vital to our core values. Caring 
for and attending to everyone who comes through our doors is fundamental to 
Lumentum’s success and plays a major role in quality control. Providing a productive 
work environment means ensuring that all of our facilities, and those of our supply 
partners, are safe and comply with all applicable workplace health and safety laws 
and regulations.
Another aspect to encourage engagement is through 
joint labor-management health and safety committees. 
Each facility has a safety committee which consists of 
representatives across operational functions and 
responsibility-types. These committees have proven 
successful in increasing the awareness of safety 
practices and distributing the responsibility of health 
and safety to each employee within the facility. 
Health and Safety management system FY21 FY20 FY19
Number of all employees who are covered 4,869 4,906 4,625
Percentage covered 100 100 100
Number of all employees who are covered by a system that has been 
internally audited4,869 4,906 4,625
Percentage covered 100 100 100
Number of all employees who are covered by a system that has been 
audited or certified by an external party1,991 1,759 0
Percentage covered 41% 36% 0%
Note: FY19 and FY20 employee totals have been restated to reflect and updated reporting methodology.
Safety
Near Miss Frequency Rate (NMFR) 1.69 2.08 3.92
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.16 0.17 0.29
Hours worked 11,491,279 11,764,571 10,286,926
Note: Rates have been calculated based on 200,000 hours worked. We are expanding our coverage of NMFR reporting. Sites where data is not yet 
available have been excluded.100% OF EMPLOYEES AND 
CONTRACTORS  ARE COVERED BY AN 
INTERNALLY AUDITED HEALTH AND SAFETY 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  45COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND SUPPORT  
The act of giving back, whether that be through volunteering or in-kind or monetary 
donations, is deeply rooted in our culture and is tied to one of our Guiding Principles, 
Engage. We consistently strive for a better tomorrow by uplifting our communities 
while continuing to make Lumentum a great place to work. 
This competition recognizes employers who go above and 
beyond by demonstrating unwavering support for their 
employees and the local community. Part of the 
recognition was of our program to encourage employees 
to volunteer with a paid day off. Volunteer hours 
accumulated  almost 1,000 hours on company time to 
complement a company match program. 
In addition to our ongoing efforts through flexible 
volunteer hours, in 2020 we introduced Lumentum Gives. 
This all-encompassing program was designed to introduce 
additional paths for community engagement. Created by 
employees for the community, the program includes three People:  Positive Impact      
Team donation during COVID-19 in Nava, Thailand
Food drive in support of the Food Bank in Ottawa, Canada Volunteers donated their time and contributed to Shenzhen Nanshan 
Xingguang Special Children Rehabilitation Center in Shenzhen, ChinaFood donation for Second Harvest Food Bank in San Jose, USA pillars–flexible volunteer hours, disaster relief, and 
company donation-matching. Our mission is to fan the 
spark of generosity that is within all employees to make 
positive change through meaningful contributions. 
At the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, when 
personal protective equipment was in short supply, we 
donated our all-in-one cleanroom apparel, hats, gloves, 
and touchless thermal scanners to local hospitals and 
health workers in the USA and Thailand. In San Jose, 
California, a portion of our on-site testing capability is 
being used to support testing for underserved people. In 
Thailand, our team partnered with the local government 
to offer safety training and shared best practices with 
other businesses.
Our Lumentum Gives donation matching program is 
available to all our sites and we are working towards 
expanding formal coverage of the remaining two pillars, 
flexible volunteer hours and disaster relief. Meanwhile, 
each location continues to be active in their communities 
through site-specific engagement with local community 
organizations. 
To help support the communities where we operate 
around the globe, we donated $500,000 in FY20 and 
$415,000 in FY21 to local institutions that serve the 
communities where our employees live and work. This 
includes employee donations that were matched by 
Lumentum. Each of our global sites had the opportunity to 
select their local institutions to support. For example, in 
Canada, since April 2020, we developed a program to 
provide hot meals to at-risk groups and frontline workers, 
serving over 23,000 meals and making 430 deliveries.In Canada, since April 2020, WE SERVED 
OVER 23,000 MEALS AND MADE 
430 DELIVERIES to at-risk groups and 
frontline workersLUMENTUM OTTAWA WAS 
RECOGNIZED BY CANADA’S TOP 
100 EMPLOYERS PROJECT  AS THE 
NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION’S TOP EMPLOYERS FOR 
THE FIFTH CONSECUTIVE YEAR.    CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  46ESG KPI DATA SUMMARY  
Energy (MWh) FY21 FY20 FY19
Total energy consumption 142,299 148,048 149,191
Total fuel consumption 29,106 26,065 29,892
∙ Natural gas 29,094 26,053 29,836
∙ Diesel 12 12 55
Total electricity consumption 113,192 121,983 119,299
∙ Self-generated electricity 0 0 0
   - Electricity purchased from the grid (%) 100% 100% 100%
Energy consumption from renewable sources 2,180 0 0
Energy intensity (MWh/$MM) 82 88 95
Revenue ($MM) 1,742.8 1,678.6 1,565.3
Emissions  (MT CO2e) FY21 FY20 FY19
Total GHG emissions 96,441 109,333 123,324
Scope 1 GHG emissions 6,273 5,698 5,502
Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions 43,999 46,651 44,232
Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions 42,235 45,168 42,524
Scope 3 GHG emissions 47,933 58,467 75,298
∙ Purchased goods & services 31,249 45,034 60,528
 ∙ Fuel- & energy-related activities 16,684 12,183 11,782
 ∙ Business travel 0  1,250 2,988
GHG emissions intensity (MT CO2e/$MM) 55 65 79
 
Waste (MT) FY21 FY20 FY19
Total weight of waste generated 1,212 1,400 1,876
Hazardous 339 380 453
∙ Diverted 19 29 68
∙ Disposed 319 351 385
Non-hazardous 874 1,020 1,423
∙ Diverted 676 721 918
 ∙ Disposed 198 299 505
 
Note: Waste data is reported for all global manufacturing facilities and facilities over 50,000 square feet and/or with over 100 headcount.Water and effluents (ML) All Areas Water Stressed All Areas Water Stressed All Areas Water Stressed
Water withdrawal by source 444 93 381 107 421 310
Groundwater 49 15 35 0 0 0
Third-party water 395 78 346 107 421 310
Water discharge by destination 376 86 304 99  N/R  N/R 
Surface water 8 - 17 -    N/R  N/R 
Third-party water 368 86 287 99  N/R  N/R 
Total water consumption 68 7 77 7  N/R  N/R 
 
N/R indicates not recorded.
Note: Water and effluents data is reported for all global manufacturing facilities and facilities over 50,000 square feet and/or with over 100 headcount.Planet  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  47ESG KPI DATA SUMMARY 
People
Information on employees and other workers FY21 FY20 FY19
Total number of employees  6,056 5,859 5,681
Total number of permanent employees  5,426 5,306 5,011
Female  2,695 2,593 2,354
Male  2,731 2,713 2,657
APAC  3,721 3,552 3,196
EMEA  601 491 534
AMER  1,104 1,263 1,281
Total number of temporary employees  630 553 670
% of temporary employees 10.4% 9.4% 11.8%
Female  94 93 144
Male  181 203 280
Not Disclosed  355 257 246
APAC  327 235 227
EMEA  66 51 48
AMER  237 267 395
Total number of full-time employees  5,402 5,281 4,969
Female  2,681 2,580 2,326
Male  2,721 2,701 2,643
Total number of part-time employees  24 25 42
Female  14 13 28
Male  10 12 14
Percentage that are foreign nationals 2.4% 3.3% 3.0%
Percentage that are located offshore  NA NA NA
Employment FY21 FY20 FY19
Total number of new employee hires 1,280 1,829 2,729
<30 years old 556 808 777
30-50 years old 663 956 1,616
>50 years old 61 65 336
Female 670 925 1,235
Male 610 893 1,494
Not Disclosed - 11 -
APAC 973 1,542 2,053
EMEA 175 129 505
AMER 132 158 171
Total employee turnover 1,174 1,479 1,205
Voluntary turnover 923 1,231 810
Involuntary turnover 251 248 395
<30 years old 407 652 38
30-50 years old 566 691 617
>50 years old 201 136 200
Female 574 675 525
Male 600 793 679
Not Disclosed -   11 1
APAC 809 1,147 876
EMEA 67 170 61
AMER 298 162 268  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  48ESG KPI DATA SUMMARY 
People
Diversity & equal opportunity FY21 FY20 FY19
Number of employees in management roles  690 631 609
Female  186 163 157
Male 504 468 452
<30 years old  7 6 5
30-50 years old 421 395 392
>50 years old  262 230 212
Diverse Employees  19 18 14
Number of employees in technical roles 1,879 1,886 2,063
Female  481 506 522
Male 1,398 1,380 1,541
<30 years old  234 181 235
30-50 years old 1,154 1,140 1,241
>50 years old  491 565 587
Diverse Employees  41 53 58
Number of all other employees 3,547 3,420 2,948
Female 2,214 2,087 1,832
Male 1,333 1,333 1,116
<30 years old 1,082 1,161 1,062
30-50 years old 2,113 1,942 1,568
>50 years old  352 317 318
Diverse Employees  51 42 38
 
Note: Diverse employee data reflects US operations only. Lumentum identifies diverse employees as those who are not of Asian or Caucasian descent.
Training & education FY21 FY20 FY19
Total hours of training undertaken  68,132 43,565 30,683
Average hours of training per employee 11.3 7.4 5.4
Employee reviews
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
reviews100% 100% 100%
Percentage of employees receiving regular career 
development reviews100% 100% 100%
 
Note: Training is conducted across business functions and tracked locally. We believe the reported value is well below actual hours and we are working on increasing our data 
tracking mechanisms for reporting.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  49H&S-related injuries FY21 FY20 FY19
Near miss frequency rate 1.69 2.08 3.92
Number of recordable work-related injuries 9 10 15
∙ Rate 0.16 0.17 0.29
Number of high-consequence work-related injuries 0 0 1
∙ Rate 0 0 0.02
Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injuries 0 0 0
∙ Rate 0 0 0
Number of hours worked 11,491,279 11,764,571 10,286,926
 
Note: Data covers employee cases only. Rates have been calculated based on 200,000 hours worked. We are expanding our coverage of NMFR reporting. Sites where data is not 
yet available have been excluded.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  50GRI CONTENT INDEX
Disclosure No. Disclosure Description Direct Response or Report Location
102-1 Name of the organization Lumentum Holdings, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Lumentum, page 5.
102-3 Location of headquarters San Jose, California, USA.
102-4 Location of operations About Lumentum, page 6.
102-5 Ownership and legal form Lumentum is publicly listed and traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
102-6 Markets servedAbout Lumentum, page 5-6.  
FY20 Form 10-K, pages 4 - 6.
102-7 Scale of the organizationAbout Lumentum, page 6.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 47.
102-8 Information on employees and other workersPeople, page 41. 
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 47.
102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Responsibility, page 20.
102-10Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainNo significant changes occurred in our supply chain during the reporting year.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Planet, page 34.
102-12 External initiativesThe United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards
CDP Climate Change and Water Security Questionnaires
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards
The United National Universal Declaration of Human Rights
The International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
The International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
102-13 Membership of associationsThe Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
- The Responsible Labor Initiative (RLI)
- The Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI)
The Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG)
The Silicon Valley Leadership Group (SVLG)
102-14 Statement from senior decision-makerA Message from the Board, page 3.
A Message from the CEO, page 4.
102-16Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behaviorOur Vision, page 7.
Our Guiding Principles, page 7.
102-18 Governance structure CSR Governance, page 8.
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 14.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsLumentum supports employees’ rights to collective bargaining. No employees are covered by collective bargaining 
agreements. 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 14.
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 14.
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 14.
102-45Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsFY20 Form 10-K, pages 136 - 137.
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 14.
102-47 List of material topics Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality, page 14.
102-48 Restatements of information This is our inaugural report. No restatements have been made.
102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no changes in reporting.
102-50 Reporting period July 1, 2020 - June 30, 2021.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  51Disclosure No. Disclosure Description Direct Response or Report Location
102-51 Date of most recent report This is the first report prepared by Lumentum.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual.
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report CorporateSocialResponsibility@Lumentum.com
102-54Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index, page 50.
102-56 External assuranceVerification Statement, page 57.
We have not sought external assurance of this report, however, certain environmental metrics have been verified by 
an independent third-party.  
2020 GHG Assurance Statement
201 Economic Performance
103 Management approachSupply Chain Responsibility, page 19 - 20.
Impact on Climate, page 35.
Lumentum supports economic development through the economic value that is generated and distributed to 
employees, contractors, suppliers, and taxes paid to governments.
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributedSupply Chain Responsibility, page 20.
FY20 Form 10-K, pages 47.
201-2Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeImpact on Climate, page 35.  
2021 CDP Climate Change Response.
205 Anti-corruption
103 Management approach Business Conduct and Ethics, page 10.
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Business Conduct and Ethics, page 10.
205-2Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresBusiness Conduct and Ethics, page 10.
205-3Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenBusiness Conduct and Ethics, page 10.
206 Anti-competitive Behaviors
103 Management approach Business Conduct and Ethics, page 10.
206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-
trust, and monopoly practicesBusiness Conduct and Ethics, page 10.
301 Materials
103 Management approach Materials, page 39.
302 Energy
103 Management approachEnergy data is reported for all global sites.  
Impact on Climate, page 35.
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Impact on Climate, page 35.
302-3 Energy intensity Impact on Climate, page 35.
303 Water
103 Management approachWater data is reported for all global manufacturing facilities and facilities over 50,000 square feet and/or with over 
100 headcount.
Water and Effluents, page 38. 
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water and Effluents, page 38.
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water and Effluents, page 38.
303-3 Water withdrawal by source Water and Effluents, page 38.
303-4 Water discharged Water and Effluents, page 38.
303-5 Water consumption Water and Effluents, page 38.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  52Disclosure No. Disclosure Description Direct Response or Report Location
305 Emissions
103 Management approach Impact on Climate, page 35.
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
305-4 GHG emissions intensity ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
306 Waste
103 Management approachWaste data is reported for all global manufacturing facilities and facilities over 50,000 square feet and/or with over 100 
headcount.  
Waste, page 38. 
306-1Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impactsWater and Effluents, page 38.
306-2 Management of waste-related impacts Water and Effluents, page 38.
306-3 Waste generated ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
306-5 Waste directed to disposal ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
307 Environmental Compliance
307-1Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsLumentum received zero significant fines, non-monetary sanctions, and cases regarding environmental compliance.
401 Employment
103 Management approach Talent Management, page 41. 
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnoverTalent Management, page 41.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 47.
403 Occupational Health and Safety
103 Management approachOccupational Health and Safety data is reported for all global manufacturing facilities and facilities over 50,000 square 
feet and/or with over 100 headcount.  
Occupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-1Occupational health and safety management 
systemOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigationOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-3 Occupational health services Occupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-4Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and 
safetyOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-5Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-6 Promotion of worker health Occupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-8Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
403-9 Work-related injuriesOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 49.
404 Training and Education
103 Management approach Talent Management, page 41.
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employeeTalent Management, page 41.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 48.
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsTalent Management, page 41.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  53Disclosure No. Disclosure Description Direct Response or Report Location
405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103 Management approach Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging, page 42-43. 
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employeesDiversity, Inclusion, and Belonging, page 42.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 48.
406 Non-discrimination
406-1Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenNon-discrimination FY21 FY20 FY19
Total number of incidents 0 1 1
Incident status
Reviewed 1 2 1
Remediation developed 0 1 1
Remediation implemented 0 1 1
Closed 1 2 1
407
408
409Freedom of Association
Child Labor
Forced Labor
407-1
408-1
409-1Operations in which human rights may be at riskHuman rights FY21 FY20 FY19
Freedom of association and collective bargaining (by country)
∙ Company operations 0 0 0
∙ Supplier operations 11  countries 11 countries NA
Child labor (by country)
∙ Company operations 0 0 0
∙ Supplier operations 1  country  1 country NA
Forced or compulsory labor (by country)
∙ Company operations 0 0 0
∙ Supplier operations 4 countries 7 countries NA
We follow RBA’s risk assessment model to evaluate risk in our supply chain. We first evaluate our Top 200 suppliers by 
spend from a country-level perspective, and secondly, at the facility level. All our major suppliers, and any high-risk 
suppliers from the country-level assessment, must complete the RBA self-assessment questionnaire for each facility 
supplying to Lumentum.
415 Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions Lumentum does not provide financial or in-kind political contributions.
416 Customer Health and Safety
416-1Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts of products and 
servicesLumentum received zero substantiated complaints or losses of customer data.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  54Disclosure No. Disclosure Description Comment/Response
417 Marketing and Labeling
417-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
product and service information and labelingLumentum recorded zero incidents of non-compliance.
417-3Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsLumentum recorded zero incidents of non-compliance.
418 Customer Privacy
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer 
dataLumentum received zero substantiated complaints or losses of customer data.
419 Socioeconomic Compliance  
419-1Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 
the social and economic areaLumentum received zero fines, non-monetary sanctions, and cases regarding socioeconomic compliance.
 N/A Product Quality & Innovation
103 Management approachInnovation, page 23-24.  
Spotlight on Quality: Building a Kaizen Culture, page 26-28.
 N/A Number of 3rd party audits or inspections Innovation, page 25.
 N/A Number of ISO 14001 certified sites Planet: Lighter Impact, page 34.
 N/A Kaizen projects and benefits Spotlight on Quality: Building a Kaizen Culture, page 27.
 N/A Kaizen events and participation Spotlight on Quality: Building a Kaizen Culture, page 27.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  55SASB INDEX
Disclosure No. Disclosure Description Direct Response or Location in Report
Quantitative Metric Area of manufacturing facilities FY20 Form 10-K, page 33.
Quantitative Metric Number of employees ESG KPI Data Summary, page 47.
EE - 510a.1Description of policies and practices for prevention 
of: (1) corruption and bribery and (2) anti-
competitive behaviorBusiness Conduct and Ethics, page 10.
EE - 510a.2Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with bribery or corruption$0 monetary losses.
SC/EE - 510a.3Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with anticompetitive 
behavior regulations$0 monetary losses.
HW/SC/EE - 410a.1Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 
62474 declarable substancesMaterials FY21 FY20 FY19
Total revenue of products that contain IEC 62474 
declarable substances55% 61% 68%
Revenue from products with declarable 
substances other than covered by RoHS 
exemptions4.9% 5.2% 6.6%
HW/SC/EE - 440a.1Description of the management of risks associated 
with the use of critical materialsMaterials, page 39.
HW - 410a.4Weight of end-of-life products and e-waste 
recovered, percentage recycledOmitted.
SC/EE - 130a.1(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid 
electricity, (3) percentage renewableImpact on Climate, page 35.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
SC - 140a.1(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, 
percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water StressESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
SC - 110a.1(1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and (2) amount of 
total emissions from perfluorinated compoundsImpact on Climate, page 35.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
SC - 110a.2Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy 
or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions 
reduction targets, and an analysis of performance 
against those targets Impact on Climate, page 35.
SC/EE - 150a.1Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage 
recycled ESG KPI Data Summary, page 46.
EE - 150a.2Number and aggregate quantity of reportable spills, 
quantity recovered 0 recordable spills.
HW - 430a.1Percentage of Tier 1 supplier facilities audited in the 
RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP) or equivalent, by 
(a) all facilities and (b) high-risk facilitiesSupplier social & environmental assessment FY21 FY20 FY19
Number of Tier 1 supplier facilities audited 1  5.0  2.0 
Percentage audited 20%  83%  29%
Percentage of high-risk facilities audited NA NA NA
All of our Contract Manufacturers (CM) are required to complete an RBA audit every two years. Our 
CMs represent close to 80% of direct spend.
HW - 430a.2Tier 1 suppliers’ (1) non-conformance rate with the 
RBA Validated Audit Process (VAP) or equivalent, and 
(2) associated corrective action rate for (a) priority 
non-conformances and (b) other non-conformancesOmitted.
SC - 330a.1Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign 
nationals and (2) located offshoreESG KPI Data Summary, page 47.
SC - 320a.1Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce 
exposure of employees to human health hazardsOccupational Health and Safety, page 44.
SC - 320a.2Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with employee health and 
safety violations$0 monetary losses.
HW - 330a.1Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) management, (2) technical 
staff, and (3) all other employeesDiversity, Inclusion, and Belonging, page 42-43.
ESG KPI Data Summary, page 48. 
EE - 250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled 0 recalls.
EE - 250a.2Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with product safety$0 monetary losses.  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  56UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL INDEX
Goal (Targets) Indicator Lumentum’s Contribution Lumentum Topic
5
Gender Equality
(5.1, 5.5)5.1.1 Non -discrimination
5.5.2 Proportion of women in managerial positions• Assessing gender pay gaps as standard practice in its 
compensation program and making pay adjustments. 
• Setting specific goals to promote women to senior leadership 
position and to be early career hires.Talent Management
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging
7
Affordable and 
Clean Energy
(7.2, 7.3)7.2.1 Renewable energy share
7.3.1 Energy intensity• Using 100% renewable electricity at corporate headquarters 
and select global facilities.
• Developing products and technologies to increase power 
efficiencies and expand broadband coverage throughout the 
world along with solutions to reduce energy consumption in 
data centers.Impact on Climate
8
Decent Work and 
Economic Growth
(8.1, 8.4, 8.5, 8.8)8.1.1 Annual growth rate of real GDP per capita
8.4.1 Material footprint
8.5.1 Average hourly earnings of employees
8.8.1 Occupational injuries
8.8.2 Compliance with labor rights• Monitoring compliance of restricted materials, including conflict 
minerals, and decreasing the use of hazardous substances.
• Adhering to our own health and safety policy involving safety 
training and compliance procedures.
• Monitoring compliance with all workplace health and safety 
and labor rights laws and regulations within our operations and 
supply chain.Economic Performance
Materials and Waste
Health and Safety
Human Rights
9
Industry, 
Innovation, and 
Infrastructure
(9.2, 9.5)9.2.1 Manufacturing value added 
9.2.2 Manufacturing employment
9.5.1 Research and development expenditure• Operating manufacturing facilities and engaging with contract 
manufacturing in various parts of the world. 
• Conducting research and development at various design sites in 
a variety of locations around the globe.Economic Performance
Talent Management
10
Reduced 
Inequalities
(10.4, 10.7)10.4.1 Labor share of GDP
10.7.1 Recruitment cost borne by employee• Paying competitive wages and salaries that contribute to the 
GDP in countries where we operate.
• Offering skilled manufacturing jobs and policies to pay all fees 
associated with recruitment, while also prohibiting partners 
from charging fees.Economic Performance
Talent Management
12
Responsible 
Consumption & 
Production
(12.2, 12.4,
12.7, 12.a)12.2.1 Material footprint
12.4.2 Hazardous waste
12.7.1 Sustainable procurement policies
12.a.1 Installed renewable energy-generating 
capacity in developing countries• Monitoring compliance of restricted materials, including conflict 
minerals, and decreasing the use of hazardous substances.
• Using 100% renewable electricity at corporate headquarters 
along with establishing onsite renewable energy generation, 
onsite energy efficiency projects, and entering into power 
purchase agreements.
• Requiring all suppliers to sign company Supplier Code of 
Conduct upon onboarding along with using 3rd party-
developed tools to assess suppliers on financial, environmental 
and social risks factors.Materials and Waste
Supply Chain Management
Impact on Climate
13
Climate Action
(13.2)13.2.2 Total greenhouse gas emissions per year• Committing to achieving net zero scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
target by 2030 and incorporating climate change mitigation into 
business objectives and strategy.
• Having ISO 14001-certified environmental management 
systems in over 50% of manufacturing sites with plans to 
expand coverage.Impact on Climate
  CREATING A BRIGHTER FUTURE  |  57VERIFICATION STATEMENT
Independent GHG Assurance Statement to Lumentum Holdings Inc. 
ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc. (ERM CVS) was engaged by Lumentum Holdings Inc. (‘Lumentum’) to provide assurance in 
relation to specified greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported in Sections C6.1, C6.3 and C6.5 of its CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021.
Engagement Summary
Scope of our 
assurance 
engagementWhether the following consolidated corporate GHG emissions data (on an operational control basis) for Lumentum’s global operations for the financial year 2020 (1st 
July 2019 to 30th June 2020) are, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the reporting criteria:
• Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions from on-site combustion of natural gas and diesel, fugitive emissions, and emissions from the use of refrigerant gases  
(metric tonnes CO 2e).
• Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions (location-based and market-based) associated with purchased electricity (metric tonnes CO 2e).
•  Scope 3 Other indirect emissions from the following categories (metric tonnes CO 2e):
 -Category 3: Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2); and
 -Category 6: Business travel (by air only).
Reporting criteriaThe World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(Revised Edition).
Assurance 
StandardISO14064-3:2019 Specification with guidance for the verification and validation of greenhouse gas statements
Assurance level Limited assurance
Respective 
responsibilitiesLumentum is responsible for preparing the GHG emissions data and for the information included in its CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2021.
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.
Our conclusions  
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to 
indicate that the following financial year 2020 GHG emissions data 
are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting 
criteria:
Total Scope 1 GHG emissions:  5,750  tCO 2e 
Total Scope 2 GHG emissions:  
Location-based    46,651 tCO 2e 
Market-based    45,168  tCO 2e 
Total Scope 3 GHG emissions:  13,441  tCO 2e
Our assurance activities  
Our objective was to assess whether the selected information is 
reported in accordance with the reporting criteria based on the 
principles of completeness, accuracy and consistency. We planned 
and performed our work to obtain all the information and 
explanations that we believed were necessary to provide a basis 
for our assurance conclusions. A team of GHG and assurance 
specialists performed the following activities:
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the 
data management systems and processes (including systems 
and internal review processes) used for collecting and 
reporting the selected data;
• An analytical review of the data from all Lumentum facilities, 
a review of the completeness of the data and a check of the 
accuracy of the corporate data consolidation;
• A review of samples of documentary evidence, including 
internal and external documents, supporting the underlying 
activity data on which the GHG emissions are based; and
• A review of the unit conversion factors and emissions factors 
used to calculate the GHG emissions from the underlying 
activity data, and the reasonableness of estimations and 
extrapolations used in those calculations.The limitations of our assurance engagement  
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent 
uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, 
calculating or estimating the underlying information.
Our assurance work for the 2020 reporting period was desk-based 
and used virtual interviews with Lumentum. We did not undertake 
any in-person visits to Lumentum operations.
For the Scope 3 category 6 Business Travel, our work was limited to 
reviewing the accuracy of the calculation of the GHG emissions from 
the underlying activity data provided by Lumentum’s third-party 
travel booking agency. We have not separately assured those 
underlying activity data.
Beth Wyke  
Partner, Head of Corporate Assurance  
23 July 2021  
ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc.
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS 
conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance 
activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and 
implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is 
free from bias and conflict of interest. The ERM CVS and ERM staff 
that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no 
consultancy related services to Lumentum in any respect.
© 2021 Lumentum Operations LLC  
csr2021-br-ae  30179673  000  0821
