2021 Sustainability Report
2020 Sustainability ReportContents
A Letter From Our CEO 3
Macy’s at a Glance 4
Responding to COVID-19 5
Our Approach to Sustainability 6
Our Sustainable Stewardship Goals 8
Sustainability Governance 10
Our Responsible Products and Sourcing 11
Sustainable Products 12
Supply Chain Management 13
Standards and Compliance 13
Environmental Responsibility in  
our Supply Chain15
Environment 16
Environmental Management 17
Our Approach to Climate Change 19Our Colleagues and Culture 21
Diversity and Inclusion 23
Talent Acquisition, Learning and Development 25
Colleague Engagement 26
Total Rewards 26
Customers and Community 28
Every Customer Is Welcome 29
Supplier Diversity 31
Building and Celebrating Community 33
Integrity & Accountability 34
Data Protection and Privacy 35
SASB Index 37
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 2At Macy’s, Inc. we are committed to operating with 
integrity and creating a more just and sustainable future. 
Our relationships with our customers, colleagues and 
the communities we serve drive our deep sense of 
stewardship in how we interact with our stakeholders and 
underpin our commitment to promoting sustainability.
The guiding principles of our sustainability strategy are 
managing the environmental impact of our business, 
promoting positive social impact and continuing to 
ensure strong governance that holds us accountable. 
These principles apply across our value chain when 
interacting with our customers, colleagues, brand 
partners, investors and other groups advocating for a 
thriving society and environment. We believe operating by 
these principles will enable us to create long-term value, 
while addressing the shared needs of society.
We continue to advance our sustainability strategy as we 
respond to evolving stakeholder expectations. Our recent 
sustainability accomplishments include:
 ·Publishing our first Human Capital Report that details 
our culture and engagement, diversity and inclusion, 
future of work, health and safety, people analytics and 
total rewards
 ·Launching a portal on macys.com that lets customers 
easily find products we sell that are certified to a third-
party sustainability standard
 ·Including diversity, equity and inclusion performance 
as part of executive compensation, underscoring our 
deep commitment to equity  
  ·Continuing our work to develop and implement our 
first Private Brand Restricted Substance List covering 
apparel, footwear and home textiles in 2022 and non-
apparel product categories beginning in 2024
 ·Expanding free electric vehicle charging to 37 
locations, which in FY2020 powered approximately 
1,714,040 electric miles and avoided 763,482 pounds 
of CO 2
 ·Taking precautions to help protect our colleagues 
and customers from the spread of COVID-19
 ·Continuing to expand our active solar sites and 
producing approximately 65 million kWh, avoiding 
46,000 metric tons of CO 2e
We proactively and continually engage with our 
stakeholders on issues that span the breadth of our 
operations—this includes transparency, product 
responsibility and supply chain management, energy 
management, diversity and inclusion and building 
resilient communities. We are guided in our actions and 
our reporting by our stakeholders and by third-party 
frameworks, including SASB’s multiline and specialty 
retailers and distributors standard and the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
I invite you to read further about our commitment to, and 
progress toward, a more inclusive and sustainable future.
Sincerely,
Jeff Gennette
Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerTo Our Stakeholders:A Message  
from Our CEO
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 3Macy’s at a Glance
Macy’s, Inc. is one of the nation’s premier omni-channel retailers. The company 
comprises three retail brands: Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s and Bluemercury. With a robust 
e-commerce business, rich mobile experience and a national stores footprint, our 
customers can shop the way they live—any time and through any channel.
For more than 160 years, Macy’s, 
the largest retail brand of Macy’s, 
Inc., has served generations at 
every stage of their lives. Macy’s 
is proud of its heritage and the 
unique role it plays in American 
culture and tradition.162
Years in Business
~90,000
Colleagues
727
Stores
as of December 31, 2020
A New York icon for nearly 150 
years, Bloomingdale’s is truly like 
no other store in the world. Its 
unique curation of luxury labels and 
emerging contemporary designers 
across fashion and accessories, 
beauty and home, has made it a 
destination for tastemakers from 
around the globe.Bluemercury is the friendly 
neighborhood beauty store where 
clients can get honest, expert 
beauty advice. The brand is widely 
recognized as the nation’s largest 
and fastest-growing luxury beauty 
products and spa retail chain.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 4The health and safety of our colleagues and customers comes first. In line with the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommendations, we have taken 
steps to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19 to our colleagues and customers. Out 
of an abundance of caution, we based our safety standards on our most vulnerable 
colleague population and used these as the standard for company-wide policies. This 
has resulted in safety and cleanliness consistently ranking in our top NPS scores, 
driven by customer satisfaction with our enhanced health and safety measures in-store.Responding  
to COVID-19
Customer Safety
 ·Enforced social distancing 
guidelines (throughout the 
store and at check out)
 ·Increased safety equipment in-
store (barriers, plexiglass shields)
 ·Frequent and enhanced cleaning
 ·Contact-less shopping 
opportunities (curbside pickup, 
no-touch beauty consultations)
 ·Sanitation depots throughout 
the store
 ·Robust cleaning guidelines in 
states where fitting rooms are 
open and requirements that 
clothes that have been tried on  
to be left off the selling floor for  
a period of time
Colleague Safety
 ·Colleague communication and support, including 
contact tracing and direct colleague messaging
 ·Company-provided personal protection equipment 
(masks, gloves, hand sanitizer, plexiglass shields, etc.)
 ·Wellness checks (on-site or phone-in)
 ·Social distance signage and enforcement
 ·Leadership reporting: cluster outbreak monitoring 
and mitigation
 ·Frequent and enhanced cleaning for bathrooms, 
fitting rooms, break rooms and commonly 
accessed  areas
 ·New cleaning measures (including the use of hand 
sanitizer and disinfectant wipes) for frequently 
touched areas like signature pads, phones and 
shared equipment, such as hand trucks and 
pallet  jacks
 ·Air circulation that complies with CDC ventilation 
guidelines
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 5Our Sustainable Stewardship Goals 8
Sustainability Governance 10SustainabilityOur Approach to Our newly 
launched oake 
collection of 
modern bedding 
is mindfully made.At Macy’s, Inc., we have a deep sense of stewardship for managing our resources and 
maximizing our positive social impact. We proactively engage on issues that span 
the breadth of our operations—this includes transparency, product responsibility and 
supply chain management, energy management, diversity and inclusion and building 
resilient communities. Operating by these principles enables us to create value for 
our shareholders while addressing the shared needs of society. What we do, what 
we stand for and how we get the work done are all equally important equally 
important. We have a cohesive strategy that focuses on our culture and providing 
our people with the programs and support that matter the most to their professional 
growth and development.Our Approach to Sustainability 
Our Guiding Principles
Environment
We will manage the environmental 
impact of our business, including our 
supply chain and suppliers, as well as 
our stores and distribution network.
Social
We will optimize the positive social 
impact our business has on our 
colleagues, customers and communities.
Governance
We will continue to ensure strong 
governance so that we are held 
accountable to all stakeholders and 
contribute to long-term value creation.
We practice continual 
stakeholder engagement, 
including with our colleagues, 
customers and communities to 
understand our material issues, 
building on the work of our 2018 
formal materiality assessment. 
We are guided in our actions and 
our reporting by our stakeholders 
and third-party frameworks 
including the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) multiline and specialty 
retailers  and distributors  standard.
We are committed to fostering 
a sustainable business that 
generates value for all our 
stakeholders and offers our 
colleagues and communities 
an opportunity to participate in 
positive value creation.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 7Our Sustainable Stewardship Goals
We developed our Sustainable Stewardship Goals to align with and advance our corporate strategy and to create shared 
value for our company and our stakeholders. First established in 2018, in 2021 we enhanced our goals to reflect our more 
ambitious sustainability aspirations.
Our Ambition Enhanced 2025 Goals
Natural 
ResourcesOperate efficiently and 
adopt environmentally 
friendly solutionsReduce energy consumption by 10% from a 2018 baseline.
Implement policy to guide claims that products reduce water 
consumption.
Reduce water use by Private Brand’s third-party manufacturing by 
25% against a 2019 baseline in areas of high water stress.
Waste & 
RecyclingRecycle as much material 
as possibleIncrease in-store recycling rate to 80%.  
Materials & 
FibersIncorporate more 
sustainably sourced raw 
materials and fibers into 
our Private Brand productsImplement policies for Macy’s key materials, including cotton, 
synthetic and all wood-based materials, that support achieving 100% 
preferred materials in Private Brand by 2030.
40% of Private Brand products made with preferred sustainable fibers, 
as defined by policies for each of Macy’s key materials.
Chemical 
ManagementContinue to remove 
unwanted chemicals and 
increase transparency of 
designated Private Brand 
product linesDevelop and implement our first Private Brand Restricted Substance 
List (RSL) covering apparel, footwear and home textiles in 2022,  
with additional lists to follow through 2025.
Implement a corporate chemical policy laying out our key principles for 
management, restriction and disclosure.
Require ingredient disclosure on Macy’s website for all beauty, baby 
care, personal care and household cleaning products.
75% of Private Brand apparel and soft textiles will be OEKO-TEX STD 
100 certified and compliant to the hazard profile established in the 
Macy’s RSL/MRSL.
Products Offer more products that 
are sustainable and eco-
consciousExpand the current sustainable products offering beyond third-party 
certifications to include sustainable innovations, specifically in the 
area of circular solutions. Prioritize opportunities that extend the life 
of a product.
Help our customer find and choose more sustainable products, 
by adding an additional 5,000 product pages to the macys.com 
sustainability sitelet. This will include merchandise from all product 
categories in Macy’s digital assortment.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 8Our Ambition Enhanced 2025 Goals
Sourcing Improve social 
responsibility and 
environmental 
performance among our 
Private Brand suppliersBuilding upon our strong company culture, establish a workers’ well-
being culture with our suppliers, ensuring workers heath and safety, 
access to proper grievance channels to receive complaints, women’s 
empowerment, absence of any child or forced labor, reasonable 
working hours and protection of freedom of association, collective 
bargaining and the environment.
Include compliance requirements that support a worker well being 
culture in our routine social and environmental audits of 100% of our 
Strategic Tier-1 Private Brand supplier facilities.
Diversity Integrate diversity and 
inclusion into all aspect of 
our businessColleagues
 ·Achieve 30% ethnic diversity at the senior director level and above
Marketing
 ·Achieve 58% diverse representation in casting for gender, size, 
ethnicity and age
 ·Achieve 33% representation across all vendor and partner imagery
Suppliers
 ·Achieve 5% spend penetration on diverse suppliers (retail and non-
retail) and triple our spend with Black-owned businesses by 2023
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 9Sustainability Governance
We have embedded environmental, social and governance management at all levels of our company. Macy’s, Inc. 
management is responsible for the development and implementation of our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
strategies and programs. Ultimate oversight by our Board of Directors is included in its committee charters and practices.
Macy’s, Inc.  
Board of DirectorsResponsible for oversight of corporate strategy, enterprise risk management framework, 
corporate governance policies and human capital management.
Nominating and Corporate  
Governance CommitteeCompensation and Management 
Development CommitteeAudit Committee
Responsible for overseeing the programs, policies and 
practices relating to political, social and environmental issues, 
impacts and strategies.
Assesses adequacy and effectiveness of management’s ability 
to monitor, manage and mitigate ESG risks.
Responsible for the development and enhancement of Macy’s 
approach to corporate governance including Board diversity.
Responsible for assessing corporate governance policies 
and guidelines.Responsible for overseeing the 
company’s human capital strategy 
and initiatives in support of a diverse 
and inclusive company culture.
Reviews and provides guidance on 
the enterprise talent and people 
strategies and provides guidance on 
other programs and initiatives such 
as labor relations, compensation and 
colleague  engagement.Responsible for overseeing 
enterprise risk management 
and mitigation actions for 
a variety of risks, including 
certain environmental, 
operational, IT, compliance 
and reputational  risks. 
Reviews ESG disclosures in 
our public filings.
Macy’s, Inc. Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive OfficerSets the sustainability and human capital management vision and drives accountability 
across the organization.
Sustainability Executive 
Steering CommitteeDisclosure  
CommitteeDiversity and Inclusion 
Business CouncilCorporate Strategy 
Group
Made up of heads of Supply 
Chain, Legal, Communications, 
and the Corporate ControllerMade up of leaders in Finance, 
Legal, Investor Relations and 
CommunicationsMade up of leaders from 
every department and division 
as well as the Diversity and 
Inclusion  teamMade up of leaders of all of 
our operating and functional 
divisionsESG mandates are included in the charters of the Board’s committees:
Management committees, under the direction and supervision of the CEO include:
The Chief Financial Officer working with the Disclosure 
Committee engages with stakeholders on ESG issues 
and provides feedback to management and the Board. 
The Chief Supply Chain Officer reports directly to the 
Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for the teams 
that manage sustainability initiatives and supply chain 
transparency. The Sustainability Executive Steering 
Committee, Disclosure Committee and Corporate 
Strategy Group also approve the sustainability strategy and priorities, guide risk management and link to 
growth  opportunities.
The Diversity and Inclusion Business Council, Disclosure 
Committee and Corporate Strategy Group work together 
to maintain the company’s performance-driven culture 
and operating model that encourages lifelong learners 
and empowers colleagues to be leaders regardless of title 
or function.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 10Sustainable Products 12
Supply Chain Management 13
Standards and Compliance 13
Environmental Responsibility in  
Our Supply Chain15Our Responsible  
Products and SourcingWe are committed to offering our customers products that are produced ethically and 
with environmentally responsible materials and processes. We have well-established 
programs for overseeing the production of Macy’s Private Brand products to ensure 
they meet our labor and environmental standards and that our suppliers/brand 
partners follow those standards.Responsible Products and Sourcing
Sustainable Products
We want to enable our customers to find and choose more 
sustainable products—both our own Private Brand and 
products from brand partners. We seek to incorporate 
more sustainably sourced raw materials and fibers into our 
Private Brand products and to offer more products that are 
sustainable and eco-conscious, such as cleaner cotton, 
recycled polyester and sustainably sourced wood.
In September 2021, we launched a sitelet on macys.com  
that lists products that are certified to a third-party 
sustainability standard. The sitelet includes products in 
our Home Brands such as Martha Stewart, Charter Club 
and the Hotel collection, as well as products in apparel 
brands such as Sun and Stone, INC and Alfani. Using the 
ISEAL protocol, only certifications that have been vetted by 
both the sustainability and product integrity teams will be 
accepted. This past year, the teams identified more than 20 
certifications Macy’s will accept to substantiate sustainable 
product claims. These are:
Sourced from Sustainable Materials Certifications:
 ·Recycled Claim Standard (RCS)
 ·Global Recycled Standard (GRS)
 ·REPREVE®
 ·LENZING™
 ·Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS)
 ·Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification
 ·Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)
 ·USDA Organic
 ·EWG VERIFIED™Product Testing Program
Our product integrity team works to deliver 
safe, quality products to our customers. 
We continually review, refine and update our 
testing program.
Our Private Brand products are evaluated 
by third-party independent lab partners. 
We have developed extensive test protocols 
to evaluate products for compliance with 
applicable regulations, industry safety 
standards  and company product standards.Product Safety & Investigations
If the company learns about a potential 
problem with one of our Private Brand 
products, we investigate and, when 
necessary, quickly remove it from our  
stores and website. If a product is recalled, 
we implement measures to prevent it 
being sold in store or online. We also alert 
customers who purchased a recalled item 
on our website and post in store messages.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 12Responsibly Produced Certifications:
 ·MADE IN GREEN by OEKO-TEX®
 ·Fairtrade
 ·REPREVE®
 ·Rainforest Alliance
 ·Leather Working Group-Audited Tanneries
 ·Cradle to Cradle
 ·COSMOS ORGANIC
Made Safer of Cruelty-Free Certifications:
 ·Responsible Down Standard (RDS)
 ·Responsible Wool Standard (RWS)
 ·Certified third-party lab testing
 ·Leaping Bunny
 ·Certified vegan
 ·GreenGuard™
 ·STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX®
To support the program, our Learning and Development 
team is deploying modules to train merchant and product 
development teams on the certifications and the process.
Supply Chain Management
We work with our Private Brand suppliers to assure 
understanding and compliance with our standards for 
safe and ethical treatment of their workers. We have 
comprehensive programs to confirm adherence to our 
standards, identify issues and drive comprehensive 
remediations when violations occur. Through rigorous 
screening of new suppliers, ongoing training, regular 
audits and collaboration for improvement, we ensure 
that our suppliers operate at high ethical and 
performance  standards.
Our Chief Supply Chain Officer is responsible for our 
sourcing and sustainability programs. The Sustainability 
Executive Steering Committee provides strategic 
direction for our supply chain requirements, while the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of 
our Board of Directors provides oversight and guidance 
of our sustainability activities, including supply chain risk 
management and compliance.Standards and Compliance
We ensure that our suppliers understand and meet our 
standards, both when they join our supply chain and on 
an ongoing basis.
Our contract terms and conditions require compliance 
with Macy’s Vendor & Supplier Code of Conduct (“Supplier 
Code of Conduct”). Macy’s requires suppliers to comply 
with the Supplier Code of Conduct across the entire supply 
chain. We ask our Tier 1 suppliers to request that their 
suppliers complete a self-assessment survey through the 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC).
All new Private Brand suppliers undergo a social 
compliance audit and must meet or exceed certain 
standards before they are approved for production and 
are added to our merchandise ordering system. Our social 
compliance team prepares and trains prospective suppliers 
on our Supplier Code of Conduct, audit protocols and 
terms of engagement.
Current suppliers receive ongoing education from our 
social compliance team, which communicates our 
requirements and expectations, encourages robust 
internal compliance policies and collaborates on 
continuous improvement at manufacturing facilities.
Internally, Macy’s Private Brand product-development 
professionals receive similar training on topics relevant 
to their role, including our Supplier Code of Conduct, 
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 13high-risk violations such as child and forced labor, human 
trafficking, illegal subcontracting, bribery, fraudulent 
record-keeping, homeworkers and physical abuse as well 
as our involvement with industry initiatives. Additionally, all 
colleagues receive annual Legal Compliance and Code of 
Conduct training that includes information on our human 
rights and human trafficking policies. To further advance 
our human rights strategy, in 2021, Macy’s engaged a third 
party to benchmark our existing programs and to provide 
recommendations for enhancement. The project includes 
saliency mapping, gap analysis and action plans for our 
entire enterprise.
Factory Audits
We require factories supplying our Private Brand division 
to be audited by a third party at least once every 18 
months and more frequently if any issues are identified. Audits are conducted using the Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Suppliers that are “at risk” are given the opportunity to 
make improvements through a formal corrective action 
plan process that is prepared by our third-party auditor. 
If a supplier does not comply, Macy’s, Inc. holds the 
right to terminate the relationship.
In 2020, we conducted 495 audits in 434 factories, 
and monitored social compliance in an additional 43 
factories through reviewing audit reports conducted 
by other companies on our suppliers’ facilities. 
Altogether, they accounted for 90% of Macy’s total Tier-
1 factories. The audit results showed that a little more 
than half of factories were in acceptable compliance; 
while the remainder of factories had areas of concern that 
needed improvement. We found 3 factories under the 
“Unacceptable” category. All of which were terminated 
and no longer manufacture for Macy’s.
Macy’s is committed to advocating sustainable practices with our brand partners and across the retail and 
fashion industry. We are an active member of and collaborate with numerous associations and networks that 
directly engage with policy makers on international trade, human rights and sustainability issues. We participate 
in many of these organizations.Working Together For Change 
Macy’s, Inc. Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 14Macy’s Private Brand uses the Sustainable Apparel 
Coalition (SAC) Higg Index Facility Environmental Module 
and Facility Social and Labor Module to gauge the 
environmental and social performance of our 
manufacturing facilities.
In 2020, we rolled out the Higg Index Facility Environmental 
Module (FEM) to over 500 facilities in our supply chain—
most of them associated with Macy’s strategic suppliers—
representing over 60% of our total private label 
procurement spend. Approximately 200 Tier-1 factories 
and over 160 Tier-2 facilities shared their FEM results with 
us, allowing us to monitor their sustainability  performance.  
Additionally, 30 of our Tier-2 facilities shared their Higg 
Index Social and Labor Module with us, giving us visibility 
into their compliance.
Environmental Responsibility 
in Our Supply Chain
Responsible chemical management is integral to our 
product safety efforts, especially as customers increasingly 
seek information about product ingredients and purchase 
products that have been formulated without certain 
chemicals. Our chemical management oversight extends 
from product concept through customer use. The Product 
Integrity and Quality Assurance Group, an internal function, 
collaborates with product-development teams to provide 
guidance about potential issues related to materials or 
manufacturing, interfaces with offices and suppliers as 
needed and oversees quality and testing programs. This 
group also performs conflict minerals screening to keep 
conflict minerals out of our supply chain.Chemical Phase-Out Goal
We continue to advance our previously established goal 
to develop and implement our first Private Brand Restricted 
Substance List covering apparel, footwear and home 
textiles in 2022 and non-apparel product categories 
beginning in 2024. Additionally, we seek to develop and 
implement our first Private Brand Manufacturing Restricted 
Substance List for children’s apparel/footwear and home 
textiles by 2023 and non-apparel product categories 
beginning in 2025.
Macy’s Private Brand restrict the use of certain flame 
retardants (15 flame retardants) in soft line products 
including apparel, upholstered furniture and children’s 
products. This is communicated to our suppliers via our 
product integrity manual.
Avoiding Conflict Minerals
Our Conflict Minerals Policy sets forth our requirements for 
supplier due diligence, risk assessment and compliance. 
The Policy applies to Private Brand products produced 
by Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s, Bluemercury and their 
respective subsidiaries, and we prepare and file an 
annual Conflict Minerals Report with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. As part of our due diligence, 
we use an independent third party to survey our suppliers 
annually to determine if conflict minerals are used in 
their supply chains and to identify the sources of those 
conflict minerals. We also require that our Tier-1 Private 
Brand suppliers source metal trim components from our 
Nominated Trim Supplier list. Trim suppliers who are not 
able to meet or maintain these expectations risk being 
removed from our  program.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 15Environmental Management 17
Our Approach to Climate Change 19EnvironmentEnergy Management
Energy efficiency is central to our strategy. We use both 
building automation systems and an enterprise-wide 
energy management information system to continually 
monitor our operating performance and to detect 
anomalies. Our energy management system provides 
daily operational information, which enables us to 
respond  in real time to reduce energy consumption.
We benchmark our energy management using the EPA 
ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager online tool to measure 
and track our energy consumption to industry standards. 
Portfolio Manager enables us to compare each building’s 
performance against a yearly baseline, national medians 
or similar buildings in our portfolio. We regularly provide 
detailed consumption data to comply with state- and city-
level building-energy benchmarking ordinances.
LED Energy Savings
Macy’s greatest opportunity for energy reduction continues 
to be our lighting. By the end of 2020, an additional 40 
retail spaces were retrofitted leading to a reduction of 
about 5.6 million kWh or 3,969 metric tons of CO 2e. 
Since 2010, Macy’s has reduced total energy consumption 
by more than 17.8% through LED lighting retrofits. Environment
Macy’s is committed to minimizing the environmental impacts across our operations 
and supply chain and seek to responsibly manage the resources we consume and 
the waste we produce across our 727 stores and logistics network. To advance that 
commitment, in 2018, we introduced a number of Sustainable Stewardship Goals to be 
achieved by 2025, including reducing energy consumption by 10% and to increase our 
in-store recycling rate to 80%.
The Environmental Services team is responsible for the development of Macy’s, 
Inc.’s environmental programs for all facilities across the company. These programs 
include policies and procedures which ensure compliance with federal, state and local 
environmental laws.
LED Energy Savings
Retail 
Spaces  
Retrofitted 
AnnuallyEnergy 
Reduction  
(kilowatt-
hours in 
millions)Energy 
Reduction  
(percent)Carbon 
Reduction  
(metric 
tons)*
2010 95 19.9 1% 13,400
2011 287 58 4% 41,000
2012 307 39.5 3% 27,000
2013 260 7 0.5% 4,950
2014 100 4.7 0.4% 3,300
2015 260 8.2 0.7% 5,800
2016 450 20.1 1.7% 14,200
2017 660 18 1.7% 12,700
2018 50 12.3 1.3% 8,700
2019 133 29.9 3% 21,000
2020 40 5.6 0.7% 3,969
*CO 2e calculated using EPA emissions tool
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 17Renewable Energy
We have more than 100 active solar sites nationwide 
and approximately 65 million kWh was produced in 
2020, offsetting 46,000 metric tons of CO 2e. We actively 
continue to evaluate future solar projects and renewable 
opportunities across the company.
Product Packaging
Macy’s has adopted best practices to reduce product 
packaging, including standardizing the size of packing 
cartons and minimizing packaging materials. Increasingly, 
we incorporate recycled content into our packaging, 
especially in corrugated cardboard. We also use auto-
boxer and auto-bagger machines that can build a package 
that perfectly fits odd or oversized items. This fit-to-size 
auto-boxing technology reduces box volume up to 50% by 
creating the smallest parcel needed at the lowest expense, 
which also helps reduce shipping costs.Recycling in Our Facilities
In our stores, corporate offices and distribution centers, 
our policy is to recycle as much material as possible, 
including cardboard, plastic film, hangers, metal fixtures 
and wooden pallets. We also have an internal program to 
reuse, refurbish or recycle store fixtures and downstream 
or recycle electronics.
Electric Vehicle Charging
To support our customers visiting our stores with a lower 
environmental impact, we have partnered with Volta 
Charging to offer free electric vehicle (EV) charging at 37 of 
our locations. In FY2020, our stations delivered 490 MWh 
of electricity, powering approximately 1,714,040 electric 
miles and avoiding 763,482 lbs of CO 2.
Macy’s, Inc. Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 18Our Approach to Climate Change
Macy’s recognizes the risk climate change poses to our 
business and our planet. That is why we are committed 
to monitoring and mitigating the risks to our operations 
and facilities, as well as to reducing our carbon emissions. 
Our reporting is informed by the Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations.
Governance
Board Oversight
Our Board of Directors has ultimate oversight of 
environmental risks including those related to climate 
change; specific ESG mandates are included in the 
charters of the Board’s committees. The Nominating and 
Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing 
the company’s climate change–related programs and 
policies as part of its wider ESG oversight, including the 
responsibility to assess the adequacy and effectiveness 
of management’s ability to monitor, manage and mitigate 
ESG risks including climate. This committee is provided 
with sustainability updates, which include the company’s 
progress on sustainability and climate-related goals at 
least annually. The Compensation and Management 
Development Committee oversees the company’s human 
capital strategy and initiatives in support of a diverse 
and inclusive company culture. This committee provides 
guidance on talent and people strategies as well as labor 
relations, compensation and colleague engagement. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing 
enterprise risk management and mitigation actions 
for a variety of risks, including certain environmental, 
operational, IT, compliance and reputational risks. 
Additionally, this committee is responsible for reviewing 
ESG disclosures in our public filings, including those 
related  to climate change.
Management Role
We ensure appropriate governance of sustainability 
including environmental topics by integrating sustainability 
into our overall management model. Our Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer has ultimate responsibility 
for climate-related strategy. Our Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief Legal Officer and Chief Transformation and Human 
Resources Officer, working with our investor relations team, 
engages with stakeholders on ESG issues and provides 
feedback to management and the Board. The Chief Supply Chain Officer, who reports directly to the CEO and Chair, is 
responsible for teams that manage sustainability initiatives 
and supply chain transparency.
Our Corporate Strategy Group has executive-level 
members from all of the company’s operating and 
functional teams and is led by the Chairman and CEO. 
Together with the company’s Sustainability Committee, 
this group determines how Macy’s can adopt business 
practices that help preserve and protect the environment. 
This group reviews sustainability and climate-related goals 
on an annual basis.
Our Sustainability Executive Steering Committee is 
responsible for approving Macy’s sustainability strategy 
and priorities. This senior management team regularly 
discusses risks and opportunities related to environmental 
issues, including review of progress on sustainability and 
climate-related goals on a quarterly basis. 
Strategy
We have identified climate change–related risks and 
opportunities that may impact our business over the short-, 
medium- and long-term. The nature of these risks depends 
on both the physical aspects of climate change as well as 
market regulations, pressure to reduce our carbon footprint 
and our ability to understand and respond to rapidly 
evolving developments. Our identified risks include the 
following:
Regulatory Risks:  Unfavorable global, domestic or 
regional economic or political conditions and other 
developments and risks could negatively affect our 
business and results of operations. For example, energy or 
carbon policies (both existing and emerging) with influence 
on our energy suppliers have the ability to impact indirect 
costs to our operations through shifts in energy prices. 
Current environmental and climate-related regulation—both 
at a State and Federal level–are monitored as part of the 
Enterprise Risk Management process.
Reputational Risk:  Maintaining our company’s reputation 
and brand at a high level is critical to our operations and 
financial results. We believe our reputation and brand are 
partially based on the perception that we act equitably and 
honestly in dealing with customers, employees, business 
partners and shareholders. Reputational risk in relation to 
climate-related issues encompasses both supply chain 
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 19issues (e.g., supply disruption caused by weather events) 
and our position and progress toward cleaner energy 
production and consumption.
Risk Related to Resource Use: There is increasing 
scrutiny on the use of resources—particularly energy 
sources and energy use. Pressure from regulators, 
consumers and other stakeholders to find alternatives  
and/or green solutions, to sharply reduce our use of 
natural resources are escalating. We continue to look 
for ways to address these issues and continue to 
explore developing best practices within the industry. 
Through  memberships in industry groups such as the 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), we are working to 
reduce the environmental and social impact of apparel and 
footwear products around the world. The use of recycled 
material textiles emits fewer GHG emissions and conserves 
water and energy as compared to making virgin fiber. 
Additionally, we have rolled out a framework to measure 
the social and environmental performance of over 500 
facilities, benchmarking by facility type to allow comparison 
of performance against that of peers.
Extreme Weather Events and Natural Disasters:  
The risk of extreme weather events is integrated into our 
climate change–related Enterprise Risk Management 
assessment. Our business could be affected by extreme 
weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics 
or natural disasters. Extreme weather conditions, such 
as frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, 
rainstorms or natural disasters such as wildfire over a 
prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers 
to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales 
and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to 
unseasonable weather conditions, which could reduce 
demand for a portion of our inventory and reduce sales 
and profitability or could result in disruption or delay 
of materials in our supply chain or impact staffing in 
our stores.
Risk Management
Our senior leadership team and Board of Directors are 
focused on managing and mitigating various risks to our 
business and financial performance, including climate 
change and other environmental risks.
There are several channels through which managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities occur internally. 
The Corporate Business Resiliency Group is responsible 
for the development, implementation and management of the enterprise Business Continuity Program and 
provides direction, support and related subject matter 
expertise to Macy’s management teams worldwide.
Macy’s also has an Enterprise Risk Management program 
to identify and prioritize risks as substantive to the 
business. At committee and Board meetings throughout 
the year, management discusses the risk exposures 
identified as being most significant to the company and the 
related actions that management may take to monitor such 
exposures. The program utilizes a network of functional 
experts with managerial responsibility for various aspects 
of enterprise risk management. The Audit Committee of the 
Board, in particular, discusses with management the risk 
assessments and risk management policies relating to a 
variety of risks.
Metrics
We track our operational energy use and related Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions. Additionally, we calculate certain 
Scope 3 emissions, including from our Private Brand’s 
upstream product transportation and distribution.
FY 2020 Energy use  
(MWh)Greenhouse 
gas emissions  
(mt CO 2e) 
Direct energy use  
(Scope 1)208,277 36,870
Purchased electricity, 
heat and steam  
(Scope 2)1,044,130 367,6 01
Private Brands upstream 
transportation and distribution  
(Scope 3)16, 390
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions
(metric ton CO 2e)
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 20Diversity & Inclusion 23
Talent Acquisition, Learning & 
Development25
Colleague Engagement 26
Total Rewards 26Our Colleagues 
and Culture Our Colleagues and Culture
In 2021, we published the first 
Macy’s, Inc. Human Capital 
Report . We encourage you to 
read it to learn the full details of 
the breadth of programs and 
initiatives we have that foster 
success for our colleagues and 
communities.Human Capital Report We are an inclusive employer, committed to hiring a diverse 
colleague population that reflects the community and the 
customer base where we operate. We are passionate 
about our talent—investing in our colleagues’ knowledge, 
skills and abilities; ensuring rewarding opportunities for 
career growth and advancement; empowering colleagues 
across experience levels; and compensating colleagues 
fairly for a job well done. We are committed to having the 
best talent in retail—encouraging the continuous upskilling 
of our colleagues and empowering them to chart their own 
career paths, while staying focused on acquiring the best 
and brightest to inject fresh thinking.We prioritize and support the well-being of our colleagues—because when we take 
care of our colleagues, they take care of our customers. We have built a performance-
driven culture that encourages lifelong learning and empowers our colleagues to be 
leaders, regardless of title or function. 
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 22D&I Priorities and Initiatives
Attract diverse colleagues: We recruit within our communities to reflect the diversity where we operate. We recruit via diversity-focused 
career fairs and job boards, and we partner with local organizations to attract diverse candidates.
Retain diverse talent: One of our measures to advance the diversity of our leadership at the senior director level and above is the 
MOSAIC program, a one-year professional development program for our top talent at the manager and 
director levels who self-identify as ethnically diverse. 
Drive people leader 
accountability to D&I 
objectives: In 2021, we expanded our People Leader Commitments to include standardized D&I goals into annual 
reviews at the director level and above.
Drive executive 
accountability to D&I 
objectives: The 2021 compensation plan for our executives includes a short-term incentive goal tied to colleague 
engagement and diversity.
Provide training and 
guidance: One of the steps we have taken to create an inclusive environment is providing an unconscious bias 
e-learning for every colleague at every level of the organization. For our people leaders, we provide training 
to learn to adapt their leadership style to maximize each colleague’s full potential.
Offer employee resource 
groups: Our 16 voluntary colleague-led groups across 94 chapters are a platform for colleagues to serve as a key 
resource to the company for business insights, helping to identify potential opportunities and community 
partnerships.
Facilitate “Can We Talk?” 
sessions: Started in 2016 in response to colleague feedback about the police shootings of unarmed Black men, 
these enterprise-wide discussions led by Macy’s, Inc. Chairman and CEO to offer colleagues a way to 
engage in meaningful dialogue around relevant societal topics.Diversity & Inclusion
We are committed to building a workforce that represents the communities we serve at all levels and to cultivating a 
culture of belonging. We actively promote an inclusive and welcoming environment for all our customers. We are also 
focused intently on diversity and inclusion beyond our walls—working to support and develop diverse suppliers, investing in 
economic and workforce development, fighting for social justice and awarding scholarships to cultivate future leaders.
Our Chief Diversity Officer is in charge of developing and implementing our diversity and inclusion initiatives, guided by the 
Macy’s Diversity & Inclusion Business Council, which is co-chaired by our CEO and our Chief Diversity Officer and includes 
representatives from all areas of the company.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 23Believe that pay equity is 
fundamental to our culture 
and diversity and inclusion 
strategy:Macy’s is committed to the principle of equal pay for equal work and seeks to ensure our colleagues 
are paid equitably for substantially similar work. Colleague compensation is based on job position, 
responsibilities, experience and performance with incentive opportunities that allow our colleagues to 
share in our success. In 2021, Macy’s will achieve greater than 99% pay equity across gender and, in the 
U.S., across race. 
Monitor performance: The charts below outline representation by ethnicity and gender by level from 2018 to 2020.
The numbers above represent percentages of colleague diversity.
*American Indian or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or other Pacfic IslanderTotal Colleague Diversity Directors Diversity
Senior Directors and Above Diversity Managers Diversity
Directors and Above Diversity Hourly Colleagues Diversity
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 24Colleague Development Priorities and Initiatives
Attracting 
talented 
colleagues:We have a range of programs to recruit new colleagues including college internship programs 
at Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s. The Bloomingdale’s Early Immersion offering a two-day program 
focused on providing experiential learning and career exposure to those who identify with 
underrepresented groups and a Talent Acquisition Skills Academy for our professional recruiters.
Online learning 
platform:Our digital learning experience platform, ignite, provides colleagues with friction-free, self-directed 
learning. We leverage internal and external expertise to support real-time upskilling, as well as 
leadership development and role-specific capacity building. 
Extensive 
current and 
future leadership 
training:  ·First-time People Leader development: We support People Leaders in the transition from 
being an individual contributor and being more task-focused to leading a team and driving results 
through others.
 ·Ongoing people leader development: We offer relevant, curated learning experiences 
informed by the current climate and organizational strategies.
 ·Top talent development: We provide targeted, immersive experiences that include formal 
education, coaching, assessments and mentoring to accelerate development and momentum of 
top talent.
 ·Strategic assignments and development experiences: We know there is no better teacher 
than experience, so we identify meaningful stretch assignments and exposures for top talent 
across the enterprise as part of our annual talent review process.
 ·Executive Development Programs: Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s Executive Development 
Programs (EDP) offer immersive, hands-on learning experiences for recent college graduates from 
top universities across the U.S. to jump start a career in retail, with specialization in technology, 
digital, stores, merchandising, planning, human resources and credit and customer service.
 ·Shooting Stars Program:  Bluemercury’s Shooting Stars is a six-month mentorship program 
that aims to assist full-time colleagues achieving their goals and full potential. The program 
focuses on empowering mentees to own their journey by creating a development plan, becoming 
an inclusive leader and leveraging resources to support their career aspirations.
Colleague 
development 
reviews:All permanent colleagues have annual, formal performance reviews to foster their career development. 
Our strategy is for all people leaders to check-in with their subordinates on a quarterly basis to talk 
about performance, goals and areas for growth.
Monitor 
performance :  ·People Leaders invest a minimum of 40 hours in leadership development each year.
 ·Professional colleagues participate in a 90-day onboarding experience with performance 
milestones, support resources and role-specific training.
 ·All colleagues complete annual refresher training on topics related to “doing the right thing”—from 
ethics to safety to policy—ranging from 90 minutes to 4 hours depending on role.
 ·96% of professional colleagues have utilized ignite, our learning experience platform, for personal 
and professional development.Talent Acquisition, Learning & Development
We invest in colleagues at every stage of their career journeys, helping them chart a course and gain the skills, knowledge 
and experience they need to fulfill their professional and financial goals. In order to remain competitive, our pipeline of future 
leaders must include talent that reflects the full spectrum of diversity of our customers and the communities where we work. 
We are focused on stemming mid-career attrition of ethnically diverse talent and accelerate the momentum of top talent.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 25Colleague Engagement
We encourage colleagues to share feedback that will help 
us measure engagement and understand how they are 
feeling about our culture. So, in addition to measuring 
our business performance, we also leverage formal and 
informal touch points to measure the health of our culture. 
To help promote an open feedback culture, we gather 
colleague feedback at key times throughout the colleague 
life cycle—from onboarding to off-boarding to providing 
regular venues for colleagues to ask questions and share 
their opinions (Ask Me Anything sessions, town halls, 
Employee Resource Groups), as well as formally soliciting 
feedback from all colleagues twice a year through an 
enterprise-wide Culture Pulse Survey.
Colleague feedback, both positive and constructive, is 
essential to creating an environment where all colleagues 
can be at their best and is used to shape our ongoing 
culture priorities. The results of our Culture Pulse 
Survey are shared openly and transparently across the 
organization, providing visibility to both people leaders 
and colleagues and creating the opportunity for open, 
constructive discussions among teams.
Colleagues also are encouraged to report concerns about 
harassment or discrimination, alcohol or drug abuse on 
the job, unsafe situations, theft or fraud, false or misleading 
accounting or violations of correct company policy or other 
workplace situations by using one of four channels:
1. People Leader: Colleagues are encouraged to report 
workplace issues to their People Leader who will help 
address and resolve the issue
2. Solutions InSTORE: Macy’s Early Dispute Resolution 
Program. Colleagues may call 800-234-MACYS or 
send an email to solutionsinstore@macys.com  and a 
Colleague Support Advisor will contact them to help 
address and resolve the issue
3. AskHR: Colleagues can open an AskHR case through 
My IN-SITE, the Macy’s online information resource 
for colleagues, and a Colleague Support Advisor will 
contact them to help address and resolve the issue
4. Compliance Connections: Colleagues may 
anonymously report workplace issues through Macy’s 
third-party reporting service, ComplianceConnections 
by phone at 1-800-763-7290 or online at  
www.macyscomplianceconnections.com  Total Rewards
Our compensation philosophy and practices are integral 
to our objective of being an employer of choice in every 
location where we do business with competitive pay and 
benefits rooted in equity and consistency.
Base Pay:
We develop our compensation approach through market 
surveys and pay ranges to ensure pay is competitive and 
fair. We have a robust process to assess internal pay levels 
ensuring consistency and fairness.
Benefits:
Our healthcare and benefits programs help colleagues live 
their best life and focus on their total well-being. The table 
below highlights the benefits we offer our colleagues.
Incentives:
Our goal is to build a high-performing culture that drives 
engagement and motivates our colleagues to achieve 
superior results. One way we do this is through an 
incentive approach that rewards colleagues across all 
levels and functions in the organization—from frontline 
colleagues in stores and distribution centers to our 
salaried colleagues in our corporate offices. Our incentive 
programs recognize colleagues for their achievements in 
driving business results and upholding our shared culture 
and values.Culture Pulse Survey ItemsTotal 
Macy’s, Inc. 
Favorable 
Score
I can see a clear link between my work and 
Macy’s / Bloomingdale’s strategic objectives. 90%
My people leader meets with me regularly to 
discuss my growth and development. 80%
How would you rate your overall well being? 95%
I feel like I belong at Macy’s / Bloomingdale’s. 92%
I feel like I can make a difference in the 
Macy’s / Bloomingdale’s culture. 89%
My people leader provides me with 
feedback that helps me improve and 
succeed in my role.88%
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 26 ·Short-Term Incentives
 −Annual Cash Incentives  for corporate colleagues 
tied to performance.
 −Path to Growth:  Every job matters, and the Path 
to Growth Incentive plan recognizes the role our 
frontline colleagues play in driving our success. The 
quarterly incentive is tied directly to measurable 
goals that align to the colleague’s work area.
 −Macy’s Make Magic Awards:  These annual 
awards recognize teams who exhibit extraordinary 
effort and achieve extraordinary results in the areas 
of: D&I, leadership and innovation, as well as top 
teams in stores, digital, technology, merchandising 
and supply chain.
 −Bloomingdale’s Golden B and Best of the Best:  
The Golden B event happens twice a year and 
recognizes outstanding performance in all areas 
of selling and support. On an annual basis, 
Bloomingdale’s conducts their Best of the Best 
awards which celebrate achievements across 
the business.Benefit OptionPart-Time 
Colleagues  
(20 hours/
week)Full-Time 
Colleagues  
(30 hours/
week)
Accident Insurance
AD&D Insurance
Critical Illness 
Insurance
Dental
Health Savings 
Account
Hospital Indemnity 
Insurance
Life Insurance
Long-Term Disability
Medical
Short-Term Disability
VisionBenefit OptionAll 
ColleaguesPart-Time 
Colleagues  
(20 hours/
week)Full-Time 
Colleagues  
(30 hours/
week)
401K and Company Match*
Auto Coverage
Colleague Discount
College Bound 529
Commuter Benefits
Dependent Care FSA
Discount Mall
Group Legal Plan
Health Care FSA
Home Coverage
Identity Theft Protection
Limited FSA
North Star Relief Fund 
501(c)(3)
Tuition Reimbursement
 −Macy’s Spot Bonus:  Cash rewards for colleagues 
who go above and beyond in living our behaviors.
 −Commissions  for store colleagues on customer 
sales.
 ·Long-Term Incentives
 −Core Management Equity Program: 
Rewards eligible senior management with annual 
equity grants.
In 2020, we implemented additional recognition programs 
to thank our colleagues for their vital work in helping to 
keep our business running during immensely difficult 
circumstances. To recognize their immense efforts, we 
thanked our colleagues through thank you bonuses and 
hero pay.*To be eligible for Macy's, Inc. 401k company match, a colleague must have one year of 
service and work 1,000 or more hours.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 27Customers & 
Community
Every Customer Is Welcome 29
Supplier Diversity 31
Building and Celebrating Community 33Customers and Community
We are dedicated to serving our communities by creating jobs, giving back and being a 
vibrant hub for commerce and connection.
Every Customer Is Welcome
We put our customers at the center of every decision we 
make, providing an equitable shopping experience for all. 
In 2019, Macy’s launched a unified Customer Bill of Rights 
(CBOR) across all of our Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s 
stores as a new standard of how we will treat everyone 
who engages with our brand. The CBOR is visibly 
posted in our stores and reinforces that discrimination, 
unreasonable searches and profiling will not be tolerated. 
We take an active role in quickly addressing and resolving 
any concerns.
Promote an inclusive and welcoming 
environment for our customers
Delivering quality service and making customers feel 
valued and welcomed is key. We devised and implemented 
a 2020 CBOR strategy to emphasize the importance of this 
commitment, which included enterprise-wide education to 
manage unconscious bias and an anti-profiling  
reference guide.
Empower and educate store leadership 
and their teams to ensure an inclusive 
customer experience
As part of our goal to align and advance our strategy in 
the stores, we designated D&I Champions in 2020—a 
leadership team of dedicated experts that include store 
managers and district vice presidents. The Champions 
play a crucial role in communicating and executing the 
D&I strategy and commitment to delivering quality service. 
This year, we introduced the D&I “Inclusion in Action” 
WorkProud badge, which is awarded to colleagues who address cultural differences and demonstrate positive, 
respectful and inclusive behaviors in our stores and the 
workplace.
Implement skill development for the 
Asset Protection (AP) and Compliance 
team customer contact
In addition to our policies outlined in the Customer Bill of 
Rights, we invested in soft skills training and empowered 
our Asset Protection leaders to respond to customer 
concerns. In 2021, we will reinforce our commitment to 
quality service in all Asset Protection interactions.2020 Customer Ethnic Diversity
51%20%15%12%1%
WhiteHispanic/LatinoAfrican-American/
BlackAsianOtherData as of Q4 2020
49%
Total 
Ethnic 
Diversity
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 29Committed to reflect consistently and genuinely the full spectrum of our 
customers in our imagery, messages and experiences
In addition to emphasizing our 
core values, our goal is to reach 
customers of all backgrounds in 
relevant ways that engage and affect 
behavior through audience targeting, 
creative expression, iconic events 
and experiences. We will advance 
representation in advertising to reflect 
our customers by gender, gender 
identity, ethnicity, age, size and 
persons with disabilities.
In 2021, we will continue to  
re-affirm our commitment to D&I, 
the communities we serve and 
the change we intend to make in 
the world of fashion through the 
following  goals:
 ·Advance advertising to reflect our customers:   
Achieve 58% diverse representation in casting for gender, size, 
ethnicity and age.
 ·Ensure media spend reflects our customers:   
Achieve 35% representation by vehicle and reach.
 ·Launch new agency partnership:  
Activate multicultural marketing campaigns in collaboration with JOY 
Collective, a certified Black- and women-owned strategic marketing 
and creative agency specializing in brand-building in today’s complex, 
poly-cultural world. JOY’s mission is to curate, create and spread JOY 
for ourselves, our families, our clients and our communities.
 ·Amplify product imagery that reflects our customers:  
Achieve 33% representation across all vendor and partner imagery.
 ·Refocus our D&I strategy to address the current climate:  
In 2021, we will honor the rich history and heritage of the many 
communities we serve, which are stitched together by many threads 
representing the diversity of people, their talents, trials and triumphs.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 30Supplier Diversity
Our supplier diversity program connects ethnically 
diverse-, women-, veteran- and LGBTQ-owned businesses 
to opportunities within Macy’s, Inc., enabling us to have 
more distinctive merchandise supplier diversity and  drive 
both innovation and economic impact. Our Retail Diversity 
Committee is a cohort of cross-functional colleagues 
who develop and execute our overarching strategy 
to accelerate the growth and amplify support for the 
advancement of diverse- and women-owned brands. 
In 2021, we will leverage data driven insights to guide and 
support decisions to fuel our supplier diversity strategy 
and efforts to meet customer needs.In 2020, we purchased $457 million from underrepresented 
businesses. Our progress this year is a building block 
toward achieving 5% spend penetration on diverse 
suppliers (retail and non-retail) and triple our spend with 
Black-owned businesses by 2023. Additionally, in 2020, we 
increased brand assortment by adding 100 new diverse-
owned businesses online and in-stores. Overall, minority 
and diverse suppliers (retail and non-retail) accounted for 
3.1% spend penetration in 2020, with a goal to increase 
to 4% in 2021.
2020 Diverse Spend by Group
Elevate the Workshop at Macy’s
Launched in 2011, The Workshop at Macy’s is the 
industry’s leading retail vendor development program 
dedicated exclusively to ethnically diverse-, women-, 
veteran- and LGBTQ-owned businesses. It is designed 
to give high-potential underrepresented business 
owners the tools to better succeed and sustain growth 
in the retail industry with one-on-one education from 
our top executives and industry experts. More than 
125 entrepreneurs have graduated from the program, 
with 25% launched within Macy’s, Inc. and many found 
at other retailers. In 2021, The Workshop went virtual. 
Class size has doubled, with 50 businesses enrolled to 
participate in the two-week program. The Workshop 
now consists of an e-learning platform, an enhanced 
curriculum and a retail mentorship component. 
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 31Our relationships with diverse suppliers extended 
beyond our $457 million Tier 1 spend in 2020. Through 
our Tier 2 program, we amplify the impact of our spend 
by partnering and tracking our direct suppliers who do 
business with diverse-owned companies. In 2020, our 
Tier 2 spend was $45 million, which we aim to double 
in 2021. We will expand and scale a new retail and non-
retail Tier 2 program, targeting participation from our top 
200 suppliers.
At Macy’s, Inc., we continue to strengthen our 
commitment to the growth of under-represented suppliers, 
and discovering new pathways to amplify Black-owned 
brands. As part of our commitment to the Fifteen Percent 
Pledge made last November, Macy’s launched more than 50 new Black-owned brands, including jewelry from Oma 
The Label and Swanky Design, food from Blk & Bold 
and Sol Cacao, and home brands Tal & Bert and Soap 
Distillery. Macy’s has also added award-winning beauty 
brands in partnership with CEW’s Indie 26, including 
Camille Rose, CURLS, Epara, La Pierre Cosmetics, 
Lovinah, Maison 276, Mischo Beauty, Naturally London, 
Ooli Beauty, Shea Yeleen and Unsun Cosmetics. 
Bloomingdale’s has expanded its assortment of Black-
owned brands with new vendors across all categories, 
like Brandon Blackwood, BruceGlen, Jade Swim, Liberté, 
MAX+min, Salone Monet and Studio 189 in fashion and 
accessories, and GaBBY Bows and Earth’s Nectar in 
beauty, among others.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 32National Giving Campaigns
We invite our customers to join us in giving back all 
year long through our national giving campaigns. 
These charitable campaigns include our Buy A Coat 
& We’ll Donate One to spread warmth to communities 
in need with Clothes4Souls, our Believe letter-writing 
campaign with Make-A-Wish, and numerous round 
up campaigns that support the critical work of nonprofits 
across the country like The Trevor Project, Girls Inc., and 
Reading is Fundamental. With our customers’ help, we 
were able to raise more than $15.4 million in 2020 to make 
life shine brighter in the communities we serve.Volunteerism
Our colleagues love to volunteer and give back throughout 
the year. One of the ways this comes to life is through our 
August colleague fundraising and volunteerism campaign: 
The Big Give Back. In August of 2020, colleagues donated 
more than $2 million and volunteered 6,000 hours.
Corporate Grants
Our corporate grants are awarded to the organizations 
in our communities that matter most to our  customers 
and colleagues. Our corporate giving is allocated at local, 
regional and national  levels to serve the  communities in 
which we live and work. The funds are distributed through 
a network of district grant captains: store colleagues who 
have direct connection to their local communities. In 2020, 
we awarded more than $7.9 million to more than 300 
communities across the U.S.COVID-19 & Hunger Relief
In 2020, when faced with an extremely difficult year, we 
learned just how much giving back meant to our colleagues 
and customers. We shifted our giving efforts to focus 
on heightened needs in communities  and supported  vital 
programs  around hunger relief, mental health, social justice 
and more. For hunger relief alone, we more than doubled 
our typical annual support and donated more than $7 
million to support nonprofits combating food insecurity.Building and Celebrating Community
Building on a 160-year tradition and with the collective support of customers and colleagues, we strengthen 
communities by supporting local and national charities to help make a difference in the lives of our customers. 
Giving back is one of our core values, and we want to create as much positive impact as possible. Due to the 
challenges in 2020, we were limited in giving as much as we typically like to contribute but are proud to say 
we donated more than $26.2 million and volunteered over 30,000 hours. Learn more about how we give back 
through national campaigns, colleague volunteerism and local corporate grants below.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 33Integrity &  
Accountability
Data Protection and Privacy 35We foster a culture of ethical conduct to guide everyone in our organization, 
from our leaders to our colleagues and to our suppliers. We regularly share our 
expectations and continually monitor our organization to ensure compliance 
with company policies and applicable laws. In addition to a Code of Conduct  for 
colleagues, we have set forth our expectations for our Board in a Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics for Non-Employee Directors  and all of our suppliers in our 
Vendor and Supplier Code of Conduct . The Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors has oversight over ethics and compliance.
Ethics and Oversight
To help ensure that our entire organization behaves in a 
legal and ethical manner, we provide annual training to 
all colleagues, alternating between our Code of Conduct 
and General Legal Compliance Training. In addition to 
this formal instruction, we regularly train our colleagues 
on a number of other areas that affect how we conduct 
our business with integrity. We work to instill our values 
and communicate expected behaviors through team 
huddles, the Employee Handbook and other ongoing 
communications.
Our Ethics Hotline
Our company culture encourages people to speak up and 
do the right thing. We make it easy for our colleagues to 
report suspected misconduct through our confidential, 
third-party Compliance Connection  toll-free telephone line 
and web reporting service. Pursuant to our policy, we do 
not retaliate against colleagues that report allegations of 
violations of our Code of Conduct, with full legal protection, 
and we ensure that all allegations are fully investigated.
We also offer a separate hotline for our suppliers to report 
their concerns. Additionally, we welcome input from our 
customers and offer many vehicles that the public can use 
to raise issues or complaints. We encourage stakeholder 
and shareholder dialogue. Customers may contact us 
via Customer Service, U.S. mail, email, website or a 
convenient online Tell Us What You Think response form .
The company will investigate concerns raised about 
compliance with company policies as follows: ·The issue will be assigned for investigation to 
colleagues who are skilled and objective.
 ·The investigators will gather information and determine 
facts. The investigation will be prompt and thorough, 
and confidentiality will be maintained to the maximum 
extent possible.
 ·The investigators may recommend corrective 
action, if necessary, to appropriate managers for 
implementation.
 ·Where appropriate, the colleague raising the concern 
will receive feedback on the outcome.
Political Contributions
We take an active part in the communities where we 
live and work. We take seriously our responsibility and 
opportunity to assist policymakers as they consider public 
policy questions that could affect our company, colleagues 
and customers. Our Government Affairs Policy  sets forth 
our policies, approval process and oversight regarding 
political contributions. We publicly report on our website  
all political contributions made with corporate funds and 
trade organizations to which we paid $25,000 or more in 
dues and the portion of that payment the organization told 
us was allocated for lobbying.
Data Protection and Privacy
We recognize the importance of protecting consumer and 
colleague data and have robust systems, processes and 
practices in place to protect sensitive data. Our Corporate 
Information Security Officer leads our data protection 
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 35programs, and reports to our Chief Legal Officer. 
Our Board of Directors maintains oversight of our 
cybersecurity and data privacy programs via the Audit 
Committee with at least two scheduled updates per year 
on the topic and an annual review by the full Board.
We operate our own security operations center (SOC) that 
employs a defense-in-depth strategy to provide layers of 
safeguards. We apply a hybrid security framework model 
based on the NIST, ISO 27001 and COBIT frameworks.
We conduct ongoing risk assessments, as well as both 
internal and external penetration testing on a quarterly 
basis. We are under regular information technology and 
security audits by both internal audit and our independent 
public accounting firm. Additionally, we have regular 
audits from our financial institution business partners, 
independent auditor/public accounting firm, internal 
auditors and regulators. We also have established data 
security breach preparedness and response plans.
We have implemented two-factor authentication protocols 
for network access and installed firewalls and anti-virus/
anti-malware software, as well as software for visibility into 
network data and an administrative rights tool.
We promote security awareness with our colleagues 
by requiring all colleagues to review and sign off on our 
information security policy. Additionally, all colleagues 
and contractors with access to Macy’s, Inc.’s systems 
must complete data security and privacy training on 
an annual basis, as well as participate in quarterly 
phishing  simulations.Data Privacy
Through our sales, marketing activities and use of third-
party information, Macy’s collects and may retain certain 
public and non-public personal information that customers 
provide to us. This collection is done consistent with 
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) requirements. We 
inform customers about how we will use their data and limit 
our use to those purposes.
We work with our key third-party vendor partners to 
ensure they use secure and compliant systems. We 
include data-security language in our supplier contracts 
and appropriately restrict where vendors have access to 
customer information. Those vendors are also put through 
a risk-assessment process. For non-personal information, 
we also include confidentiality language in our written 
contracts in order to safeguard company data shared with 
third parties.
We share customer data internally, on our platforms, with 
our service providers, with our business partners, with 
third parties for marketing purposes, with any successors 
to all or part of our business and to comply with law or to 
protect ourselves.
We sell the following categories of customer data: 
identifiers, payment information, event information, 
demographic information, device information, location 
information, commercial information, and Internet or other 
network activity information.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 36SASB Index
Topic Code Accounting Metric Response
Energy Management 
in Retail & 
DistributionCG-MR-130a.1 Total energy consumed 1,252,407 MWh
Percentage grid electricity 76.7%
Percentage renewable 5.2%
Environmental 
Impacts in the  
Supply ChainCG-AA-430a.2 Percentage of (1) Tier 1 
supplier facilities and (2) 
supplier facilities beyond 
Tier 1 that have completed 
the Sustainable Apparel 
Coalition’s Higg Facility 
Environmental Module (Higg 
FEM) assessment or an 
equivalent environmental 
data assessmentApproximately 200 Tier-1 factories and over 160 Tier-2 facilities 
shared their Higg FEM results with us.
For more information, see the STANDARDS AND COMPLIANCE  
section of this report.
Labor Practices CG-MR-310a.1 (1) Average hourly wage and 
(2) percentage of in-store 
colleagues earning minimum 
wage, by regionNot reported
CG-MR-310a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) 
involuntary turnover rate for 
in-store colleaguesFY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021
Voluntary Turnover 35.9% 39.8% 26.9% 20.4%
Involuntary Turnover 19.4% 20.0% 11.7% 9.8%
CG-MR-310a.3 Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with labor law violation sAny material, legal and regulatory issues are disclosed in our annual 
10-K and quarterly 10-QsThe disclosures in this report are informed by the recommendations of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB). Given the diverse nature of our business, we have incorporated guidelines from the SASB Multiline and Specialty 
Retailers & Distributors and Apparel, Accessories & Footwear standards.
All data as of FY2020, unless otherwise noted.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 37Topic Code Accounting Metric Response
Employee 
Recruitment, 
Inclusion & 
PerformanceCG-MR-330a.1 Percentage of gender 
and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) 
management (2) technical staff 
and (3) all other colleaguesEmployee 
TypeFemale Male Not Available or 
Not Disclosed
Management 67% 33% 0%
Technical staff 26% 74% 0%
All other 
employees74% 26% 0%
Employee 
TypeAsian Black or 
African 
AmericanHispanic 
or LatinoWhite Other*
Management 7% 13% 16% 60% 4%
Technical staff 57% 8% 4% 29% 2%
All other 
employees10% 22% 25% 36% 6%
*Other indicates the following classifications: Native American or 
Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander as well as “two 
or more races”
For more information, see our Human Capital Report–People 
Analytics  section
CG-MR-330a.2 Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with 
employment discriminationAny material, legal and regulatory issues are disclosed in our 
annual 10-K and quarterly 10-Qs
Labor Conditions in 
the Supply ChainCG-AA-430b.1 Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier 
facilities and (2) supplier facilities 
beyond Tier 1 that have been 
audited due to a labor code of 
conduct claim, (3) percentage 
of total audits conducted by a 
third-party auditor(1) 90%  
(2) None were directly audited on behalf of Macy’s, Inc.  
(3) 100%
For more information, see the STANDARDS AND COMPLIANCE  
section of this report.
CG-AA-430b.2 Priority non-conformance rate 
and associated corrective 
action rate for suppliers’ labor 
code of conduct audits0.7% of factories failed our audit. Of the three that failed, one made 
remedial improvements and two were dropped as suppliers.
For more information, see the STANDARDS AND COMPLIANCE  
section of this report.
CG-AA-430b.3 Description of the greatest (1) 
labor and (2) environmental, 
health and safety risks in the 
supply chainSee the RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SOURCING  section of 
this report.
Product Sourcing, 
Packaging & 
MarketingCG-MR-410a.1 Revenue from products third-
party certified to environmental 
and/or social sustainability 
standardsSee the RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SOURCING  section of 
this report.
CG-MR-410a.2
CG-AA-250a.2Discussion of processes to 
assess and manage risks and/
or hazards associated with 
chemicals in productsSee the ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR SUPPLY 
CHAIN  section of this report.
CG-MR-410a.3 Discussion of strategies to 
reduce the environmental 
impact of packagingSee the ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT  section of this report.
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 38Topic Code Accounting Metric Response
Data Security
CG-MR-230a.1Description of approach to identifying 
and addressing data security risksSee the DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY  section  
of this report.
CG-MR-230a.2(1) Number of data breaches, (2) 
percentage involving personally 
identifiable information (PII), (3) 
number of customers affectedNot rep orted
Code Activity Metric Response
CG-MR-000.A Retail locations 727
Distribution centers 25
CG-MR-000.B Retail space 113 sq m
Distribution centers 15.9 sq m
CG-AA-000.A Tier 1 suppliers 270
| Sustainability Report 2020 Return to Table of Contents 39«151 West 34th Street New York, NY 10001
For more information, please visit  
www.macysinc.com/sustainability