2018   
 SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT1 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS:
At Macy’s, Inc., we are committed to creating value  
for all of our stakeholders — our customers,  
colleagues, brand partners and investors.
We are also committed to creating a more sustainable  
future. We take direct actions where possible, and  
we partner across the industry on issues that no  
single brand can solve alone.Our sustainability strategy is guided by three principles:1.
 W
e will manage the environmental impact of our business, 
including our supply chain, as well as our stores and 
distribution network. 
2.
 W
e will optimize the positive social impact our business 
has on our colleagues, customers and communities. 
3.
 W
e will continue to ensure strong governance so that  
we are held accountable to all stakeholders and contribute to long-term value creation.
Over the past year, we have taken concrete steps to refine our sustainability strategy. We have set clear goals and strengthened the policies and programs that support our sustainability efforts. Here are a few highlights of our recent environmental, social and governance accomplishments:
★ ★Conducted our first materiality assessment to ensure our work is focused on the areas of greatest importance and impact to all stakeholders.
★ ★Reviewed and reset environmental and supply chain goals to address key issues, such as energy consumption and management, waste reduction and recycling, and sourcing and production of our private brands.
★ ★Refined our cause and giving programs to ensure maximum impact on the causes that matter most  
to our communities. ★ ★Launched a comprehensive diversity and inclusion strategy that sets specific goals for our workforce, customers’ rights, supplier diversity, community engagement and marketing standards.
★ ★Reviewed and updated key policies that govern our activities, and those of our suppliers, to better align with the International Labour Organization’s (ILO)  
core conventions and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. This ensures that our commitment to human rights is clear. 
This report is the first step on what will be a multi-year journey. We can’t do this work alone, and we will continue to engage with a broad set of stakeholders to understand their concerns and collaborate with our industry partners to find solutions. We will continue the work already underway and address the areas where we have opportunities to improve.
While we have work to do as an organization, I’m proud of 
the steps we are taking to create a more sustainable future.
Jeff Gennette  
Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerCEO LETTER
2 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
2018 HIGHLIGHTS
MACY’S, INC. IS COMMITTED TO CREATING A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
COMMUNITY GIVING ENVIRONMENTAL
SUPPLY CHAINCOLLEAGUES
GOVERNANCE
11 Board MembersSenior Director   L evel & Above
Maintained a strong, independent, diverse  
Board with a range of perspectives
6 out of 11 new within the last 5 years10 out of 11 independentIntroduced new 
transparency platform in SGS Transparency-OneEnergy 
Consumption
GHG 
EmissionsParking
Solar
RecyclingReduced annual marketing paper tonnage by 60% 
over the past 5 yearsInstalled more than 180,000  LED fixtures
Lowered greenhouse gas emissions by 6.82%   
and avoided 8 3 , 6 2 2 ,18 7  pounds of CO
2 in one yearProvided 68  electric vehicle charging stations
Operated 100  solar installations  
(of the energy generated in 2018, all but approximately  
6,509 megawatt hours were sold to others)
Reinforced 
commitment to human rights
Audited 100%   
of our private 
brand factoriesIntroduced new values and behaviors
Values: 
 A
cceptance, Integrity,  
Respect, Giving Back
Created the North Star Relief Fund
Brands (by sales)Demonstrated local impact & deep roots in the community
Donated $56 million  to our communities
Launched disaster relief playbook
Volunteered 152,000  hours in community service
Distributed the PATH TO GROWTH  Incentive 
to 95%  of eligible colleagues130,000
colleagues
80,000
seasonal colleagues$25 BN
in sales1.7%
comparable sales 
growth on an 
owned basis2.0%
comparable sales
growth on an owned 
plus licensed basis
80% National 
brand partners20% Private brand products
For full financial data, reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures and cautionary language regarding forward-looking statements, please refer to Macy's 
fourth quarter 2018 earnings release issued on February 26, 2019 and other financial information available on the investor relations page at www.macysinc.com.Figures represent percentages
3 Ethnically diverse 5 WomenWomen Ethnically diverseOUR COMPANYBrands & Values 5
SUSTAINABILITY 
APPROACHOur Guiding Principles 
What Matters MostOur Sustainable Stewardship Goals7 8 9
PRODUCT  
SOURCINGProduct TransparencyOur SuppliersCompliance With Our StandardsSustainably Sourced MaterialsCleaner ProductsThe Power of United Action Shared Sustainability Standards11 12 13 14 15 16 17
OPERATIONSMeasurable & Sustainable Energy Reduction A Smaller Carbon FootprintEnvironmental Stewardship19 20 21
DIVERSITY & 
INCLUSIONOur Five Point ApproachDiverse Suppliers The Communities We Serve23 24 25
COMMUNITYBuilding & Celebrating CommunityColleague Giving & VolunteeringCustomer GivingPartners for a Better Tomorrow27 28 29 30
COLLEAGUESThe Macy’s, Inc. CultureReflecting the Full Spectrum of DiversityColleague EngagementMeaningful Career Opportunities for our Colleagues A Workplace Where People Thrive32 33 34 35 36
GOVERNANCEIntegrity & AccountabilityPerformance-Focused LeadershipOperating a Responsible Business38 39 40
APPENDIXSASB Disclosure Matrix 41-43CONTENTS
About This Report: Transparency & Accountability
We believe that as a responsible corporate citizen, we should be transparent about our actions. 
This report conforms with the Sustainable Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) standards for our industry sector. The SASB framework provides a standardized, common reporting approach that will yield decision-useful metrics, help us track progress, and enable comparability for investors and other external stakeholders. 
FOR OUR SASB DISCLOSURE MATRIX, SEE PAGES 41-43
This sustainability report, which is guided by our initial materiality analysis, covers the fiscal year  
2018 (February 4, 2018 to February 2, 2019),  
unless otherwise noted.OUR  
COMPANY
One of the nation’s premier retailers, Macy’s, Inc. delivers memorable 
shopping experiences through approximately 680 department stores under the nameplates Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s, and nearly  
190 specialty stores that include Bluemercury, Bloomingdale’s  
The Outlet and Macy’s Backstage. Customers can shop at our  
stores in 43 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico,  
as well as on macys.com , bloomingdales.com  and bluemercury.com .  
Our corporate headquarters are located in Cincinnati, Ohio, and  
New York, New York. The company’s stock is traded on the  
New York Stock Exchange under the ticker “M.”
4 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix 4 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability ReportOur Company Sustainability Approach Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix
2018 Highlights
• 1 30,000 colleagues
•
 $
25 billion net sales
15 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 5 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB MatrixBRANDS & VALUES 
Macy’s  is America’s store for life. The largest retail brand 
of Macy’s, Inc., Macy’s delivers quality fashion at affordable 
prices to customers throughout the United States, Puerto Rico and Guam. We also serve more than 200 international destinations through macys.com. We are committed to providing customers with a unique, seamless shopping experience, whether they are shopping online, with  
our app or in one of our 637 brick-and-mortar stores.
1  
We also operate a growing network of Macy’s Backstage, our on-mall, off-price locations. Additionally, Macy’s acquired STORY, a narrative-driven retail concept shop  
in New York City, in 2018.
Bloomingdale’s  is like no other store in the world. One of 
America’s top nationwide omnichannel, upscale department 
stores, Bloomingdale’s operates 38 stores, bloomingdales.com and 17 Bloomingdale’s The Outlet locations. Known for its originality, innovation and fashion leadership, the brand is   
a leading attraction for domestic and international tourists.
Bluemercury  is widely recognized as one of the largest  
and fastest-growing luxury beauty products and retail  
spa chains in the United States and operates 164 stores  
in 27 states. Since being acquired by Macy’s, Inc. in 2015, 
Bluemercury has grown its footprint and has created two fast-growing private brands: M-61 Powerful Skincare  
and Lune+Aster Cosmetics.
  LEARN MORE
1 A ll store count and square footage as of the end of Q1 2019.
Build customer relationships  
that last a lifetime
Enable our colleagues to have  
a meaningful, rewarding career 
Deliver a best-in-class retail 
platform for our brand partners
Create sustainable value for  
our investors OUR VALUES OUR AMBITION
863 STORES 
6 MEGACENTERS 
16 FULFILLMENT 
CENTERSACCEPTANCE
RESPECT
INTEGRITY
GIVING BACK★ ★Store footprint6 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 6 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report2018 Highlights
• Id entified our most relevant environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues
•
 R
efreshed our sustainability guiding 
principles and strategy 
•
 E
stablished Sustainable Stewardship Goals We are committed to operating as a responsible 
steward of our resources and using our position as a national retailer to create shared value for our customers, colleagues, communities and the world.
SUSTAINABILITY 
APPROACH
27 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 7 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES
We have a deep sense of stewardship for 
managing our resources and maximizing  
our positive social impact.
Our sustainability principles guide these efforts. We proactively 
engage on issues that span the breadth of our operations  
– this includes transparency, product responsibility and supply chain management, energy management, diversity and inclusion and building resilient communities. We believe operating by these principles will enable us to create value for our shareholders while addressing the shared needs  
of society.
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Sustainability is embedded in our thinking and actions.  
Our efforts are governed by broad-based leadership with Board-level oversight and are supported by colleague involvement through a network of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). To learn more about our governance structure, please view the governance section on page 38.In 2018, we took two major steps to strengthen and expand our sustainability work. First, we consolidated all supply  
chain responsibility under a single organization to oversee the entire product journey. This function includes global sourcing, inventory management, store and e-commerce distribution and transportation, as well as indirect procurement, supply chain systems, sustainability and supplier diversity.
Second, we established stronger and broader sustainability 
governance through a new Macy’s, Inc. Sustainability Working Group. Led by the senior vice president of corporate communications, this group includes leaders in merchandising, legal, human resources, supply chain, facilities and communications. These members provide direct insight into all areas of our business and have the responsibility to set sustainability goals and drive progress toward them. The Macy’s, Inc. Sustainability Working Group is supported by the Macy’s Private Brand Sustainability Committee, which includes those members of our Macy’s Private Brand
2 
organization who are accountable for responsible sourcing, social compliance and other sustainability initiatives for our private brands.The Macy’s, Inc. Sustainability Working Group reports to the Macy’s, Inc. Corporate Strategy Group (CSG). The CSG is led by the chairman and chief executive officer and comprises the 14 senior most executives of Macy’s, Inc. and is overseen by the Board of Directors. Additionally, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Macy’s, Inc. Board of Directors oversees policies and practices related to charitable, political, social and environmental issues, sustainability initiatives and reporting.
2 F or the purpose of this report, Macy’s Private Brand refers to the Macy’s 
Merchandising Group.
ENVIRONMENT
We will manage the environmental 
impact of our business including 
our supply chain and suppliers,  
as well as our stores and 
distribution network.We will optimize the positive  
social impact our business has  
on our colleagues, customers  
and communities.We will continue to ensure  
strong governance so that  
we are held accountable  
to all stakeholders and  
contribute to long-term  
value creation.SOCIAL GOVERNANCE8 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 8 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
WHAT MATTERS MOST
We are focused on advancing sustainability in 
areas where we know we can make a difference.
OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS
We have completed a comprehensive process to develop a 
new sustainability strategy and set measurable stewardship goals. Our Sustainability Working Group, in collaboration with the sustainability consulting firm Salterbaxter, managed the process. The group benchmarked our work against other leading retailers and gathered input from key internal and external stakeholders.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We took a broad approach to stakeholder engagement. We conducted interviews with internal leaders from all levels of management, including Macy’s, Inc. Chairman & CEO, Jeff Gennette, and we surveyed a wide variety of colleagues, including members of our Go Green ERG. We asked internal stakeholders to assess the significance of our impact on various ESG issues and our ability to influence them. 
We also identified impact areas and conducted interviews 
and surveys of external stakeholders representing customers, suppliers, NGOs and industry experts. Our stakeholders assessed the importance of each issue to Macy’s, Inc.  
and the amount of impact we can have on those issues. 
Using this feedback, the Sustainability Working Group 
identified and prioritized a set of material issues. ★Material IssuesCombining the results of internal and external stakeholders, we identified the following  
issues as those that have the greatest  
external importance and internal impacts.
★ ★Business Ethics
★ ★Sourcing and Production of Private Brands
★ ★Product Quality and Safety
★ ★Employee Health and Safety
★ ★Data Protection and Privacy
★ ★Diversity & Inclusion 
★ ★Convening Role for National Brands
★ ★Human Rights
★ ★Responsible Marketing
★ ★Waste Reduction and Recycling
★What is a materiality assessment  
and why is it important? Material issues are those that our stakeholders have deemed as most important and that Macy’s, Inc. has the greatest ability to impact. A materiality assessment is an effective and widely recognized way to get a broad view on the relative importance of issues by synthesizing internal and external perspectives. It also helps inform our decisions on strategic priorities. Using the concept of materiality enables Macy’s, Inc. to direct our resources and achieve meaningful results.MATERIALITY FINDINGS AND NEXT STEPS
Based on the findings of our materiality assessment,  
our stakeholders believe that Macy’s, Inc. has two areas  
of strengths and two areas of opportunities to improve.
Macy’s, Inc. has two areas of strengths, Diversity & Inclusion 
and Governance, and two areas of opportunities to improve, Products and Supply Chain and increasing Transparency.
Shareholders also would welcome additional information  
on sustainability efforts to influence and engage customers, 
suppliers and others on material issues. As an outcome  
of this work and the findings, we have set new Sustainable Stewardship Goals, which are presented in this report.9 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 9 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
OUR SUSTAINABLE STEWARDSHIP GOALS 
We are committed to creating a more 
sustainable future by achieving meaningful progress in critical areas.
We are proud to introduce Sustainable Stewardship Goals 
that will carry us through 2025. Informed by the materiality assessment described on the previous page, these goals are aligned with our corporate strategy and business initiatives to create shared value for our company and  
our stakeholders. Our policies align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the global social  
and environmental agenda. In addition to achieving the long-term goals presented here, we will review and update, as necessary, our policies on: product quality and safety; employee health and safety; business ethics; human rights; and data protection and privacy. 
We are setting the path for consistent, measurable progress 
on key areas with reporting frameworks that offer increased visibility into our sustainability operations.Our Ambition 2025 Goal
All goals by 2025 unless otherwise noted
Energy
Operate efficiently and adopt environmentally  
friendly solutionsReduce energy consumption by 10% from a 2018 baseline
Host 10 additional solar installations, bringing our total to 110
Waste & Recycling
Recycle as much material as possibleIncrease in-store recycling rate to 67%
Materials & Fibers 
Incorporate more sustainably sourced raw materials  
and fibers into our private brand productsImplement policies focused on preferred fibers in our pipeline  
for all private brand product categories
Chemical Management
Continue to remove unwanted chemicals and increase 
transparency of designated private brand product linesDevelop and implement our first Private Brand Restricted  
Substance List (RSL) covering apparel, footwear and home textiles 
Develop and implement our first Private Brand Manufacturing 
Restricted Substance List (MRSL) for children’s apparel/footwear  
and home textiles 
Products
Offer more products that are sustainable and  
eco-consciousAchieve annual improvement in the number of sustainable  
products offered
Sourcing
Improve environmental performance and social  
responsibility among our private brand suppliersDirect all of Macy’s private brand factories to use Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) Higg Index tools 
Transparency
Launch a collaboration to share and advance  
sustainable practices across the retail industryPublicize sustainability performance data from CDP  
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and other sources,  
for our largest national brand partners on macysinc.com
Launch a collaboration to share and advance sustainable  
practices with our national brand partners and across the industry
Continue proactive engagement with our stakeholdersContinue to report on commonly recognized standards
Diversity
Integrate diversity and inclusion into all aspect of our businessTo learn more about our short- and long-term Diversity  
& Inclusion Goals, click herePRODUCT 
SOURCING
We are committed to using more sustainable 
sources, respecting the human rights of our workers and protecting the environment.
10 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 10 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability ReportOur Company Sustainability Approach Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix
2018 Highlights
• A dopted a new supply chain transparency 
platform: SGS Transparency-One
•
 E
nhanced our social compliance audit 
tool to more effectively monitor factory 
working conditions
•
 5
6% of Tier 1 Macy’s Private Brand 
factories are using Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) assessment tools
311 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 11 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We – and our customers – want to be confident 
that our merchandise is produced in an ethical, responsible manner.
Having specific, reliable information on each step of a 
product’s life cycle – from source to store – gives us  
the ability to identify the greatest impacts, risks and opportunities for improvement. We are working on several fronts to gain greater transparency into our entire supply chain. We introduced significant changes in 2018. 
At the end of fiscal year 2018, Macy’s, Inc. consolidated  
our supply chain into a single organization that oversees  
the entire product journey. Our Private Brands Sustainability 
Committee, as well as our social compliance and product development teams, support this organization. We are also improving our supply chain systems, processes and facilities to enhance productivity and efficiency.
650We source our Macy’s private  
brand products from more than 650  
manufacturing facilities in 30 countries.
TRANSPARENCY THROUGH DATA
Managing our supply chain involves a vast amount of data, which is growing as we seek enhanced transparency into our raw materials, manufacturing process and suppliers that create our finished products. To help us get closer  
to end-to-end traceability of our products, Macy’s Private Brands is introducing a new, online information system,  
SGS Transparency-One, that will enable the direct exchange  
of technical information and data with our suppliers.  
We will use this system to map our supply chain, make  
our training materials and resources more accessible  to our suppliers, help us to more efficiently track working conditions, ensure compliance and better manage business risks. Our immediate goal is to roll out this system to  
our Tier 1, finished-good private brand suppliers in 2019,  
and then to the rest of our suppliers in subsequent years. 
SETTING SUPPLIER EXPECTATIONS
We require all suppliers for both our private brands and  
the national brands we carry to operate ethically, with respect for the human rights of their workers, and with regard for their environmental impact. Our Vendor and Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code) outlines the minimum standards we require from our suppliers to ensure that our merchandise is produced in workplaces that are  
free of abusive, exploitative or unsafe working conditions.  
We also require that our suppliers comply with the applicable laws and regulations of the United States, and those  
of the respective country of manufacture or exportation.
ELIMINATING FORCED LABOR
We work to safeguard the welfare and rights of workers involved in producing the goods we sell and take action to ensure that their working conditions are just, safe and fair. We regularly educate our suppliers and colleagues with supply chain responsibility on the need to protect human rights and delivered updated training with information on trafficking and slavery in 2018. View our Human Trafficking statement . As an example, we recognize that cotton from 
Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan may have been harvested through a state-orchestrated forced labor system. This violates international conventions prohibiting forced labor, and we prohibit Macy’s Private Brand suppliers from sourcing cotton from these countries.AVOIDING CONFLICT MINERALS
Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, publicly traded companies are required to submit to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) an annual report disclosing the use of “conflict minerals” originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries (hereafter collectively referred to as DRC). The conflict minerals are tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. This Conflict Minerals Rule reflects the concern that revenues obtained from the minerals fund the ongoing armed conflict in the DRC and the resulting humanitarian crisis. 
The Conflict Minerals Rule requires public companies like 
Macy’s to conduct due diligence inquiries of their supply chains to determine the source(s) of the conflict minerals used by their suppliers. Our Conflict Minerals Policy applies to private brand products produced by Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s, Bluemercury and their respective subsidiaries, and we prepare and file an annual Conflict Minerals Report with the SEC. As part of our due diligence, we use an independent third party to survey our suppliers annually to determine if conflict minerals are used in their supply chains and to identify the sources of those conflict minerals. We also require that our Tier 1 private brand suppliers source metal trim components from our Nominated Trim Supplier list. Trim suppliers who are not able to meet or maintain these expectations risk being removed from our program.
  LEARN MOREPRODUCT TRANSPARENCY 12 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 12 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We educate our manufacturing partners on our 
rules and expectations and require them to meet high standards.
Our private brand suppliers are on the front lines of ensuring 
the safe and ethical treatment of the workers in our supply chain. We have comprehensive programs in place to maximize their adherence to our standards, identify issues and drive comprehensive remediations when violations occur. Through rigorous screening of new suppliers, ongoing training, regular audits and collaborating for improvement, we ensure that our suppliers operate to high ethical and performance standards.TRAINING FOR SUPPLIERS AND PRODUCT 
DEVELOPMENT TEAM
We want to help our suppliers understand and meet  
our standards, both when they join our supply chain  
and on an ongoing basis. 
All new suppliers undergo a social compliance audit and 
must meet or exceed minimum standards before they are approved for production and are added to our merchandise ordering system. Our social compliance team prepares and trains prospective suppliers on our Supplier Code, audit protocols and terms of engagement.
Current suppliers receive ongoing education from our social 
compliance team, which communicates our requirements and expectations, encourages robust internal compliance policies and collaborates on continuous improvement at manufacturing facilities. In 2018, we hosted our Supplier Summit to review the audit and approval process, affirm  
our supplier requirements and expectations and provide program updates.
Internally, Macy’s Private Brand product development 
professionals receive similar training on topics relevant to their role, including our Supplier Code, high-risk violations such as child and forced labor, human trafficking, illegal subcontracting, bribery, fraudulent record-keeping, homeworkers and physical abuse; as well as our involvement with industry initiatives. Additionally, all colleagues receive annual General Legal Compliance and Code of Conduct training that includes information on our human rights and human trafficking policies.MONITORING OUR SUPPLIERS
We actively monitor working conditions in all factories,  
which includes auditing all of our Tier 1 facilities using the tools described on page 13. We employ a qualified third-party firm, UL Responsible Sourcing, to conduct on-site audits.
To ensure ongoing compliance, our independent auditors 
conduct unannounced social compliance audits at least annually, or more frequently as needed, at all factories producing private brand goods. We regularly collaborate  
with our suppliers to help them improve their social compliance scores.OUR SUPPLIERS 
13 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 13 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We audit our manufacturing partners to protect 
our workers, our customers and the environment.
To gain consistent, accurate insight, we use two audit tools to 
monitor the social responsibility, safety and security performance of our partner factories. These tools – rigorous questionnaires that address both our Supplier Code and legal requirements – are effective methods for conveying our standards.
FAIR, SAFE WORKING CONDITIONS
To strengthen our approach for dealing with human trafficking and forced labor risks, in 2018 we enhanced our Manufacturing Compliance Evaluation Report, the social compliance audit tool we developed in partnership with UL Responsible Sourcing for use in all of our domestic  
and overseas private brand factories. This audit tool  
covers local laws in the country of manufacture and all principles in our Supplier Code, including health and safety, harassment and abuse, non-discrimination, freedom of association, wages and working hours, and child labor.
SECURITY AUDITS 
We work to improve security measures at our production sites and reduce the risk of terrorist activities throughout the supply chain. Suppliers that are not already certified under the Customers Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) program are required to undergo annual security audits  
at their overseas factories for private brand production.  
The security audit covers CTPAT-required security measures such as container and trailer integrity, personnel checks, cargo handling and information technology. We updated the security audit tool in 2018 to guard against human trafficking and slavery, and amended the accompanying Security Manual to keep current with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection guidelines. Macy’s has been a member since  
the program was introduced in 2002 and maintains  
the highest level of CTPAT compliance.FACTORY AUDIT RESULTS
Macy’s, Inc. does not tolerate human trafficking and  
slavery in the supply chain. Our Private Brands Macy’s  
social compliance team will investigate any reports alleging  
these activities, or any other serious violations against  
our Code of Conduct. Action is taken against any suppliers  
for failing to comply with our standards, which may result  
in termination of the business relationship.
We do work with our suppliers to correct issues, and in 
factories where corrective actions have been required,  
we conduct audits more frequently. If high-risk violations  
are found, immediate action is taken to investigate and evaluate next steps.In some cases, the supplier and/or factory relationship  
may be terminated. During 2018, we conducted 836  
factory audits, with four factories falling under the  
High-Risk category. Of those four factories:
★ ★Three were terminated and are no longer used  
for production.
★ ★One was allowed to remain active for production,  
pending corrective action and specialized remediation.ENSURING COMPLIANCE 
WITH OUR STANDARDS 
Taiwan (7)
Sri Lanka (3)
Madagascar (2)China (461)
India (94)
Cambodia (16)Thailand (2)Pakistan
(12)Turkey (9)
Vietnam (69)
Malaysia (2) Philipi nes (11)South
Korea
(5)
Indonesia (35)Myanmar (7)France
(3)Poland
(1)
Italy (3)
Bangladesh (11)
Hong Kong (1)Jordan (10)Portu gal (5) USA (43)
Egypt (5)Mexico (8)
Colombia (2)
Brazil (1)Guatemala (4)
El Salvador (1)Dominican
Republic (3) Privat e Brand Overs eas Audit s 2018*
* Audits conducted per country in 2018400 – 500
91 – 100
81 – 90
71 – 80
61 – 70
51 – 60
41 – 50
31 – 40
21 – 30
  11 – 200 – 10
14 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 14 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Our customers will find an expanding selection 
of products made from sustainably sourced fibers and materials.
We are working to provide customers with the information 
and responsible products they are looking for. Our sourcing and our product integrity teams collaborate to identify credible third-party certifications for sustainable fibers  
and materials we feel confident offering to our customers.  
In the future, we will offer more products with manufacturing processes that have been documented to use natural resources responsibly and protect the environment. 
ETHICAL, ECO-CONSCIOUS FIBERS AND MATERIALS
Once we have determined which standards and certifications are most meaningful, we will set benchmarks for incorporating these raw materials and fabrics into targeted product categories. We intend to pursue this in a thoughtful and strategic way. We currently offer 28 independently certified private brand products made with some or all eco-conscious fibers and materials. We are working to introduce another eight in 2019, with more after that.
Sustainable Stewardship Goals
Materials & Fibers:  Incorporate more sustainably sourced  
raw materials and fibers into our private brand products.
Products:  Offer more products that are sustainable  
and eco-conscious.Cleaner Cotton Cotton is one of the most widely used fabrics worldwide and requires many chemicals during processing. To offer consumers access to cleaner cotton, we are introducing home textiles that have been certified through OEKO-TEX
®, 
an association of 18 independent textile research and testing institutes responsible for the joint development of test methods and limit values which form the basis of the  
product labels according to STANDARD  100 by OEKO-TEX
® 
and MADE IN GREEN by OEKO-TEX®
STANDARD  100 by OEKO-TEX® – In 2019, Macy’s will begin 
offering selected Women’s and Men’s apparel that bears  
the label of this leading global certification for textiles that have been independently tested for harmful substances according to strict scientific criteria that go beyond global legal regulations.
MADE IN GREEN  by OEKO-TEX
® – By fall 2019, all of Macy’s 
moderately priced sheets will have been independently 
certified as safe from harmful substances and produced in environmentally friendly facilities with safe and socially responsible working practices.Recycled Polyester Using fabric made from recycled polyester gives a second life to fossil-fuel based material that is not biodegradable and otherwise might end up in landfill or the ocean.  
We introduced our first apparel product containing  
recycled polyester in 2018 and plan to expand our  
selection within the next year.
Environmentally Responsible Leather 
To improve the environmental stewardship of our private brand tanneries and leather manufacturers, Macy’s  
Private Brands joined the Leather Working Group in 2017. This independent global initiative assesses environmental compliance and performance of tanneries, and promotes sustainable business practices within the leather industry. It also grants certification to tanneries that demonstrate environmental best practices and performance in all areas of leather production. We expect that all tanning facilities providing leather for private brand products will achieve Leather Working Group certification by 2021. 
Metal Trim 
All of the metal trim components that may contain tin, tungsten, tantalum or gold on Macy’s private brand  
products are vetted through a due diligence process  
to ensure compliance with the SEC’s Conflict Minerals  
Rule as described on page 10.SUSTAINABLY SOURCED MATERIALS 15 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 15 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We are on a path to increasing product 
transparency and removing unwanted chemicals.
To gain consistent, accurate insight, we use two audit tools 
to monitor the social responsibility, safety and security performance of our partner factories. These tools – robust questionnaires that address both our Supplier Code and legal requirements – are effective methods for conveying our standards.
Our Chemical Management oversight extends from product 
concept through customer use. The Product Integrity and Quality Assurance Group, an internal function, collaborates with product development teams to provide guidance  
about potential issues related to materials or manufacturing, interfaces with offices and suppliers as needed, and oversees quality and testing programs.REMOVING UNWANTED CHEMICALS
Responsible chemical management, which has always been integral to our product safety efforts, is taking on growing importance as customers seek information about product ingredients and increasingly purchase products that have been formulated without harmful chemicals. Macy’s Private Brands is expanding our Chemical Management Program to enhance education and training around chemicals of concern and to provide increased ingredient transparency when appropriate. We will restrict hazardous chemicals  
that are used in the finished products we sell, as well as the ones used during the manufacturing process. To achieve this, we have developed a two-part approach that will be implemented over the next six years. 
Our Product Integrity and Quality Assurance Group will 
partner with our supply chain partners, trade associations, third-party service providers, as well as regulatory agencies to help identify the chemicals that we believe should be removed from our products. This input will inform the development of our own Chemical Management Program and the creation of Macy’s Restricted Substance List for finished products and a Manufacturing Restricted Substance List for the manufacturing process. By working together, we support the overall chemical management efforts within our industry.CLEANER PRODUCTS 
Sustainable Stewardship Goal
Chemical Management:  Continue to remove unwanted chemicals 
and increase transparency of designated private brand product lines. 
★ ★Develop and implement our first Private Brand Restricted 
Substance List covering apparel, footwear and home  
textiles by 2022 and non-apparel product categories beginning in 2024.
★ ★Develop and implement our first Private Brand Manufacturing Restricted Substance List for children’s apparel/footwear  
and home textiles by 2023 and non-apparel product categories beginning in 2025.Safer Working
Conditions  in Bangladesh
Over six years ago, the Rana Plaza factory complex 
collapsed near Dhaka, Bangladesh, killing 1,134 people and injuring thousands more. In response, the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety was formed by U.S. brands and retailers – with Macy’s as a founding member – to improve fire, structural and electrical safety in the country’s ready-made garment factories. Today, hundreds of thousands of Bangladeshi men and women work in safer factories thanks to Alliance assessments and remediation. During the five-year program, 178 factories were suspended for failing to make adequate remediation progress. None were Macy’s factories. In January 2019, the Alliance transitioned into Nirapon, a locally managed group that will assume responsibility for monitoring more than 600 factories, providing standardized worker safety training and making the helpline service available to factory workers.
ALLIANCE FOR BANGLADESH WORKER SAFETY 
Trained more than 1.6 million 
workers and more than 28,000 security guards in factory and fire safetyProvided 24-hour confidential helpline access to more than  
1.5 million workers in more  
than 1,000 factories
Helped to form Worker  
Safety Committees in nearly 200 factoriesCompleted remediation  
of 700 factories and initial  
Corrective Action Plans in  
428 factories
16 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 16 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We can accomplish more when we come 
together for the common good.
We believe the best opportunity to create a sustainable 
apparel industry lies in united action by brands, retailers and suppliers. While we participate in a number of industry coalitions and initiatives, one of our most productive partnerships is with the SAC, the leading global alliance working to reduce the environmental and social impact of apparel and footwear products. 
The power of the SAC lies in the widespread use of its 
self-assessment tools by 230 international members, including leading apparel, footwear and textile brands, retailers, suppliers, service providers, trade associations, nonprofits, non-governmental organizations and  
academic institutions.
INCREASED INSIGHT
As a member of this coalition, Macy’s Private Brands uses the SAC’s Higg Index Facility Environmental Module and Facility Social and Labor Module to gauge the environmental and social performance of our manufacturing facilities.
We first asked our suppliers to use the Higg Index in 2014 
and are pleased to report that by 2018 more than 400 facilities participated, including all of our trim suppliers, representing 56% of our manufacturing volume. This progress positions us well to direct 100% of our Tier 1 factories to  
use SAC Higg Index tools by 2025. With the information  
from these self-assessments, we can better reduce  
our environmental impact and improve labor conditions  
for factory workers throughout our supply chain.Higg Index: Private brand supplier rollout  
from 2016-2018 (% of volume)
2018
2017201656.3%
44.3%
36.8%
Macy’s is also a signatory to the Social and Labor Convergence Project, an initiative to make the factory social assessment process more efficient through use of a Converged Assessment Framework. Its premise is that a common data collection tool and verification process will improve working conditions by leveraging collaborative action to reduce audit fatigue and achieve sustainable remediation.
Sustainable Stewardship Goal
Sourcing:  Improve environmental performance and social 
responsibility among our private brand suppliers.
★ ★Direct all Tier 1 factories to use SAC Higg Index tools.THE POWER OF UNITED ACTION 
MACY’S, INC.17 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 17 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We will learn from and work with our brand 
partners and industry leaders.
Macy’s, Inc. is committed to advocating sustainable practices 
with our brand partners and across the retail and fashion industry. Many of our national brand partners are leaders in areas of sustainability, and we can learn from them while sharing best practices across the Macy’s, Inc. value chain. As a national retailer, we can help build industry-wide momentum to address global challenges that are too big for any one retailer to solve on its own.
“Macy’s is committed to advancing  
our own sustainability and advocating  
for sustainable practices among our 
brand partners, and across the retail  
and fashion industry. ”
Jeff Gennette, Macy’s, Inc., Chairman & CEO
We have outlined a two-step process for achieving shared 
sustainability standards with our national brand partners and making that information publicly available. We will begin by making the corporate social responsibility policies and reports of our top national brands partners accessible through macysinc.com. Following that, we will exchange information on sustainability practices with our national brand partners through CDP, which operates an extensive supply chain  
data platform.WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE
Macy’s, Inc. is an active member of and collaborates with numerous associations and networks that directly engage with policy makers on international trade, human rights  
and sustainability issues. Our colleagues hold multiple leadership positions in many of these organizations.
Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety/Nirapon
American Apparel & Footwear Association (AAFA)Business for Social Responsibility (BSR)CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Cotton Inc.Fair Fashion Center (FFC)GoodWeaveLeather Working Group (LWG)National Retail Federation (NRF)Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI)Retail Industry Leaders Association (RILA)Social and Labor Convergence Project (SLCP)Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Advisory Group (Consumer Goods)
Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC)United States Fashion Industry Association (USFIA)SHARED SUSTAINABILITY STANDARDS 
Sustainable Stewardship Goal
Transparency:  Launch a collaboration to share and advance 
sustainable practices across the industry.18 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 18 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability ReportOur Company Sustainability Approach Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix
2018 Highlights
• I nstalled more than 180,000 LED fixtures 
•
 G
enerated clean renewable energy 
through 100 on-site solar power 
installations
•
 P
rovided 68 electric vehicle charging 
stationsAs responsible stewards, we seek to operate 
efficiently and adopt environmentally friendly solutions that create value for all of our stakeholders.
4
OPERATIONS19 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 19 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We measure what we do and work toward 
quantifiable goals to reduce our energy footprint. 
With 863 stores covering 123,599,000 square feet and an 
extensive logistics network, Macy’s, Inc. has a substantial operational footprint, which we constantly manage in an effort to minimize our environmental impact. We seek to responsibly manage the resources we consume and the waste we produce. We set and work toward goals that are achievable and sustainable by investing in actions that yield the biggest improvement for the environment and the best return on our capital. 
FY2018 Total Energy consumption
3,262 MWh
Total renewable
 1,587,691 MWh
Total non-renewableENERGY MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
Energy efficiency is a core element of our strategy. We use both building automation systems and an enterprise-wide energy management information system to continually monitor our operating performance and detect anomalies. Our energy management system provides daily information, which enables us to respond in real time to curb wasteful energy consumption. In addition, Macy’s is leveraging new predictive technology that will provide greater control over peak energy demand periods and is enhancing our building automation systems to further reduce our energy consumption.
BENCHMARKING OUR ENERGY PERFORMANCE
We find value in benchmarking our management of energy in comparison to national standards and best practices and use the EPA ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager online tool to measure and track our energy consumption to industry benchmarks. Portfolio Manager enables us to compare each building’s performance against a yearly baseline, national medians or similar buildings in our portfolio. We regularly provide detailed consumption data to comply with building energy benchmarking ordinances in 12 cities and the State of California.
Macy’s participates in the U.S. Department of Energy’s 
Better Buildings Initiative and was recognized in 2017  
for achieving our 20% energy reduction goal four years ahead of target.
Sustainable Stewardship Goal
Energy:  Reduce energy consumption by 10% from a 2018  
baseline by 2025.MEASURABLE & SUSTAINABLE 
ENERGY REDUCTION 
Lighting the Way
to Energy & Greenhouse Gas Reductions
Over the past nine years, Macy’s, Inc. has reduced  
our energy consumption by 14%, with another 3% 
reduction projected for 2019, through the installation  
of LED lighting. In addition to being more energy  
and cost-efficient, LED lights run much cooler and provide better merchandise visibility, keeping the  
store environment comfortable and enhancing the customer experience. We plan to continue to expand our LED initiative at key locations across our portfolio.
LED ENERGY SAVINGS
YearRetail Spaces 
Retrofitted 
AnnuallyEnergy Reduction Carbon 
Reduction 
(metric 
tons)Kilowatt-  
hours Percent
2010 95 19.9 million 1% 14,000
2011 287 58 million 4% 41,000
2012 307 39.5 million 3% 27,000
2013 260 7 million 0.50% 4,950
2014 100 4.7 million 0.40% 3,300
2015 260 8.2 million 0.70% 5,800
2016 450 20.1 million 1.70% 14,200
2017 660 18 million 1.70% 12,700
2018 50 12.3 million 1.30% 8,700
2019 projected 133 29.9 million 3% 21,000MACY’S, INC.20 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 20 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We are continually improving our efforts  
to measure and manage our greenhouse  
gas emissions. 
REDUCING AND REPORTING  
OUR CARBON EMISSIONS
We work to create a healthier environment for employees 
and communities throughout our operations and supply chain by measuring our greenhouse gas emissions and focusing on continuous improvement. We have been submitting a Climate Change questionnaire to CDP  
since 2008, collecting annual emissions data across  
our business and calculating carbon inventories for  
the CDP’s public rating system. 
This year, we had an independent auditor verify all 2018 
emissions calculations for Scope 1 (direct energy usage)  
and Scope 2 (purchased energy) activities.Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 2016-2018  
(metric tons CO2e)
Direct GHG Emissions
(Scope 1)Indirect GHG Emissions
(Scope 2)
FY2018**
FY2017*FY2016*45,504
97,837
96,876FY2018**
FY2017*FY2016*552,248
631,865
710,548
* 2 016-2017 data includes information outside of US boundary
**
 2
018 data reflective of US boundary
RENEWABLE ENERGY
With 100 active on-site solar power installations at our 
facilities nationwide, we are a leading source of clean, renewable energy. Each year these solar installations produce approximately 60 million kilowatt hours, which offsets approximately 43,000 metric tons of carbon emissions annually. Of the energy generated in 2018,  
all but approximately 6,509 megawatt hours were sold  
to others. We plan to add more solar projects until we  
reach our goal of 110 installations by 2025.
Sustainable Stewardship Goal
Energy:  Host 10 additional solar installations,  
bringing our total to 110.★Go Green Groups Lead the WayOur Go Green Employee Resource Groups  
are the grass roots of our sustainability efforts. The groups are dedicated to educating our organization and implementing sustainability practices at both the individual and corporate levels. They raise issues and propose solutions and, at every step, they have access to and support from senior executives.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE PROGRAM
As we work to reduce our own carbon emissions, we also support our customers’ sustainable choices by making electric vehicle charging convenient, accessible and free through a growing network of charging stations. Macy’s  
and our partner Volta Charging LLC added 16 stations in 2018, bringing the total to 68 at 30 locations. We have four more stations in progress, and we are reviewing more than 30 properties for additional installations across eight states.A SMALLER CARBON FOOTPRINT21 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 21 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We seek to responsibly manage the resources 
we consume and the waste we produce.
REDUCING PAPER USE
Over the past five years, we have shifted our marketing 
strategies to focus more on digital marketing and less on traditional print mailers. Since 2013, we have reduced our annual paper tonnage by 60%.
Annual Reduction in Paper Use (% reduction)
2018
201720162015201420.8%
29.7%
13.5%
11.2%
5.7%
RECYCLING IN OUR STORES
Recycling is a core element of a circular economy in which materials are not regarded as waste but are redirected  
for other uses. In our stores, corporate offices and other facilities, our policy is to recycle as much material as possible, including cardboard, plastic film, hangers, metal fixtures and wooden pallets. We also have an internal program to reuse, refurbish or recycle store fixtures. Some  
of our facilities have additional waste reduction programs, such as our Cincinnati corporate office’s composting program, which diverts food waste. To improve our recycling rate, we are developing a waste diversion plan that will incorporate better reporting of in-store recycling efforts, identify barriers and increase awareness.TRANSPORTATION
Our efforts to improve the efficiency of our logistics network are yielding results, as we reduced our inbound (distribution center to store) shipments, which lowered our greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 7% and avoided approximately 84 million pounds of CO
2 in just one year.  
We achieved this by using:
★ ★Vendor-to-store direct shipments which bypass  
our distribution centers for fewer miles traveled
★ ★Intermodal travel in which more shipments are consolidated or sent by rail rather than individual truck.
PRODUCT PACKAGING
Developing responsible products also includes reducing the environmental impact of product packaging. Macy’s, Inc. has adopted a number of best practices, which include standardizing the size of packing cartons and minimizing packaging materials. Increasingly, we incorporate recycled content into our packaging, especially in corrugated cardboard. We also use auto-boxer and auto-bagger machines that can build a package that perfectly fits odd or oversized items. This fit-to-size auto-boxing technology reduces box volume up to 50% by creating the smallest parcel needed at the lowest expense, which also helps reduce shipping costs.
Sustainable Stewardship Goal
Waste & Recycling:  Increase our in-store recycling rate to 67%.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Cincinnati Volunteers
Help Recycle Electronic Waste
For the past six years, Macy’s has co-sponsored the 
PNC/Reds E-Waste Recycling Drive in Cincinnati, Ohio. The popular three-day event, one of the largest in the Midwest, accepts and recycles electronic waste of  
all kinds. In 2018, Macy’s volunteers helped unload a record 815 cars in six hours – a 20% increase from the previous year. In total, this event has diverted more than one million pounds of electronic waste  
from entering landfills from where toxic chemicals  
can leach into groundwater.MACY’S, INC.22 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 22 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability ReportOur Company Sustainability Approach Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix
2018 Highlights
• L aunched a companywide five-point 
diversity and inclusion strategy and goals
•
 P
rovided unconscious bias training  
to 1,200 directors and above
•
 S
upported ethnically diverse-, women-, 
LGBTQ- and veteran-owned business 
enterprises through annual average purchases of $1 billionWe are strongest and our brand shines brightest 
when all aspects of our business reflect the diversity of the customers and communities  
we serve.
5
DIVERSITY  
& INCLUSION23 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 23 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
OUR FIVE POINT APPROACH 
Our mission is to embed diversity and inclusion 
into how we think, act and operate. 
We are strongest when we are representative of the many 
communities we serve. In 2018, we laid out a bold vision to advance diversity in all aspects of our organization.  
We identified five focus areas, in which we have set specific performance objectives for 2019 and beyond. We revitalized the Macy’s Diversity & Inclusion Business Council, which  
is co-chaired by our CEO and our chief diversity officer  
and includes representatives from all areas of the company.
  LEARN MORE
OUR COLLEAGUES:  REFLECT THE FULL SPECTRUM 
OF DIVERSITY AT ALL LEVELS OF OUR WORKFORCE 
Macy’s, Inc. should be a safe and inclusive place where each colleague can bring their authentic selves to work every day. While our workforce already includes many women and ethnically diverse individuals, we want to include the full spectrum of diversity at all levels of our workforce. Our goal is to open conversations and foster an environment where people feel encouraged to be themselves.OUR CUSTOMERS:  WELCOME, ACCEPT AND 
RESPECT EVERY ONE OF OUR CUSTOMERS 
To strengthen this commitment, we expanded our Customer Bill of Rights to every Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s store.  
Our Customer Bill of Rights states that we will welcome, accept and respect every one of our customers. It also declares that discrimination, unreasonable searches and profiling will not be tolerated. And it provides direction  
on how customers can report any incidents in our stores.  
In addition, we have increased the timeliness of customer complaint resolutions and have intensified training in higher risk stores and markets. OUR FIVE POINT APPROACH 
Focus Area Objective Goals
Colleagues Reflect the full spectrum of diversity  
at all levels of our workforceAchieve more ethnic diversity by 2025 at senior director level and 
above, with a goal of 30%
Customers Welcome, accept and respect every  
one of our customersPublish and activate our new Customer Bill of Rights in every  
Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s store in 2019
Suppliers Increase representation and advance  
the growth of under-represented suppliersIncrease our combined retail and non-retail supplier spend  
above 5% by 2021
Community Build meaningful relationships with community partners whose objectives align with our  
business goals and our company valuesLaunch economic development partnerships in at least five  
cities in 2019
Marketing Reflect and reach the full spectrum of our customers in our imagery, messages  
and experienceRequire 50% representation of gender/gender identity, ethnicity,  
age, size and differently-abled subjects in our advertising by 2020
BILL OF RIGHTSCUSTOMER
WE THANK YOU.
We thank you for choosing to shop with us and appreciate the opportunity to serve you.  
You are welcome here.
If you have an instance of suspected profiling, discrimination or any other violation of this statement in a Macy’s or Bloomingdale’s store to report, you may contact any of the following:
The Macy’s / Bloomingdale’s Store Manager.    Ask any associate for the Store Manager’s contact information.Macy’s, Inc. Presidential Office toll-free:  
1-800-417-2831  
(Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. EST)Macy’s, Inc. Tell Us What You Think: macysinc.com/contact-usYOU ARE WELCOME HERE.
At Macy’s, Inc., we believe that everyone who walks through 
our doors should be treated with dignity, respect and kindness.  We are committed to making you feel welcome…no matter your race, color, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability, citizenship, ancestry, appearance, or any other    personal or physical characteristics that make you who you are.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO YOU.
Any Macy’s, Inc. employee who either engages in, or fails to report discrimination, is in violation of our Company policies by not reflecting our values or our commitment to make you feel  welcome. This is unacceptable to us, and we will take action -  
including termination of employment where warranted.WE RESPECT YOUR RIGHTS.
You are part of this community and we respect your rights. Macy’s, Inc. prohibits unreasonable searches or any profiling of customers by our employees. We require all asset protection employees to identify themselves when interacting with you and  to provide you with their name upon request. We strictly prohibit the use of excessive force or threatening and intimidating language.
A person may only be detained if an authorized employee reasonably believes that the person is committing or attempting to commit shoplifting or another crime on the premises. If a person is detained, it may only be done in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable amount of time to permit investigation or questioning.
Nothing in this statement is intended to limit any other obligations of the Store or rights that you may have under any local, state or federal laws. If an incident does occur, we will take action quickly because we respect your rights.24 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 24 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
OUR SUPPLIERS:  DRIVE GROWTH WITH  
UNDER-REPRESENTED SUPPLIERS
We are working to support the next generation of diverse 
suppliers by ensuring they are integrated into our merchandising and business development strategies. Our Supplier Diversity Program is designed to connect more ethnically diverse-, women-, veteran- and LGBTQ-owned businesses to opportunities within Macy’s, Inc., enabling  
us to have more distinctive merchandise, contribute to  
the economic health of local communities, and help grow  
the number of diverse suppliers in the retail industry. 
GENERATING ECONOMIC IMPACT
In 2018, we purchased approximately $937 million from ethnically diverse- and women-owned businesses.  
This engagement with diverse suppliers contributed more than $1.8 billion to the U.S. economy – surpassing the billion-dollar mark for the fourth year in a row – and sustained more than 10,000 jobs. These jobs, and the incomes earned through them, are important contributions  
to the communities in which we operate.
5%Macy’s is committed to increasing  
our economic impact by achieving  
a combined diverse supplier  
spend of at least 5% by 2021.DIVERSE SUPPLIERS 
America’s Top Corporations AwardGold Level from the Women’s Business Enterprise National CouncilA Springboard for
Ethnically Diverse  
& Women Entrepreneurs
Each year Macy’s helps high-potential women and 
ethnically diverse entrepreneurs grow their businesses through The Workshop at Macy’s, an intensive four-and-a-half day workshop. This business development program equips participants with a new perspective on how  
to create effective, large-scale supplier relationships.  
To obtain one of the coveted openings in the annual event, applicants must apply and undergo an in-depth vetting process by The Workshop at Macy’s team. In early 2019, we expanded this program by increasing the class size, identifying new funding sources and partners, and redeveloping the curriculum to address different stages of participant business development.
Since we launched the program in 2011, approximately 
125 businesses have graduated and, as a result, we have tapped into new retail suppliers that appeal to our diverse customers. We will continue to grow The Workshop at Macy’s to contribute to our communities and foster economic inclusion.MACY’S, INC.25 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 25 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
OUR COMMUNITY:  DRIVE IMPACT THROUGH 
COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS THAT REFLECT  
OUR GOALS AND VALUES 
Our commitment to drive economic growth, while reinforcing 
social good, is reflected in our multicultural community work. Macy’s, Inc. actively partners with many nonprofits, civic organizations and initiatives that aim to empower and inspire diverse groups. We support the areas of education, health and wellness, mentoring and more for men and women of  
all ages, abilities and religions, as well as African-American, Hispanic, Asian and LGBTQ communities. 
This means collaborating with local organizations to 
strategically seek out new partners to participate in our business accelerators: The Workshop at Macy’s, The Market @ Macy’s, and our narrative-driven retail concept shop, STORY. To support this commitment, in 2018 Macy’s partnered with organizations such as the National Urban League, Black Enterprise, The Asian American Business Development Center, The Hispanic Federation and Eagle Academy network of public schools. 
Regular stakeholder engagement is important to our 
company. In July 2018, Jeff Gennette, Macy’s, Inc. Chairman & CEO, along with the Diversity & Inclusion Business Council, hosted a meeting with nearly 30 diverse business and community stakeholders. The goals were to update our partners on where Macy’s, Inc. is today on our diversity and inclusion work, seek feedback on our plans as we continue this work, and gain insight on how we can better partner as we move forward. OUR MARKETING:  CONSISTENTLY AND  
GENUINELY REFLECT ALL OUR CUSTOMERS 
We recognize and value our diverse customer base.  
Our goal is simple: we want all of our marketing to reflect  
the diversity of our customers. To achieve this, we have changed our model casting guidelines to require 50% representation on gender/gender identity, ethnicity,  
and age, size and differently-abled.THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE
Advancing  
Civil Rightswith the National  
Urban League
We were honored to continue 24 years of partnership 
with the National Urban League, a non-partisan  
civil rights organization, by supporting its annual conference in Columbus, Ohio, in 2018. Macy’s Diversity & Inclusion team hosted the Young Professional Speed Networking event at which future leaders were able to build powerful connections and received gift bags provided by the Macy’s Easton store team. Additionally, to support the mission of New York Urban League, Macy’s participated in College Live, a series of pre-college tours and preparation workshops that provide students with the preparation needed to maximize the value of their college campus visits.MACY’S, INC.
26 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Our Company Sustainability Approach Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix
26 M
acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report2018 Highlights
• L aunched the North Star Relief Fund  
to support colleagues in need
•
 R
aised and donated $56 million  
to our charity partners
•
 V
olunteered 152,000 hours of community 
service through Partners in TimeWe are dedicated to serving our communities  
by creating jobs, giving back and being a  
vibrant hub for commerce and connection.
6
COMMUNITY27 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 27 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
The people of Macy’s are guided by a sense  
of respect for the communities we serve. 
Building on a 160-year tradition, and with the collective 
support of customers and colleagues, Macy’s, Inc. strengthens communities by supporting local and  
national charities to help make a difference in the  
lives of our customers.
Giving back is one of our core values, and we want to create 
as much positive impact as possible. In 2018, we aligned giving programs to sharpen our focus on the needs of  
local communities. We upgraded and consolidated the management of our programs into one centralized system, which will improve our ability to report on our giving impact. We also developed a rapid response playbook that enables us to react quickly and consistently to local disasters in a meaningful, strategic way. 
Macy’s corporate giving is allocated at local, regional,  
and national levels to provide charitable funding to support 
and serve the communities in which we live and work.  
The funds are distributed through a network of district  
grant captains, store colleagues who have direct connection to their local communities.
  LEARN MORE
Macy’s, Inc. 2018 Corporate Giving
$15+  million
to 1,000+ organizationsBUILDING & CELEBRATING COMMUNITY 
Macy’s Salutes
America’s Veterans
Each year we celebrate America’s birthday by thanking 
the thousands of men and women who are deployed around the world protecting our freedom. In salute  
to our nation’s armed forces, Macy’s colleagues and customers nationwide come together for a charitable giving campaign to support veterans and military families.
In 2018, our 1st annual “Macy’s Salutes Those Who 
Serve” campaign generated more than $2 million for  
three nonprofits that support current and former members of the U.S. armed forces and their families: Blue Star Families, Bunker Labs and Team Rubicon. These organizations help with career development, caregiver support, entrepreneurship and business opportunities, skills-based volunteering and community rebuilding activities.
We also provided smaller grants to more than 20 local 
organizations dedicated to supporting veterans.MACY’S, INC.28 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 28 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
It’s about giving back and showing up in times 
of need.
Our colleagues embody our value of giving back each  
and every day, and we are proud of their commitment.  
We have many opportunities for colleagues to contribute, 
including two of our flagship programs: Bag Hunger and  
The Big Give Back.
BAG HUNGER 
In March 2018, by giving their time and money, our enthusiastic colleagues helped Macy’s, Inc. and our customers raise more than the equivalent of $3.5 million for local food banks, emergency food assistance programs and summer meals for children who typically rely on school meal programs. Colleagues volunteered nearly 23,000 hours 
as they raised funds through imaginative events such as good-natured competitions and “fashion shows for food”  
and teamed up to deliver to homebound seniors,  
and make and serve meals.
  LEARN MORE
DISASTER SUPPORT 
When our communities are hurting, Macy’s shows up. In 2018, Macy’s responded to 13 disasters and supported two long-term disaster relief efforts, helping people recover from floods, fires, hurricanes and shootings. Guided by our new disaster relief toolkit, we are now better able to respond quickly and consistently when trouble strikes. With creativity and compassion, our stores team up with local organizations to find the best way to respond to each situation. COLLEAGUE GIVING & VOLUNTEERING
THE BIG GIVE BACK 
In 2018, we introduced The Big Give Back as a new month-long colleague fundraising and volunteer movement to raise funds for the North Star Relief Fund, United Way or other local 501(c)(3) charity. The campaign enabled colleagues  
to meet needs in their own communities in a variety of ways, from packing backpacks and collecting school supplies  
to donating blood and leading a coding camp. We invited customers to join us by rounding up their purchase to  
the nearest dollar to support their store’s chosen local charity. The total campaign giving from our colleagues  
and customers, alongside Macy’s, Inc. contributions,  
topped $7.3 million.
PARTNERS IN TIME 
Through volunteerism, we also build 
connections that reach beyond the walls of our stores – connections between our customers, our colleagues and our communities. This is best demonstrated through our Partners in Time colleague volunteerism program, which extends  
to virtually every one of our locations. Since Partners in Time began in 1989, our colleagues have given approximately  
3 million hours of community service to thousands of charities in local communities. Our charity partners equate that to a value of more than $58 million.
2018 Colleague Giving & Volunteering
$10+  million
in donations
 152,000  hours
of volunteer service worth $3.8 million
29,000  colleagues
participated in about 3,000 community projects29 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 29 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We invite customers to join us in supporting 
causes that build stronger communities.
GRANTING WISHES ACROSS AMERICA 
Macy’s customers brought the 
magic to our 11th annual Believe 
campaign benefitting the Make-A-Wish
® Foundation, 
which grants wishes to children with critical illnesses. Macy’s donated $1 to Make-A-Wish for each letter to Santa placed in the store’s red letterboxes or sent on macys.com/believe, up to $1 million. The high point of our annual Believe campaign came on National Believe Day, when Macy’s doubled our $1 donation for each letter collected, up to an extra $1 million. On National Believe Day, Macy’s also helped grant wishes to 25 critically ill children in 25 cities across the country.
Through the Believe and Thanks for Sharing campaigns, 
Macy’s donated $10 million to Make-A-Wish in 2018. Overall, Macy’s has raised and donated more than $122 million since 2003, which has enabled 14,000 children’s wishes to be granted, impacting 2.6 million people throughout the children’s support network.
  LEARN MOREBUY A COAT, GIVE A COAT 
For the past six years, 
we have invited customers to shop for a cause during our 
three-day “Buy a Coat and We’ll Donate One” campaign in November. Through our partnership with Clothes4Souls and participating brands, we provided warmth, hope and dignity to 35,000 men, women and children in need in 2018. Our colleagues worked with Clothes4Souls to distribute the coats in 25 communities near Macy’s stores and corporate office locations.
MARCH OF DIMES
Partners for nearly 20 years, the 
March of Dimes and Macy’s share a common belief that all moms and babies – regardless of age, race, geography, income or socio-economic background – deserve the best possible and healthiest 
beginnings. Unfortunately, health inequities and disparities in our communities are far too commonplace; together, we are working to change that. 
The 2018 Thanks for Sharing contribution of $1.5 million 
funded core components of March of Dimes’ community programs in areas with the greatest disparities and highest preterm birth rates. Programs such as Group Prenatal Care and Storks’ Nest address training medical and community health workers, providing professional curricula for program implementation and distributing health education materials. In total, these programs reached more than 52,000 women and 12,000 community medical health professionals in 2018.CUSTOMER GIVING 
30 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 30 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We have forged deep relationships with leading 
organizations dedicated to helping those in need.
FIGHTING BREAST CANCER TOGETHER 
In the fight against breast 
cancer, everyone plays a role. 
Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s, together with our colleagues and customers, have raised more 
than $26 million for the Breast Cancer Research Foundation (BCRF) since 2003.
★ ★Macy’s  funding of over $12.4 million, which includes 
$2 million in customer and colleague donations in 2018, has supported a total of 41 research projects at major BCRF medical institutions in the U.S., translating to 249,187 critical research lab hours. Macy’s has played  
a valuable role in supporting major breakthroughs  
in breast cancer prevention, diagnosis, treatment, survivorship and metastasis. 
★ ★In 2018, Macy’s customers and colleagues raised more than $2 million for BCRF – our largest fundraising year ever – through our annual Thanks for Sharing holiday rewards program and a dedicated charitable round-up program during October, National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. We currently support six major research grants and are adding two new grants  
for the 2019-2020 year.★ ★Bloomingdale’s  has also contributed more than  
$13 million to the fight against breast cancer over  
the past 14 years. Every October, the company raises awareness and funds through its Pink Campaign,  
which includes exclusive products and in-store  
events as part of its Give Pink, Get More program.
★ ★These initiatives have enabled Bloomingdale’s to support the work and research of five doctors through a grant  
to the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, as well  
as to fund projects for The Carey Foundation and  
the Marisa Acocella Marchetto Foundation.PARTNERS FOR A BETTER TOMORROW 
Bloomingdale’s and the  
Child Mind Institute:
Promoting Awareness,  
Care & Research
of Youth Mental Health
As a signature corporate partner to the Child Mind 
Institute since its founding in 2009, Bloomingdale’s has played a key role in advancing awareness of children’s mental health and learning disorders through many philanthropic channels. These efforts include an annual donation through sales of the Child Mind Institute Holiday Bear, in-store events and a holiday window  
at its flagship store in New York City, CharityBuzz auctions, and Round-Up-the-Change campaigns.
To date, Bloomingdale’s has helped raise more than 
$1.7 million on behalf of the Child Mind Institute, funding clinical care financial aid, community-based research efforts and free resources, and school-based mental health intervention and training.MACY’S, INC.31 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 31 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability ReportOur Company Sustainability Approach Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix
2018 Highlights
• In troduced Path to Growth Incentive  
for all colleagues
•
 C
orporate colleagues spend an  
estimated 12 hours and hourly  
colleagues spend an estimated  
8 hours in training each yearWe strive to be an employer of choice in every 
location where we do business, offering competitive pay and benefits, and a welcoming and inclusive work environment. We foster a winning mindset and provide all colleagues  
with the programs and opportunities they need to contribute to the business and their own growth and development in a meaningful way.
7
COLLEAGUES32 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 32 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
At Macy’s, Inc. our culture is key to our success.
We believe that what we do and how we do it are equally 
important. Creating a culture of shared expectations helps our organization deliver on our promises to stakeholders. In 2018, we updated our values and behaviors to better align with our vision for the organization. Simply, clearly and powerfully, they describe how to live our values and follow our vision. This work was so important, we invested in training in these areas for all colleagues.
In the following section of the report, we highlight various 
aspects of our culture work, from listening to our colleagues to creating a safe and inclusive workplace. Our colleagues are engaged and motivated to win in the competitive  
retail landscape. 
MAKING COLLEAGUES’ VOICES HEARD
We encourage colleagues to share feedback that will help us measure engagement and understand how they are feeling about our culture. For example, our recurring Culture Pulse surveys have contributed to our progress by helping identify the areas where we are doing well and growth opportunities, focused on our colleagues and People Leaders. We are holding our leaders accountable by measuring engagement and are using these survey results to help our People Leaders to be their best. THE MACY’S, INC. CULTURE 
How We Get It Done: Our Behaviors
Commit To Win
We must win with the customer and consider her in all decisions. We are passionate and competitive. We are demanding of ourselves, proud and humble to be part of a winning team.  
We commit to acting with speed and agility. We own our business and results.Build Trust
Trust is at the heart of any meaningful partnership – both inside the company and with our business partners.  
We do what we say we will do. We are transparent. We collaborate and place trust in our colleagues willingly. We listen, learn, and root for one another.★
make  
life 
shine  
brighter
for our customers, colleagues and communitiesOwn Your Role
Every job matters and each of us plays a unique part in our company’s success. We are clear and accountable to the responsibilities of our role. We seize every opportunity to make our team successful. We are quick to make decisions, learn from mistakes, and understand how  
to be of service to others.Get Better Every Day
We continually improve ourselves and develop our teams. We work  
in service to one another and to our customers. We welcome feedback and learn from it. We are curious and look beyond our walls for inspiration and ideas. We are optimistic and resilient.
★★What Guides Us: Our Values
Acceptance   Respect   Integrity   Giving Back33 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 33 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We work to create a safe and inclusive 
environment where all colleagues feel empowered and supported.
We are proud of our long history of employing a diverse  
and inclusive workforce. Our total workforce is 75% women 
and 60% ethnically diverse, and our mission is to ensure  
that we represent the full spectrum of diversity at all levels.  
We promote an environment where people feel encouraged to be themselves. To achieve this, we have:
★ ★Supported a Can We Talk series of national conversations in which senior leaders address the impact of societal challenges in the workplace.
★ ★Provided Unconscious Bias Inclusive Leadership  
training to 1,200 directors and above in 2018 to reveal  
and override learned stereotypes, and will extend  
this training to all 130,000 colleagues in 2019.
ACCELERATING MULTI-CULTURAL TALENT
To demonstrate our commitment to diversity and inclusion, we launched MOSAIC, a leadership program designed to accelerate the momentum of top talent multi-cultural manager and director-level colleagues. Through these programs and other actions, we plan to reach 30% ethnically diverse talent at the senior director level and above by 2025, up from our current level of 22%. To ensure that we meet this goal, we are establishing performance-related People Leader accountability and will create a reporting dashboard to track our progress.Macy’s Workforce Diversity*
Colleagues
 Men
 Women N on-Ethnically Diverse
 E thnically Diverse
Leadership
(Senior Director and above)
 Men
 Women N on-Ethnically Diverse
 E thnically Diverse
*Figures as of FY2018.LEADER ACCOUNTABILITY 
We hold our People Leaders accountable for driving  
our culture of diversity and inclusion. This is so important 
that we built a set of commitments to highlight this mindset  
and serve as a guidepost for how our leaders should think, act and operate. 
★The People Leader Commitment
I Promote Diversity & Inclusion
I ensure belonging. I believe we can  
achieve our best when we leverage each person’s unique strengths, background  
and perspective. I seek, cultivate and encourage an environment where everyone  
is valued and included.
I lead the way. I select and nurture talent with 
representation and balance in mind. I role model our values and behaviors consistently through my daily choices, attitude and actions.
EXTERNAL RECOGNITION 
We are proud to be recognized by others for our accomplishments in advancing diversity across  
our business.
★ ★Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality and a perfect score on the Corporate Equality Index from Human  
Rights Campaign
★ ★Top 25 Company for Women Technologists  
by AnitaB.org for the third consecutive yearREFLECTING THE FULL 
SPECTRUM OF DIVERSITY 
25%
43%22%60%40%
75%
57%
78%34 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 34 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Our colleagues come together to grow 
professionally and support one another.
THE VALUE OF EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS 
We offer ten Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) that provide 
our colleagues platforms for speaking out and working together. Aligned with the strategic direction of the company, these employee-led, company-sponsored groups benefit colleagues and provide insightful counsel to the business as they:
★ ★Provide a safe and supportive environment where member voices count; 
★ ★Support talent strategies by contributing to recruitment, engagement and retention efforts, and providing opportunities for professional growth and leadership development; 
★ ★Connect with the customer through the ideation and evolution of product offerings that position Macy’s  
as the retailer of choice; and 
★ ★Engage in community outreach and volunteer initiatives.
Colleagues who join one of these groups find many opportunities for professional growth and leadership development. For example, our company-wide ONYX ERG, focused on African-American leadership and development, teamed up with our Partners in Time colleague volunteer initiative to lead our National Day of Service for Martin  
Luther King Day. OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
★ ★ONYX – Blacks United in Leadership & Development
★ ★ATEAM – Strengthening Asian and Pacific Islander Communities
★ ★La Voz – Empowering the Latino Community
★ ★Pride – Empowering the LGBTQ Community  
in Partnership with Allies
★ ★WAM – Women at Macy’s
★ ★ATLAS – Aspiring to Lead and Succeed
★ ★EMBRACE – Diversity & Inclusion
★ ★FitFluence – Be Empowered. Be Active. Be Fit. 
★ ★Go Green – Sustainable Leadership
★ ★Working Families – Promoting Work/Life Balance
MACY’S NORTH STAR RELIEF FUND 
When colleagues are struggling, our 
people now have a formal way to help each other. In July 2018, we created the North Star Relief Fund, a 501(c)(3) charity exclusive to Macy’s that supports our colleagues in need through rapid, direct financial assistance. This covers impacts 
from natural disasters, domestic violence, deaths in the immediate family and other significant life challenges.  
This fund was seeded with a $2 million grant from Macy’s, Inc. and is augmented through generous colleague giving. 
  LEARN MORECOLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT 
★The Value of a MentorLearning from more experienced colleagues  
often provides valuable insights that complement other forms of education. La Voz, the Employee Resource Group for our Latino community in  
New York City, launched a successful Mentoring Circle program that matches members with senior leaders. Within one year, 56% of the mentees reported that they have been promoted or started a new job since entering the program. And 93%  
of mentees feel that they now have the basic tools necessary to navigate the company. In addition, Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s have a technology-enabled Mentoring Portal that was created to provide opportunities for mentorship across  
the enterprise.35 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 35 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
From recruiting to development, we build 
a workplace that helps both our colleagues  
and company grow.
We offer benefits and working conditions that treat  
our people with respect and recognize the value they 
contribute to our success. Macy’s, Inc. is 130,000 strong, with approximately 80,000 more seasonal colleagues  
during the peak holiday shopping period. We offer many different roles, including nearly 20,000 corporate positions. We seek to attract talented people and offer meaningful  
work with the opportunity for personal growth.ATTRACTING TALENTED COLLEAGUES
At Macy’s, Inc., we strive to work with the best and brightest talent in the industry. Attracting outstanding people in a highly competitive and increasingly complex job market starts with a candidate-first mentality. We believe our candidates are our customers. From this belief, we are committed to creating a compelling, meaningful and personalized candidate experience. This includes  
seeking out innovative ways to add value and inspire  
career experiences for our internal colleagues.
To help Macy’s compete for talent and to deliver on recruiting 
excellence, we rolled out a Talent Acquisition Skills Academy to our professional recruiters and are introducing artificial intelligence tools to enhance recruiter productivity. We are also exploring additional efficiencies through technology. 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS  
AND GRADUATES
Each year, hundreds of young people from America’s colleges and universities choose to begin their careers in retail at Macy’s, Inc. They are attracted to our reputation, programs and the opportunity for advancement.
Sixty five percent of the college students who participated 
in our 2018 summer internship programs went on to accept full-time positions with Macy’s, Inc. During the 2018 academic year, concluding in June 2019, we hired over 500 college interns and graduates into these programs. We intentionally seek a workforce that represents the communities we serve and are pleased that 63% of  
our college hires are women and 44% are from ethnically diverse minorities.Our Executive Development Programs equip new colleagues with all the tools they need to learn, grow and succeed in  
one of eight key areas of our business. We are proud of  
the breadth and depth of these programs and work hard to ensure that our content and approach are updated regularly to remain competitive and to align with the ever-changing retail landscape. 
OPPORTUNITIES TO GROW AND DEVELOP
Macy’s, Inc.’s growth and development initiatives encompass a wide range of programs in key areas such as leadership, professional and technical skills, an online Talent Center  
and an in-house Leadership Institute. Today, the Leadership Institute serves over 600 leaders annually. We are committed to making it easier for our colleagues to access training content through best-in-class technology and on-demand services. Additionally, we make significant investments  
each year to support colleague growth and development  
and to generate results for our business.
LENGTH OF SERVICE
Our dynamic culture enables colleagues to thrive and  
be their best each day. We remain an employer of choice  
in a competitive job market. The average length of service among professional and hourly colleagues is ten and five years, respectively.MEANINGFUL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
FOR OUR COLLEAGUES 
36 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 36 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We offer an employment proposition that makes 
sense for today’s workers, from compensation and benefits to scheduling options and commitment to safety. 
COMPETITIVE COMPENSATION 
A key component of a compelling work environment is our 
ability to provide market-relevant compensation programs in support of our business and talent priorities. We strive  
to develop and maintain fair compensation strategies and practices that align with colleague career development,  
and that are competitive within our industry and the markets and business channels where we operate. Our compensation strategy incorporates base and variable earnings opportunities to reward our colleagues when individually and/or as a team we achieve pre-determined goals. We believe this approach promotes a high-performance team culture and further  
aligns our colleagues’ actions with our business results.  
We continue to monitor our pay practices and levels and adjust as needed to meet local competitive demands and legislative requirements.
Compensation for our senior executives is tied closely  
to the company’s performance and is disclosed in our  
annual proxy statement.
BENEFITS 
At Macy’s, Inc. we know that benefits are important to our 
colleagues. In 2018, we took the opportunity to gather feedback from throughout the organization and used that input to revamp our approach. This work resulted in a new range of health and wellness programs for eligible team members, including healthcare benefits, paid parental leave, hospital indemnity, paid short-term disability and optional long-term disability benefits, and special programs like  
pet insurance. We also grant paid time off, offer flexible  
work and a generous colleague discount. FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 
Our colleagues across all areas of the business have the flexibility and ownership of their own schedules  
in partnership with their People Leaders and teams.  
For example, our store colleagues manage their schedules, noting their preferred availability by customizing assigned shifts to fit their lifestyles. Over the last few years, the company has worked to make complete schedules available to colleagues as early as possible, and up to six weeks in advance during the holiday season. We’ve also worked to provide the tools and technology needed for our corporate office colleagues to establish flexible work arrangements to meet their needs. We believe these steps support our  
goal to remain competitive and attract a diverse workforce. 
LABOR RIGHTS
Non-management colleagues have the right to bargain collectively and approximately 7% of the company’s colleagues belong to a union. We are committed to treating our colleagues fairly, paying competitive wages and benefits, and promoting an inclusive and respectful workplace. We believe in maintaining direct and mutually productive relationships with our colleagues and that third-party representation is often unnecessary and counterproductive.
COLLEAGUE SAFETY
Colleague safety is one of our top concerns, whether in our corporate offices, stores, supply chain facilities or support centers. We create a culture of safety by increasing awareness among our colleagues through ongoing communication in the form of monthly safety meetings, training sessions throughout the year and constant monitoring of our safety standards.  
In 2018, our OSHA incidence rate was 3.3, which is below  
the industry standard of 3.5. In addition, we experienced 1,121 work-related lost time accidents which matches the industry incidence rate. While we are pleased with these results, we remain determined to get better every day  
in keeping our colleagues safe.A WORKPLACE WHERE PEOPLE THRIVE 
Introducing the
Path to Growth Incentive
Our Path to Growth Incentive Plan recognizes that 
every colleague has a role to play in driving our success. Launched in 2018, the Path to Growth Incentive Plan supports Macy’s growth strategy and is tied directly to measurable goals that align to a colleague’s work area. The incentive plan is available to colleagues in all of Macy’s business units, including stores, call centers, warehouses and corporate offices. All colleagues  
− full-time, part-time and seasonal − are eligible for  
our Path to Growth Incentive Plan, excluding those covered by collective bargaining agreements.
At the end of each quarter, colleagues who achieve 
their goals receive a Path to Growth Incentive, and approximately 95% of eligible colleagues received  
the incentive at least once in 2018. We value the important contributions that our colleagues make  
to our success and are pleased that so many of  
them, in so many different roles, have been able  
to participate in this new program.MACY’S, INC.M
LISTED
NYSE
37 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 37 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability ReportOur Company Sustainability Approach Product Sourcing Operations Diversity & Inclusion Community Colleagues Governance SASB Matrix
Strong governance ensures that we are 
accountable to all stakeholders and is critical  
to ensuring long-term, profitable growth. 2018 Highlights
• C onducted Legal Compliance Training  
for 25,000 colleagues 
•
 M
aintained strong Board diversity
•
 F
inancially aligned directors and 
management with shareholders through 
performance-based compensation and robust stock ownership guidelines
8
GOVERNANCE38 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 38 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Our Board structure provides leadership  
and guidance to our entire enterprise.
Our Board of Directors ensures that we operate with  
integrity and accountability in all aspects of our business.
BOARD STRUCTURE
The Board of Directors oversees management and  
key issues such as strategy, risk and integrity through  
a lead independent director and four standing  
independent committees. 
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of 
the integrity of our financial statements, systems of internal 
controls, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, qualification, independence and performance of Macy’s independent public accountants and internal audit function. The Audit Committee also discusses our risk assessment and risk management policies and monitors the functions  
of our compliance and ethics organization. This includes oversight of our data privacy programs.
The Compensation and Management Development 
Committee  recommends to the Board annual and long-term 
compensation for our chief executive officer and determines 
the compensation for other executive officers. It administers our incentive and equity compensation plans, reviews and approves any proposed severance or retention plans or payments to executive officers and establishes executive succession plans.The Finance Committee reviews and approves capital 
projects, other financial commitments, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, assets, real estate or other property above $25 million and below $50 million, and reviews and recommends to the Board projects, commitments and transactions of $50 million or more. It also reports to  
the Board on transactions affecting our capital structure such as financings or involving debt or equity securities.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
identifies and screens candidates for Board membership, 
proposes director nominees for election by shareholders, oversees the annual evaluation of the Board and its committees, reviews and recommends director compensation, and considers possible Board and management conflicts of interest. This committee oversees our policies and practices relating to charitable, political, social and environmental issues, initiatives and reporting. 
Directors and management employees are financially aligned 
with shareholders through performance-based compensation and robust stock ownership guidelines. All directors are annually elected and highly engaged in our business.
  LEARN MOREINTEGRITY & ACCOUNTABILITY 
39 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 39 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
PERFORMANCE-FOCUSED LEADERSHIP
3 Ethnically diverse 5 WomenOur experienced, diverse directors engage on 
critical issues to add value and help accelerate our growth.
We believe that the composition of our Board of Directors 
should reflect the colleagues and the customers we serve. Our Board should also provide an effective mix of deep industry and professional experience and fresh ideas,  
as well as gender, age and ethnic diversity. Category Policy Board Composition
Experience Maintain an experienced Board 
with expertise in areas relevant to Macy’s, Inc.Leadership 11/11 directors
Finance 11/11 directors
Industry Knowledge/Global Business 10/11 directors
Sales and Marketing 7/11 directors
Technology 4/11 directors
Real Estate 2/11 directors
Public Company Board 10/11 directors
Background
 Maintain a diverse Board representing a range of perspectives and backgrounds Ethnically diverse 3/11 directors
Women 5/11 directors
Current and former CEOs 9/11 directors
Tenure
 Balance deep Macy’s, Inc. knowledge with new perspectives 0–4 years 6/11 directors
5–9 years 1/11 director
10–19 years 2/11 directors
20+ years 2/11 directors
Age
 Retirement at age 74 55% younger than 60
Median age is 58
Independence A majority of the Board  
must be independentIndependent 10/11 directors
Day-to-day 
Management
 Our Corporate Strategy Group comprises the 14 senior most executives of Macy’s, Inc. and provides the day-to-day leadership of our entire organization. The group is led by the chairman and chief executive officer with Board oversight.Board Composition40 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 40 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
We operate with integrity and strive to do the 
right thing in every aspect of our business.
CULTIVATING AN ETHICAL CULTURE
We foster a culture of ethical conduct to guide everyone  
in our organization, from our leaders to our colleagues and  
to our suppliers. Through a holistic approach, we emphasize 
our core value of Integrity. We regularly share our expectations and continually monitor our organization to ensure compliance with company policies and applicable laws.
In addition to a Code of Conduct for colleagues, we have 
set forth our expectations for our Board in a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Non-Employee Directors  
and our private brand suppliers in a Vendor and Supplier Code of Conduct . The Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors has oversight over ethics and compliance. 
★Code of Conduct and General Legal Compliance Training TopicsAnti-corruptionAntitrustBusiness EthicsConflicts of InterestConsumer Protection/Product SafetyData Handling and PrivacyDiversityHarassment/Discrimination Health and SafetyResponsible Sourcing Social and Environmental ResponsibilitiesOUR ETHICS HOTLINE
Our company creates a culture in which people are encouraged to speak up and do the right thing. We make it easy for our colleagues to report suspected misconduct through our confidential, third-party Compliance Connection toll-free telephone line and web reporting service. We also offer a separate hotline for our suppliers to report their concerns. Additionally, we welcome input from our customers and  
offer many vehicles that the public can use to raise issues  
or complaints. We encourage stakeholder and shareholder dialogue. Customers may contact us via Customer Service, U.S. mail, email, website or a convenient online Tell Us What You Think response form.
TRAINING FOR INTEGRITY
Our colleagues are the face of our company and the ambassadors of our brand. Our reputation rests on  
their behavior.
To ensure that our entire organization behaves in a legal 
and ethical manner, we provide annual training, alternating between our Code of Conduct and General Legal Compliance Training. In 2018, we provided General Legal Compliance Training via computer-based modules to all colleagues in the business support functions, central offices, as well as our digital operations. In Macy’s Logistics, all exempt and salaried overtime-eligible colleagues received training. In Bloomingdale’s and Macy’s stores, all store management, including supervisors and cosmetic counter managers, also received training. In total, 25,000 colleagues completed the training in 2018, representing 95% of the colleagues it was provided to. 
In addition to this formal instruction, we regularly train  
our colleagues on a number of other areas that affect  
how we conduct our business with integrity. We work to 
instill our values and communicate expected behaviors through team huddles, the Employee Handbook and  
other ongoing communications.DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
Through our sales, marketing activities and use of third-party information, Macy’s, Inc. collects and may retain certain public and non-public personal information that customers provide to us. We recognize the importance of protecting consumer data and have robust systems, processes and practices in place to ensure that sensitive data is kept secure. Data security is overseen by our Corporate Information Security Officer who reports to our Controller and Enterprise Risk Officer.
We employ a defense-in-depth strategy that provides layers 
of safeguards and we have made significant investments  
in our overall information technology network. For instance, we have implemented two-factor authentication protocols, installed firewalls and anti-virus/anti-malware software, conducted continuous risk assessments, and established  
data security breach preparedness and response plans.  
We also employ encryption and other methods to protect  
our data, promote security awareness with our colleagues and work with our key third-party vendor partners in an  
effort to create secure and compliant systems.OPERATING A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 41 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 41 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
SASB DISCLOSURE MATRIX 
Topic Code Category Unit of Measure Accounting Metric Response
Energy Management 
in Retail & DistributionCG-MR-130a.1 Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ),  
Percentage (%)(1) Total energy consumed FY2018 Macy’s, Inc. consumed 1.25 million MWh
(2) Percentage grid electricity Percentage grid electricity: 94.6%
(3) Percentage renewable Percentage renewable: 5%
Environmental Impacts in the Supply ChainCG-AA-430a.2 Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 that have completed the Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg Facility Environmental Module (Higg FEM) assessment or an equivalent environmental data assessmentWe first asked our suppliers to use the Higg Index in 2014 and are pleased to report that by 2018 nearly 400 facilities participated, representing Tier 1 factories – which account for 56% of our manufacturing volume, as well as Tier 2 and Tier 3 facilities, including all metal trim suppliers, select fabric mills, hanger and label facilities.  
This progress positions us well to direct all suppliers to use SAC tools by 2025.  
With the information from these assessments, we can better reduce our environmental impact and improve labor conditions for factory workers throughout our supply chain. 
As part of our 2025 Sustainable Stewardship Goals, we have committed to directing 
all Tier 1 factories to use Sustainable Apparel Coalition Higg Index tools.
Labor Practices CG-MR-310a.2Quantitative Rate (1) Voluntary and (2) Involuntary turnover  
rate for in-store employeesWe remain an employer of choice in a competitive job market. Our average length of service among professional and hourly colleagues is 10 and five years, respectively. 
Workforce  
Diversity & InclusionCG-MR-330a.1Quantitative Percentage (%) Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic  
group representation for (1) management  
and (2) all other employeesColleagues: Men (25%), Women (75%), Ethnic Minorities (60%), Non-Ethnic Minorities (40%), Senior Executives: Men (43%), Women (57%), Ethnic Minorities (22%), Non-Ethnic Minorities (78%).
Labor Conditions  
in the Supply ChainCG-AA-430b.1 Quantitative Percentage (%) Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities 
and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1  
that have been audited to a labor code  
of conduct, (3) percentage of total audits conducted by a third-party auditorWe actively monitor working conditions in all of our factories, which includes auditing 100% of our Tier 1 facilities. We employ a qualified third-party firm, UL Responsible Sourcing, to conduct on-site audits.
To ensure ongoing compliance, our independent auditors conduct unannounced  
(with a 14-day window) social compliance audits at least annually, or more frequently 
as needed, at all factories producing private brand goods. We regularly collaborate with our suppliers to help them improve their social compliance scores.
CG-AA-430b.2 Quantitative Rate Priority non-conformance rate and associated corrective action rate for suppliers’ labor code of conduct auditsDuring 2018, we conducted 836 factory audits, with four factories falling under  
the High-Risk category. Of those four factories:
• Three were terminated and are no longer used for production.• 
 O
ne was allowed to remain active for production, pending corrective action  
and specialized remediation.Multiline and Specialty Retailers & Distributors | Apparel, Accessories & Footwear
Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
All data as of FY2018, unless otherwise noted.42 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 42 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Topic Code Category Unit of Measure Accounting Metric Response
Product Sourcing, 
Packaging  
& MarketingCG-MR-410a.2Discussion and Analysisn/a Discussion of processes to assess and manage risks and/or hazards associated  
with chemicals in productsAs part of our 2025 Sustainable Stewardship Goals, Macy’s has committed to developing and implementing our first Private Brand Restricted Substance List (RSL) covering apparel, footwear and home textiles and Private Brand Manufacturing Restricted Substance List (MRSL) for children’s apparel/footwear  
and home textiles.
As part of this commitment, we will continue to remove unwanted chemicals from 
finished apparel, footwear and textiles and the manufacturing process of children’s apparel/footwear and textiles.
CG-MR-410a.3Discussion and Analysisn/a Discussion of strategies to reduce the  
environmental impact of packagingDeveloping responsible products also includes reducing the environmental impact  
of product packaging. Macy’s, Inc. has adopted a number of best practices, which include standardizing the size of packing cartons and minimizing packaging materials. Increasingly, we incorporate recycled content into our packaging, especially in corrugated cardboard. We also use auto boxer and auto bagger machines that  
can build a package that perfectly fits odd or oversized items. This fit-to-size auto-boxing technology reduces box volume up to 50% by creating the smallest parcel needed at the lowest expense, which also helps reduce shipping costs.
REDUCING PAPER USE
Over the past five years, we have shifted our marketing strategies to focus more on digital marketing and less on traditional print mailers. Since 2013, we have reduced our annual paper tonnage by 60%.
Annual Percent Change in Paper Use
> 2014
 5
.7%
> 2015
 1
1.2%
> 2016
 1
3.5%
> 2017
 2
9.7%
> 2018
 2
0.8%
Data Security CG-MR-230a.1Discussion and Analysisn/a Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risksThrough our sales, marketing activities and use of third-party information, Macy’s, Inc. collects and may retain certain public and non-public personal information  
that customers provide to us. We recognize the importance of protecting consumer data and have robust systems, processes and practices in place to ensure that sensitive data is kept secure. Data security is overseen by our Corporate Information Security Officer who reports to our Controller and Enterprise Risk Officer. We employ  
a defense-in-depth strategy that provides layers of safeguards and we have made significant investments in our overall information technology network. For instance,  
we have implemented two-factor authentication protocols, installed firewalls  
and anti-virus/anti-malware software, conduct continuous risk assessments,  
and established data security breach preparedness and response plans. We also employ encryption and other methods to protect our data, promote security awareness with our colleagues and work with our key third-party vendor partners  
in an effort to create secure and compliant systems.43 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
 43 M acy’s, Inc.  2018 Sustainability Report
Code Category Unit of Measure Activity Metric Response
CG-MR-000.A Quantitative Number (1) Retail locations 863 retail locations
(2) Distribution centers 6 megacenters and 16 fulfillment centers
CG-MR-000.B Quantitative Square meters (m²) (1) Retail space 11,482,723 square meters
CG-AA-000.A Quantitative Number (1) Tier 1 suppliers 278Activity Metrics
Square footage and store/location count is as of Q1 2019. All other data as of FY2018.★ ★ 7 West Seventh Street  
Cincinnati, OH 45202
★ ★ 151 West 34th Street  
New York, NY 10001
  F or more information, please visit  
www.macysinc.com