®Moving What 
Moves America®2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTLETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS 
Our inaugural Sustainability Report demonstrates that Moving What Moves America ® is more 
than just our motto. It represents who we are and our commitment to safely and reliably deliver 
petroleum products that are essential and beneficial to everyday life. To assure consumers can 
count on reliable energy supplies, Magellan moves the crude oil that is refined and processed 
into thousands of products and delivers the resulting gasoline for daily commutes, diesel fuel 
used to harvest our food, transport goods, and respond to emergencies, and jet fuel to travel 
for work or relaxation with loved ones. 
For nearly two decades as a public company, we have  
held firm to the values of health and safety, environmental 
stewardship, regulatory compliance, personal and  
professional integrity, and accountable governance  
practices. Our focus on long-term, sustainable operations 
and disciplined management allows us to adapt our  
investments to meet changing consumer needs while  
we continuously provide exceptional customer service  
and a sustainable return to our investors. 
Sustainability is not new to Magellan; however, we do recognize the growing stakeholder  
interest in how we incorporate these principles into our daily operations. Our approach to 
sustainability is fourfold and encompasses the tenets of environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG): diligently exercising capital discipline as we grow our infrastructure and services;  
maintaining the integrity of our assets; operating safely and compliantly to protect people  
and the environment; and supporting the communities where we live and work. 
With the publication of our inaugural Sustainability Report, our commitment is to provide 
transparency around how we manage and measure our ESG performance. We are grateful for 
the level of engagement and dedication from each employee and our Board of Directors to drive 
sustainability. As we continue enhancing our ESG reporting, the data metrics presented in our 
Performance Data Table will continue to evolve. 
During 2019, we executed a number of initiatives that continued to advance our sustainability 
efforts including analyzing and integrating lessons learned from our recent safety culture 
survey and launching Mission ZERO, our new safety initiative. We maintained focus on our  
foundational OneMagellan tenets, which represent how our employees interact with each  
other and our stakeholders, enabling us to sustain a positive company culture. We strengthened 
our proactive measures to recognize our employees, build teams that are inclusive and results-
driven, encourage responsible energy development, reduce our emissions, and minimize 
wastes from our operations. As a midstream energy company, we do not drill wells for crude 
oil production or engage in hydraulic fracturing; therefore, our direct midstream operations 
contribute minimally to greenhouse gas emissions and fresh water consumption. Further detail 
about each of these topics can be found in their respective sections in this report.
We hope you find this report informative and welcome your feedback as we responsibly provide 
the essential energy infrastructure and services to continue Moving What Moves America. ® 
On behalf of Magellan, thank you for your interest in our company.
 
Michael Mears
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
2
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    3
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Magellan is focused on providing 
a reliable fuel supply through safe 
operations, exceptional customer 
service, and disciplined management.IntroductionABOUT US
Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P . (NYSE: MMP), headquartered in 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, is a publicly traded partnership that safely and 
responsibly moves what moves America by transporting, storing,  
and distributing refined petroleum products and crude oil. We own  
and operate the longest refined petroleum products pipeline system  
in the United States (U.S.) with connectivity to nearly 50% of our 
nation’s refining capacity. We also transport crude oil via pipelines  
from production areas to refineries and coastal export terminals.  
Our Gulf Coast marine facilities store and distribute crude oil and 
refined petroleum products for global market trade. With operations 
spanning 22 states, our diverse asset base provides a cost-effective, 
reliable supply of gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel to support the  
communities we serve every day of the year. We safely and responsibly 
move what moves America 
by transporting, storing, 
and distributing refined 
petroleum products and 
crude oil.
Value Chain
CRUDE OIL PRODUCTION REFINED PRODUCTS END USERS
storage producers 
and 
processingrefinery inland 
terminalblending
export 
terminal
Moving What Moves America®additives
biofuels
export 
terminal
of our nation’s refining capacitywe provide connectivity to 
our operations spannearly 50%
22 statesMagellan operations are shown in green.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
4
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Our asset portfolio includes: 
• Our refined petroleum products segment includes a 9,800-mile pipeline 
with 54 connected terminals, 25 independent terminals not connected 
to our pipeline system, and two marine storage terminals—one of 
which is owned through a joint venture. 
• Our crude oil segment consists of 2,200 miles of crude oil pipelines,  
a condensate splitter, and 37 million barrels of aggregate storage 
capacity, of which 25 million barrels are used for contract storage.  
Over 1,000 miles of these pipelines, the condensate splitter, and  
30 million barrels of this storage capacity—including 22 million barrels 
used for contract storage—are wholly owned, with the remainder 
owned through joint ventures.
MAGELLAN ASSETS 2019
Refined Products Pipeline
Refined Products Terminal
Refined Products Joint Venture TerminalREFINED PRODUCTS ASSETS
CRUDE OIL ASSETS
Crude Oil Pipeline
Crude Oil Joint Venture Pipeline
Crude Oil Terminal
Crude Oil Joint Venture TerminalOperating Profit ($ in millions)FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
$0$300$600$900$1200
2019 2018 2017
Distributable Cash Flow ($ in millions)
$0$300$600$900$1200
2019 2018 2017
Cash Distributions Declared (per unit)
$0$1$2$3$4
2019 2018 2017
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
5
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    27%34%39%46%47%56%58%
81%
36%
50%45%Company Strategy
Our business strategy is founded on safe and efficient 
operations combined with superior customer service 
and fiscal discipline. Integral to our success, this strategy 
provides transparency to our stakeholders and serves 
as the basis for our annual performance goals ensuring 
strategic alignment across all functional areas of  
our company.
 Focus on Safety
Successfully executing our business strategy depends 
on prioritizing safe practices and working diligently  
to protect our employees, contractors, communities, 
and the environment. Our enterprise-wide safety 
management system (SMS) is integrated into every 
process, investment decision, policy, and maintenance 
activity as highlighted throughout our report. 
Providing Essential Services 
Our refined products pipeline system delivers petroleum 
products throughout the middle part of the U.S.  
As evidenced by the percentage of fuel we directly 
supply to these states, we provide essential services  
to these communities and are proud to be an integral 
part of our country’s economy. As essential workers  
in critical energy infrastructure, as defined by the  
U.S. Department of Homeland Security, our employees 
ensure the continued and safe operation of our assets 
and access to fuels every day, even during significant 
weather events, holidays, and times of national crisis. 
Positive Community Impact
We contribute significantly to the economic stability  
of our local communities. Our commitment to safely 
and reliably supply their fuel needs helps to support 
local and state economic vitality and job creation.
Through the end of 2019, Magellan:
• Employed 1,884 people with a total annual  
payroll of $239 million. 
• Utilized third-party contractors to safely  
execute over $1 billion of maintenance  
and growth capital projects.
• Paid $107 million to local utilities.
• Paid over $97 million in payroll and property taxes.
• Contributed over $1 million for community  
relations giving.Magellan is consistently recognized for 
our financial discipline. 2020 marked 
our third consecutive year to receive 
Alerian’s “Most Fiscally Responsible” 
award. Alerian is a leading global  
energy index provider. 
Percentage Total Refined Products  
Demand Supplied by Magellan (2019)
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
6
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Environment
We protect the diverse ecosystems within 
the footprint of our operations, manage 
the use of our shared natural resources, 
and minimize our waste generation and air 
emissions for a sustainable future.
7
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    barrels of petroleum 
products moved per day3.9 millionAt Magellan, environmental stewardship is fundamental to our business. 
We strive to minimize our environmental impact through safe operations, 
capital investments, rigorous new asset construction standards, and  
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Oversight occurs 
through centralized subject matter expertise, field-based specialists, 
industry and community group participation, and Board of Directors (Board) 
engagement. To further reduce our environmental footprint, we regularly 
collect, manage, and analyze performance data for our key environmental 
metrics, including air emissions, water and energy consumption, and  
solid and hazardous waste generation. Properly designed and managed 
pipelines are the most environmentally friendly method of transporting  
the petroleum products that are essential to the communities we serve. 
RELEASE PREVENTION
Magellan’s comprehensive safety management system (SMS) combines 
consistent, specific procedures with risk identification and mitigation  
practices for modifying, constructing, maintaining, and operating our 
assets based upon sound technical principles and industry standards.  
Our SMS is intended to prevent petroleum product releases, mitigate  
the consequences of an accidental release, outline emergency response 
procedures, comply with regulatory requirements, and maintain the  
integrity of our assets. The SMS framework includes our integrity  
management plan (IMP). The IMP details pipeline surveillance monitoring 
programs that include utilizing inspection tools and corrosion inhibitors, 
periodic replacement of water crossings, monitoring and tracking depth-  
of-cover surveys, and extensive pipeline damage prevention programs. 
Additionally, we assess each mile of our in-service pipeline system as if it 
were in a high consequence area (HCA), often exceeding regulatory require-
ments. HCAs are defined by regulation as sensitive locations requiring extra 
safety precautions to protect human health and the environment. Guided 
by our IMP , we conduct pipeline integrity assessments each year ensuring 
that all pipeline segments are assessed at least every five years to further 
protect the unique local environments within our operational footprint. 2019 Maintenance and  
Asset Protection Highlights:
• $228 million spent on  
maintenance capital  
and asset integrity.
• Includes $115 million invested  
in pipeline integrity testing,  
monitoring, and management.
• 132 water crossing inspections.
• 2,263 miles of pipeline with close 
interval inspections conducted.HOW PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION MINIMIZED C02 EMISSIONS
Magellan transported 126 billion barrel miles (actual) 
of refined products via pipeline. This eliminated 
~1 million metric tons * of tanker truck CO2 emissions.
*Emissions calculations based on American Petroleum Institute Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (August 2009) 
and Magellan’s 2019 volumes.
Magellan transported 172 billion barrel miles (estimated) 
of crude oil products via pipeline. This eliminated 
~25 thousand metric tons * of rail car CO2 emissions.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
8
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    PIPELINE MONITORING 
Our pipeline control center, staffed 24 hours a day, 
continuously monitors the safety and performance 
of our pipeline system. Our controllers are trained in 
Magellan’s rupture recognition and response program 
and log significant hours in simulators to assure their 
proficiency at recognizing and responding to a variety 
of pipeline conditions. As our first line of defense for  
a pipeline incident, our controllers have the knowledge 
and authority to remotely shut down and isolate 
pipeline segments, thereby accelerating our response 
effort. Our entire system has active leak detection 
monitoring and is enhanced with computational  
pipeline monitoring technology across the majority  
of our operations. This highly complex volume  
balance-based system uses artificial intelligence  
to detect pipeline releases. For additional safety  
measures, operators in the field can physically  
close valves, and our pipeline routes are regularly 
patrolled by air and on ground to identify and  
proactively address potential hazards. 
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND 
RESPONSE
Magellan is committed to preventing petroleum  
product releases and their resulting impacts. Knowing 
that timely response is critical, we have developed  
and maintain a comprehensive system of emergency 
preparedness response plans, standards, and  
procedures within the SMS. A vital aspect of our preparedness involves training  
to these plans. In 2019, we conducted 14 facilitated 
tabletop exercises to discuss various emergency 
response scenarios and 130 equipment deployment 
drills, many of which were attended by community 
stakeholders and representatives from local, state, 
and federal emergency response agencies. These 
collaborative exercises and drills continuously improve 
our response capabilities as we review best practices, 
discuss lessons learned from pipeline incidents across 
the industry, and understand the capabilities of our 
shared resources. 
In the unlikely event of a release,  
our priority is to minimize the  
impact to people, the community,  
and the environment. At the core  
of our pipeline release response  
is Magellan’s unique Code Red  
“60 Minute Assault. ” Established  
to create an immediate and overwhelming  
assault on potential or actual releases, its goal  
is to locate, contain, and begin product recovery  
within 60 minutes of a pipeline release. Our 24-hour 
monitored control center initiates the emergency 
notifications while simultaneously shutting down  
the pipeline.
A specialized Spill Management Team (SMT) is  
deployed to the release area and local emergency 
response agencies are quickly advised of the event  
to further coordinate the response. We have over  
250 highly trained employees from across our  
geographic footprint who make up our SMTs.
Every release is thoroughly investigated to assess  
the root cause and to evaluate its severity and  
the resulting environmental impact, with the  
lessons learned shared across our operations. CODE RED 
60 MINUTE 
ASSAUL T
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
9
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    from 201536% CO↓AIR EMISSIONS CONTROL AND REDUCTION
As a midstream operator, our primary sources of emissions are from  
storage tanks, truck and marine loading facilities, and pump stations.  
Continuous improvement in emissions reduction technology has resulted  
in upgrades to several of our facilities. For instance, using geodesic 
domes on compatible storage tanks and repainting tanks and piping 
white to deflect heat have both contributed to lowering emissions over 
the last several years. We have also invested over $35 million to install  
17 additional vapor recovery units (VRUs) to replace vapor combustion 
units (VCUs) at our refined products loading terminals. VCU technology 
burns the accumulated fuel vapors as transport trucks are loaded, 
whereas VRUs capture and recycle these emissions. In 2019, our  
35 total VRUs recovered approximately 17 million gallons of refined 
petroleum product, avoiding over 550 tons of emissions. 
Each of the new VRUs has continuous emission monitoring systems  
that provide real-time confirmation of compliance with our air permits  
and prevent operation of the loading rack above these permitted levels. 
Further enhancing 28 VRUs with energy efficient monitoring technology 
resulted in an estimated savings of 4.2 million kilowatt hours of electricity 
this past year. 
Our facility designs, routine maintenance operations, and increased  
use of VRUs have contributed to our overall reductions in volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and carbon monoxide (CO), 
even with the continued growth of our asset base. Other recent initiatives 
to reduce emissions include:
• Installed catalytic converters on 100% of our operational mainline diesel 
engines at our pump stations resulting in a greater than 80% overall 
reduction in engine generated emissions of CO (an average 268 tons  
per year).
• Spent over $1.4 million on low NOx burners at our MVP joint venture 
marine terminal in Pasadena, Texas, to achieve an anticipated  
60% reduction in NOx emissions. 
• Improved flare-gas combustion efficiency at our Corpus Christi,  
Texas, splitter.
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG)
Magellan plans to report our Scope I and Scope II air emissions in our  
2021 Sustainability Report to be published in 2022. In general, our  
midstream operations do not result in a significant contribution to  
the direct production of GHG, including methane, and only one location 
(less than 1% of our total number of facilities) requires a GHG permit. from 201522% NOx↓from 20182% VOCs↓emissions  
reductions
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
10
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    PROTECTING ECOSYSTEMSBIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM 
PROTECTION
Preservation of biodiversity within and around our  
operating footprint requires an ongoing focused  
commitment. We intentionally design and implement 
methods and procedures that reduce the effects  
of our maintenance and construction activities.  
An example of this commitment occurred during  
multiple pipeline construction projects, resulting  
in 1,500 miles of new pipeline across six states, as  
we collaborated with key stakeholders to minimize  
any impact to sensitive habitats. We proactively 
delayed construction to avoid wildlife breeding and 
migration seasons, rerouted our pipeline to avoid 
sensitive areas despite incurring additional costs, and 
restored sites to their preconstruction condition.To minimize surface disturbance in sensitive areas  
while constructing new pipelines or replacing legacy 
pipeline segments, we often utilize horizontal directional 
drilling instead of potentially more destructive open cut 
methods. We plan our pipeline maintenance activities 
with the appropriate environmental assessments and 
seasonal restrictions for habitat protection. By  
conducting ground patrols through sensitive forest  
and wetland habitats and engaging local and state 
fish and wildlife agencies, we ensure that we protect 
the habitats around our pipelines across the country. 
Our preconstruction surveys and closely monitored 
construction activities have successfully protected the 
Houston Toad and American Burying Beetle, two species 
listed on the International Union for Conservation of 
Nature (IUCN) Red List for endangered species.
We specifically scheduled the timing of several pipeline construction clearing activities  
to minimize potential impacts to the Bald Eagle, Burrowing Owl, and Long Eared Bat  
based on their migratory and hibernation patterns.
During our south Texas pipeline construction, we hired a Houston Toad specialist from Texas 
State University. Teams daily monitored our construction site activities to protect against 
direct harm. We spent over $2 million in oversight to protect and preserve the Houston Toad 
during construction, provided supplemental funding to Texas State University for species 
recovery research, and spent millions more to modify our construction methods to further 
support the protection of this species.
In Oklahoma, we conducted preconstruction surveys to identify potential impacts to  
the American Burying Beetle. Using horizontal drilling technology costing over $2 million,  
we successfully rerouted pipelines to avoid any negative impact to the surface habitat.
Photograph by Doug Backlund
We have spent over $10 million identifying potential impacts and mitigation efforts to  
natural wetland habitats over the past several years on multiple projects. For example,  
to preserve wetland ecosystems within watershed areas impacted by our construction  
of the Fort Smith to Little Rock, Arkansas, pipeline expansion project, we contributed  
to the development of over 150 acres of forested wetland.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
11
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    WATER MANAGEMENT
Minimizing water consumption and properly disposing of 
water generated from our operations enables Magellan 
to conserve water resources. As a midstream energy 
company, we do not drill wells for crude oil production 
or engage in hydraulic fracturing. We manage our low 
volume of fresh water usage through three primary 
practices—reclamation, reduction, and reuse. 
Reclamation
Water becomes commingled with petroleum products in 
several ways during normal terminal and transportation 
operations. It can mix with our product when it rains, 
when snow and ice melt, or when it is introduced to 
perform routine maintenance activities. We design our 
facilities and processes to capture this mixture, known 
as petroleum contact water (PCW), and to contain it 
within storage tanks. Once contained, the PCW naturally 
separates due to density allowing us to process and 
recover the petroleum products via oil water separators. 
This greatly reduces the volume of PCW requiring other 
treatment or disposal and minimizes the potential for 
any environmental impact. 
Over 90% of Magellan’s PCW is recovered and 
reclaimed by processing at the reclamation facility 
we own and operate in Kansas City, Kansas, or at 
approved third-party reclamation facilities. The 
remaining volumes are treated and tested to meet 
water quality permit standards before discharge.  
In 2019, our Kansas City facility reclaimed nearly 
40,000 barrels of petroleum products, which were 
ultimately sold as gasoline and diesel fuel. 
Reduction
We continuously evaluate our operations to determine 
if further investments can reduce water generation, 
treatment, and disposal. In 2019, we completed an 
approximately $1 million project to extend a truck 
loading rack canopy to divert precipitation, resulting in 
57,000 fewer gallons per year of PCW generation and 
disposal. Additionally, we designed and constructed  
our splitter in Corpus Christi, Texas, as a dry system 
capable of processing 50,000 barrels per day of petroleum condensate without using water. This  
facility relies on recycled natural gas, instead of  
steam from fresh water, to split condensate into  
its merchantable components. 
Reuse
To ensure the safe operation and integrity of our 
assets during construction and maintenance, we  
perform hydrostatic testing that involves filling  
empty pipelines or tanks with water in order to verify 
integrity and identify any potential anomalies. Where 
possible, we reuse the same water for multiple tests;  
for example, we can isolate a section of pipeline  
requiring a smaller volume of water to test, then 
repeatedly isolate another section and reuse that 
water down the entire pipeline span. In some 
instances, we are permitted by the appropriate  
regulatory agencies to source the required water from 
local rivers or other water bodies. When withdrawing 
from local water sources, our preference is to return  
the water back to its original source after testing and 
verifying stringent water quality standards are met. 
At our Crane Terminal in Texas, the origination 
point of our Longhorn Pipeline, we regularly 
use our onsite pond water to hydrostatic test 
tanks and piping. The water is used, sampled 
to meet Texas Railroad Commission discharge 
permits, then discharged back into our pond. 
From 2015 through 2019, we reused over 
1 million barrels of fresh water. For further 
conservation, we lease our Crane pond water 
to our peers in water-scarce West Texas to 
perform their own hydrostatic tests. Magellan 
verifies these third parties have the required 
permits and we validate their sample results 
before discharging back into our pond. This 
resulted in reusing nearly 500,000 additional 
barrels of water, saving time, manpower, and 
transportation costs over the same period 
while meeting or exceeding environmental 
regulations.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
12
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    WASTE MANAGEMENT
Transporting, storing, and delivering petroleum products generates both 
non-hazardous and hazardous wastes. Annually, our volume of waste 
generated can vary based on scheduled routine tasks, major maintenance 
projects for our splitter and fractionators, and remediation activities. As 
waste reduction efforts benefit us from both an environmental and financial 
perspective, we continually seek alternatives for reclamation, recycling, or 
reuse of our waste streams. 
Reclamation
Our Kansas City reclamation facility is also equipped to process petroleum 
by-products from our operations. Tank bottom material (TBM), or  
accumulated sediment, is removed from system storage tanks as part  
of our normal inspection and cleaning cycles. Solids are separated from  
the TBM using our specialized filter press equipment, dried, rendered  
into non-hazardous waste, and approved by regulators for disposal  
to area landfills. The remaining liquid is recovered, fractionated, and  
blended into usable refined petroleum products. 
Recycle and Reuse
We choose to recycle and reuse materials and have engaged in a number 
of initiatives to better manage our resources and minimize landfill waste. 
We coordinated with state regulatory agency personnel to relocate  
7,400 cubic yards of petroleum-impacted soil for use as fill dirt, and  
sent sand blast media used to prepare the outside of our assets for  
painting maintenance for reuse as road base material. We also secured 
state regulatory agency approval to move our ship channel dredge  
materials to areas that promote future wetland habitats.refined petroleum
product
tank bottom material5,400 lbs 
of aluminum and  
glass containers
8,500 lbs 
of shipping supplies
982 tons 
of scrap metal
23,600 lbs 
of filters
2,565 gallons 
of used motor oil
1,020 gallons 
of paint waste
52,680 lbs 
of office paper wasterecycling   
by the numbers (2019)
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
13
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    MINIMIZING ENERGY CONSUMPTION 
Effectively managing our consumption of electricity, 
diesel, and natural gas provides opportunities  
to innovate, improve efficiency, and reduce costs 
required to operate and maintain our assets.  
Assessing opportunities for additional efficiencies 
remains a focus of our business optimization initiative 
launched in 2019. We have successfully minimized  
our overall power consumption in the following ways: 
• Routinely utilizing Drag Reducing Agent (DRA),  
a common additive used to increase flow capacity  
by decreasing the friction between the petroleum 
product and the internal wall of the pipeline. In  
2019, our use of DRA prevented the consumption  
of approximately 1.9 billion kilowatt hours  
of electricity without impacting safety or  
product quality. 
• Employing comprehensive hydraulic modeling and 
programming to optimize our pipeline operations 
while minimizing the horsepower required.
• Replacing standard commercial grade halide light 
bulbs with long-lasting, energy-efficient LED bulbs 
with a total spend that exceeded $825,000.RENEWABLE FUELS
Biofuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel, are alternative 
fuels which are typically derived from agricultural 
resources and blended with other refined products  
to meet government fuel requirements. Magellan offers 
ethanol blending at each of our gasoline terminals 
giving customers the option of E10 (10% ethanol/90% 
gasoline), E15, and E85, which are EPA approved for  
all flex-fuel capable passenger vehicles. We have  
12 terminals with biodiesel blending infrastructure 
capable of blending B2 (2% biodiesel/98% diesel)  
to B20. Across our system, we blended over 775 million 
gallons of ethanol into gasoline and 54 million gallons 
of biodiesel into diesel fuel in 2019. We continue to 
evaluate our capabilities for additional facilities and 
inline pipeline blending opportunities to expand our 
renewable fuel offerings in order to meet the needs of 
our customers and the communities where we operate.
kilowatt hours saved using Drag 
Reducing Agent in our pipelines
spent to install LED bulbs1.9 billion 
$825,000 minimizing  
energy consumption
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
14
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Social
15
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Our most important social 
obligation is to safely and 
reliably provide the fuels that 
our nation relies on each day. LIVING BY OUR PRINCIPLES 
Magellan conducts our business and operations in a safe, sustainable,  
and compliant manner, expecting and requiring the highest level of  
ethical conduct from our employees. As such, our Code of Business  
Conduct (Code) is at the heart of our decision-making and actions.  
It focuses on our core values of respect, honesty, safety, efficiency,  
compliance, and stewardship of company resources. Each employee,  
from the CEO to the individual contributor, is expected to abide by  
our Code at all times. To integrate this expectation into our daily  
interactions, we require each employee to sign an agreement to  
comply with our Code and attend recurring Code awareness training.
As the Code directs what we do, our OneMagellan tenets define how  
we do it. OneMagellan connects our employees across our operations  
and serves as a key driver in generating strong financial stability and 
safety results year-over-year. OneMagellan represents 
the way in which all 
employees are expected to 
act. Each tenet is chosen 
to reflect our commitment 
to each other and to our 
external stakeholders 
as we work together 
to achieve Magellan’s 
business strategy.
OneMagellan Tenets
Safety & Compliance 
Safety and compliance are paramount in  
everything we do—an integral part of every 
decision we make. No shortcut or efficiency is 
worth risking the life or health of another person 
or compromising the environment. Each of us is 
empowered and expected to stop an unsafe or 
non-compliant act.Growth
We deliver reliable profitability and disciplined 
growth, while striving to exceed our performance 
targets. We display a sense of urgency and  
vigorously pursue opportunities that add  
value to the company. We are not complacent  
and are not satisfied with the status-quo.
Teamwork 
We’re all on the same team, working toward  
a common goal, and collectively own the  
successful, or not so successful, outcomes of  
the organization. We have various roles and 
bring diverse perspectives to the table, but we 
are always respectful of each other. We work 
together as a team to resolve issues, pursue 
opportunities and find the best solution for 
Magellan.Engagement 
Our careers are challenging and rewarding and  
we strive to personally contribute to Magellan’s 
success. We make decisions like we own the  
company. We represent the company well,  
realizing that the actions of each of us impact 
Magellan’s collective reputation. 
Customer Service 
We’re in the service business and wouldn’t be here 
if it weren’t for our customers. We have to earn 
their business every day. We want to make our 
service so reliable, flexible, and valuable that our 
customers become our advocates and Magellan 
is always their preferred choice.Efficiency
We agree that it’s our collective responsibility to 
be good stewards of the company’s assets and 
resources. We are disciplined in the use of our 
human and financial resources and diligent in how 
we construct, protect, and maintain our assets.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
16
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    MANAGING SAFETY
The safety of our employees, contractors, and  
communities in which we operate is deeply  
embedded in our culture and fundamental to our 
sustainable success. Each day, our number one 
priority is to have an accident-free, incident-free workplace where  
everyone returns home safely—we call this “Mission ZERO. ” We expect  
and empower every employee and contractor to stop any unsafe work 
immediately. We believe a strong safety culture promotes a learning  
environment when combined with operational discipline and employee 
engagement. An intentional commitment to doing the right thing, the 
right way, every single time, while diligently maintaining our assets 
reduces the risk of incidents.
Safety Management System (SMS)
All employees have electronic access to our SMS as continuous  
improvement of safety is the responsibility of each of us, wherever  
we work or live. Magellan’s SMS aligns with the American Petroleum  
Institute’s Recommended Practice 1173 for Pipeline Safety Management 
Systems and is an integrated and comprehensive framework to achieve 
safe, compliant, and efficient operational performance. 
Our SMS consists of 15 elements that define how we consistently manage 
and reduce operational risk to people, assets, and the environment. It  
is overseen by a team of senior leaders who have accountability for the  
accuracy, applicability, and continuous improvement of the SMS. 
SMS procedures and standards are regularly evaluated for alignment with 
regulatory requirements and industry best practices. They are enforced 
through comprehensive training incorporating lessons learned, audits, 
and collaborative engagement with our leadership team. Key aspects 
of risk management and process safety within our SMS include pipeline 
integrity, facility integrity, management of change, safety and integrity 
assessments, and operating procedures. We assess and track compliance 
with the SMS requirements through our compliance management system, 
internal audits, third-party audits, incident investigations, and routine 
performance measurement of a wide range of key performance indicators. MAGELLAN’S SAFETY 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
FRAMEWORK
Magellan’s Commitment
Training and  
Qualifications
Contractor Management
Project Management
Safety Management
Environmental Protection
Asset Integrity
Security
Operations and  
Operations Control
Community Relations
Change Management
Emergency Management
Incident Management
Compliance Management
Commercial Operations
Our SMS is an integrated and comprehensive  
framework to achieve safe, compliant, and  
efficient operational performance.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
17
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Safety Goals 
Magellan promotes a culture of continuous improvement and employee 
engagement. Specific safety and environmental performance metrics  
are established annually by our senior leadership team with oversight 
by our Board of Directors (Board). These metrics are used to gauge our 
year-over-year performance related to preventable incidents, including 
human error events, employee injuries, motor vehicle accidents, product 
releases, and product contaminations. Metrics are communicated  
quarterly to our Board and all employees. Additionally, management 
develops safety and environmental goals with the intent of improving 
our safety and environmental performance over time. While our goal is 
to eliminate all preventable incidents, those that do occur are evaluated 
by our Board in determining the payout of the safety and environmental 
portion of our company-wide annual incentive program. 
Contractor Safety
As critical contributors to our successful operations, contractors and  
subcontractors are expected to be safety leaders. Magellan communicates 
this expectation, reviews contractor activity, and conducts documented 
onsite contractor inspections each year. Before work begins on  
any Magellan-owned property or pipeline easement, all contractor  
qualifications are assessed based on our established standards for  
training criteria, safety performance, and environmental compliance. 
Incident Reporting and Investigation
Fueled by a commitment to guard against complacency and to continuously 
improve, Magellan maintains a robust system of incident reporting and 
investigation. Magellan’s senior leadership team manages our incident 
reporting and investigations with a specific emphasis on root cause  
analysis and developing changes to processes, procedures, and training. 
To best mitigate future incidents, we communicate the lessons learned 
to all employees to reinforce that intentional focus on the task at hand 
will achieve safe operational practices. 
Employee Recognition
We believe it is essential to our safety culture to not only learn from  
our near misses and incidents, but also to recognize those employees 
who exemplify behaviors and actions that promote safety and compliance. 
Each quarter, our leadership team awards OneMagellan recognition  
coins to employees who go above and beyond in a variety of ways, 
including exercising stop work authority and recognizing and removing 
potential hazards.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
18
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
An inclusive and engaging company culture is  
paramount to attracting and retaining top talent  
and recognizing the needs and values of our  
employees. We focus on building teamwork,  
maintaining relationships, developing leaders,  
and acknowledging our employees’ contributions.  
We encourage our employees to make decisions  
as if they own the company and are directly  
responsible for our reputation in the industry  
and the communities in which we operate. 
Diversity and Inclusion
We cultivate teams that are inclusive and results-
driven, and celebrate each employee’s strengths  
as they are empowered to contribute and drive value. 
Discrimination or harassment against any employee  
or job applicant on the basis of ethnicity, gender, or  
any other protected category or status is not tolerated.
Diversity and inclusion as a mindset is about more  
than workforce demographics—it also includes a  
desire to accept differing education, experiences, ideas, 
and perspectives to provide a competitive edge. With 
operations spanning close to half of the U.S., we are 
an Equal Opportunity Employer serving a diverse set 
of communities. We believe the most meaningful and 
holistic way to ensure inclusion is through leadership, 
training, and ongoing assessment. From our Board to 
our front line leaders, there is a clear expectation for  
a diverse and inclusive workplace.In 2019, to further promote inclusion within Magellan, 
we began a relationship with the Native American  
Community Committee and continued our existing 
membership in the Women’s Energy Network. We  
also sponsored and participated in Tulsa’s Racism 
Stinks walk, and attended the Service Academy  
Career Conference of active military and veterans  
to discuss career opportunities.
Compensation
Our employees receive market-driven competitive pay 
with excellent benefits and participate in an annual 
incentive program (AIP). Our performance-based  
AIP is intended to encourage all employees to make 
decisions that align with our OneMagellan tenets  
and our company strategy. Every employee, from  
the CEO to the newest hire, has the same company 
performance bonus formula. We believe this sends  
a powerful message to each employee that their  
individual decisions and quality of work directly 
impact all of us. Annual company performance is 
assessed by the Compensation Committee of our 
Board based on several weighted factors including 
EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, 
and amortization) at 65%, environmental and safety 
performance metrics at 25%, and commodities at 10%. 
We also provide a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)  
for our management team and key employees, which 
consists of both performance-based and time-based 
unit awards. Our Compensation Committee believes 
combining these two forms of awards is an effective 
way to focus attention on unitholder return. To 
further align with this philosophy, the LTIP utilizes 
distributable cash flow per unit as the performance 
metric, which is foundational to measuring the  
company’s long-term performance.
metric for environmental and 
safety performance25% AIP
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
19
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Benefits and Wellness
Magellan invests in the health and wellness of our employees through  
a robust benefits program averaging an additional 35% of base salary  
and wages. Monthly medical insurance premiums are 80% company-  
paid for employees and their eligible dependents with 94% of our  
1,884 employees electing coverage in 2019. Approximately 90% of our 
employees participate in our 401(k) retirement savings plan, which offers a 
6% employer match, and we also provide a company-funded pension plan. 
In 2019, over 70% of our employees participated in our Move Magellan 
annual wellness program intended to encourage healthy habits in a 
team-supported setting. Teams walked a total of 1.15 million miles—
roughly 100 times the equivalent length of our pipeline system—and 
received both individual and team recognition. 
Training and Development 
Investing in employee training and growth is crucial to retaining top  
talent and developing our employees into subject matter experts  
and leaders who will fuel innovation and move our business strategy  
forward for years to come. 
All employees have access to a company-wide training platform, the 
Learning Management System (LMS). Through the LMS, our employees 
take online courses covering technical development, leadership, safety, 
regulatory compliance, and company policy curriculum, such as “Know the 
Code, ” our Code of Business Conduct training. We provide comprehensive 
on-the-job training programs for facility operations and site specific 
requirements. In 2019, Magellan employees completed over 98,000 hours 
of health, safety, cybersecurity, emergency response, and other training.
We support our employees’ ongoing career goals and unique professional 
development through training programs designed to maximize their 
potential and develop the skills needed to succeed. 
A few training examples include: 
• New Employee Orientation 
• Leadership Essentials for New Supervisors
• Leaders Developing Leaders
• Operations Supervisor Development Program
• Leadership Compliance
• Diversity and Anti-Discriminationmedical  
premiums paid
401(k) 
matchup  
to80%
6%
 
pension plan
Additional Benefitsemployee 
benefits
• Employee assistance 
program
• Paid time off (holiday, 
vacation, personal, family 
member illness, military,  
and jury duty)
• Tuition reimbursement 
program
• Health enhancement subsidy
• Wellness programs
• Employee term life insurance
• Employee accidental death  
& dismemberment (AD&D) 
insurance
• Voluntary dependent life  
and AD&D insurance
• Disability insurance  
(short and long-term)
• Business travel insurance
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
20
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
We actively engage with employees across the country 
through a wide range of methods: senior leaders travel 
throughout the year to conduct town hall meetings 
with employees for face-to-face dialogue; company 
news and announcements shared via our employee 
intranet; informational “Did You Know” posters 
displayed in common areas; an LED display system 
highlighting safety and key communications; and 
employee-submitted optimization and efficiency ideas. 
Periodically, Magellan initiates company-wide surveys 
to assess our employees’ perceptions of our compliance 
measures, safety processes, and workplace culture.  
In 2018, over 90% of employees participated in a  
company-wide compliance and safety survey conducted 
by a third party. Of those respondents, greater than 
94% rated our performance in safety culture and 
engagement favorably. In 2020, we engaged a third 
party to administer an all-employee culture assessment 
to identify areas of strength and any potential  
opportunities for improvements.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
As an essential service provider, we ensure our 
communities have environmentally responsible and 
reliable access to the petroleum products necessary 
to keep America moving. This delivery commitment allows us to quickly initiate adjustments during times 
of regional or national crises—such as reversing 
pipeline directional flow to meet fuel demand during 
times of severe weather events, and implementing 
additional health and safety guidelines to sustain 
uninterrupted service during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The U.S. Department of Transportation reports that  
the safest, least costly, and most efficient way to move 
the immense volume of petroleum products needed 
across the U.S. is via underground pipeline systems.  
Our pipelines traverse privately-owned and public lands 
as well as those with cultural and historical significance 
to Indigenous Peoples and other communities. During 
project planning, we collaborate with Native American 
tribal representatives to conduct archaeological 
investigations on any sovereign lands, and actively 
engage with our landowners to build long-term  
relationships. Our positive community engagement 
allows us to effectively communicate our construction 
and maintenance activities with the area residents  
to ensure their protection.
The U.S. Department of Transportation  
reports that the safest, least costly, and  
most efficient way to move the large volume  
of petroleum products needed across the  
U.S. is via underground pipeline systems. 
 Community Engagement Methods Tribal  
Representatives 
and LandownersCommunity  
MembersEmergency  
RespondersGovernment 
and Regulators
Face-to-face meetings • • • •
Informational publication mailers • • • •
Company website (www.magellanlp.com) • • • •
Social media • • • •
Local and regional organizations • •
Investment in community programs • •
Emergency response tabletop exercises • • •
Asset tours • • •
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
21
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Community Giving
Magellan invests in programs and charitable  
organizations that align with our values and enhance 
the quality of life of residents in our communities. 
Over 700 of our employees reside near our headquarters 
in Tulsa. When city officials announced plans to  
build the Gathering Place, a nearly 100-acre park to 
complement the public walking and biking trails along 
the Arkansas River, Magellan committed a $5 million 
sponsorship. Tulsa’s Gathering Place has already 
received international recognition for its demonstrated 
mission of inclusivity to bring our community together 
through a world class space that engages, educates, 
and excites. 
Magellan and our employees have been long-term 
supporters of the United Way, contributing more than 
$4 million to 36 local chapters across the U.S. Annually, 
our employees volunteer over 500 hours for the Tulsa 
Area United Way Day of Caring to help with cleaning, 
painting, and building maintenance projects designed 
to assist vulnerable populations within our city. Each year, Magellan identifies strategic non-profit  
organizations to financially support. In 2019, we  
contributed over $120,000 to these charitable  
agencies and additionally donated close to $95,000  
to organizations where our employees actively  
volunteer their own time and resources. 
Supply Chain Management
Exceptional customer service with a focus on safely 
delivering petroleum products to our communities 
takes collaboration and teamwork. Magellan manages 
an active nationwide and local vendor database to 
help maintain our existing assets and construct new 
infrastructure. Our contractors and vendors are 
expected to meet Magellan’s safety, environmental, 
labor, and ethical commitments and to comply with all 
applicable laws and regulations. Further requirements 
associated with contractor qualifications, agreements, 
approvals, and inspections are incorporated in our  
SMS, Code of Business Conduct, and Delegation of 
Authority policies.
We have intentionally purchased U.S. steel for  
major pipeline construction projects and required  
the steel to be rolled into pipe at U.S. production  
and manufacturing facilities. While not the least 
expensive option, this has allowed us to verify the 
quality of the finished pipe while providing jobs for 
American workers.During construction of our joint venture 
Seabrook crude oil facility in Texas, we  
donated funds to the City of Shoreacres’  
Circle Park playground expansion. We  
also contributed $100,000 to create a 
scholarship endowment for the San Jacinto 
College Foundation Maritime program,  
a United States Coast Guard-approved  
and internationally recognized standards, 
training, and certification program for 
professional mariners.
Youth community programs
Veteran organization
Special needs organizationDisease and research
Arts culture and humanities
Adults and children in need35%
14%23%9%5%14%2019 Charitable Giving
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
22
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Public Awareness
Our commitment to public safety and pipeline awareness is a critical  
component of our overall community relations and safety program as 
detailed in our SMS. As a participant in the national 811 program, we 
respond to thousands of inquiries each year and promote pipeline safety 
awareness of underground assets, hazard recognition, and damage  
prevention measures. In 2019, Magellan’s One Call Center processed 
231,275 work orders to mark our asset locations prior to excavation  
activities. Additionally, we meet with public officials and local emergency 
planning commissions (LEPCs), conduct training exercises with first 
response agencies, and prepare efficient joint emergency response  
plans in the event of a pipeline or terminal incident. 
Magellan’s English and Spanish public awareness program enhances  
public safety and environmental protection through education. In 2019,  
we mailed 889,884 bilingual pipeline educational materials with our  
contact information to residents, property owners, businesses, excavators, 
farmers, emergency responders, public officials, and community members. 
Our damage prevention professionals further promote the national  
“Call 811 Before You Dig” program through local billboard sponsorships,  
social media campaigns, and public outreach using informational door  
hangers, school programs, brochure kiosks at equipment rental locations, 
and promotional giveaways.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
23
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    Governance
24
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    As a public company, we are accountable 
for our reputation, performance, and 
practices and strive to maintain public 
confidence and trust as we meet the 
energy demands of our country.BOARD LEADERSHIP 
Ethical governance policies and practices provide a critical foundation  
for the sustainable success of Magellan. The members of our Board of 
Directors (Board) are publicly elected by our unitholders and provide 
strategic oversight of our business activities, promoting transparency, 
responsibility, high standards of conduct, and a safe environment for  
our employees, stakeholders, customers, and communities. Our three 
standing Board committees’ responsibilities are summarized below  
and are set forth in written Committee Charters adopted by our Board. 
• Audit Committee: Reviews our external financial reporting; retains  
our independent registered public accounting firm, approves and 
pre-approves their services, and participates in the selection of  
their lead partner of our account; reviews procedures for internal 
auditing and the adequacy of our internal accounting controls;  
provides oversight of our enterprise risk management policies  
and procedures; and reviews our annual risk assessment to  
identify and mitigate risks.
• Compensation Committee: Designs and recommends appropriate  
compensation plans and policies for executive officers and key  
employees; reviews the allocation between cash and equity  
compensation; establishes and verifies achievement of incentive  
performance measures and goals; and reviews the results of  
the advisory vote of our unitholders approving the executive  
compensation program.
• Nominating and Governance Committee: Provides oversight of our  
Governance Guidelines to include director nominations, qualifications  
and independence; directors’ participation in continuing education  
programs; evaluations of our Board and its standing committees; and 
the succession planning for our CEO and executive officer positions.
Consistent with best practices, our Board members are elected by our 
unitholders and consist of eight independent directors and one member 
of management. Our Board meets the independence and financial literacy 
requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission, and each member complies with our Governance 
Guidelines. Our Board members bring extensive finance, strategic planning, 
project management, operational, and legal expertise, and most have  
direct petroleum and energy industry experience.
Recognized as
2019 Most Influential 
Corporate Directors
Magellan Midstream Partners
Board of Directors:
Lori A. Gobillot
Stacy P . MethvinMale FemaleBoard Diversity:
22% 
FemaleUnitholder election  
of Board of Directors
8 of 9 directors are  
independent
Independent Audit,  
Compensation, and  
Nominating and  
Governance Committees
Management aligned with  
unitholders:
•  Eliminated incentive  
distribution rights in 2009
•  Performance-based  
compensationgovernance  
at a glance
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
25
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    GOVERNANCE 
Magellan’s Board and our employees are dedicated  
to maintaining high ethical standards with a diligent 
focus on financial, environmental, safety, labor, and 
governance compliance to provide transparency for  
our employees, contractors, customers, investors,  
and community stakeholders. 
Recognizing the potential for conflict between the 
interests of our limited partners and general partner, 
we were one of the first publicly traded partnerships  
to eliminate the incentive distribution rights of our 
general partner. This eliminated potential conflicts 
of interest among our owners and ensured alignment 
between our Board, management, and unitholders. 
Other best practices include:
• Approximately 60% of our senior leadership’s  
compensation is tied to our company performance 
and is paid in equity.
• Our LTIP is based on cash flow performance per  
unit, which we feel aligns management most  
closely with unitholder interest.
• AIP includes 25% weight on environmental and 
safety performance including Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration incident rates, release 
avoidance, and compliance metrics.
• Annually conducting an internal pay equity ratio 
analysis of our CEO’s total target compensation  
compared to a review of all-employee compensation. 
In 2019, the resulting pay ratio was below our MLP 
peer average.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Magellan’s Board oversees our enterprise risk  
management practices through active engagement 
with management. Our risk management practices  
are driven by a comprehensive framework that 
includes an annual company-wide risk assessment, 
Board oversight, and extensive policies and procedures. 
The annual assessment is completed by all company 
managers and above, with results reviewed by our 
Board to reinforce the active management of risk 
exposures. In addition, annual performance metrics  
and focus areas are developed each year with oversight from our Board to ensure appropriate 
integration of environmental, economic, social, and 
governance opportunities. By design, compliance with 
our safety management system (SMS) and our company 
policies and procedures mitigates organizational risk, 
including regulatory risk. One of our core objectives is  
to meet or exceed applicable federal, state, and local 
laws and regulations governing crude oil and refined 
petroleum products pipelines and storage; safety,  
environmental and employment practices; and  
financial reporting. 
In order to validate the ongoing effectiveness of our 
risk management framework, it is important that we 
regularly assess our performance and incorporate 
regulatory changes into our programs. As such, our 
internal audit team and other internal subject matter 
experts regularly assess adherence to our standards, 
while management provides timely resolution of gaps 
identified and communicates lessons learned that have 
company-wide implications. Additionally, regulatory 
changes are continuously monitored for applicability 
and incorporated as needed in the SMS and company 
policies and procedures. This continuous improvement 
model is a critical aspect of managing risks associated 
with our business.
CYBERSECURITY
Recognizing the criticality of securing our organizational 
systems, data, and networks, Magellan has established 
a robust cybersecurity and data protection program 
and provides quarterly performance reports to our 
Board’s Audit Committee. We routinely deploy employee 
awareness and threat recognition training. Continuous 
assessment and enhancement of our information  
technology (IT) environment ensures the confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability of our IT assets. We maintain 
strict access controls, a multi-layered defense strategy, 
and advanced monitoring and filtering technologies. Our 
threat intelligence activities provide an informed view 
of the changing risks and threat landscape. We engage 
third-party advisors to conduct penetration tests and 
validate the effectiveness of our infrastructure, policy, 
and training protocols.
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
26
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    PUBLIC POLICY AND ADVOCACY
Magellan encourages responsible energy development 
and advocates for reasonable and balanced laws 
and regulations through engagement with elected 
officials, regulators, industry associations, and other 
stakeholder groups. We participate in legislative and 
regulatory policy development in a responsible and 
ethical manner to best serve the interests of our 
investors, employees, and other stakeholders. 
We approach advocacy through: 
• Educating our elected officials and regulators on 
issues affecting the company and our industry. 
• Providing policymakers the data and other  
information to enable informed decision-making  
on the benefits of traditional petroleum fuels  
and how pipelines can safely, reliably, and  
cost-effectively meet the needs of the public.
• Engaging with legislators, regulators, and other 
stakeholders to support responsible and reasonable 
laws and regulations. 
Magellan offers employees the opportunity to  
participate in the political process by voluntarily  
contributing to Magellan’s Political Action Committee 
(PAC). The PAC makes contributions to candidates for 
U.S. federal and state elected offices. The PAC authorizes 
and provides contributions to support elected officials  
in both political parties who are typically located in 
states where we have operations and are generally 
supportive of our long-term policy objectives. The 
Magellan PAC is registered with the U.S. Federal  
Election Commission (FEC) and complies with all  
FEC, state, and local rules and reporting requirements.
Our 2019 political engagement focused on energy 
infrastructure growth projects for pipeline and storage 
expansions, pipeline project permitting for maintenance 
and expansion projects, pipeline safety legislation to 
protect the public and the environment, and state and 
federal tax policies to promote the sustainability of  
the publicly traded partnership structure.We know the decisions made today will shape the laws 
and regulations under which we operate tomorrow. As 
such, we believe it is a necessity to be actively engaged 
with our federal, state, and local governments.
INVESTOR RELATIONS 
Our governance policies and activities are designed 
to provide investors with company information that 
is accurate, timely, and meaningful. Our investor 
relations team regularly engages with investors 
and research analysts to answer their questions 
about Magellan and educate them on our company. 
Throughout 2019, members of our executive  
management team held in-person meetings with  
more than 300 current and potential equity and debt 
investors and hosted quarterly earnings calls to 
review our financial results and address other topics 
of interest with the investment community. Magellan’s 
investor relations team has consistently been  
recognized as one of the best within our industry. 
REPORTING CONCERNS
All employees must adhere to the Code of Business 
Conduct at all times. Suspected wrongdoing or unethical 
behavior should be reported to the company directly 
or through Magellan’s confidential 24-hour Action Line  
that is operated by an independent service. Anyone 
can report an anonymous concern—including Magellan 
employees, contractors, customers, or the general 
public—without fear of retaliation. Employees may also 
contact our Human Resources or Legal departments for 
an additional confidential reporting channel. To maintain 
stakeholder trust and accountability, we investigate all 
Action Line reports of suspected violations and provide 
quarterly briefings to our Board’s Audit Committee.
action line
(888) 475-9501
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
27
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    28
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    This report has been informed by the Global 
Reporting Initiative Standards. It covers the 
period January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019, 
except as noted, and will be updated annually.About this ReportMATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
As a first step in developing our inaugural Sustainability 
Report, we conducted a materiality assessment to 
better understand the topics that are most critical  
to Magellan and our stakeholders. Our process  
included a review of sustainability reporting  
frameworks, peer company sustainability reports,  
and industry association guidance. We customized  
a multidisciplinary, midstream energy-focused survey  
and deployed it to our Board, internal leaders, and key 
external stakeholders to rank specific environmental, 
social, economic, and governance topics according  
to their likelihood or ability to impact our business 
objectives. Our materiality assessment, guided  
by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the  
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
energy industry-specific standards for the midstream 
sector, identified the 14 highest-ranking topics for  
inclusion in our Sustainability Report. These topics  
listed below are referenced throughout this report  
but may not have dedicated sections. 
REPORTING GUIDELINES
Contact
Paula Farrell 
Associate Vice President, Investor Relations  
918.574.7650, paula.farrell@magellanlp.com
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
This report has been informed by the GRI Standards . Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
Adjusted EBITDA and Distributable Cash Flow are  
non-GAAP metrics. Please see the reconciliation  
of both of these metrics to net income, the nearest 
comparable GAAP financial measure, included in  
our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K .
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for statements of historical fact, this report  
constitutes forward-looking statements as defined  
by federal law. Forward-looking statements can be  
identified by words such as: intend, potential, plan, 
target, guidance, believe, estimate, expect, continue, 
commitment, future, term, may, will, and similar  
references to future periods. Although management 
believes such statements are based on reasonable 
assumptions, such statements necessarily involve 
known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may 
cause actual outcomes to be materially different. A 
list of factors that could lead to material changes in 
performance is included in our filings with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, including Magellan’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 
31, 2019, and subsequent reports on Forms 8-K and 
10-Q. You are urged to carefully review and consider  
the cautionary statements and other disclosures  
made in those filings, especially under the headings 
“Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements. ”  
Forward-looking statements made by Magellan in  
this report are based only on information currently 
known, and we undertake no obligation to revise our 
forward-looking statements to reflect future events  
or circumstances.
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT TOPICS
ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE
Spill Management Community Health & Safety Disciplined Business Strategy Regulatory Compliance
Air Emissions Control & 
ReductionIncident Management & 
Emergency ResponseAsset Integrity  
PlanCode Of Business Conduct
Safety Management System Risk Management
Waste Generation & Disposal Investor Relations
Customer SatisfactionBoard Composition & 
Selection
ABOUT THIS REPORT GOVERNANCE SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT INTRODUCTION
29
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE
ECONOMIC IMPACT 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
FinancialAdjusted EBITDA, million US$1$1,172 $1,213 $1,303 $1,396 $1,581
Total Assets, million US$ $6,042 $6,772 $7,394 $7,748 $8,438
Distributable Cash Flow, million US$1$943 $947 $1,021 $1,110 $1,297
Cash Distribution Declared, per unit US$ $3.01 $3.32 $3.59 $3.87 $4.07
Property Taxes, million US$2$62 $67 $66 $74 $80
FICA Taxes, million US$ $13 $14 $15 $16 $17
OperationalTotal Throughput, million barrels (bbls) 1,038 1,054 1,148 1,257 1,440
Miles of Pipeline 12,300 13,000 13,000 13,000 12,000
Barrels of Storage Capacity, million bbls 96 100 104 111 118
Number of States Where We Operate324 24 24 24 24
GOVERNANCE 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Board and 
DiversityNumber of Board Members 7 8 8 8 9
Independent Board Members (excluding CEO) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Number of Women Board Members 1 2 2 2 2
Risk 
ManagementComprehensive Annual Audit Plan Approved by 
Board of DirectorsYes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Employee Hours Dedicated to Internal Audits 21,273 22,193 25,050 28,009 30,469
Action Line Number of Calls Received for Reporting Concerns 12 14 16 21 21
Supply ChainNumber of Suppliers and Contractors Screened for 
Health and Safety Criteria4 1,200  1,375  1,500  1,625  1,650
ENVIRONMENTAL 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Compliance 
ManagementNumber of Notices of Violation (NOV)512 8 3 18 12
Total Fines and Penalties, thousand US$6$2,065 $40.3 $28.6 $8.6 $102.8
Controlling 
EmissionsNumber of Vapor Combustion Units (VCUs)768 68 68 68 70
Number of Vapor Recovery Units (VRUs) 12 18 27 30 35
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx), tons8577 538 467 501 451
Carbon Monoxide (CO), tons8601 534 446 434 383
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs), tons84,376 4,440 5,839 4,678 4,569
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions9Percentage of Total Number of Facilities Required 
to Obtain GHG Permits9 0% <1% <1% <1% <1%
Total CO2e Reported, thousand metric tons10N/A 0.2 54 79 71
Carbon Dioxide (CO2e), thousand metric tons10N/A 0.1 53 78 70
Methane (CO2e), metric tons10N/A 152 641 635 626
Nitrous Oxide (CO2e), metric tons10N/A 3 159 231 211
1 Adjusted EBITDA and Distributable Cash Flow are non-GAAP metrics. Please see the reconciliation of  
both of these metrics to net income, the nearest comparable GAAP financial measure, included in our  
2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K .
2 Includes Magellan’s share of joint venture property taxes paid.
3 2019 number does not include first quarter 2020 asset divestiture as reflected in the “22” states  
referenced throughout this report.
4 All services performed at Magellan-owned and operated assets must comply with applicable  
requirements of Magellan’s safety management system.
5 Environmental and non-environmental NOVs received from all regulatory agencies. 
6 Represents settled penalty and fine amounts.7 Some VCUs have been replaced with VRUs; however, VCUs are operationally maintained to serve  
as emergency backup.
8 Emissions data obtained from submitted emission inventories as required by each applicable  
regulatory agency. Increase in VOCs in 2017 due to Hurricane Harvey release. 
9  First operational in late 2016, our condensate splitter is the only facility requiring a GHG permit.  
GHG emissions from our system are reported as required under the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas  
Reporting Rule and other applicable state reporting requirements.
10 Excludes the CO2e emissions data reported to the state of Texas for the use of the products  
produced by the condensate splitter (Scope 3).Magellan is focused on safe and efficient operations combined with transparent environmental, social, and  
governance disclosure. Data reported below is accurate as of December 31, 2019.
30
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    ®PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE
ENVIRONMENTAL (continued) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Spills and 
Emergency 
ResponsesNumber of PHMSA Reportable Spills and Releases1124 27 19 36 23
Number of PHMSA Reportable Spills and  
Releases >1 bbl11 19 21 17 23 12
Total Volume of PHMSA Reportable Spills and 
Releases, bbls11 3,669 2,922 16,120 3,342 260
Number of Emergency Response Drills and  
Equipment Deployments140 139 141 144 144
Waste 
ManagementContact Water Processed for Reclamation at 
Magellan's Kansas City Reclamation Facility, bbls 28,919 40,408 41,096 33,792 39,259
Tank Bottoms Processed for Reclamation at 
Magellan's Kansas City Reclamation Facility, bbls10,566 8,810 7,865 9,905 7,206
Hazardous Waste Disposal, pounds 358,229 180,529 318,093 269,695 172,586
SOCIAL 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
WorkforceNumber of Employees 1,640 1,747 1,802 1,868 1,884
Percentage of Women in the Workforce 13% 14% 15% 15% 15%
Percentage of Minorities in the Workforce 13% 15% 15% 17% 18%
Percentage of Veterans in the Workforce 11% 11% 11% 10% 9%
Percentage of Women and Minorities in 
Management24% 26% 26% 25% 25%
Percentage of Employees Under Collective  
Bargaining Agreement15% 15% 14% 14% 14%
Employee 
RetentionNumber of New Employee Hires 158 190 177 210 183
Voluntary Turnover Rate Including Retirements 4.8% 3.3% 5.3% 5.7% 7.0%
Employee Average Tenure, years 11.6 11.2  11.0  10.5 10.3
SafetyNumber of Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
Total Employee OSHA Recordable Injury and Illness 
Incident Rate per 200,000 Hours Worked12 0.99 0.35 0.56 0.49 0.48
Employee Days Away, Restricted, Transferred 
Incident Rate per 200,000 Hours Worked0.31 0.29 0.39 0.27 0.32
Total Contractor OSHA Recordable Injury and 
Illness Incident Rate per 200,000 Hours Worked13 0.25 0.39 0.14 0.14 0.24
Preventable Motor Vehicle Accident Rate140.97 1.50 0.95 1.03 1.07
Number of Process Safety Events - Tier 1150 1 0 0 1
Number of Process Safety Events - Tier 2152 0 2 0 0
Tank Integrity Spend, million US$ $53 $47 $52 $62 $47
Depth-of-Cover Survey, miles 437 1,494 1,454 1,130 1,125
Number of Pipeline Integrity Assessments1687 86 59 71 59
Pipeline Integrity Assessments, miles163,239 3,146 2,520 3,462 2,631
CommunityTotal Community Relations Giving, US$ $857,500 $947,500 $967,500 $939,200 $1,030,900
Number of One Call Tickets Processed 206,211 208,126 187,233 201,698 231,275
Number of Public Awareness Materials Distributed 567,335 576,514 795,421 819,890 889,884
11 PHMSA is the acronym for Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.
12 Incident Rate = (Number of OSHA Recordable Injuries x 200,000) / Employee total hours worked.
13  Incident Rate = (Number of OSHA Recordable Injuries x 200,000) / Contractor total hours worked.  
Contractor hours worked are estimated following American Petroleum Institute Guidance [Total  
Contractor Spend (capital and outside services) / $80 = Hours Worked].14 Per 1,000,000 employee miles driven of Magellan-owned or leased, rented, or personal vehicles conducting 
company business.
15 Process Safety Management / Risk Management Program as per American Petroleum Institute  
Recommended Practice 754 (API RP 754) Guidance.
16 Totals do not include Magellan’s pipeline integrity assessments conducted on joint venture facilities.
31
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    ®GRI DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE
GRI 102 – GENERAL DISCLOSURES Report pages or external sites
102-1 Name of the organization Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P .
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services SR p. 4-5
102-3 Location of headquarters Tulsa, Oklahoma
102-4 Location of operationsSR p. 5; Form 10-K pp. 3-13;  
What We Do/Refined Assets  
What We Do/Crude Assets
102-5 Ownership and legal form Form 10-K p. 3
102-6 Markets served SR pp. 5-6; Form 10-K pp. 3-13 
102-7 Scale of organization Form 10-K pp. 3-13
102-8 Employee and other worker information SR pp. 6, 19-21; PDT; Form 10-K p. 18
102-9 Supply Chain SR p. 22
102-10 Significant changes to organization or its supply chain Form 10-K pp. 47-48
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR p. 2
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunitiesThroughout the SR; Form 10-K pp. 19-39, 59; 
Proxy pp. 14-15
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior SR p. 16; Proxy p. 18
102-17 Mechanism for ethics advice and concerns SR p. 27; Proxy p. 18; About Us/Action Line  
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structureSR pp. 25-26; Form 10-K p. 114, Proxy pp. 5, 
14-18 
102-19 Delegating authority SR pp. 9, 18, 22; Proxy p. 15
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social 
topicsMichael Mears, Chairman of the Board,  
President and CEO
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics SR pp. 21, 23, 29
102-22 Composition of highest governance body and its committees SR p. 25; Proxy pp. 5-10, 14-18 
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Proxy pp. 5-6
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body SR p. 25; Proxy pp. 5, 17-18
102-25 Conflicts of interest SR p. 26; Proxy p. 49
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy SR pp. 25-26; Proxy pp. 15, 21, 24
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body SR p. 25; Proxy pp. 5-10 
102-28 Evaluating highest governance body’s performance Proxy p. 17; About Us/Guidelines 
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts SR p. 26; Proxy pp. 30-31; About Us/Guidelines
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes SR p. 26; Proxy pp. 14-15 
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics SR p. 29; 
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting About Us/Guidelines 
102-33 Communicating critical concerns SR p. 27; Proxy p. 18; About Us/Action Line  
102-35 Remuneration policies SR p. 19
102-36 Process for determining remuneration SR p. 19
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio SR p. 26; Proxy p. 43GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX
The topics covered in Magellan’s 2019 Sustainability Report (SR) are the results of our Materiality Assessment  
and are informed by the GRI Standards which have been mapped below. In some instances, we may also  
refer to our Performance Data Table (PDT), 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K , 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
or our website (www.magellanlp.com).
32
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    ®GRI DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE
GRI 102 – GENERAL DISCLOSURES (continued) Report pages or external sites
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Throughout the SR
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements PDT; Form 10-K p. 18
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR p. 29
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR pp. 21, 27, 29
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR p. 29
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Form 10-K Exhibit 21 p. 117
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR p. 29
102-47 List of material topics SR p. 29
102-49 Changes in reporting This is our inaugural SR
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019
102-51 Date of most recent report 10/30/2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding this report SR p. 29
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards SR pp. 28, 29, 32
102-55 GRI content index SR p. 32
GRI 103 – MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Throughout the SR
103-2 The management approach and its components Throughout the SR
GRI 200 – ECONOMIC 
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR pp. 6, 22; PDT; Form 10-K p. 111
201-2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate 
change Form 10-K pp. 16-17, 32-33
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans SR p. 20; Form 10-K pp. 92-97
203-1 Public infrastructure investments and services supported PDT; Form 10-K pp. 3-12
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts SR pp. 6, 22; PDT
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Proxy pp. 14-15, 18
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures SR pp. 16, 20; About Us/Governance/Code
206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and  
monopoly practicesNone
207-1 Approach to tax SR p. 6; PDT; Form 10-K pp. 36-39
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management Form 10-K pp. 36-39
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax Form 10-K pp. 36-39
207-4 Tax payments to local, state and federal governments SR p. 6; PDT
GRI 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL 
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR pp. 10, 14
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SR pp. 10, 14
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource SR p. 12
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts SR p. 12; Form 10-K pp. 15-16
304-1Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 
areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areasSR pp. 8, 11
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity SR p. 11
304-3 Habitats protected or restored SR p. 11
304-4IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 
in areas affected by operationsSR p. 11
33
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    ®GRI DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE
GRI 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL (continued) Report pages or external sites
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR p. 10; PDT
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (Sox), other significant air emissions SR p. 10; PDT; Form 10-K pp. 15-16
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR p. 13; PDT; Form 10-K pp. 15-16
306-3 Significant spills SR pp. 8-9; PDT
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR pp. 8-13; PDT; Form 10-K pp. 39-40
308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria SR p. 22; PDT
GRI 400 – SOCIAL
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnovers PDT
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided  
to temporary or part-time employeesSR p. 20; Form 10-K pp. 92-97
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system SR pp. 6, 9, 17; PDT
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation SR pp. 9, 18; Proxy pp. 14-15
403-3 Occupational health services SR pp. 17-18
403-4Worker participation, consultation, and communication on  
occupational health and safetySR pp. 17-18
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety SR pp. 17, 20
403-6 Promotion of worker health SR p. 20
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety  
impacts directly linked by business relationshipsSR p. 17
403-8Workers covered by an occupational health and safety  
management systemSR pp. 17-18
403-9 Work-related injuries PDT
403-10 Work-related ill health PDT
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR p. 20
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs SR p. 20
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career  
development reviewsSR p. 19
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR. pp. 19, 25; PDT; Proxy pp. 5, 18
407-1Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association  
and collective bargaining may be at riskPDT; Form 10-K p. 18
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No violations; SR p. 21
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR p. 20
413-1Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments,  
and development programsSR pp. 6, 9, 11, 21-22; PDT
413-2Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts  
on local communitiesSR pp. 9, 21, 23
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR p. 22; PDT
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken None
415-1 Political contributions SR p. 27
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy  
and losses of customer dataSR p. 26
34
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    ®