®Marathon 
Petroleum Corporation
Citizenship   
REPORT  2012
MPC Citizenship Report  2012    1
about this report
Citizenship RepoRt    2012
Contents
LETTER fRom ThE cEo
 LetteR fR om the Ceo
 A message from President and Chief Executive Officer Gary R. Heminger  1 
  about what this report represents to MPC and its stakeholders
 About this RepoRt  
 How this report was compiled and  how it differs from the 2011 report 2
 About mARA thon petR oLeum CoRpoRA tion   
 What we do, and a brief look at how we do it  3  
 mAnA ging foR Continu AL impR ovement  
 How we hold ourselves accountable to rigorous performance standards 5
 fueLing the AmeRiCAn spiRit
 How MPC employees contribute to stronger communities 6  
 and a stronger America  
 heAL th And sAfety   
 Injury rates, process safety events and employee wellness 26
 enviR onment AL stew ARdship
 Air pollutant emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, 34  
 toxic release inventory, waste generation and recycling,  
 energy use, spills, Designated Environmental Incidents
 ouR peopLe
 Minorities, women in the workforce; employee engagement survey results 40
 goveRnAnCe And integRity
 Independent board members, business integrity and compliance cases 42
 eConomiC imp ACt
 Dividends paid, company ownership, capital expenditures, payroll, 43 
 total expenditures, procurement spending with minority- or  
 women-owned businesses, income tax expenses, consumer excise taxes remitted
 AdvoCACy
 Legislative and regulatory issues we take positions on 45
 gLossAR y
 Descriptions of acronyms and definitions of terms 48
 LoCA tion indeX
 Where to find reference to communities that are important to you 50It is my deeply held belief that among our nation’s greatest 
strengths is our exceptional generosity to one another, 
and our ability to rely on friends, neighbors and fellow 
citizens when in need. This is a long-standing foundation 
of the American spirit. Throughout the 20 states where we 
do business, our thousands of employees strengthen the 
communities in which they live. 
In a very tangible way, we help fuel the American spirit.
In the dozens of communities where MPC operates, our 
employees donate their time, talent and dollars to charities 
and civic organizations that help those in need and strengthen 
our communities. As a corporation, we mirror our employees’ 
generosity by donating millions of dollars to worthy causes, 
matching employee giving and contributing to organizations  for which our workforce volunteers.
In addition to our contributions to communities, we hold ourselves accountable for the safe and responsible 
operation of our facilities. In this regard, 2012 was an excellent year. Our safety performance was record-setting, 
and we continue to practice sound stewardship of the environment through our certified wildlife habitats, EPA 
EnERGy STAR refineries and many other successful efforts.
While we are justifiably proud of our community involvement and well-run operations, we are no less proud of the 
societal impact we have through our commercial activities. Manufacturing the fuels and other products that make 
modern life possible is a noble endeavor, and we are one of the best in our industry at doing so.
This makes MPC a powerful economic engine. Our financial success in 2012 enabled us to share our prosperity. We 
returned hundreds of millions of dollars to our shareholders, spent tens of billions of dollars on goods and services 
to run our operations and paid approximately $7.4 billion in taxes, including excise tax remittances. 
Through the dedication of our 28,000 employees, we take great pride in the way we do business, and in making 
our communities better places to live. We are proud of our commercial success, and of sharing that success far and 
wide. We are proud of our safety record and the work we do to preserve the natural environment.
We continue our 125-year legacy of contributing to something much greater than ourselves: we are proud to help 
fuel the American spirit.
Sincerely,
Gary R. Heminger
President and Chief Executive Officer
MPC Citizenship Report  2012throughout the 
20 states where 
we do business, 
our thousands 
of employees 
strengthen the 
communities in 
which they live.The accomplishments we present 
in our 2012 Citizenship Report are a source of great pride for us at 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation. In 
this publication you will see what makes MPC a great company: our dedication to the important work we 
do, and to the values that guide us.
On the cover:
Fellow shareholders and neighbors:
MPC employees 
volunteer to convert eight acres of company property in Heath, Ohio, into a wildlife habitat. See page 36 for additional details.  2   MPC Citizenship Report  2012
contents about this report
 ABoUT mARAThoN PETRoLEUm coRPoRATIoN ABoUT ThIs REPoRT
how we deCided on the Content
We have shaped this report’s content based 
on several factors. First, we surveyed the citizenship reporting practices of others in the energy industry, and have sought to ensure that any information we report is consistent with their best approaches, while at the same time relevant to us and our most important stakeholders.
We conducted stakeholder engagement 
activities that included meeting with community members in areas where MPC operates major facilities. We also solicited feedback from our employees who regularly interact with external stakeholders, such as investors, neighbors, customers, legislators and regulators.
how we CompiLe the d AtA
Dedicated teams of MPC professionals gather raw data, carefully calculate metrics and analyze the results in order to drive continual improvement in environmental, safety, diversity, ethics and integrity, and other areas relevant to our business. We include this data in our Citizenship Report so that our stakeholders see where we are improving, as well as where we need to do more work.
Once the data is gathered, we ensure its 
accuracy through an intensive review process. MPC controller’s staff and Internal Auditing organization review and confirm all numbers. They do this by comparing the numbers to those that have been reported elsewhere in the company, and by examining the methodologies and inputs used to calculate the final data we report to you.As A ResuL t of ouR st AkehoLdeR eng Agement 
pRoCess, the 2012 Citizenship RepoRt 
inCLudes the foLL owing enhAnCements:
 ❚  Reduced text: MPC’s 2011 Citizenship Report 
was our first as an independent company, and therefore included a large amount of background information to provide historical and operational context. This year’s report provides less of this narrative information.
 
❚  Changes to metrics: Compared to the 2011 
Citizenship Report, we have added several measures of employee engagement and perceptions under the Our People section. We have also added a new metric under the Health and Safety section and one under Environmental Stewardship. These are explained in those sections.
 
❚  Political advocacy information:  Because 
MPC is a heavily regulated business, we work with lawmakers and regulators at the federal, state and local levels to keep them apprised of what policies help us to most effectively meet the needs of our customers and other stakeholders, as well as the intent of these regulations. This sometimes involves taking positions on proposed laws or regulations, and in this report we highlight some of those positions.
 
❚  More fully developed glossary:  We seek 
to provide enough explanation for stakeholders to 
understand terms used in this report without getting too detailed.
 
❚  More community-related information: 
Neighbors of MPC’s major facilities told us they would like to see more information about our activities in their communities, so we have expanded the section regarding activities of local interest in this report.
 
❚  Indexing: We have provided an index to enable 
readers to quickly find topics that interest them most.
who’s ResponsibLe foR the RepoRt?
This report is executed exclusively by MPC personnel. It is conceptualized, written, designed and photographed by MPC personnel in its Public Affairs and Graphic Services organizations, based on input provided by organizations throughout MPC’s operations in the Midwest, Southeast and Gulf Coast. It is reviewed and enhanced by relevant MPC managers and officers, and ultimately approved by the president and chief executive officer, Gary R. Heminger.Marathon Petroleum Corporation’s 
2012 Citizenship Report represents our accountability 
to you, our stakeholders, for 
our non-financial performance. As such, we devote significant resources and effort to ensuring 
its relevance and utility.MPC  is the nation’s fourth-largest 
refiner, with a crude oil refining capacity of approximately  
1.7 million barrels per calendar 
day in its seven-refinery system.
*
Marathon brand gasoline is sold through 
approximately 5,000 independently owned retail outlets across 17 states. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s fourth-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 1,460 convenience stores in eight states.About US
ouR vALues
		Health and  
Safety
		Environmental  
Stewardship
	Integrity
		Corporate  
Citizenship
		Diversity and  
InclusionMPC optimizes operations through an 
extensive logistics system, including more than 150 terminals, an extensive inland waterway system of towboats and owned or leased barges, more than 140 transport trucks, and almost 2,000 owned or leased railcars. We also own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of pipeline. Through subsidiaries, we own the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership.
* This information is current as of the Feb. 1, 2013, acquisition of our Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, Texas, and related assets. Because this Citizenship Report focuses on calendar year 2012, the 
metrics we report throughout this report do not include the Galveston Bay acquisition; next year’s Citizenship Report will reflect its contributions in the areas of safety, environmental stewardship, and  
the other values-driven aspects of our operations.
MPC Citizenship Report  2012    3MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio  4   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    5
contents about this report
 mANA gINg foR coNTINUAL ImPRovEmENT
Through the implementation of this 
system, we take a best-practices approach to health, environment, safety and security processes, integrating risk assessment and risk management into our business and operating planning cycles and decision-making processes.
We bolster our management system 
with performance-based standards that clearly delineate the outcomes we expect of ourselves. We regularly update these standards to reflect legislative or regulatory changes, and to incorporate lessons learned from audits or incident investigations. Continual improvement is the ongoing objective.
MPC’s commitment to its values is 
safeguarded and driven by various empowered internal organizations, including Health, Environment, Safety & Security (HES&S); Diversity and Inclusion; Business Integrity and Compliance; Community Relations; Supplier Diversity; and Internal Auditing. 
Because MPC’s commitment to its 
core values is a powerful driver of its long-term success, we have woven 
continual improvement into the fabric 
of our performance. 
we use the “plan – do – 
Check – Adjust”  framework, 
aligned with the American Chemistry 
Council’s Responsible Care® 
management system.Continual
Improvement
CHECK
Monitor & CorrectDO
Communicate
& ImplementPLAN
Create & Organize
ADJUST
Review & Revise
MPC’s refineries are managed as one integrated 
system, optimizing feedstock and raw material 
inputs. This results in economies of scale that 
optimize capital expenditures and capacity. * Nelson Complexity Index (NCI) calculated per 
Oil & Gas Journal NCI formula
** Weighted Average NCI
 Source: MPC DataCRUDE OIL REFINING CAPACITY
 BPCD NCI*
Garyville 522,000 10.8
Galveston Bay 451,000 15.3
Catlettsburg 240,000 10.3
Robinson 206,000 10.6
Detroit 120,000 9.9
Texas City 80,000 8.4
Canton 80,000 9.0
TOTAL 1,699,000           11.6 **mpC L ogistiCs: by the numbers
 67 Owned and part-owned light product terminals
 61 Third-party light product terminals
 21 Owned asphalt terminals
 10 Third-party asphalt terminals
 8,300  Approximate miles of pipeline that MPC owns, leases 
or has ownership interest
 15 Inland waterway towboats
 177 Owned barges
 14 Leased barges
 146 Owned transport trucks
 1,971 Owned or leased railcars
As of Feb. 1, 2013Light Product Terminals
MPC Owned
Third Party
Asphalt Terminals
MPC OwnedThird PartyWater Supplied Terminals
    Coastal
    InlandRefineries
Pipelines
MPC Owned
Part Interest, Operated by MPC
Part Interest, Operated by Others
Other Pipelines Utilized
PipelinesTank Farms
Butane Cavern
   Barge DockTMRefining , mARketing And tRAnspoRt Ation netwoRk
whA t we mAnuf ACtuRe
The core of MPC’s business is manufacturing. We use feedstocks – crude oil and other materials – to produce a 
variety of refined products used by tens of millions of consumers. The products we and other refining companies manufacture are used directly or indirectly by virtually every single person in our nation. The fuels we produce get children to schools, bring produce to grocery stores and heat homes. Asphalt paves roads and shingles roofs. Lesser-known products like cumene or propylene are used to manufacture items that make our lives easier, safer, and more convenient, such as plastics, paints and inks, or flexible foam.
1.  Product: Gasoline 
Used for: Transportation fuel
2.  Product: Diesel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
3.  Product: Asphalt 
Used for: Road paving and the manufacture of roofing shingles
4.  Product: Refinery fuel 
Used for: Non-salable hydrocarbon materials used to fuel refinery units
5.  Product: Petroleum coke 
Used for: Fuel in boilers and cement kilns. Some grades can be further treated and used in carbon anodes for aluminum smelting and as electrodes for electric arc furnaces.Below is a list of the top ten Refined pR oduCts mpC mAnuf ACtuRed in 2012, based on volume.
6.  Product:  Propane 
Used for: Primarily a heating fuel
7.  Product:  Olefins (primarily propylene) 
Used for: The production of paints, household detergents, 
carpet fibers, foam insulation and auto parts
8.  Product: Jet fuel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
9.  Product:  Heavy fuel oil/slurry 
Used for:  Fuel for some utilities and marine vessels
10.  Product:  Aromatics (benzene, toluene, xylene) 
Used for:  The production of paints, printing inks,  
adhesives, flexible foam, styrene and plasticsABoUT mARAThoN PETRoLEUm coRPoRATIoNcontents about this report
 fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
MPC encourages its employees’ desire to help build 
strong communities by adding company resources 
to their efforts. For example, MPC will donate $500 
to any qualified charitable organization for which an employee – or his or her spouse – volunteers 24 hours 
in a calendar year. We also match a certain percentage 
of employee donations to United Way during its annual fundraisers and donate millions of dollars to local, state 
and national organizations dedicated to education, 
arts, health, human services and more.In this section, you 
will find a sampling 
of how MPC and its 
employees worked to strengthen our communities in 2012.
Howard Wolfgang, 
transport driver: volunteer fireman, Muncie, Ind.Corey Sheets, Illinois Refining Division operator: volunteer for the Hutsonville, Ill., Summer Recreation program
Aspen Steib, Louisiana  Refining Division Community Relations Representative:active community  volunteerHealth, Environment and Safety Professional Jennifer Rader  and her husband, Phil: volunteers for the Special Olympics in  Findlay, OhioSandra Garza, Michigan Refining Division advanced 
administrative assistant: 
United Way volunteerMPC employees value their friends, co-workers, 
neighbors and fellow citizens. They are a powerful force for good, and they help drive the company’s community involvement.MPC  in your Community
Dave Bydalek, operator at MPC’s 
Speedway, Ind., terminal: Boy Scout leader
  6   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    7contents about this report
◗ Several MPC employees and 
family members participated in the 
River Sweep in Catlettsburg, 
Ky., collecting more than 20 bags of 
garbage from the banks of the Big Sandy and Ohio rivers.
◗ Employees from MPC’s Detroit, 
Mich. , refinery provided instruction 
to more than 1,600 grade-school students at Pierre Toussaint, Mark Twain and Allendale elementary schools on Earth Day, emphasizing 
waste minimization, pollution 
prevention and other ways to make the Earth a better place.
◗ MPC’s Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
refinery was recognized as the northeastern Business Partner of the year by the Kentucky Department of 
Fish and Wildlife Resources.
◗ Dozens of volunteers from MPC’s 
Canton, Ohio , refinery participated 
in the 11th Annual nimishillen Creek Cleanup. The refinery sponsors the event, and MPC volunteers helped clean 2.8 miles of creek, collecting 
three truckloads of garbage.
◗ Employees at MPC’s Robinson, 
Ill., refinery partnered with the city 
of Robinson and another company to 
sponsor the Household Hazardous Waste Collection. Residents brought paints, batteries, fluorescent lamps, 
antifreeze and other items for safe, 
proper disposal.◗ MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
won the 2012 Environmental 
Leadership Program Award from the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality. The award recognized the refinery’s 11 years of dedication to the Bringing Science to Life Program at East St. John Elementary School in 
St. John the 
Baptist Parish, La.  Through the 
program, refinery employees teach science experiments to third-  and fourth-graders each year.
◗ Two miles of highway outside of 
Findlay, Ohio , remains tidy due 
to the efforts of MPC volunteers who remove litter every other month from spring through fall.
◗ Two MPC environmental 
professionals in Indianapolis, 
Ind. , gave a presentation to 
Butler University students enrolled 
in a science and sustainability course, providing a “real world” perspective on translating the value 
of environmental stewardship into 
programs and processes.
◗ Using funds donated by MPC, 
Walsh University in North Canton, 
Ohio , completed construction of an 
environmental field center in 2012, including an open-air classroom, a lab, and the protection of a local watershed that will be used for instructional 
purposes.ProteCting  the enviR onment
◗ More than 70 employees from MPC’s refinery 
in Catlettsburg, k y., participated in the U.S. 
Route 23 Cleanup, collecting dozens of bags of 
refuse for disposal.◗ MPC’s Tampa, Fla. , terminal 
was recognized with the U.S. 
Coast Guard’s 2012 Gold Rear Admiral William M. Benkert Marine Environmental Protection Award for 
outstanding environmental leadership.
◗ MPC’s Adopt-A-Park volunteers in 
Findlay, Ohio , kept local public 
spaces looking their best by removing 
trash, spreading mulch and performing other chores to get them ready for summer visitors.
◗ At its national conference, the 
Wildlife Habitat Council recognized MPC’s asphalt terminal in 
North 
Bend, Ohio , as having achieved its 
certification as a wildlife habitat.◗ As the 2012 drought dried out a 
wildflower field at MPC’s St. Elmo, 
Ill., terminal, employees decided to 
plant a vegetable garden. A bountiful harvest led to excess produce being donated to the St. Elmo Food Bank.
◗ MPC held a neighborhood 
cleanup day in the Oakwood Heights neighborhood of 
Detroit, Mich. , 
to provide residents a way to dispose of hazardous and large household items. An MPC-led team of 25 people collected 570 cubic yards of non-
hazardous waste through the effort, 
as well as a variety of special and hazardous waste items including batteries, fluorescent bulbs, paint, a large number of tires and more.fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
◗ As part of MPC’s Oakwood Heights Property Purchase Program in detroit, 
mich. , the company has contracted with Detroit GreenWorks Solutions, a 
non-profit agency that trains unemployed and underemployed Detroit residents 
in weatherization, deconstruction, landscaping and forestry. GreenWorks is providing landscaping and grounds maintenance services for the property MPC  is converting to green space.
  8   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    9contents about this report
◗ MPC’s refinery in Texas City, 
Texas , donated money and expertise 
to its adopted school, the Dickinson 
Independent School District’s Barber Middle School. MPC employees participated in diversity exercises with 
students, donated educational books 
and volunteered to serve Thanksgiving lunch to students.
◗ At MPC’s headquarters in 
Findlay, Ohio , dozens of 
employees volunteered as pen pals with students from Lincoln Elementary School, corresponding with them throughout the school year and coming 
together for a picnic in the spring.◗ Employees at MPC’s terminal in 
Milwaukee, Wis. , continued 
supporting the Milwaukee College 
Prep charter school by contributing to its Secret Santa program to provide gifts to students in need, donating 
cash and volunteering to tutor first- 
graders once a week.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Texas City, 
Texas , raised $150,000 for the Boy 
Scouts’ Annual Outdoor Experience through a banquet fundraiser. The program impacts almost 5,000 children in the community, teaching them about 
conservation, citizenship and outdoor 
activities.SUPPorting  youth
◗ Employees of MPC subsidiary 
Marathon Pipe Line LLC gave presentations to grade-school children at Georgetown Elementary in
 Georgetown, Ind. , and north 
Elementary School in Marshall, 
Ill., to teach children the importance 
of calling 811 before digging. Students also received T-shirts and informational materials to take home.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
Detroit, Mich. , refinery donated 
more than 4,000 items, including notebooks, paper reams, backpacks and more to the Mark Twain Elementary School as part of its  
School Supply Drive.
◗ At the MPC-owned Savage Branch Wildlife Habitat near the 
company’s  Catlettsburg, k y., refinery, employees hosted almost 
900 students, ranging from pre-school to fourth grade, to teach them 
about wildlife in the forest ecosystem. Employees volunteered more than 700 hours to make the program a success.fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
  10   MPC Citizenship Report  2012
◗ MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
has adopted three schools in St. 
John the Baptist Parish, La.  – 
East St. John Elementary, East St. John 
High School and Garyville Mt. Airy Magnet School. The company donates $15,000 to each school annually, and 
donates 180 backpacks filled with 
school supplies to the schools. The company also provides other monetary support to all schools in the parish, and employees volunteer at spelling bees, academic fairs and other events.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio , 
was heavily involved with its adopted school, Dueber Elementary, in 2012. In addition to its annual donation of ◗ A dozen employees at MPC’s 
Catlettsburg, Ky. , refinery 
volunteer at Catlettsburg Elementary School as Big Brothers and Big Sisters, serving as mentors, role models, tutors and friends.
◗ Volunteers from MPC’s refinery 
in Robinson, Ill. , provided 
insight into the world of science and engineering to students from 
Casey, 
Palestine, Robinson, Oblong, 
Red Hill and Hutsonville  high 
schools. Through the Real World II 
program, MPC professionals provided an overview of their jobs, projects, refinery operations and career advice, 
as well as a guided refinery tour.$5,000, which went to the Student 
Activities Fund, MPC held drives to provide school supplies and hundreds of hats, scarves and gloves for students in need. Refinery employees 
also hosted the annual Science Day to 
teach kids how science contributes to everyday items.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Garyville, La. , 
is a charter member of the Supriya Jindal Foundation for Louisiana’s Children, which donated high-tech “smart boards” to East St. John 
Elementary School. MPC donated 
$70,000 to the foundation in 2012 as part of its total $280,000 commitment through 2013.
◗ MPC employees in  findlay, ohio , donated almost 70 backpacks 
filled with new back-to-school clothing to children of women staying at 
domestic violence shelters in the community.
MPC Citizenship Report  2012    11contents about this report
SUPPorting  youth
◗ MPC donated $1,500 for 
scholarships at River Parishes 
Community College in Sorrento, La.
◗ MPC employees of the company’s 
Detroit, Mich. , refinery talked 
to Mark Twain Elementary School students about refinery career opportunities, discussing working conditions, education and training 
requirements.
◗ More than 2,900 local eighth-
graders attended the annual two-
week Career Fair sponsored by MPC’s 
Catlettsburg, Ky. , refinery. At 19 
booths, refinery volunteers provided students with an inside look at the facility’s various departments, with a focus on career opportunities and fields of study. 
◗ Members of the MPC  Detroit, 
Mich. , refinery’s inclusion team 
visited students at Vistas nuevas Preschool to read them the book Chrysanthemum, which teaches an appreciation for diversity and 
difference.
◗ Employees at MPC’s Canton, 
Ohio , refinery provided an 
introductory refining class and plant 
tour to a dozen students from the Oil and Gas Technology Program at Zane State College.
◗ At the certified wildlife habitat at MPC’s 
asphalt terminal in nashville, t enn. , 
employees provided educational activities and 
instruction to 30 third-graders from Nashville’s Cole Elementary and Carter Lawrence Elementary Magnet schools, in partnership with local educational non-profit Alignment Nashville. Activities included dissection of an owl pellet; learning about butterflies, nesting birds and predator birds; and about asphalt and how roads are made, among other topics.◗ MPC’s refinery in Garyville, 
La., was the title sponsor for the 
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Southeast 
Louisiana’s Bowl for Kids Sake, the organization’s largest fundraiser of the year. The event raised more than 
$50,000 for the children’s charity.◗ At MPC’s Columbus, Ga. , 
light products terminal, employees 
hosted engineering students from Fort Valley State University, providing them information about eastern U.S. 
pipeline infrastructure, its functions 
and regulatory environment. Students also toured the tank farm, loading rack and pipeline manifold at the terminal.
◗ MPC’s Tampa, Fla. , light 
products terminal supervisor spoke to classes at Tampa’s Spoto High School as part of the Great American Teach-In, a Florida educational program that 
schedules speakers from a variety of 
fields in the state’s schools.◗ The Engineering Department at 
MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio , 
hosted 12 students from various area high schools as part of the “Engineer for a Day” educational program.
◗ MPC employees in Nashville, 
Tenn. , volunteered as reading 
mentors to elementary school children at Metropolitan nashville Public Schools through the PEnCIL Foundation.
◗ MPC’s Oregon, Ohio , light 
products terminal hosted a group of engineering students from the University of Toledo for a tour of the facility, an explanation of MPC’s 
operations and what some of its 
engineering jobs entail.fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
MPC’s asphalt terminal in Nashville, 
Tenn., donated cash and a wide variety of office supplies to The 
PenCil Box, a charity that provides 
school supplies to Metropolitan nashville Public Schools teachers. Three of the terminal’s employees 
are also volunteer tutors for students 
through the program.◗ MPC’s terminal in Marietta, 
Ohio , made a donation to the 
Washington County Boys and Girls 
Club, which provides after school and summer programs for children 
and young adults. The MPC donation 
will help pay the program’s weekly membership fee for those who can’t afford it.
◗ Employees at MPC’s Robinson, 
Ill., refinery participate in an Annual 
Book Event for first-graders at Crawford 
County schools, including Oblong, 
Palestine and Hutsonville grade schools and new Hebron Christian School. The 2012 event was a reading of the book Chrysanthemum, followed by a short activity about diversity.
◗ About 45 MPC headquarters employees 
visited a park with students from Lincoln 
Elementary School in findlay, ohio, for an educational program about Ohio’s mammals.
  12   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    13contents about this report
ContriBUting  to heAL th
◗ Since 1991, Speedway has 
partnered with Children’s Miracle 
network Hospitals (CMnH), helping to fund improvements and upgrades at CMnH facilities that 
serve communities where Speedway 
operates. Through donations from Speedway customers, CMnH has received tens of millions of dollars. In 2012, Speedway collected a record $6.45 million, bringing the total collected since 1991 to $53 million. Just a few examples of how these donations helped:
 
•  The University of Kentucky 
Children’s Hospital in  
Lexington, Ky. , was able to 
buy a pediatric mobile intensive care unit with the assistance of donations from Speedway customers. 
•  The Lurie Children’s Hospital in 
Chicago, Ill. , named one 
of its family gathering areas the Speedway Family Kitchen. This area provides a dedicated space for families to relax 
while remaining close to their 
hospitalized children.
 
•  The Speedway Burn Center at the Riley Hospital for Children in 
Indianapolis, Ind. , was 
named to honor the Speedway fundraising that made it possible. 
•  At the Sparrow pediatric rehabilitation therapy center in 
Lansing, Mich. , phase 
one of a renovation project was completed thanks to CMnH donations from Speedway and its customers. The work included 
an overhaul of the facility’s gym, 
making it a more kid-friendly space.
◗ Dozens of men at MPC’s 
headquarters in Findlay, Ohio , 
grew mustaches as part of a fundraiser for prostate cancer awareness. The effort raised more than $10,000, which was donated to prostate 
cancer awareness and research 
organizations such as the Prostate Cancer Foundation and Livestrong Foundation.
◗ MPC sponsored True Light 
Baptist Church’s annual health fair in 
Garyville, La.fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
◗ MPC volunteers at its headquarters 
in Findlay, Ohio , organized its 
annual Pink Day to raise funds to fight breast cancer. The effort raised more than $4,000, which was donated to Susan G. Komen for the Cure.
◗ A donation from the MPC terminal in Charlotte, n.C. , 
to the local Ronald McDonald House will help pay for fuel and 
maintenance of a new van used to shuttle families to and from the local children’s hospital.in May 2012, Speedway gave a portion of proceeds from 
beverage sales to CMnH facilities as part of its support for the charity.
  14   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    15
Donations from Speedway and 
its customers helped fund the Speedway Burn Center at the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, Ind.contents about this report
◗ For their outstanding fundraising 
efforts and generous donations, 
employees at MPC’s refinery in Texas 
City, Texas , earned the Silver 
Award in the Industrial Division of the United Way Spirit of the Mainland competition.
◗ The MPC United Way fundraising 
campaign in  Findlay, Ohio , raised 
more than $1.4 million for the United Way of Hancock County, with 78 percent of employees pledging funds. The annual United Way Campaign at 
MPC’s headquarters is planned and 
executed by dozens of volunteers. Some of the activities that contributed to the total included:
 
•  The annual Marathon Pipe Line 
(MPL) Golf Outing in Eagle, 
Ohio , raised $2,000 for the 
United Way of Hancock County. The more than 100 players included MPL employees, spouses, retirees and others.
 
•  Dozens of MPC employees at its headquarters in 
Findlay, 
Ohio , volunteered to organize 
and participate in the annual MPC/United Way of Hancock County Golf Outing, which raised almost $137,000 in donations 
from more than 100 MPC 
suppliers.
 
•  Employees at MPC’s 
headquarters in Findlay, 
Ohio , raised thousands of 
dollars for the United Way of Hancock County in 2012 through its Jeans Days. On the last Friday of every month, employees can 
wear jeans and sneakers to work 
in exchange for a donation.
 
•  MPC’s Terminal, Transport & Rail organization raised $10,600 for the United Way of Hancock County at its annual golf tournament in 
Kalida, Ohio .
◗ MPC’s refinery in Catlettsburg, 
Ky., won the Manufacturer of the y ear 
award from the Kentucky Association of Manufacturers, in recognition for its innovation and corporate citizenship. The refinery was specifically 
recognized for its popular annual 
career fair; for employees’ serving community, civic and charitable organizations; and its excellence in safety and environmental performance while contributing to the region’s ongoing prosperity.
◗ The United Way in St. John 
the Baptist Parish, La. , benefits 
from significant participation from employees at MPC’s Garyville refinery, including chairing every major United Way event in 2012, representation 
◗  Almost 450 MPC employees at the company’s headquarters in findlay, 
ohio , participated in the United Way Days of Caring. Volunteers worked on 
projects for the 19 United Way agencies in Hancock County, meeting a variety of 
community needs, from alleviating hunger and supporting health care to fighting domestic abuse and supporting specialized education efforts.StrengtHening  Communities
on the organization’s board, raising 
almost $230,000 in pledges and other funds from employees, and chairing the 2012 St. John United Way Golf Tournament, which raised more than 
$60,000. A 30-member committee of 
volunteers directs MPC’s participation in the local United Way efforts.
◗ Employees from MPC’s refinery 
and Marine Transportation organization in 
Catlettsburg, 
Ky., raised more than $110,000 for 
the United Way of northeastern Kentucky at the eighth annual MPC/United Way Golf Outing. Along with other fundraising efforts, MPC’s total 
donation amounted to more than 
$210,000. 
◗ Speedway employees at its Enon, 
Ohio , headquarters made donations 
and conducted fundraisers for its annual United Way campaign, bringing in more than $205,000 for the United Way of Clark, Champaign and Madison Counties.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
refinery in Robinson, Ill. , raised 
more than $218,000 for the United Way of Crawford County through a variety of fundraisers, including the Crawford County United Way Golf Tournament, 
which alone raised more than $73,000.
◗ MPC employees at its Detroit, 
Mich. , refinery donated a total of 
almost $149,000 to the United Way 
for Southeastern Michigan during its annual fundraising drive.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Canton, Ohio , used a cookout, 
a parking space auction and other fundraisers to collect a total of more than $33,000 for the local United Way.◗ The Dave Thomas Foundation for 
Adoption ranked MPC fourth in the Energy and Utilities category for best adoption-friendly workplaces in 2012. MPC was also in the top 10 for the 
state of 
Ohio .
◗ More than 100 employees from 
MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
volunteered at the annual Frisco 
Festival at the historic San Francisco Plantation, located on the refinery property. The 2012 event saw a record 
number of admission tickets sold.
◗ Speedway employees at its 
headquarters in Enon, Ohio , 
serve in a variety of capacities in the 
state and local community, including the Ohio Chamber of Commerce; the Greater Springfield Chamber of Commerce; the Dayton Children’s Foundation Board of Trustees; United fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
◗ MPC’s Oakwood Heights Property Purchase Program in detroit, 
mich. , finished the year ahead of schedule, with more than 250 homes, 
vacant lots and uninhabitable structures purchased and more than 100 
demolished to provide green space. The voluntary program provides residents of Oakwood Heights – located adjacent to MPC’s refinery – above-market-value purchase prices and incentives if they choose to participate in the program. The average appraised price for the properties has been approximately $16,000, while MPC’s offers have averaged about $65,000.
  16   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    17contents about this report
StrengtHening  Communities
◗ MPC sponsored the Gus Macker 3-on-3 Basketball 
Tournament charity fundraiser in  ironton, ohio , 
with proceeds benefitting local charities.Way of Clark, Champaign and 
Madison Counties Board of Trustees; the Clark State Foundation Board of Directors; and the Community Health Foundation Committee.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
Catlettsburg, Ky. , refinery 
conducted six blood drives during 2012, resulting in more than 100 donations.
◗ When a serious vehicle accident 
in Canton, Ohio , resulted in 
a fire fueled by large amounts of spilled diesel, the fire battalion chief requested assistance from MPC firefighters at the refinery in the 
city. Because of their training and 
equipment specialized for dealing with hydrocarbon fires, the MPC firefighters were able to help local firefighters extinguish the flames  in minutes.◗ Among the many community 
organizations and events that MPC’s 
Catlettsburg, Ky. , refinery and 
its employees support in the Tri-State area are the Paramount Arts Center, Huntington Symphony, Ashland y outh 
Ballet, Summer Motion, Poage Landing 
Days, Ceredo-Kenova Autumn Fest 
and Winter Wonderland of Lights. Employees also serve on the boards and councils of the local United Ways, King’s Daughters Medical Center Foundation, Our Lady of Bellefonte Hospital Foundation, Ashland Alliance, Hope’s Place child advocacy, Court Appointed Special Advocates, Summer Motion, the Kentucky 
Chamber of Commerce, West Virginia 
Manufacturers Association, Ashland Community & Technical College, Boy Scouts of America, Safe Harbor women’s shelter, Leadership Tri-State, Rotary Interact, and many more.◗ Fourteen of MPC’s employees in 
Atlanta, Ga. , took time out from 
a meeting in Charlotte, N.C. , to 
volunteer at a local Ronald McDonald House, where they performed routine maintenance and cleaning activities at the facility, which houses families with 
loved ones in area hospitals.
◗ Employees at MPC’s Bay City, 
Mich. , terminal offered “Good 
neighbor Tank Tours” to local 
emergency responders and regulators, including the Genesee County Hazmat Team, the Michigan Dept. 
of Transportation, the U.S. EPA, the 
U.S. Coast Guard and the Michigan Dept. of Environmental Quality. MPC employees informed attendees about a wide range of topics related to the terminal’s environmental and safety features.◗ The Marathon March for Babies 
and other fundraising efforts by MPC employees to benefit the 
Ashland, 
Ky., area March of Dimes exceeded 
its fundraising goal of $7,000. The charity’s mission is to ensure babies are born healthy.
◗ MPC was a major sponsor of the 
Women’s Conference at the Ohio University Southern Campus in 
Ironton, Ohio . The conference was 
geared toward providing information useful to women in the workplace.
◗ Poncho Roussel, an MPC retiree 
from its Garyville, La. , refinery, 
regularly volunteers to cook meals for community organizations and events, and refinery employees join him in the effort. Together, they have helped provide luncheons at the Veterans of Foreign Wars post in 
Lutcher, La. 
and the St. John the Baptist Parish  sheriff’s office. The refinery’s 
United Way team of volunteers also tapped Roussel to provide meals that were sold as a fundraiser.
◗ MPC employees at its Algonquin 
terminal in Louisville, Ky. , became 
participating members of Citizens of Louisville Organized & United Together (CLOUT), which brings together organizations across racial, 
religious and socioeconomic lines to 
pursue justice in their communities.
◗ Several MPC employees at the 
company’s refinery in Catlettsburg, 
Ky., and family members participated 
in the American Cancer Society’s 2012 Making Strides Against Breast Cancer fundraiser in
 Ashland, Ky. , which 
raised $50,000 for the charity.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, 
Ohio , with a knack for spelling joined 
forces to participate in a spelling bee to raise funds for Read for L.I.F.E., a charity that promotes adult literacy.
◗ March 1, 2012, was proclaimed Jim 
and Vicki Cantrell day in Ashland, 
Ky., in honor of Jim Cantrell, manager 
of MPC’s refinery in Catlettsburg, Ky., and his wife. The award recognizes the couple’s deep involvement in the community, including with local 
business, health care, arts, education, 
cultural and other organizations.
◗ Through MPC’s First Responder 
Grant program, grants ranging from several hundred dollars to several thousand dollars were made to fire departments, police departments 
and hazmat responders in 
North 
Muskegon, Mich.; Benton, 
Robinson and St. Elmo, Ill.; 
Canton, Marietta, Oregon, Steubenville and North Bend, 
Ohio; Louisville, Ky.; and 
Kenova, W.Va.fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
◗ In belton, s.C. , employees at MPC’s terminal hosted a training 
scenario and confined-space rescue drill with local responders, including 
fire departments from belton, Cheddar and Rock springs , 
as well as the Anderson County Emergency Preparedness unit and the South Carolina Dept. of Agriculture. The drill was followed by an open house attended by more than 140 responders, refined-product transport truck drivers, elected officials and terminal neighbors.
  18   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    19contents about this report
StrengtHening  Communities
◗ MPC employees in  findlay, ohio , started 
a charitable fundraising tradition with the First 
Annual Calvert Cup ice hockey game, which raised funds for the United Way of Hancock County and Cancer Patient Services. The event contributed over $2,000 to MPC’s $1.4 million United Way donation in 2012.◗
 During the Christmas Tree 
Lighting in the Robinson, Ill. , 
town square, employees from MPC’s 
refinery made ribeye sandwiches, hot dogs and jambalaya to sell from their booth. All proceeds went to 
the Community Revitalization & 
Beautification Committee.
◗ MPC employees donated their 
time and know-how to students from various high schools in 
Hancock 
County, Ohio , through the 
Engineering Explorers program, which gives students the opportunity to participate in engineering projects and visit sites that show engineering 
principles in action.
◗ MPC’s Marine Transportation 
organization in Catlettsburg, 
Ky., was named the 2012 Greenup 
County Business of the y ear, while MPC Marine Repair Terminal 
Manager Jamie Alcorn was named the county’s Ambassador of the year. Both the group and Alcorn also 
received citations of appreciation from the Kentucky Senate and House of Representatives, and Alcorn received an Honorable Order of Kentucky Colonels commission and a Kentucky 
Admiral Award.
◗ More than a dozen bicycling 
enthusiasts from MPC’s headquarters 
in Findlay, Ohio , volunteered to 
pedal 75 miles through northwest Ohio to raise funds to fight against multiple sclerosis. The riders raised more than $8,000, and MPC provided jerseys and 
purchased a sponsorship.
◗ MPC employees at its Canton, 
Ohio , refinery are active in the 
community outside their jobs, including with the Chamber of 
Commerce, the north Canton STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) Alliance, 4H, national Alliance of Mental Illness, Boy Scouts, Stark County Oil and Gas Advisory Group and much more.
◗ MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
was a platinum sponsor of the St. John Relay for Life, which raises funds for the American Cancer Society. Dozens of MPC employees volunteered to help 
the company raise additional funds for 
the event.
◗ Over a three-day period, MPC’s  
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. , terminal 
offered tours of the facility and confined-space entry demonstrations for all three shifts of the Broward County Fire Department.◗ MPC’s terminal in Oregon, 
Ohio , hosted a fire drill that 
involved the Oregon Fire Department, BP Refinery Fire Department, Toledo Refining Fire Department and local emergency 
response teams. In all, more than 60 
firefighters were on-site for the drill.
◗ The MPC terminal in Mt. 
Prospect, Ill. , hosted a group of 
more than 40 representatives from the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for a day of on-site training in two types of inspections 
the EPA conducts at fuel terminals. 
The training focused primarily on inspecting the loading rack, tank farm, emergency response equipment, records and containment in the offload areas. ◗ MPC was a platinum sponsor of 
the Hancock County Heart Walk in 
Findlay, Ohio , and MPC volunteers 
collected and donated over 40 percent of the more than $51,000 total raised for the American Heart Association.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
refinery in  Robinson, Ill. , teamed 
up with Leadership Crawford County to establish the First Annual Reach Out and Bowl. The event raised more than $30,000 for Teen Reach, 
a community group that helps area 
teens become caring, responsible adults prepared for leadership roles in the community.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Texas City, 
Texas , contributed thousands of 
dollars to a variety of community organizations, including Junior Achievement, the Salvation Army, fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
◗ MPC donated $15,000 
to the Black Heritage Library 
& Multicultural Center in
 findlay, ohio , in 
honor of the organization’s 
30th anniversary. MPC’s support of the organization recognizes that the inclusivity 
and diversity fostered by 
the organization makes the city better for its citizens, businesses, organizations and educational institutions.
  20   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    21Red Cross, Boy Scouts, Big Brothers Big Sisters, the Grand Opera House, Texas City Museum, SeniorShare, Communities in Schools and many more.
◗ As part of MPC’s Oakwood Heights 
Property Purchase Program in 
Detroit, Mich. , one of the hundreds 
of properties purchased there was ideal for firefighter training. MPC provided building access to the Detroit and Melvindale Fire Departments 
to practice search and rescue, fire 
suppression, and salvage and overhaul techniques.
◗ During an MPC advanced leadership 
program in  Chapel Hill, N.C. , 30 
program participants volunteered their time to weed and mulch a University of north Carolina community garden that provides produce for local families.contents about this report
HeLPing  neighboRs
◗ MPC employees who were 
gathered for a regional meeting in  
Greenville, S.C. , volunteered their 
time and skills to help build a Habitat 
for Humanity house.
◗ While gathered for a regional 
meeting in Chicago, Ill. , MPC 
employees volunteered their time to landscape an area around the city’s Shedd Aquarium. The landscaped area is used to teach children about 
local plants.
◗ The MPC refinery in Detroit, 
Mich. , donated $10,000 to Southwest 
Solutions, an organization that 
provides housing and retraining for Detroit area individuals and families  in need.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, 
Ohio , volunteered at the local Black 
Heritage Library & Multicultural Center to label, photograph, inventory and display artwork and collectibles.
◗ Dozens of employees from MPC’s 
refinery in Texas City, Texas , 
volunteered at SeniorShare events in 2012, helping to coordinate and execute the organization’s Celebrate America and Holiday Gala events. 
MPC also provided sponsorship 
funding for the events, which served hundreds of local senior citizens.
◗ As participants in the Overseas 
Coupon Program, Marathon Pipe Line employees in 
Findlay, Ohio , 
collect manufacturer coupons and send them to the Family Support Center at the U.S. Air Force base in Alconbury, United Kingdom, to assist soldiers’ 
families with everyday expenses. In 
2012, employees sent coupons worth more than $11,000.◗ Volunteers from MPC’s  Texas 
City, Texas , refinery helped make 
the Angel Tree gift-giving program a success for area children during the holiday season by performing administrative duties as well as 
purchasing and distributing gifts for  
60 children in need.
◗ In partnership with the St. John the 
Baptist Parish government, refinery personnel in 
Garyville, La. , 
organized and held MPC Day at the Ezekiel Jackson Park, attracting more than 1,000 people. MPC also financed several park improvements during the 
year, including repairs to a fence and 
concession stand, new playground equipment and gazebo, and a lighted walking/jogging track.◗ Volunteers at MPC’s Detroit, 
Mich. , refinery collected more than 
1,700 personal care items and more than $3,000 to donate to the Gleaners Food Bank.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, 
Ohio , collected more than a dozen 
boxes of clothing from MPC donors at office locations in Findlay and elsewhere and gave the clothing to Chopin Hall and other local charities. 
Chopin Hall is comprised of 42 local 
churches that pool resources to help those in need.
◗ MPC volunteers in Norcross, 
Ga., collected donations of food and 
personal care items and donated them to the norcross Cooperative Ministry, which provides emergency assistance to families in norcross and surrounding areas in Gwinnett County.◗ Dozens of MPC volunteers in 
Findlay, Ohio , contributed 
their time and effort to help build a Habitat for Humanity home. MPC and its employees have played a prominent role in building more than 
a dozen Habitat homes in 
Hancock 
County, Ohio , which includes 
Findlay.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Texas City, 
Texas , donated $3,000 to the local 
Salvation Army to help the charity 
recover from a fire. Refinery employees also volunteered to assemble desks and tables and to help restore the 
facility.
◗ After Hurricane Isaac affected 
Garyville, La. , and surrounding 
areas, MPC supplied employees and 
contractors with perishable and non-perishable food items, chainsaws, generators, tarps, flashlights, batteries, 
ice and many other items to help them 
recover.
◗ MPC employees from the 
company’s Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
refinery took part in the Repair Affair in 
Ashland, Ky. , assisting 
homeowners who are elderly, disabled or without financial means to complete minor outside repairs and yard work.
◗ MPC employees worked with 
Volunteers of America to help landscape a shelter for the homeless in 
New Orleans, La.  Volunteers 
removed debris, planted flower beds and trimmed and planted bushes.
◗ MPC volunteers walked and ran 
in a five-kilometer race in Bluffton, 
Ohio , to benefit autism research.
◗ About 50 employees at MPC’s Robinson, ill. , refinery 
volunteered to repair and recondition 80 company bicycles to be 
donated to Lifeline Christian Mission’s relief efforts in Haiti.◗ In the wake of severe damage caused by Hurricane Isaac in  st. John the  
baptist p arish, La. , where MPC’s Garyville refinery is located, the company 
donated $500,000 to the American Red Cross in Louisiana and $300,000 to the St. John the Baptist Parish Long-Term Recovery Group, comprised of faith-based, non-profit, governmental, business and other organizations and agencies. MPC also donated another $135,000 to law enforcement, schools, fire departments and other organizations in the area. Another $65,000 will be disbursed in 2013, bringing the total recovery donation to $1 million.fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
  22   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    23contents about this report
HeLPing  neighboRs
◗ MPC employees from the 
company’s Canton, Ohio , refinery 
performed maintenance and cleanup 
work at St. Paul’s Senior Housing in 
Stark County, Ohio , as part of 
the United Way Days of Caring.
◗ MPC’s Law organization received 
a Public Interest Law Award for working to meet the legal needs of low-income residents of 
Hancock 
County, Ohio . Since the program 
began in 2008, MPC’s lawyers have provided hundreds of hours of free legal support.
◗ In a neighborhood adjacent to 
MPC’s refinery in Detroit, Mich. , 
the company purchased a former church that still contained pews. MPC donated the pews to the Lifeline Christian Fellowship Church of God in Christ, which previously did not have pews.◗ MPC employees from the 
company’s  Detroit, Mich. , refinery 
took part in the citywide Motor City Makeover by cleaning up an abandoned lot in the southwest Detroit area where the plant is located.
◗ MPC sponsored the Thanksgiving 
celebration at new Wine Christian Fellowship in 
Laplace, La. , and 
employees attended to help serve the meals.
◗ Through its Adopt-a-Family Drive, 
volunteers at MPC’s refinery in 
Garyville, La. , provided Christmas 
gifts to 16 families in the area.
◗ More than 40 MPC employees and 
their families in Nashville, Tenn. , 
supported the Christmas 4 Kids program, joining other volunteers to take more than 400 children from the Metropolitan nashville Public Schools 
on a shopping trip with Santa and  
his elves.◗ MPC organizations throughout its 
headquarters in Findlay, Ohio , 
adopted families for Christmas, donating hundreds of gifts, clothing, household items, groceries, meals, gift cards, and even providing help 
with rent or utility bills as needed. 
Employees also volunteered and made donations to organizations that helped families during the holiday season, such as the Salvation Army.
◗ The Ronald McDonald House 
(RMH) in Huntington, W.Va. , 
received a just-in-time donation of a van full of food and blankets from MPC employees in 
Catlettsburg, 
Ky., after the Catlettsburg Recreation 
Club’s Christmas With Santa event yielded a significant amount of donations. The RMH provides housing and meals for families whose children 
are in-patients at area hospitals.◗ MPC employees and departments 
at its Canton, Ohio , refinery 
collaborated with the Christian 
Children’s Home of Ohio to fulfill the Christmas gift requests of 61 children as part of the organization’s annual 
adopt-a-child program.
◗ Marathon Pipe Line held a 
competition at MPC’s headquarters 
in Findlay, Ohio , in which 
competitors constructed sculptures made with non-perishable food and houseware items. The items were then donated to local families through the 
Salvation Army and to the Findlay  
City Mission.This sculpture of an MPC transport truck was one of several 
made from non-perishable food and household items that were later donated to the Salvation Army and City Mission in Findlay, Ohio.fUELINg ThE AmERIc AN sPIRIT
◗ MPC employees at the company’s headquarters in findlay, ohio , run 
the Clothe-A-Child program, which provided 53 children brand new clothes 
in advance of the Christmas holiday season. In addition to its holiday focus, Clothe-A-Child also provides clothes to children in need throughout 
hancock 
County, ohio , as circumstances warrant the rest of the year.
◗ As MPC expanded the capacity of its Owensboro-to-Catlettsburg pipeline, a 27-mile 
segment running east from  Lexington, k y., construction was required on rights of 
way through many private properties. MPC participated in approximately 2,500 face-to-face meetings with property owners to help address their concerns, and offered some residents living near construction the option of staying in local hotels at company expense if noise became a concern. MPC also maintained constant dialogue with farm managers at horse farms in
 fayette and Clark  counties to avoid disturbing the animals.
  24   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    25contents about this report
 heAL th & sAfety
health and safety are important to our 
success as a company; if our employees 
and contractors are not safe, then other 
measures of success lose their meaning. We track the metrics reported in this 
section as a matter of accountability to our 
workers and to the communities in which we live. We want you to know how we’re 
doing.we are uncompromising in our approach 
to health and safety, and devote enormous 
resources toward our vision: that every day is accident-free, and every employee and contractor at our facilities goes home injury-free. Health and safety are therefore built into our daily work, whether it’s in office buildings, at refineries and terminals, on marine vessels, or in vehicles.We continually work toward improving 
our performance in injuries, process safety 
and other measures by making sure our 
processes and procedures consider safety above all else, and that our employees and 
contractors are provided with the training 
and information they need to be as safe and healthy as possible at all times.
Reviewing safety procedures in Garyville, la. A crew member from the M/V nashville on the 
Mississippi River.
  26   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    27contents about this report
  28   MPC Citizenship Report  2012
fAtALities tieR 1 pR oCess  
sAfety events (pses) *mpC sAfety * speedw Ay sAfety * MetriCS
mpC sAfety peRfoRmAnCe indeX (mspi)
The MSPI is a new safety metric adopted by MPC. It is similar to the ORIR 
and DAR metrics reported in this section, but is weighted for severity. 2012 was the first year that the MSPI was used as one of the criteria to determine a portion of employee compensation. MPC employees and contractors achieved an MSPI of 0.38 in 2012, which – like MPC’s ORIR and DAR numbers in 2012 – is excellent and shows good progress toward our vision of no injuries and no accidents. Future Citizenship Reports will present the metric to track its year-by-year trending.
024681012
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008910
811
3
* Prior-year PSEs have been recalculated 
to comply with current standards and to exclude assets no longer owned by MPC, 
including a refinery in St. Paul Park, Minn., 
which MPC sold in 2010.*Includes employees and contractors05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
2012(a)2007
2 or Fewer Health Risks
3-4 Health Risks
5+ Health Risks849
1,326
579567
1,153
1,03433% reduction  
in the number of 
employees with the most health risks}empL oyee weLLness 
Assessment*
Discussion: The 2012 
Wellness Assessments 
revealed a 33 percent 
reduction in the number of employees with the largest number of 
health risks. In order 
to ensure statistically valid comparability, MPC 
selects the assessment 
population each year to control for attrition and 
other changes in the 
group over time.0.000.100.200.300.400.500.600.700.80
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
MPC OSHA Recordable Incident Rate (ORIR)
MPC Days Away Rate (DAR)0.100.080.12
0.030.50
0.450.61
0.45
0.030.24
0.000.501.001.502.002.503.003.50
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Speedway ORIR
Speedway DAR3.343.263.13
2.96
1.431.66 1.711.782.71
1.68
*Includes contractors; excludes Speedway *Excludes contractorseXCeeding ReguLA toRy 
sAfety RequiRements: 
MPC’s Texas City, Texas , 
refinery was certified as a Voluntary 
Protection Program (VPP) Star Site by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. VPP Star Sites voluntarily adhere to a rigorous program that exceeds basic regulatory safety requirements. MPC now has five VPP Star Sites; the Texas City plant joins MPC refineries in 
Garyville, La. ; Robinson, 
Ill.; and Detroit, Mich ., as well as 
our headquarters office complex in 
Findlay, Ohio .sAfety ACCRedit Ation: 
MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , 
was reaccredited by the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies for its Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) program. BBS is a powerful tool to maintain safe workplaces. MPC’s 
Detroit, 
Mich. , refinery is also accredited 
and up for reaccreditation in 2014.tARgeting zeR o: With millions 
of customers passing through its stores every day, Speedway faces unique safety challenges. Through its “Target Zero – no One Gets Hurt Today” campaign, Speedway achieved the organization’s sixth consecutive year of record-setting safety performance, with an ORIR of 2.71. The most important factor behind the number, however, is that the reduction in injuries means more Speedway associates returned home to their families at the end of each shift just as safe as when they started.
* Study population includes participants 
in a yearly survey of eligible employees, all of whom participated in a baseline 
survey in 2007, for ongoing comparison 
purposes.  Until the spinoff of MPC in 2011, participants included MPC and Marathon 
Oil Company employees, excluding 
Speedway.
(a) MPC only, excluding Speedway.heAL th & sAfety
BeHind tHe numbeRs
For more information 
about any of the terms on this page, please see the 
Glossary on page 48.Through its “Target Zero – no One Gets Hurt 
Today” campaign, Speedway achieved the organization’s sixth consecutive year of record-
setting safety performance, with an ORiR of 2.71. 
MPC Citizenship Report  2012    29012345
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
MPC* (excluding Speedway)
Speedway (excluding contractors)2
11
0 0 0 0contents about this report
BeHind tHe numbeRs
sAfety 1: MPC’s comprehensive 
Safety 1 program seeks to foster a 
culture of safety not just through awareness and education, but by changing behaviors. After an extremely successful 2011 rollout in various MPC organizations, MPC’s headquarters office complex implemented the program in 2012. More than 1,800 employees and contractors attended Safety 1  classes, which include critical thinking, adapting to scenarios  and role playing.mAJoR pR oJeCt sAfety: 
After approximately 9.6 million man-hours and more than four years of heavy construction, MPC’s Detroit Heavy Oil Upgrade Project (DHOUP) in 
Detroit, Mich. , 
recorded seven OSHA recordable injuries and zero lost-time incidents. In the construction industry, an OSHA recordable injury rate of 3.9 is average. DHOUP’s rate was 0.15.RAiL tRAnspoRt Ation 
sAfety A wARd: In 2012, MPC 
won the Association of American Railroads 2011 non-Accident Release Grand Slam award. The recognition goes to companies that complete an entire calendar year without a non-accident release, while also receiving safety awards from at least four Class 1 railroads – the largest railroads in north America. A non-accident release is the unintentional release of a hazardous material that is not caused by a derailment, collision or other rail-related accident.tons of heAL th: MPC held a 
companywide “Biggest Winner” wellness challenge to encourage healthy weights among employees, resulting in a combined 9,500 pounds of weight lost by 927 participants, an average of more than 10 pounds per person. Although the eight-week program resulted in almost five tons of weight loss, the primary benefit is healthier long-term lifestyle choices for employees.
sAfe dRiveR A wARd: MPC 
Transport Driver Freddie Spivey won the national Private Truck Council’s national Driver All-Star Award for excellent performance in customer service, safety, compliance with company standards, regulatory compliance and community service. Spivey was one of only 24 drivers nationwide to receive the award.
shipping sAfety A wARd:  
MPC’s Marine Transportation organization earned the company 13 Jones F. Devlin Awards from the Chamber of Shipping of America. To qualify for the award, a vessel must have operated for at least two years without any crew member involved in a lost-time injury.spReAding the woRd: MPC 
subsidiary Marathon Pipe Line LLC dedicated a refined-products storage tank at its 
Findlay, Ohio , station 
as its “811 Tank,” carrying the safety message to “Know what’s below. Call 811 before you dig.” The tank is located next to I-75, where an average of 50,000 vehicles per day will pass it.heAL th & sAfety
Attending MPC’s Safety 1 classes was a 
requirement at its headquarters in Findlay, Ohio, in 2012.MPC Transport Driver Freddie Spivey won the 
national Private Truck Council’s national Driver 
All-Star Award.
MPC Citizenship Report  2012    31  30   MPC Citizenship Report  2012contents about this report
		In August, Speedway Co-managers Beth 
Zimmer and Mat Schultz noticed a teen in their store was choking. Both employees attempted the Heimlich maneuver to dislodge what was blocking his windpipe, and finally succeeded after several attempts.
		MPC Product Control Shift Foreman Joe Baity was on the job at the 
detroit, 
mich. , refinery when he saw a house 
fire in an adjacent neighborhood. He called the fire department, ran to the home, alerted the residents, called MPC’s firefighters to respond to the fire, and carried an elderly resident from the house to safety.mpC empL oyees sA ving 
Lives:  It is a testament to the 
character of MPC employees that in the course of doing their jobs, they have had the instinct, quick thinking, and courage to save someone’s life. During 2012, this happened four times:
		The crew of the MPC towboat M/V 
Louisville received a distress call regarding three people in a small fishing boat in danger of being run over by a fleet of barges. The M/V Louisville’s captain 
maneuvered his vessel between the smaller craft and the barges, rescued the three passengers, and towed the fishing boat to safety. The Department of Homeland Security later awarded the crew a Certificate of Merit, and MPC recognized them with our Riverman Award for heroic action.
 		In June, Speedway Customer Service Representative Tabitha Lassen’s shift was interrupted when she was told a customer in the store was having a seizure. She discovered that the customer needed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), and having been previously certified in CPR, she performed the technique until paramedics arrived 15 minutes later.
BeHind tHe numbeRs
Long-teRm peRfoRmAnCe: 
Marathon Pipe Line LLC’s six-man Lebanon Junction construction and maintenance crew achieved 1,000 days without an OSHA recordable incident. The period included more than 200 rehabilitation digs, various station projects, and more than 500,000 miles driven without a motor vehicle accident.Lightning-quiCk pipe 
LineRs: Eleven Marathon 
Pipe Line LLC employees were 
installing new pumps on a line near 
Meeteetse, Wyo. , when 
lightning struck a hillside near their worksite and started a fire. The employees prevented a larger forest fire by using shovels, rakes and fire extinguishers to contain the fire until Meeteetse and Forest Service firefighters arrived to douse remaining hot spots.heAL th & sAfety
MPC employees test equipment at the company’s 
terminal in Wood River, ill.A newly painted MPC product tank advises calling 811 before digging.
Health Fair at MPC headquarters in 
Findlay, Ohio
  32   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    33MPC Citizenship Report  2012    35
contents about this report
 enviR onment AL stew ARdship
our employees and our neighbors 
value clean air, land and water because we all share the same world. Just as important, we hold these resources in trust for our children and all generations to come. As we conduct the important business of meeting consumers’ energy needs, we continually improve on our ability to protect the environment.The metrics we report in this 
section represent pollutants 
and other emissions, waste 
generation, energy use and other measures. We have in place 
multiple systems and processes 
to minimize these impacts on the environment. Primarily because 
of larger throughput volumes, 
increased production, and higher activity levels, some of our 
metrics increased in 2012.
050100150200250300350400
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Non-hazardous, non-recycled waste
Waste recycled
Hazardous waste383
262 267
109 113147
13 10 6282
201
6317
191
9
050100150200
2012 2011 2010(a)2009 2008189
140
3443
28
020406080100
2012 2011 2010 2009 200888
6562
NA NAwAste geneRA tion
Thousand tons
tieR 3 And tieR 4 designA ted  
enviR onment AL inCidents (deis)* tieR 2 designA ted  
enviR onment AL inCidents (deis)* eneRgy use
Trillion BtuoiL spiLLs
050100150200250
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008203 203221
202234
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Volume of Spills - barrels (bbl.)
Number of Spills01020304050607080
255677
408,742
1,603
52111,172
18741
* The DEI is a measure adopted by MPC to capture several categories simultaneously. 
DEIs include releases to the environment (including to air, land or water), permit 
exceedances and agency enforcement actions. As such, DEIs include some metrics reported under other categories in this section, as well as metrics not reported 
elsewhere in this publication. Tier 3 and 4 DEIs are the most severe types of DEIs.
(a) 2010 is the first year MPC began using a revised set of criteria to define a DEI.* The DEI is a measure adopted by MPC to capture several categories simultaneously. Please see the glossary for 
additional detail on DEIs.Discussion: To provide a sense of perspective, MPC’s 
total refinery throughput was 497 million barrels during 
2012. The amount spilled represented about one-hundredth 
of an ounce for every barrel of throughput. However, our vision continues to be no accidents, no injuries, and no damage to the environment.gReenhouse g As (ghg) 
emissions
Million tonnes CO2eCRiteRiA AiR poLLut Ant 
emissions
TonstoXiC ReLeAse 
inventoR y (tRi)
Million pounds
 (a) Direct emissions are those associated with the combustion  
of hydrocarbons, venting sources and fugitive sources within  MPC-operated facilities.
(b) Indirect emissions are primarily those associated with the use  
of purchased hydrogen, electricity and steam at MPC facilities.024681012
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Direct emissions(a)
Indirect emissions(b)10.0 10.110.6
3.4 3.43.910.1
4.010.1
4.0
* 2012 data is not available, due to the 
timing of required regulatory reporting.0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008NA*2.95
2.36 2.332.90
0500010000150002000025000
1212 2011 2010 2009 200823,802
21,803 21,696
19,77419,032MetriCS
Discussion: Hazardous and non-
hazardous waste quantities increased 
in 2012 due to major maintenance 
activities at MPC refineries in Detroit, Mich.; Robinson, Ill.; and Canton, Ohio.Discussion: The increase in 2012 energy use 
is primarily due to activities required to complete and integrate the Detroit Heavy Oil Upgrade 
Project. The figure for 2011 has been adjusted to 
reflect new information, and therefore is slightly different from what was reported in last year’s 
Citizenship Report.
Discussion: Tier 2 DEIs are less 
severe than Tier 3 and 4 DEIs. We report them here because we consider them a 
leading indicator that helps us to identify potential problems before they occur. Discussion: DEIs for 2008 through 2010 have been revised since the 2011 Citizenship Report to include Speedway DEIs. 
Speedway will be included in these and other reported DEIs 
going forward, including the Tier 2 DEIs reported in this section.MPC’s certified wildlife habitat in Robinson, ill.
  34   MPC Citizenship Report  2012For more 
information about any of the terms on 
this page, please 
see the Glossary on page 48.Discussion: Numbers for this 
metric have been recalculated 
and more accurately reflect MPC’s 
emissions; as a result, the 2011 figure is one ton larger than reported in the 2011 Citizenship Report.
Discussion: GHG emissions were recalculated 
in 2012 and these numbers reflect the new 
findings; most figures dropped by a small amount 
(approx. 100,000 tonnes CO2e) compared to what 
we reported in our 2011 Citizenship Report, while 
one went up by a small amount.Discussion: The TRI increase in 2011 is the result of various 
factors. A newly identified TRI substance created by required emissions control equipment at two MPC refining operations is the largest contributor to the 2011 increase. The remainder 
is attributable to gradual production increases across our 
system, enhancements to our release estimate calculations and one-time events, such as on-site treatment of certain 
wastewater streams and treatment of soil as part of major 
construction projects.contents about this report
 enviR onment AL stew ARdship
BeHind tHe  numbeRs
epA ReCognition:  Four 
MPC refineries earned the EPA’s 
EnERGy STAR designation for superior energy efficiency in 2012. The facilities included our refineries in Canton, Ohio; Detroit, Mich.; Garyville, La.; and Texas City, Texas. MPC has earned 25 of the 31 EnERGy STAR recognitions the EPA has awarded to refineries.
ACC ReCognition:  In addition 
to the EPA recognitions, MPC was honored by the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care
® Energy 
Efficiency awards. Our refineries in Robinson, Ill.; Garyville, La.; Detroit, Mich.; and Canton, Ohio were each recognized for projects that resulted in substantial environmental improvements, including reductions in GHG emissions.
Consent deCRee A gReement:  
MPC reached agreement on a consent decree with the EPA to reduce emissions at 22 flares at our refineries. The agreement came after more than three years of discussions with the EPA and tens of millions of dollars of investment by MPC to increase flare combustion efficiency. The result is emissions reductions of 4,720 tons per year, with another 530 tons per year reduction over the next five years.new wiLdLife hAbit At: More 
than eight acres of grassland at Marathon Pipe Line’s station in Heath, Ohio, was transformed by employee volunteers, local Boy Scout Troop 9 and a Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) biologist to provide food, shelter, water and space for native wildlife. Participants planted more than 150 native trees and bushes, while Boy Scouts built and placed bluebird and bat houses, mallard boxes and hawk perches. Employees are working toward WHC certification.MPC Certified wiLdLife hAbit Ats
mpC maintains 18 habitat sites certified 
by the wildlife habitat Council (whC). 
These sites are certified as either Wildlife at Work or Corporate Lands for Learning sites, and in some cases both. The WHC’s Wildlife at Work program provides a structure for cooperative efforts between management, employees and community members to create, conserve and restore wildlife habitats on corporate lands. Corporate Lands for Learning is a certification program that gives us a framework for opening our habitats to members of the community for educational purposes.
MPC employees volunteer to start a 
wildlife habitat in Heath, Ohio.MPC’s certified wildlife habitat in Garyville, la.
  36   MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    37contents about this report
  38   MPC Citizenship Report  2012
enviR onment AL stew ARdship
•  hAbit At site:  Garyville, La. 
refinery property
  Acres managed for wildlife: 450
  Wildlife at Work certified  
since 2001.
 •  hAbit At site: Savage Branch 
Wildlife Reserve, Catlettsburg, Ky.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 360
  Wildlife at Work certified since 1994, and Corporate lands for 
learning certified since 1999.
•  hAbit At site: Big Spring, Ky. This 
site is unique in that the land is not 
owned by MPC, although MPC has 
a right of way for an underground pipeline through the property. The 
property, including the right of 
way, is managed for wildlife habitat 
cooperatively between MPC and 
the landowner. Acres managed for wildlife: 203
  Wildlife at Work certified  
since 2001.
•  hAbit At site: Martinsville Tank 
Farm, Martinsville, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 151
  Wildlife at Work certified since 
1999, and Corporate lands for 
learning certified since 2008.
•  hAbit At site: Palestine Neil Pit, 
Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 80
  Wildlife at Work certified since 2006 
and Corporate lands for learning 
certified since 2008.
•  hAbit At site: Lincoln Trail College 
and Palestine High School Nature 
Habitat, Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 50  Wildlife at Work certified since 2010. MPC also makes the property 
available to students and local citizens for various learning and 
activity opportunities.
•  hAbit At site: Speedway Office 
Complex, Enon, Ohio
 Acres managed for wildlife: 42
 Wildlife at Work certified since 1999.
•  hAbit At site: Washington Park, 
Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 31
  Wildlife at Work and Corporate lands for learning certified since 
2005. Local schools use the habitat for various educational programs, 
and signage along the nature 
trail provides students and other community members information 
about butterflies, local trees and  
trail safety.•  hAbit At site: Kuttawa Asphalt 
Terminal, Kuttawa, Ky.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 20
  Wildlife at Work certified since 2004.
•  hAbit At site: Huntington Light 
Product Terminal, Huntington, Ind.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 8
  Wildlife at Work certified  
since 2011.
•  hAbit At site: Cane Run Asphalt 
Terminal, Louisville, Ky.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 5
  Wildlife at Work certified  since 1999.
•  hAbit At site:  Mt. Vernon Asphalt 
Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Ind.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 5
  Wildlife at Work certified  since 2009.•  hAbit At site: St. Elmo Asphalt 
Terminal, St. Elmo, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 4
  Wildlife at Work certified  since 2011.
•  hAbit At site: Hutsonville 
School Nature Habitat, Hutsonville, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 3
  Wildlife at Work certified since 
2008, and Corporate lands for 
learning certified since 2009. 
Various Hutsonville School 
District educational programs take advantage of the habitat.
•  hAbit At site: Former Old Dutch 
Refinery, Muskegon, Mich.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 1
  Wildlife at Work certified  
since 2011.•  hAbit At site: Nashville Asphalt 
Terminal, Nashville, Tenn.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 1
  Wildlife at Work certified  since 2007.
•  hAbit At site: North Bend Asphalt 
Terminal, North Bend, Ohio
 Acres managed for wildlife: 1
  Wildlife at Work certified  since 2012.
•  hAbit At site: Findlay Office 
Complex, Findlay, Ohio
 Acres managed for wildlife: <1
  Wildlife at Work certified  since 2000.wiLdLife  hAbit Ats
A Marathon Pipe line right of way 
in Catlettsburg, Ky.A tree frog at MPC’s wildlife habitat in Garyville, la.
38    MPC Citizenship Report  2012MPC Citizenship Report  2012    39MPC Citizenship Report  2012    41
contents about this report
 ouR peopLe
because one of mpC’s greatest strengths 
is its employees, we are committed to providing a work environment that nurtures – and rewards – the innovation and dedication they bring to their jobs every day. In addition to providing competitive pay and benefits, we strive for a workplace characterized by a deep appreciation for diversity and inclusion. Toward our goal of creating an environment where all employees can maximize their talents and contributions, we actively seek to recruit the best candidates from diverse backgrounds to ensure that we continue to reap the benefits of inclusion.Our definition of diversity extends 
beyond the surface. We believe that 
a truly diverse workforce includes not 
just those differences that are visible and external, but also the diversity 
of thought, ideas and opinions that 
promote creativity and capitalize on differing points of view.
05101520
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Percent minorities (excluding Speedway)
Percent minorities (Speedway)8.17.48.39.08.218.519.6
18.6
16.117.7
01020304050607080
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Percent women (excluding Speedway)
Percent women (Speedway)21.5
16.2 17.0 18.221.164.762.0 61.9 62.163.6minoRities in the woRkfoRCe  
women in the woRkfoRCe  Every two years, MPC commissions an anonymous, company-wide survey of employees by a third party 
to explore employee engagement and the perception of our health, environment, safety and security 
situation at MPC. The employee engagement portion of the 2012 survey included 47 questions 
covering 10 topic areas. The health, environment, safety and security portion included 42 questions 
covering six topic areas. Employee participation in the survey was a record 92 percent.
We present a few of the most important metrics in this survey below. To understand these 
results, please note that a score of 80 percent or higher is considered a strength, while below 
65 percent is considered an opportunity for improvement. Only one issue yielded positive responses below 65 percent.2012  empL oyee suR vey
empL oyee eng Agement
EMPLO yEE SENTIMENT PERCENTAGE POSITIVE RESPONSES
I would recommend the company as a place to work. 92
I feel proud to work for the company. 91
If I have a concern about unethical behavior, I know where to go to report it. 94
I have good relationships with my co-workers. 96
The company takes a genuine interest in the welfare of communities in  
which it does business. 93
sAfety And enviR onment
EMPLO yEE SENTIMENT PERCENTAGE POSITIVE RESPONSES
MPC promotes a culture of safety. 97
MPC promotes a culture of environmental stewardship. 96
If a co-worker saw me doing something at-risk, I would want him/her  to say something to me. 98
When I see a co-worker working at-risk, I caution him/her. 95
I never feel pressure from my co-workers to “shortcut” environmental  standards or practices. 93
My supervisor would support me stopping a job for safety reasons. 93
My supervisor clearly sets the expectation that employees must follow all  safety and environmental rules and procedures. 93
I am encouraged to report potential environmental violations. 95
AREA FOR IMPROVEMENt
Only one area prompted less than 65 percent positive responses from employees, meaning it is MPC’s most significant opportunity for improvement: Employees are concerned that the promotion process does not necessarily select  employees with the ability and motivation to work safely.
HOW DO WE COMPARE?
Relative to MPC’s comparator groups – companies that are comparable to MPC in terms of the type and scale  of our business – we performed very well. Below are the five categories in which we exceeded our comparator  groups by the largest margins:
EMPLO yEE SENTIMENT PERCENTAGE MORE POSITIVE RESPONSES THAN 
 COMPARATOR GROUPS
Believe that management is more concerned about keeping people safe  
than with keeping the injury statistics low. 29 percent higher
you would want a co-worker to say something to you if he/she saw you  
doing something at-risk. 27 percent higher
Believe that employees rarely “shortcut” safe work practices. 27 percent higher
Feel that your supervisor does not put production ahead of safety. 26 percent higher
Feel that your supervisor sets a good example for safety through his/her  own safe behaviors. 25 percent higher
Diversity training during MPC’s 
Diversity Week at its headquarters in Findlay, Ohio
  40   MPC Citizenship Report  2012contents about this report
independent bo ARd membeRs  
2011: 90 percent
2012: 90 percentgoveRnAnCe And integRity eConomiC imp ACt
mpC adheres to a corporate governance 
framework that promotes accountability and provides transparency to investors, employees and our neighbors. Our board of directors is guided by our Corporate Governance Principles, which we post on our website and send to anyone who is interested. Likewise, MPC employees and officers are required to adhere to the company’s Code of Business Conduct, which is the subject of regular training and certification.
Discussion: We are encouraged by the increasing levels of 
communication with our Business Compliance and Integrity 
organization. Continued communication and training have 
enhanced awareness among employees about business integrity issues. As a result, the number of reports received and entered into the Business Integrity and Compliance case management system 
has increased. Over the reporting years, allegations have decreased 
as a percentage of the total reports, while the percentage of inquiries has increased. These trends indicate that employees are 
proactively contacting Business Integrity and Compliance to ensure 
their actions are consistent with the Code of Business Conduct to avoid placing themselves, or the company, at risk.
050100150200250300350400
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008NA260275300351
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2012 2011 2010 2009 20081,4322,954
2,579
1,1661,312
* Includes allegations, inquiries and other contacts entered into MPC’s Business Compliance 
and Integrity case management system. Because several functions prior to the spinoff 
of MPC on June 30, 2011, were shared by Marathon Oil Corporation’s upstream and 
downstream segments, numbers for 2011 and earlier are approximate to account for the vagaries associated with clearly designating some employees as belonging to the downstream segment (which became MPC after the spinoff in mid-2011) or the upstream/
corporate segment (which remained Marathon Oil Corporation).business integRity And 
CompLiAnCe CAses*  CApit AL eXpendituRes
Millions of Dollars  dividends p Aid
Millions of Dollars
2011: 160*
2012: 407In this section you will find metrics 
that show the amount of money 
MPC injects into the economy in 
various ways.
* Represents only half of 2011, from the time MPC 
became an independent, publicly traded company.
02004006008001,0001,200
2012 2011 2010 2009 20081,177
1,0641,115 1,119 1,106pAyRoLL*
Millions of Dollars  
01020304050607080
2012 2011 2010 2009 200878.6
66.4
47.662.876.3totAL eXpendituRes*
Billions of Dollars  
* Federal Wage Base reported on employees’ 
W-2 for the years indicated.* Includes capital expenditure items and payroll (which are also reported on this page) as well as 
other expenditures. 
MPC’s Business Integrity and 
Compliance office implements 
the Code of Business Conduct 
through various programs, as well as administering an Integrity Helpline. 
This gives employees, business 
partners and others an anonymous means of reporting suspected 
violations of the Code.mpC has generated significant 
economic value for shareholders, employees, governments, and the communities where we do business. To shareholders, we returned more than $1.75 billion from January 2012 to February 2013 through dividends and share repurchases. Among the S&P 500, MPC was the seventh highest-returning stock in 2012.
A Marathon station in Franklin, Ky.
MPC Citizenship Report  2012    43
Thomas J. Usher, chairman of MPC’s 
board of directors, addresses MPC shareholders at the company’s annual meeting in Findlay, Ohio.
  42   MPC Citizenship Report  2012Discussion: nine of MPC’s 10 directors 
are independent, as defined by our 
Corporate Governance Principles.MPC Citizenship Report  2012    45    
eConomiC imp ACt AdvoCACy
050100150200250300350400
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008NA372
179258329tARgeted pR oCuRement 
spending*
Millions of Dollars  
05001,0001,5002,000
2012 2011 2010 2009 20082366701,845
4001,330inCome t AX eXpenses*
Millions of Dollars  
* Includes discretionary and non-discretionary 
spending with minority- and women-owned 
business enterprises (MWBEs), as well as 
veteran-owned and disabled veteran-owned businesses, as certified by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Targeted Procurement 
Spending is a subset of, and not in addition 
to, the Total Expenditures (also reported in this section).*Includes federal, state, local and foreign.0123456
2012 2011 2010 2009 20085.7
5.14.95.2 5.1ConsumeR eXCise t AXes 
Remitted*
Billions of Dollars  
* MPC is required by law to collect state and 
federal excise taxes on fuels we sell to 
consumers, and remit these taxes to the 
relevant government entities. In January 2013, state and federal excise taxes averaged about $0.49 per gallon of gasoline, according to the 
American Petroleum Institute.
Discussion: 2012 is the first year we tracked 
and included our spending with U.S. Small 
Business Administration-certified veteran-owned 
and disabled veteran-owned businesses. Without these categories of spending, our MWBE spending would be $275 million.
the issue:   Proposed repeal of the LIFO 
Accounting Inventory Method
Background:   Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) is an 
accounting method that has been a recognized means 
of valuing inventory under the U.S. tax code since 1939. Under LIFO, the most recent inventory purchased is deemed to be used first. In times of rising prices, the LIFO accounting method results in better matching of costs and revenues, because cost of goods sold are valued at the current cost of replacing that inventory. MPC has consistently used the LIFO accounting method for decades to present our financial results and calculate our taxes. LIFO repeal was included in the president’s budget proposal and was discussed to a limited extent by various members of Congress and their staffs during 2012, but no legislation was enacted. 
MPC’s position:   We oppose repeal of the 
LIFO accounting method.
Why we took this position: LIFO repeal could result 
in a multibillion dollar tax penalty on industry. The proposal would require us to recalculate our inventory values and the resulting tax liability using a different accounting method, and then pay tax on the difference. This would be a retroactive imposition of a new tax liability that could reduce MPC’s – and industry’s – ability to grow, provide jobs and share economic value with our investors and communities.For any company that has been using this accounting method for a number of years, LIFO repeal and subsequent recapture of tax would, in effect, impose an after-the-fact penalty for lawful accounting practices. This is unfair, expensive and could significantly impact many manufacturers at a time when the country is looking to those companies to create jobs.
the issue:   Proposed repeal of Section 199 
Manufacturing Tax Deduction
Background:  The Section 199 deduction was 
enacted to help U.S. taxpayers create and maintain 
well-paying manufacturing jobs in the U.S. Section 199 provides companies with a 9 percent deduction of qualifying net income from domestic manufacturing and production activities. The oil and gas industry, however, does not benefit from the same deduction level as all other companies; it was capped at 6 percent by the Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008.
Industry opponents call Section 199 a “subsidy,” and 
maintain that the oil and gas industry does not deserve it, despite providing goods that are critical to the nation’s well-being and despite being one of the few industries showing robust job growth. During 2012, the idea of repealing Section 199, as it applied either to the entire  oil and gas industry, or to a select group of companies within the industry, was a feature of various conversations within Congress in the context of attempting to modify the tax code; however, no tangible legislative threats to the deduction materialized in 2012. 
MPC’s position:   We oppose repeal of the 
Section 199 tax deduction.
Why we took this position: As a manufacturer, MPC is 
a prime example of a company with the high-paying, skilled jobs that Section 199 was designed to create and maintain. Tax increases could reduce profitability, which in turn could reduce the amount MPC can share with its investors and with the communities where we operate, limiting our ability to grow and maintain jobs.
the issue: T he Renewable Fuel Standard 
(RFS)
Background:  In 2007, Congress passed the 
Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA ‘07), which required increases in the volume of biofuels that refiners and others (called “obligated parties”) must blend into the nation’s fuel supply. This mandate organizes biofuels into four separate categories based on their greenhouse MPC’s newly upgraded and 
expanded Detroit, Mich., refinerympC is in a heavily regulated 
industry, and we therefore work with lawmakers and regulators at the federal, state and local levels to keep them apprised of the impact of existing or proposed laws and regulations on our ability to most effectively meet the needs of our customers and other stakeholders.
 This 
sometimes involves taking positions on proposed laws or regulations. This section highlights some of our positions.
44    MPC Citizenship Report  2012
Comp Any o wneRship
MPC is owned by thousands of shareholders, which include a 
broad range of investors. MPC shareholders are individuals as well as large and small institutions such as mutual funds, pension funds, banks, insurance companies, endowment funds and others. Directors and executive officers of MPC, on a combined basis, own less than one percent of MPC stock.MPC Citizenship Report  2012    47    46   MPC Citizenship Report  2012gas emissions. It also requires obligated parties to use 
renewable identification numbers (RIns) to demonstrate compliance with the standard. RIns are generated when biofuels are blended with gasoline and diesel transportation fuels, and can be used to demonstrate compliance with the mandate or traded independently.
Congress based EISA ’07 volumetric requirements on 
projected growing demand for transportation fuels. However, the government’s fuel demand estimates did not accurately predict the significant decrease in demand which resulted from reduced economic growth and increased Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency standards. It’s also worth noting that ethanol is less fuel-efficient than petroleum transportation fuels. This means the mandated increase in fuel efficiency conflicts with the mandate to blend more of the less-efficient biofuel. The unintended consequence of the biofuels 
mandate is that the refining industry is burdened with 
an inflexible requirement to add more and more corn ethanol to a gasoline pool which has been steadily in decline. Soon the volumes of biofuel mandated under EISA ’07 will exceed the 10 percent per gallon of ethanol that can be safely absorbed by the vehicle fleet in the U.S. This blending limit is called the “E10 blendwall,” which may be reached before year-end 2013 if no regulatory or legislative changes are made. RIn prices have already increased in response to the approaching E10 blendwall.
Additionally, three of the four types of biofuels (corn 
ethanol, biodiesel, and sugar cane ethanol) are commercially available, while one of them (cellulosic ethanol) is still not available in commercial quantities. nonetheless, the EPA, which is responsible for enforcing the law, continues to require obligated parties to blend volumes of cellulosic ethanol that do not exist. Obligated parties – including MPC – face onerous fines under the Clean Air Act if they fail to blend the required volumes of total biofuels, or pay a fee as an alternative means of compliance for the cellulosic volumes.
Congress has introduced several pieces of legislation to 
change or repeal the RFS and may undertake action to move forward on this in 2013. 
MPC’s position:   We advocate for repeal of 
the RFS.
Why we took this position: The RFS provisions in 
EISA ’07 are simply unworkable. In order to satisfy the demands of the Clean Air Act, the EPA requires MPC – and other obligated parties – to force more corn ethanol biofuel into gasoline transportation fuel than the vehicle fleet can safely absorb, and to blend cellulosic biofuels that don’t exist. And we face significant fines if we do not comply with these requirements. The E10 blendwall is fast approaching, and the potential impact on the U.S. economy could be severe. If the E10 blendwall is not addressed, obligated parties could be faced with unattractive choices: either blend more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline (which millions of vehicles and small engines today cannot safely use), or reduce the amount of gasoline sold in the U.S. (which could raise gasoline prices, according to a recent study by nERA Economic Consulting). And, in the absence of a decision by the EPA to stop requiring us to blend nonexistent cellulosic biofuels, we will be forced to pay a “toll” which adds unnecessary costs to each gallon of gasoline.  
the issue:   Tier 3 Gasoline Proposed 
Rulemaking
Background:   Throughout 2012, the EPA 
was in the process of developing new gasoline 
standards on the theory that the agency needed to satisfy three main goals with which we and our entire industry disagreed: (1) to implement not-yet-final national Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone;  (2) to allow the automobile manufacturers to implement new Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards; and (3) to meet the anti-backsliding provisions contained in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 as a consequence of increased ethanol usage. EPA is currently focused solely on reducing the sulfur content of gasoline for this proposed rulemaking. The industry has recently reduced sulfur from 300 parts per million (ppm) to  30 ppm and could find no scientific justification  for expending another approximately $10 billion  to reduce sulfur to the 10 ppm the EPA planned  to propose. The EPA has formally proposed a  90 percent sulfur reduction in gasoline and a series  of additional changes that will impact vehicles’ testing specifications.
MPC’s position:   We oppose reduction 
of the sulfur limit in gasoline to 10 ppm.
Why we took this position: The EPA did not provide 
any scientific justification for reducing the sulfur limit to 10 ppm, and it failed to make public any cost/benefit analysis. At the same time, a study commissioned by the American Petroleum Institute found that the sulfur limit reduction could increase the per-gallon cost of gasoline production by 6 to 9 cents. A separate study by an environmental consulting firm showed that the reduction in ozone pollution resulting from the sulfur reduction would be minimal – below the ability of monitors to measure. Meanwhile, added manufacturing costs could increase consumers’ costs at the pump and reduce the ability of refiners to grow, provide jobs, and share economic value with stockholders and communities. At the same time, the proposed new requirements would increase refiners’ greenhouse gas emissions, since the process of removing additional sulfur from gasoline is very energy-intensive.
the issue:   Keystone XL pipeline 
construction
Background:   The Keystone XL pipeline 
is a $5.3 billion project that could transport up 
to 830,000 bpd of crude oil from Canada and the northern U.S. to the oil trading hub of Cushing, Okla., and on to the U.S. coast of the Gulf of Mexico, where the majority of U.S. refining assets are located.
Before Keystone XL can be built, the U.S. State 
Department must approve the project because it crosses the U.S. border with Canada. The State Department’s Final Environmental Impact Statement, published in August 2011, concluded there would be no significant negative impact from the project. However, a few months later, the State Department announced that it would delay its decision on the pipeline. 
Congress eventually agreed on a provision 
requiring the president to make a decision in 2012. In January 2012, President Obama announced that he was accepting a recommendation by the State Department to reject the permit because the Department could not complete environmental reviews by the deadline set by Congress.
In May 2012, TransCanada – the company proposing 
construction of Keystone XL – submitted to the State Department a new application that avoids environmentally sensitive areas in nebraska, which had been a sensitive issue for the administration and nebraska’s governor in the previously submitted route. The State Department subsequently released a Draft Supplemental Impact Statement for the new Presidential Permit in March 2013. This statement requires a 45-day comment period and must be 
followed by a national Interest Determination that 
also requires public comment.  
In the meantime, Congress has demonstrated 
strong support for approval of the pipeline project.  
Both chambers have submitted bipartisan letters 
of support for the pipeline project and are in the 
process of advancing legislation to approve the 
permits independent of the State Department.  
MPC’s position:    We support approval 
of the Keystone XL pipeline.
Why we took this position: Additional crude oil 
supplies from Canada – a stable, friendly neighbor that is the U.S.’s largest trading partner – enhances 
our nation’s energy security. Also, pipelines are 
by far the safest method of transporting crude oil, 
and the safety of modern pipelines is better than ever. Keystone XL’s performance will be regulated by the federal Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, which requires rigorous  safety protocols.
From an economic standpoint, an independent 
study found that construction of Keystone XL should provide significant, positive contributions  to U.S. energy security and the U.S. economy  
valued at over $20 billion. The study further concluded that once the pipeline is operational, the states along the pipeline route are expected to receive an additional $5.2 billion in property taxes during the estimated operating life of the pipeline. The pipeline project is expected to directly create more than 20,000 high-wage manufacturing and construction jobs across the U.S., stimulating significant additional economic activity.AdvoCACy
managing for Continual improvement
MPC Citizenship Report  2012    49    bbl.:  Barrel (42 U.S. gallons)
bpcd:   Barrels per calendar day. This is an average of how much feedstock a plant processes over a period of 
time, divided by the number of days in that period.
bpd:  Barrels per day
btu:   British thermal unit. A measure of heat energy often used to quantify the energy in different types of  fuel. For example, gasoline has 124,300 Btus per gallon, and ethanol has 84,500 Btus per gallon.
Co2e:  Carbon dioxide equivalent. Because various greenhouse gases have heat-trapping effects that are stronger or weaker than carbon dioxide (CO
2), they are often expressed as the equivalent amount of CO2 
to provide a consistent measure.
dAR:  Days Away Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of full days of work missed by employees due to injuries, per 200,000 work hours.
dei*:   Designated Environmental Incident. A metric adopted by MPC to capture several categories simultaneously. It includes releases to the environment (including to air, land or water), permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. MPC ranks DEIs in terms of their severity, with Tier 4 being the most severe, and Tier 1 being the least. Below are partial descriptions of the DEI Tiers:
 tier 4
  • Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 1,000 bbl.
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 100 bbl.
  •  Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 100 times the reportable quantity
 tier 3  
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 100 bbl. but less than 
1,000 bbl.
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl. 
  •  Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to an established reportable quantity but less than 100 times the reportable quantity
 tier 2 
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than  100 bbl.
  • Safety system failure or bypass
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material into a regulated water body greater than or equal to 1 bbl. but less than 10 bbl.
  
•  Release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 80 percent of a reportable quantity but less than an established reportable quantity
 tier 1
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land that is less than 10 bbl. (if less than 1 bbl., release 
must also be reportable)
dhoup:   MPC’s Detroit Heavy Oil Upgrade Project. A $2.2 billion project begun in January 2008 and  
completed in november 2012. It increased the MPC Detroit refinery’s heavy oil processing capacity  to 100,000 bpd.
dividend:  A per-share quarterly payment to owners of MPC common stock.
eneRgy st AR:  An EPA program recognizing energy efficiency. To achieve this status,  applicants must perform in the top quartile for energy efficiency and have no unresolved environmental compliance actions from state or federal regulators.
epA: The U.S. federal government’s Environmental Protection Agency.ghg:   Greenhouse gases, so named because of their heat-trapping properties. They include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other substances.
hes&s:   MPC’s Health, Environment, Safety & Security organization, which is tasked with planning, executing, monitoring and continually improving the company’s performance in these critical areas.
mpC:  Marathon Petroleum Corporation
mspi*:   Marathon Safety Performance Index. A safety indicator similar to the ORIR and the DAR (which are also defined in this glossary), but weighted for severity.
m/v: Motor vessel. This abbreviation typically precedes the formal name of a marine vessel.
mwbe:   Minority- or Woman-owned Business Enterprise. This refers to organizations certified by a specialized agency as majority-owned by women or minorities. Certifying agencies we work with include the national Minority Supplier Development Council and the U.S. Small Business Administration.
oshA:  The U.S. federal government’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
oRiR:   OSHA Recordable Incident Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of injuries that must be reported to OSHA, per 200,000 work hours.
pse*:   Process safety event. These are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a material from one of MPC’s processes. Tier 1 PSEs, which we report in this publication, are the most serious PSEs. Below are detailed descriptions of the PSE Tiers:
 tier 1
  • Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of a liquid or gas
  • Fatality, lost-time injury, or community evacuation
  • Fires exceeding $25,000 in damages
 tier 2
  • LOPC of a liquid or gas
  • Results in recordable injury
  • Fires exceeding $2,500 in damages
 tier 3 
  • Operating outside of system parameters
  •  Safety system failure or bypass, “not-to-exceed”  alarm level exceeded
  
• All other fires resulting from LOPC
 tier 4
  •  Overdue recommendations and mechanical inspections
  • Management of change not well executed
psm:   Process Safety Management. A series of OSHA regulatory guidelines for facilities that handle certain potentially hazardous substances. Among other objectives, the guidelines are geared toward avoiding PSEs.
Responsible Care®:  A program of the American Chemistry Council designed to continually improve performance in the areas of health, safety, environmental protection and more. Companies that choose to participate in Responsible Care undergo audits of their headquarters and facilities to ensure they have a structure and system in place to measure, manage and verify performance.
tonne: Metric ton. While a ton is 2,000 pounds, a tonne (or metric ton) is 2,205 pounds.
tRi:   Toxic Rrelease Inventory. This includes releases of toxic materials to air, water and land, as well as off-site disposal. The TRI we are required to report to the EPA also includes materials we send off-site for recycling, energy recovery and other forms of further treatment; however, we do not report these latter metrics in this publication.gLossAR y
Tier 1
LOPC Events of
Greater Consequences
Tier 2
LOPC Events of
Lesser Consequences
Tier 3
Challenges to Safety Systems
Tier 4
Operating Discipline & Management System
Performance IndicatorsSeverity
* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC. As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets performance 
goals related to these metrics.* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC. As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets performance 
goals related to these metrics.
48   MPC Citizenship Report  2012LoCA tion indeX
Florida  
  Ft. Lauderdale: 20
  Tampa: 9, 13
Georgia   Atlanta: 18
 Columbus: 13
 norcross: 22
Illinois   Benton: 19
 Chicago: 14, 23
  Hutsonville: 6, 11, 13, 39
 Marshall: 10
 Martinsville: 38
 Mt. Prospect: 21
 Palestine: 11, 13, 38
  Robinson:  8, 11, 13, 17, 19, 20, 
21, 22, 29, 34, 36,38
 St. Elmo: 9, 19, 39 
 Wood River: 33
Indiana 
 Georgetown: 10
 Huntington: 39
 Indianapolis: 9, 14, 15
 Mt. Vernon: 39
 Muncie: 6
 Speedway: 7
Kentucky 
 Ashland: 18, 19, 22
 Big Spring: 38
 Catlettsburg:  8, 10, 11, 12, 16, 
17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 24, 38 Clark County: 24 
 Fayette County: 24 
 Kuttawa: 39
 Lexington: 14, 24
 Louisville: 19, 39
Louisiana  
 Garyville:  8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 29, 36, 37, 38, 39
 Laplace: 24
 Lutcher: 19
 new Orleans: 22
 Sorrento: 12
 St. John the  
 Baptist Parish: 8, 11, 16, 19, 23
Michigan 
 Bay City: 18
 Detroit:  8, 9, 10, 12, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, 32,  
36, 44
 Lansing: 14
 north Muskegon: 19, 39
North Carolina 
 Charlotte: 14, 18
Ohio  Canton:  8, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18,  19, 20, 24, 25, 36
 Eagle: 16
 Enon: 17, 38 Findlay:  7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15,  16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 29, 30, 31, 
33, 39, 40
  Hancock County:  16, 17, 20,21, 
22, 24, 25
 Heath: 36
 Ironton: 18, 19
 Kalida: 16
 Marietta: 13, 19
 north Bend: 9, 19, 39
 north Canton: 9, 20, 21
 Oregon: 13, 19, 20
 Stark County: 24
 Steubenville: 19
South Carolina 
 Belton: 19
 Cheddar: 19
 Greenville: 23
 Rock Springs: 19
Tennessee   nashville:  12, 13, 24, 39
Texas 
   Texas City:  10, 16, 21, 22, 23, 29, 36
West Virginia  Huntington: 24
 Kenova: 19 
Wisconsin  Milwaukee: 10
Wyoming  Meeteetse: 33
On this page:
On the back cover:
A Marathon station in 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
MPC marine vessel 
inspection on the Mississippi RiverWhere to find reference to places that are important to you, listed by state and community:
DISCLOSURES REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This citizenship report includes forward-looking statements. You can identify our forward-looking statements by words 
such as “anticipate, ” “believe, ” “estimate, ” “expect, ” “forecast, ” “goal, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “predict, ” “project, ” “seek, ” “target, ” “could, ” “may, ” “should, ” “would” or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. We have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. We caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. In addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. While our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. In accordance with “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we have included in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012, cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The aforementioned Form 10-K is available on our website, http://www.marathonpetroleum.com under the “Investor Center” tab, or can be requested by contacting: Public Affairs, 539 S. Main St., Room 312-M, Findlay OH 45840.
50   MPC Citizenship Report  2012 
539 South Main Streetfindlay, oH 45840
citizenship@marathonpetroleum.com
About Marathon Petroleum Corporation
MPC is the nation’s fourth-largest refiner, 
with a crude oil capacity of approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar day in its seven-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through more than 5,000 independently owned retail outlets across 17 states. Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s fourth-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 1,460 convenience stores in eight states. MPC also owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of pipeline. MPC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the  company’s distribution network in the Midwest, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions. For additional information about the company, please visit our website at  http://www.marathonpetroleum.com.