2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT      Introduction    |   1
Contents A Message from Our CEO
 1 A Message from Our CEO 
 2 About Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 8 Sustainability at MPC  
 12 Safety  
 18 Integrity and Governance
 20 Stakeholder Engagement 
 22 Our People  
 28 Our Community  
 34 Environment
 44 Renewable Energy and Products   
 45 Performance Data  
 52 Content Index (IPIECA & GRI)
 54 Glossary Fellow shareholders, friends and neighbors,
At Marathon Petroleum Corporation, we are proud 
of the work we do to enhance life’s possibilities 
throughout our nation and around the world. 
We provide energy and other products that are 
critical to millions of people’s daily lives, and 
we are committed to doing it responsibly. That 
means adhering to our values of health and safety, 
environmental stewardship, integrity, corporate 
citizenship and an inclusive culture. It also means 
being transparent about our performance related  
to these important values.
We have published our annual Citizenship Report 
since becoming an independent company in 2011, 
providing stakeholders like you with an in-depth 
look at the many ways we live up to our values. 
In this year’s report, renamed our Sustainability 
Report, we are bringing you an enhanced level of 
accountability by using reporting standards of the 
International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association. You will find here a more 
robust discussion of our corporate governance  
and a careful focus on the processes and programs 
we use to manage our performance. Through this 
new disclosure, our objective is to provide you  
with greater insight about how we work toward 
continual improvement.
We achieved a significant milestone in 2018, as 
Marathon Petroleum’s strategic combination with 
Andeavor expanded our operational footprint from 
coast to coast. We are now a leading integrated, 
downstream energy company operating the nation’s 
largest refining system. We are one of the largest 
midstream operators in North America and have  
a nationwide retail and marketing business.As the world’s need for reliable, affordable, plentiful 
energy continues to grow, our expanded scale gives 
us the opportunity to create shared value with so 
many more of our neighbors, communities and  
fellow human beings around the world.
In this report, you’ll read about how we manage, 
measure and continually improve our safety 
performance and environmental stewardship, 
changes we are making to enhance our community 
involvement, and progress we are making toward 
ever greater diversity and inclusion. Our performance 
in these areas is top-down: driven, executed and 
monitored by our Board of Directors and Executive 
Leadership Team; and bottom-up: a result of our 
thousands of employees’ enthusiasm and dedication 
to the values that make us successful.
Our success would not be possible without those of 
you who have a stake in our company’s operations – 
whether you are one of our neighbors, an employee, 
a business partner, customer, appointed or elected 
official, or a shareholder. I thank you for your interest 
in Marathon Petroleum Corporation, and encourage 
you to read this report to learn more.
Sincerely,
Gary R. Heminger 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       About MPC    |   3 2       |   About MPC
About Marathon Petroleum Corporation
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Voluntary Protection Program  
Star Site designation , OSHA’s highest status,  
at 18 facilities74% of the EPA’s ENERGY STAR®   
recognitions awarded to refineries, more than all U.S. refiners combined
2018 and 2019 EPA ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year , the only refining company to  
earn the award those yearsAmerican Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM)  
Elite Silver Safety Award at three of our refineriesReduced the number  of personal safety incidents by  
8% in 2018 across our Refining operationsSAFETY AT OUR CORE
 OUR PEOPLE
 OUR COMMUNITY
 Recognized by Forbes as one of 
America’s Best Employers  
for Diversity
Achieved a score of 85%  on the  
Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s  
2018 Corporate Equality IndexPartnered with and 
contributed to   
local and national organizations such 
as the United Way, Children’s Hospital 
of San Antonio, American Red Cross, 
Boys & Girls Clubs of America, Girl 
Scouts of the USA, Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospitals and Ronald 
McDonald House CharitiesENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
 Reduced direct and energy indirect  
GHG emissions intensity by   
2%  in 2018 
Reduced our criteria pollutant intensity 
by 10%  and overall criteria  
pollutant emissions by 7%
Reduced freshwater withdrawal intensity  
16% since 2014
Owns and manages 1,347 acres 
of wildlife habitat certified by the  
Wildlife Habitat Council2018 by the Numbers
      About MPC    |   5 4       |    About MPC
MPC At A Glance
Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC) is the 
largest petroleum refiner in the U.S., with more 
than 3 million barrels per day of crude oil capacity 
in our 16-refinery system. Our core values of health 
and safety, environmental stewardship, integrity, 
corporate citizenship, and an inclusive culture help 
drive the success of our fully integrated system.
In 2018, MPC strategically combined with another 
independent refiner, Andeavor, which significantly 
expanded our footprint across key markets, 
enhanced our midstream footprint in the Permian 
and Bakken basins, and created our nationwide 
retail and marketing portfolio. This strategic 
combination has allowed us to continue our journey 
of building a valued, dynamic energy company 
that enhances life’s possibilities, while anchored in 
our core values. Today, we are the largest refining 
company in the U.S., doing business through our 
subsidiaries in 41 states and the District of Columbia; 
the Mexican states of Baja California, Sonora and 
Sinaloa; and with trading operations in Canada  
and Singapore.
Our 12,000 retail and marketing locations include 
our branded retail outlets across the U.S. and in 
Mexico, and Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, which owns and operates retail convenience stores 
nationwide. Our 16 refineries are linked to this retail 
and marketing system through a robust distribution 
network and midstream service business. MPC’s 
midstream business includes its ownership of the 
general partner and majority limited partner interests 
in MPLX LP, which owns and operates natural gas 
gathering, processing and fractionation assets, as 
well as crude oil and light product transportation and 
logistics infrastructure. 
Headquartered in Findlay, Ohio, our fully integrated 
system provides operational flexibility to move crude 
oil, natural gas liquids, feedstocks and petroleum-
related products efficiently through our distribution 
network and midstream service businesses in the  
Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and West Coast regions.
We have a growing renewable energy portfolio, 
including our biodiesel facility in Cincinnati, 
Ohio; joint-venture ownership of three Midwest 
ethanol plants; ongoing conversion of one of our 
petroleum refineries to produce renewable diesel; 
and our wholly owned subsidiary, Virent, that 
produces advanced biofuels from plant sugars and 
lignocellulosic materials.
Over 60,000  
regular full-time and part-time employeesThe larges t  
independent petroleum product 
refining, marketing, retail and 
midstream business in the U.S.
131 years of experience  
in the energy business, with roots  
tracing back to 1887About Marathon Petroleum Corporation
Biodiesel production capacity of  
80 million gallons per yearLand- and water-access 
terminal facilities with  
27.3 million  
barrels of capacityOver 3 million barrels  
per day of crude oil refining capacity 
across 16 refineries 
A marine business that  
owns and operates  
23 vessels and 256 barges 
16,600 miles of pipeline  
113.5 million  gallons  
of refined products sold per dayNearly 12,000  
nationwide retail and  
marketing locations
Natural gas processing  
throughput of  
7.5 billion   
standar d cubic feet per day      About MPC  |   7 6       |    About MPC
MEXICO
Note: Illustrative representation of asset map
(a) Includes MPC/MPLX owned and operated lines, MPC/MPLX interest lines operated by others and MPC/MPLX operated lines owned by others.MPLX Owned Marine
Facility
Natural Gas
Processing ComplexMPLX Refining 
Logistics Assets
CavernMPC/MPLX Pipelines(a)
Barge DockMPLX Owned and Part-Owned 
Light Product Terminals
MPLX Owned Asphalt/Heavy 
Oil Terminals
MPLX Gathering 
SystemRenewable Fuels
Ethanol Facility
Biodiesel FacilityMPC Owned and Part-Owned 
Light Product Terminals
MPC Owned Asphalt/Heavy
Oil Terminals MPC RefineriesDomestic Marketing Area International Marketing Area
MPC/MPLX Pipelines(a)
MPC Owned and Part-Owned
Marine FacilityOur uniquely integrated business provides us with extensive 
flexibility, enabling us to meet the growth needs of the market 
and respond promptly to shifts in market conditions. 
REFINING AND MARKETING: 
●  Our Refining system is the largest in the U.S., with more than  
3 million barrels per day of throughput capacity. Our 16 refineries  
are in the West Coast, Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent regions of 
the U.S. and are integrated with each other via pipelines, marine 
operations, transport trucks, railcars and storage terminals to 
maximize operating efficiency. 
●  We sell our refined products to independent retailers, wholesale 
customers and our branded jobbers within our 41-state  
marketing area.
MIDSTREAM: 
●  We are the general partner and majority limited partner unitholder 
in MPLX LP, a midstream company that owns and operates crude oil 
and light product transportation and logistics infrastructure, as well 
as natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation assets .
●  The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the 
movement of intermediate products between refineries, terminals 
and other logistics assets to optimize operations, produce higher 
margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity.
RETAIL: 
●  We have the nation’s second-largest company-owned and 
-operated convenience store chain. We sell transportation fuels and 
merchandise through convenience stores that we own and operate, 
primarily under the Speedway brand, as well as through direct 
dealer locations, mainly under the ARCO® brand.
For more information on our operational and financial 
performance in 2018, please see our 2018 Annual Report.An Integrated Business Model
MPC's refinery in Anacortes, Washington
MPC’s Sherwood natural gas processing plant in West Virginia
A Speedway store in Nashville, Tennessee®
Virent,  
Inc.AUDIT COMMITTEE: Assists our Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities 
by regularly reviewing risks associated with financial and accounting matters,  
as well as those related to financial reporting. In this regard, our Audit 
Committee monitors compliance with regulatory requirements and internal 
control systems. Our Audit Committee also reviews the process by which 
Enterprise Risk Management is undertaken by the company.
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE: Assists the Board with risk oversight 
through its review of compensation programs to help ensure such programs 
do not encourage excessive risk-taking. The Compensation Committee 
reviews base compensation levels, incentive compensation and succession 
plans to confirm the company has appropriate practices in place to support 
the retention and development of the employees necessary to achieve the 
company’s business goals and objectives.CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE  
AND NOMINATING  
COMMITTEECOMPENSATION  
COMMITTEEAUDIT  
COMMITTEESUSTAINABILITY  
COMMITTEE      Sustainability at MPC   |   9 8       |    Sustainability at MPC
Sustainability at MPC
ABOUT THIS REPORT
This 2018 Sustainability Report, published October 2019, is 
MPC’s eighth annual Citizenship Report and covers our safety, 
governance, social and environmental activities, initiatives, 
and performance for calendar year 2018. Last year’s Citizenship 
Report covering calendar year 2017 can be found online at 
https:/ /www.marathonpetroleum.com/Responsibility/Corporate-
Citizenship/ and Andeavor’s 2017 Sustainability Report can  
be found online at https:/ /www.marathonpetroleum.com/content/
documents/Andeavor_2017_SR_FINAL_Web.pdf.
This report has been developed in accordance with the 
International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association (IPIECA) Sustainability Reporting Guidance. It is 
also largely informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards, which were used to guide the materiality and 
stakeholder engagement process and narrative development 
of our management approach. 
The information and data in this report covers all MPC and 
legacy Andeavor entities, including Andeavor Logistics LP, 
Speedway LLC and MPLX LP for the calendar year 2018, 
unless otherwise indicated. Data included has been reviewed 
by MPC’s Internal Audit organization. 
Through our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios 
report, we continue to provide a risk assessment that  
follows guidelines set forth by the Financial Stability Board’s 
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD).  
Our third Perspectives report is available on our website.
We encourage open dialogue and any feedback that can 
help to inform and improve our immediate and long-term 
sustainability performance. The contact for this report can  
be reached at sustainability@marathonpetroleum.com.ACHIEVING SUSTAINABILITY  
THROUGH SHARED VALUE
We view sustainability as our environmental, social and 
economic responsibility. We believe that sustainability is 
a fundamental process of shared-value creation, in which 
strategic investment and innovation help our society achieve 
economic growth, environmental preservation and resource 
conservation. This shared value helps ensure the social and 
economic needs of future generations are met.
BOARD OVERSIGHT  
AND RESPONSIBILITY 
Achieving shared value and ensuring we operate our business 
in a responsible and sustainable manner is not only the 
responsibility of our tens of thousands of employees and 
business partners through their daily decisions and actions, it 
also comes from the top. Oversight by our Board of Directors 
supports strong corporate governance. In late 2018, our 
Board established a board-level Sustainability Committee. 
This committee oversees our health, environmental, safety 
and security policies, plans, programs and practices, and 
reviews our performance and public reporting on these 
matters. The committee reviews our annual Sustainability 
Report and our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios 
report, and oversees our management team’s efforts on 
contingency planning, emergency response activities and 
stakeholder engagement. It also provides oversight on a 
variety of environment, social and governance (ESG) topics.
More information on our Board’s Sustainability Committee 
and its responsibilities, as well as our executive leadership 
committees, can be found in our 2019 Proxy Statement and 
2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report.MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATING COMMITTEE: Develops and 
oversees our Corporate Governance Principles and reviews the qualifications 
and makeup of the Board and candidates for the Board. Assists the Board 
with risk oversight by reviewing shareholder communications and other 
initiatives related to ESG issues.
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE: Reviews the company’s strategy on climate 
change and other ESG-related issues. Assists the Board in fulfilling its risk 
oversight responsibilities in matters relating to the health, environment, 
safety and security of personnel and physical assets, and oversees 
our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report and our annual 
Sustainability Report.
An MPC wildlife habitat near its 
refinery in Robinson, Illinois, certified 
by the Wildlife Habitat Council      Sustainability at MPC    |   11 10        |    Sustainability at MPC
REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE
We are required to comply with regulations 
governing safety, environment, workers’ rights, 
equal employment opportunity, human rights 
and social justice.  
Our operations, assets and processes require 
specialized knowledge, advanced operating 
procedures and a commitment to excellence 
to ensure safety and maximize environmental 
stewardship. Our approach to sustainability is 
defined by not only the work we do to conform 
and comply with all laws and regulations, but 
also by our drive to meet or exceed our own 
rigorous environmental and safety targets.
DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH 
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 
The combination of MPC and Andeavor in  
2018 presented an unprecedented opportunity 
to integrate and combine two dynamic legacy 
management systems: MPC’s RC14001® (Health, 
Environment, Safety and Security Management 
System) and Andeavor’s Operational 
Excellence Management System (OEMS). This 
combination helps to ensure best practices  
for continual improvement of our operations 
and the availability, utilization, profitability  
and reliability of our assets. It also supports  
our ability to invest in communities, ensure  
risk governance, preserve the environment  
and conserve natural resources.After more than 15 years of continual 
improvement under the Responsible Care® 
Management System, MPC adopted the 
RC14001® certification process in 2018 to further 
enhance and promote sustainable practices 
in our operations. RC14001 is a management 
system that combines Responsible Care® with 
the globally recognized ISO14001 environmental 
management system, established by the 
International Organization for Standardization 
(ISO). ISO is an independent, nongovernmental 
international body that provides specifications 
for products, services and systems that ensure 
quality, safety and efficiency. RC14001 provides 
us with a management system that integrates 
health, environmental stewardship, safety and 
security and is third-party audited to ensure 
compliance and continual improvement. 
Throughout 2018, we worked to increase 
the number of sites certified to RC14001. Six 
refineries, Marathon Pipe Line and our Terminal, 
Transport and Rail organization have been 
certified to the standard.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT*
We undertook an in-depth materiality assessment 
to identify the environmental, social and governance 
topics that were most relevant to our company 
and our stakeholders. That materiality assessment, 
guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards, informs the content of this report and  
our future sustainability strategy development. 
The outcome of this assessment was an enhanced 
understanding of the topics most significant to our 
business, the environment and society. 
IDENTIFICATION OF TOPICS
We reviewed source documents, such as business 
plans and strategies, employee communications, 
external communications, and materials from both 
MPC and Andeavor, to assess the broad landscape 
of topics affecting our industry, society, stakeholder expectations and business. We also conducted 
industry and peer benchmarking to assess the 
sustainability strategies, priorities and actions 
taken by our industry; reviewed non-governmental 
organization (NGO) materials and advocacy 
campaigns; media coverage; trends in the regulatory 
environment; and shareholder feedback from our 
engagement initiatives. This external research helped 
inform the broader sustainability context in which  
we operate. 
PRIORITIZATION 
The next step in our materiality assessment process 
was to engage more than 1,000 internal and external 
stakeholders to understand key focus areas and their 
priority across the economic, environmental and 
social aspects of our business. External stakeholders 
included community residents, Community Advisory 
Panels (CAPs), advocacy organizations, emergency 
responders, elected officials and regulators. For more information on our approach to stakeholder 
engagement, see Pages 20 and 21 of this report. 
We then gathered feedback via in-depth surveys 
that asked stakeholders to indicate each topic’s 
level of priority. Survey results, along with an 
internal assessment to better understand each 
topic’s overall impact, were used to develop a 
prioritized list. High-priority and moderate-priority 
topics are listed below.
VALIDATION  
We reviewed, approved and validated our final 
prioritization of the material topics. Each topic 
is included in this report and can be found in 
our IPIECA (International Petroleum Industry 
Environmental Conservation Association) and 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index.
Air Emissions
Anti-corruption Practices 
Board and Executive Leadership Diversity 
Climate-related Risks
Ethical Business Practices 
Native Peoples Engagement
Oil Spill Prevention
Process Safety
Worker Safety 
Workforce Diversity, Inclusion  
and Equal OpportunityHIGH  
PRIORITY  
TOPICSMODERATE  
PRIORITY  
TOPICSCommunity and Stakeholder Engagement
Endangered Species and Ecosystems
Employee and CEO Compensation
Philanthropic Investment and  
Employee Volunteerism
Sustainability Oversight
Waste Minimization and Handling 
Water Use and Wastewater Management
A view of MPC’s refinery in 
Kenai, Alaska * Distinct from concepts of materiality in financial reporting and under securities laws, a sustainability materiality assessment seeks to consider 
impacts an organization may have on the broader economy, environment and society, and factors viewed as important to stakeholders.       Safety    |   13 12        |    Safety
Safety
The safety and well-being of our employees and 
contractors is our top priority and a core value. 
Our aim is to have an accident-free, incident-free 
workplace to ensure that everyone goes home safely 
every day. Therefore, we continuously evaluate and 
improve our personal and process safety procedures 
and diligently maintain our assets to reduce the risk 
of incidents. We also foster a strong safety culture 
across our company to ensure that our people are 
working toward this goal every day.
SAFETY MANAGEMENT 
Our Board’s Sustainability Committee oversees 
matters relating to the health, safety and security 
of our employees and assets. Additionally, an 
executive Health, Environment, Safety and Security 
(HES&S) Management Committee meets quarterly 
and is responsible for evaluating performance 
and overseeing key health- and safety-related 
corporate policies. To read more about our HES&S 
management approach and systems, see Page 10 of 
this Report. 
2018 was a year of significant growth and change for 
MPC as we strategically combined with Andeavor. 
We worked diligently to apply safety standards, 
expectations and consistent safety oversight across 
the newly combined organization. As part of our 
strategic combination, we also conducted thorough 
program and field assessments with defined plans for 
bringing the best of our two companies’ standards 
together and establishing integration expectations. Personal Safety
Our personal safety standards comply with and often exceed local, state and federal regulations. Our 
employees and contractors are trained on our standards, and we conduct frequent audits and quality 
assurance visits to ensure compliance. Our safety culture is one that empowers everyone to create and 
maintain a safe and healthy workplace. 
In 2018, we achieved our lowest combined OSHA recordable incident rate across our Refining operations 
since 2014: 0.27 per 200,000 hours worked. Our Midstream and Retail segment rates increased to 0.76 
and 1.99, respectively, while both remained below industry average incident rates. We continue to drive 
for ongoing safety improvements in our Midstream and Retail segments, with a goal of zero incidents.
LIFE CRITICAL STANDARDS
Our corporate approach to managing health and 
safety is designed to provide high-level requirements 
for the development of specific personal safety 
standards for various operating organizations and 
functions across our enterprise. We have extensive 
safety and environmental policies and procedures, 
including our Life Critical Standards, which address 
the personal safety hazards that can result in serious, 
or even fatal, injuries if not properly managed. Our 
Life Critical Standards include:
●  HOT WORK: addresses work that introduces ignition sources, 
such as welding, torching and grinding in close proximity to 
flammable materials.
●  CONFINED SPACE ENTRY: addresses work that requires 
personnel to enter confined spaces such as tanks and  
reactor vessels.
●  ENERGY ISOLATION: ensures equipment is safe to perform 
invasive work or maintenance by ensuring employees are 
protected from the unexpected re-energization or release of 
stored energy.
●  ELEVATED WORK: covers work that may be carried out 
at heights, including scaffolding, ladders and aerial-work 
platforms.
All of our operating organizations adopt the Life 
Critical Standards that are relevant to their operations 
and the type of work they perform, as well as detailed implementation plans specific to their 
facilities, processes and equipment. All  
of our standards are based on industry 
best practices and enforced through 
comprehensive training, audits and 
engagement from our leadership teams  
and internal subject matter experts. We  
also ensure the standards are regularly 
evaluated and updated. 
We enforce an Industrial Hygiene Standard 
designed to address any potential exposures 
to chemical, physical, biological and other 
hazards. The standard outlines controls, 
protective equipment and monitoring 
procedures to reduce the exposure risk to  
our people.   
In addition to our training programs, we 
also conduct field and program audits to 
assess our compliance with all relevant 
internal standards and with the RC14001® 
Management System, which verifies that  
our internal management systems are of a 
high caliber and being effectively executed.  
For more information on RC14001 at MPC,  
see Page 10 of this Report. 
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.820182017201620152014 0.40
0.36
0.270.34
0.29 0.70.7
0.6
0.6MPC Refining OSHA Recordable Rate*  
(incidents/200,000 hours )
MPC Refining U.S. Refining avg**
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.520182017201620152014 0.66
0.82
0.760.63
0.64 1.62.4
1.9
1.5MPLX OSHA Recordable Rate  
(incidents/200,000 hours)
MPLX U.S. Midstream avg***
*Data includes employees and contractors. Includes MPC and Andeavor performance.
**Based on U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data
***Based on U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and Gas Processors Association data
The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate is the number of incidents per 200,000 hours of work.
MPC employee at the 
company’s refinery in  
St. Paul Park, Minnesota
MPC employees at the 
company’s refinery in 
Kenai, Alaska14        |    Safety       Safety    |   15
OUR CULTURE OF SAFETY
Promoting a culture of safety requires an 
environment where employees feel comfortable 
reporting safety concerns and potential hazards. 
That’s why we impose strict policies prohibiting 
retaliation for good-faith reporting. Each of our 
business segments has specifically designed 
functions for reporting hazards and improvement 
suggestions so that employees have an 
anonymous channel for sharing comments and 
concerns. Such programs are also important to 
ensure we have employee feedback and input 
when it comes to strengthening our management 
approach and safety standards. In the most 
recent companywide employee survey, 92% of 
our employees agreed or strongly agreed that we 
have a favorable health, environment, safety and 
security culture.
SAFETY RECOGNITION
Our Dickinson, North Dakota;  
Martinez, California; and Salt 
Lake City, Utah, refineries 
were among the recipients of 
the Elite Silver Safety Award 
from the American Fuel & 
Petrochemical Manufacturers 
Association. The award 
recognizes the superior  
2018 safety performance  
of the top 5% of  
petroleum refining and 
petrochemical facilities. 
Our Dickinson refinery  
has won this award for  
two consecutive years.Retail Safety
Our Retail segment, including our subsidiary 
Speedway LLC, is a large component of our business, 
with nearly 4,000 convenience stores and more than 
40,000 Retail employees nationwide in 2018. The 
environment in which our Retail employees work is 
much different than that of Refining and Midstream, 
and therefore presents a different set of workplace 
hazards. As a result, we track our Retail safety data 
and management approach separately so that 
we can analyze performance and make necessary 
improvements to protect our Retail employees. 
Just like other aspects of our business, we strive 
for zero injuries in our Retail business so that our 
employees can go home safely every day. 
A dedicated safety expert is responsible for training 
and certifications and serves as a subject matter 
expert in each region. Our district managers attend 
specific safety 
training sessions 
as part of a District 
Manager Training 
program. We have 
also established 
Safety Captains 
at our stores who 
receive in-depth 
training and have 
specific safety 
duties, including 
the sharing and 
promoting of safety 
key learnings. 
PROMOTING EMPLOYEE WELLNESS
Our approach to protecting our people goes well 
beyond safety. We know that active and engaged 
employees must also be mentally and physically 
healthy in order to do their best work in a safe and 
meaningful way. Our Health and Wellness program 
provides all employees across our company with 
programs and information to promote healthier 
lifestyles. In addition to wellness challenges and 
nutrition and exercise tips, the program also 
includes a cash stipend for completing a health 
assessment and an annual preventive physical,  
and other incentives. Essential to the program are 
our Wellness Champions, who are located across 
our facilities and offices to promote wellness 
among employees. 
COLLABORATING  
WITH OSHAWorking closely with others in our 
industry and regulators, such as 
OSHA, can help us all to create a safer 
workplace. OSHA’s Voluntary Protection 
Program (VPP) recognizes employers 
and workers in private industry and 
federal agencies that have exemplary 
occupational safety and health 
performance and programs. To achieve 
VPP status, applicants must complete 
a rigorous application and inspection 
process by OSHA that can take years. 
There are three levels of designation: 
Demonstration, Merit and Star, which is 
the highest level. By the end of 2018,  
18 of our sites,  
including our  
corporate headquarters, various 
refineries, terminals and MPLX 
locations, have achieved  
VPP Star,  
status. Additional sites,   
are actively pursuing VPP Star 
status and are in various stages  
of the process. We have found that 
our VPP sites experience lower 
injury rates and benefit from an 
enhanced safety culture.Retail OSHA Recordable Rate  
(incidents/200,000 hours)
0 1 2 320182017201620152014 2.36
2.03
1.992.08
1.81 22.3
2.8
2.9
U.S. gasoline retail avg*MPC Retail
Data includes Andeavor Retail
* Based on U.S. Bureau of  
Labor Statistics data
Employees of MPC 
subsidiary Speedway LLC16        |    Safety       Safety      |   17
Process Safety
Process safety means maintaining pipes, tanks, 
processing units, valves and other hardware so 
that they work as intended, keeping materials 
contained and our employees and communities safe. 
We proactively manage our process safety risk by 
following industry best practices and continuously 
improving our process safety management systems. 
Among these systems are:
●  MECHANICAL INTEGRITY PROGRAM: Ensures equipment 
is proactively maintained in a safe and reliable manner to 
prevent operational failures that could impact the business, 
employees, contractors or the public.
●  MANAGEMENT OF CHANGE: Ensures changes in equipment, 
operating parameters, materials and procedures are properly 
reviewed so that concerns related to safety and health, 
technical limitations and equipment design are assessed and 
addressed prior to implementation.
●  SAFE WORK PRACTICES: Provide guidance for various 
safety-related tasks, including work permitting, hot work, 
energy isolation, confined space entry and opening process 
equipment or piping. The guidance is developed by each 
operating organization to ensure it is applicable to their 
operations.
●  OPERATING PROCEDURES: Provide clear instructions on  
how to operate covered process equipment including  
startup, normal and abnormal operations, emergency 
conditions and shutdown. The procedures include 
considerations such as health and safety, operating limits  
and safety systems involved in the process.
In addition to these systems, we also conduct 
rigorous process safety assessments to identify risks 
and implement the appropriate safeguards, such as 
alarms, automated shutoff systems and relief devices. 
We classify process safety incidents using the 
guidelines set forth by the American Petroleum 
Institute (API) and track process safety consistent 
with API’s Recommended Practices 754, Process 
Safety Performance Indicators for the Refining and Petrochemical Industries. This practice includes 
reviewing both leading and lagging process safety 
metrics to better gauge our company’s performance 
and developing process safety improvement plans 
based on the data. Current areas of focus include: 
●  Mechanical integrity, especially reducing loss of primary  
containment from small-bore piping 
●  Improving human reliability through human-factors analysis  
and elimination of error traps
In 2018, we worked toward integrating MPC’s and 
legacy Andeavor’s process safety management 
systems. As part of the effort, we conducted 
assessments to better determine where 
improvements could be made. Other efforts 
throughout the 
year included 
evaluating, 
improving, 
optimizing 
and replacing 
equipment 
throughout our 
enterprise. We  
also continued  
to fine-tune  
and update  
our approach to 
audits and training.
PROCESS SAFETY 
INDUSTRY 
LEADERSHIP
In 2018, our 
Marathon Pipe Line 
subsidiary worked 
collaboratively 
with the American 
Petroleum Institute 
(API) to establish 
renewed process 
safety metrics for the 
pipeline industry. The 
work defined criteria 
to drive continual 
improvement, 
modified reporting 
criteria and 
recognized leaders 
throughout our 
industry. Transportation Safety
0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.2520182017201620152014Refining Process Safety Event (PSE) Rate  
(events/200,000 hours)
Tier 1 PSE Tier 2 PSE
Our commitment to safety extends 
to our transportation, storage and 
distribution businesses, including 
our pipeline, terminals and storage 
assets as well as our marine, truck 
and rail fleets. We utilize industry 
standards, evaluate and implement 
improvements to our systems, and 
continually train employees and 
contractors on best practices. 
An important component of 
managing safe and responsible 
transport is leveraging technology 
and data. This includes using fleet 
statistics to push safe driving 
improvements, and using monitors 
and other forms of hands-free 
technology to support response 
efforts if and when an incident should 
occur while an individual is in transit. 
Training is also an important 
component of our approach to 
transportation safety. In 2018, our 
Transport group developed and 
distributed a video series titled 
“Responding to Fuel Transport 
Emergencies.” The training highlights 
the normal operation of a fuel 
transport, key equipment design 
and response tactics. The training 
has been provided to key third-party 
first responders, shared with others 
in our industry and published for 
free public use. Since its publication, 
nearly 7,000 external first responders completed the training, resulting in 
increased emergency preparedness in 
the public sector.
Our Marine Transportation 
organization provides transportation 
services for crude oil, products and 
other materials. With 23 towing 
vessels and 256 barges operating in 
our rivers, lakes and oceans, we know 
that ensuring we are operating safely 
and without incident is paramount.
In 2018, the U.S. Coast Guard 
implemented additional towing 
vessel safety regulations for inland 
marine operators, which established 
new inspection standards and also 
specified a safety management 
system requirement. To comply, we 
implemented an existing Towing 
Safety Management System (TSMS), 
which has been certified with the 
American Waterways Operators’ 
Responsible Carrier Program since 
1998. We also provided extensive 
training to our personnel as part of 
the new system rollout and now meet 
the Coast Guard’s requirement for 
the first-year implementation target. 
Through these efforts, we are well-
positioned to fully comply with the 
TSMS requirements by 2022. Our 
Marine Transportation organization 
remains one of the safest among 
inland marine operators.PSEs are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a 
material from a process. The PSE rate is the count 
of events per 200,000 hours of work. Tier 1 PSEs 
are the most serious type. PSE rates for Andeavor 
Refining have been included in this chart, including 
years prior to our strategic combination.
Pipeline and storage infrastructure 
at an inland marine facility in 
Wood River, Illinois, owned 
by MPLX, a master limited 
partnership sponsored by MPC
An MPC transport driver based 
in Catlettsburg, Kentucky18        |    Integrity and Governance  
Integrity and Governance
OUR CORE VALUES
Our long-established core values are vital to our 
financial performance and relationships with 
stakeholders. Under the guidance and supervision of 
our Board of Directors, we pursue the highest standards 
of corporate responsibility by embedding these core 
values into our policies, practices and programs.GOVERNANCE AND BOARD  
OF DIRECTORS
Strong corporate governance is critical to our
long-term business success. MPC’s Board of  
Directors has ultimate oversight over the  
management of our business. The Board is  
comprised of 12 directors, 10 of whom are  
independent. The independent directors have  
elected the Chairman and CEO and the Lead  
Director to lead the Board. The Board maintains  
four committees: Audit, Compensation,  
Corporate Governance and Nominating, and 
Sustainability. The roles of these committees  
are discussed in more detail on Page 9 and in  
our 2019 Proxy Statement. 
Our Board of Directors, as a whole, possesses a 
combination of the skills, professional experience, 
and diversity of backgrounds to ensure an 
effective mix of perspectives. The average tenure 
of our Board members is 3.7 years, and 33% of 
the directors are women or ethnic minorities. 
Most of our directors have senior corporate 
leadership, strategic planning, risk management, 
industry, operations and financial experience, and 
all have a background in public company board 
service. More information about our Board and 
each director’s qualifications can be found in our 
2019 Proxy Statement. More information about 
the diversity of our Board can be found in the 
People section of this report on Page 24.BUSINESS ETHICS 
Our commitment to corporate responsibility is 
essential to the success of our business and our 
ability to create shared value for our stakeholders.  
At MPC, we have laid a foundation for principled 
business decisions based on respect, dignity and 
honesty, and with a focus on our core values of 
health and safety, environmental stewardship, 
integrity, corporate citizenship and an inclusive 
culture. These values set high expectations for each 
individual across our organization and help to ensure 
trust among our business partners, shareholders and 
the communities where we work and live. 
COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS AT MPC
Conducting business with the highest standards 
of integrity and ethical conduct, as guided 
by our Code of Business Conduct, is of the utmost importance to us and our business. All 
MPC employees must follow our Code, which 
defines expectations for ethical decision-making, 
accountability and responsibility. 
All salaried MPC employees are required to 
regularly complete Code of Business Conduct 
training and an annual Code certification. This 
certification includes an ethics questionnaire  
and provides the opportunity for employees  
to disclose any issues that could be a violation 
of the Code. In 2018, 100% of all salaried MPC 
employees completed the annual certification.  
For accountability, we regularly report on the  
ethics and compliance program to the Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors.
Our suppliers, vendors, contractors and business 
partners are expected to comply with the Code,  
as well as all applicable laws, rules and regulations. 
We provide to our business partners information 
that articulates the Code; guidelines regarding 
conflicts of interest, meals, gifts and entertainment; 
and access to our Integrity Helpline. We also expect 
them to support effective compliance programs in 
their own organizations. 
In addition to the Code of Business Conduct, we 
have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial 
Officers, including our CEO, CFO, controller, 
treasurer and other leaders performing similar roles. 
This separate Code of Ethics affirms the principle 
that the honesty, integrity and sound judgment 
of our senior executives with responsibility for 
preparation and certification of our financial 
statements is essential to the proper functioning 
and success of our company.INTEGRITY HELPLINE 
While all our employees, contractors and vendors 
are encouraged to speak with their immediate 
supervisors if they have questions or concerns 
related to ethics and the Code, the Integrity Helpline 
is an additional resource to request advice, discuss 
workplace behavior or ethics, or report potentially 
unethical acts on a named or anonymous basis.
We investigate every allegation shared with the 
Integrity Helpline and take appropriate action, 
such as discipline where warranted, or a change in 
policy or procedure, based on the outcome of the 
investigation. We maintain a firm no-retaliation policy 
and will never permit a good-faith filing to be a cause 
for disciplinary action. To preserve the quality and 
consistency of the Integrity Helpline, we conduct an 
annual audit in which the helpline cases are subject 
to review for practices and outcomes. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION  
Implementing strong anti-corruption policies and 
protocols is critical to our license to operate. As 
outlined in our Code of Business Conduct and our 
Anti-Corruption Policy, we exercise a zero-tolerance 
policy for bribes in any form and require compliance 
with all applicable laws regarding bribery and 
corruption, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act.  
Employees whose job responsibilities warrant, are 
required to complete additional comprehensive 
anti-corruption training. In 2018, this training was 
delivered to 100% of those employees targeted for 
additional training. We will continue to evaluate and 
evolve our policies and procedures as necessary to 
meet our transforming needs and circumstances. 
Code of  
Business 
Conduct
Commitment to Integrity
WHISTLEBLOWING 
Our Whistleblowing as to Accounting Matters Policy 
establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and 
treatment of complaints received by the company 
regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing 
matters and provides for the confidential, anonymous 
submission of concerns regarding questionable 
accounting matters. 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
Our Conflicts of Interest Policy provides guidance on 
recognizing and resolving real or apparent conflicts 
of interest. This policy acknowledges that business 
decisions on behalf of the company must be made 
through the exercise of independent judgment in the 
company’s best interest and not influenced by the 
personal interests of decision makers.
HUMAN RIGHTS
MPC respects the human, cultural and legal rights of 
all individuals and communities. This commitment 
extends to the fair treatment and meaningful 
involvement of all peoples, including indigenous 
peoples, regardless of race, color, national origin, 
sexual orientation, gender or income level. Human 
rights are also an important focus of our industry 
and help guide how we work with our employees, 
contractors and community members.
We require compliance with all applicable laws 
and regulations aimed at upholding the rights and 
dignity of all peoples and have invested resources 
and programming so that all our employees and 
contractors feel respected when working with MPC. HEALTH AND 
SAFETY
We have the highest 
regard for the health 
and safety of our 
employees, contractors 
and neighboring 
communities.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
We are committed 
to minimizing our 
environmental impact 
and continually look  
for ways to reduce  
our footprint.INTEGRITY
We uphold the 
highest standards of 
business ethics and 
integrity, and strive for 
transparency in all of 
our operations.
CORPORATE 
CITIZENSHIP
We work to make a 
positive difference in 
the communities  
where we have the 
privilege to operate.INCLUSIVE 
CULTURE
We value diversity 
and strive to 
provide our 
employees with  
a collaborative, 
supportive and 
inclusive work 
environment where 
they can maximize 
their full potential 
for personal and 
business success.      Integrity and Governance      |   1920        |     Stakeholder Engagement        Stakeholder Engagement    |   21
Many trade associations actively engage in lobbying on 
issues that impact their respective members. Through our 
participation in trade associations, we seek to champion 
legislative solutions that are in the best interests of the 
company and the many stakeholders we serve. We believe it 
is important to be engaged with these organizations so our 
positions on issues of importance to the company can be 
expressed. Our senior management annually reviews our trade 
association memberships and assesses the effectiveness of 
and continued participation in the respective groups and the 
utility of any new memberships. We pride ourselves on taking 
an active role in our trade associations and have executives, 
technical experts and other personnel serving in various 
leadership and supporting roles within such groups. We 
recognize that viewpoints of other trade association members 
may differ from our own. When this occurs, we seek to work 
with the association membership to promote reasonable 
compromise. However, we do not control the position that any 
trade association may take on any particular issue.
In 2018, annual dues greater than $50,000 incurred by 
MPC for national trade associations totaled $14.8 million, 
of which approximately $1.1 million (7%) was attributable 
to federal lobbying efforts and approximately $6.5 million 
(44%) was attributable to state and grassroots lobbying and 
broad advertising communications designed to generally 
promote the energy industry and educate consumers. 
Approximately $7.2 million (49%) of MPC payments made to 
national trade associations in 2018 was attributable to tax-
deductible, program-related activities such as training and the 
establishment of industry standards. A list of trade associations 
to which we paid dues at or above $50,000 per year, and which 
may engage in lobbying activities, is available on our website: 
https:/ /www.marathonpetroleum.com/Responsibility/Political-
Engagement-and-Disclosure/ .Our business is heavily regulated by federal, state and local 
governments. As a result, it is our responsibility to provide 
information and advocate for sound federal, state and  
local policies that enable us to continue providing affordable, 
reliable transportation fuels and other products to the 
communities we serve. 
We engage with the political process in several ways, including 
lobbying, grassroots activity, issue advocacy, participation in 
trade associations, supporting an active employee political 
action committee (PAC) and, where lawful, the direct support 
of political candidates and ballot issues. We report our total 
PAC and corporate contributions on a state and federal level 
as required by law and, in the interest of good governance 
and transparency, publish this information on our Political 
Engagement and Disclosure website.   
Because we believe participation in the political process is 
vital to a free and democratic society, we encourage our 
employees to exercise their right to engage in political activities 
of their choosing. For more information on our political 
engagement philosophy, trade association memberships 
and lobbying disclosures, visit our Political Engagement and 
Disclosure website here: https:/ /www.marathonpetroleum.com/
Responsibility/Political-Engagement-and-Disclosure/ .
TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
Like most large companies, we are active in trade associations 
and similar groups at the national, state and local levels. We 
believe participation in these associations is important to the 
company’s role as an industry leader and active member of the 
business communities in which we operate. These associations 
engage in many activities for the benefit of their members, 
including encouraging industry standards among member 
companies.   STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We recognize the importance of positive, 
meaningful interactions with a broad spectrum of 
our stakeholders and they are central to creating 
shared value. Our approach to stakeholder 
engagement includes building support for business 
operations, fostering strong community ties so 
that we can maximize our positive impacts, and 
maintaining continuous dialogue with community 
leaders and representatives where we operate. 
Our stakeholders include employees, investors, 
contractors, customers, suppliers, business 
partners, communities, Community Advisory 
Panels (CAPs), advocacy organizations, emergency 
responders, elected officials and regulators. 
Each group is critical to our broader, overarching 
stakeholder engagement strategy. We achieve 
shared value by fostering open communications 
with these groups, listening to their diverse 
perspectives, forging partnerships, responding 
to concerns and making positive, strategic 
investments.
We will continue to evolve, expand and grow our 
approach to stakeholder engagement to meet 
the changing needs of our company and our 
stakeholders. In 2018, following the acquisition  
of Andeavor, we engaged with new groups in  
the areas of the country where our operations  
have expanded.
COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANELS (CAPs )
Most MPC refineries convene independent groups 
of local stakeholders through CAPs to formalize 
engagement with local community leaders and 
residents. CAPs are made up of representatives from the community, which can include  
teachers, retirees, business owners, elected  
officials, residents who live near our facilities, 
community organizers and other interested  
parties, depending on the community.
Each CAP meets on a regular basis to learn more 
about key activities within their local refinery 
and other community news. At each meeting, a 
member of the refinery leadership team provides 
an update to community members, detailing 
the facility’s safety and environmental 
performance and providing relevant updates 
on significant projects. Most importantly, the 
CAPs provide us insight into activities and 
issues within our communities and identify 
ways that we can further enhance our 
engagements where we live and work.  
While most of our CAPs are dedicated 
only to our facilities, some CAPs in more 
industrialized areas include industry partners 
and peers. These combined panels offer 
opportunities for community members to 
hear from, and provide feedback to, the 
broader industry. 
WORKING WITH NATIVE 
COMMUNITIES
Our acquisition of Andeavor expanded our 
operations across the U.S. and increased 
our interactions with native communities 
– a key stakeholder group for MPC. Strong 
partnerships with these communities are 
critical to our success, and we strive to  
respect all tribal rights and traditions.  We continue to develop new policies and 
working groups aimed at building and sustaining 
mutually beneficial relationships with all tribes 
within our operational footprint to increase 
shared value between the company and native 
communities. As part of our commitment to 
this process, we engage third-party consultants 
to help us develop programs to educate our 
employees about native communities and create 
relationship-building opportunities. 
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACYStakeholder Engagement      Our People |   23 22        |      Our People
Our People
Our people are the foundation of our success, 
and we strive to continue cultivating a strong 
workplace culture grounded in our core values. 
This has a direct impact on employee engagement, 
enhancement and satisfaction, and is essential to our 
recruitment, retention and development efforts. Our 
employees help us champion a workplace that allows 
each person to maximize their full potential and 
encourages them to seek the career opportunities 
they desire. We welcome new ideas, invest in our 
people, and work to foster a collaborative and 
inclusive team environment.
“We need diverse 
perspectives and 
ideas to continue our 
success, to create 
solutions where we 
face challenges and to 
shape our future. Every 
day we work to create 
an environment where 
people feel valued for 
who they are and what 
they do and inspired 
by the opportunities 
we have to positively 
impact people’s lives.” 
Fiona C. Laird
Chief Human Resources Officer     2018 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
For many years, we have promoted greater awareness 
of how valuing all perspectives leads to better business 
decisions – for our employees, shareholders, business 
partners and communities. We are proud to be recognized 
by external organizations for our efforts and progress, and 
we are excited about our plans to keep improving. 
46%Total Workforce  
(60,350 employees )
31%
women racial/ethnic minority groups
Workforce Excluding Speedway  
(20,120 employees )
19% 22%
women racial/ethnic minority groups
23%
42%35%
Millennials Generation X Baby BoomersWORKFORCE PROFILE Top Supporter of  
Historically Black Colleges  
and Universities 
         –  U.S. Black 
Engineer  
Information  
Technology  
MagazineForbes  
World’s  
Best  
Employers Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation’s CorporateForbes America’s  
Best Employers for Diversity 
Equality Index Score:  
85
      Our People    |   25 24        |    Our People
LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY 
Our commitment to a diverse and inclusive 
workplace starts at the top and is a priority for 
our 12-member Board of Directors. In January 
2018, the Board adopted an amendment to our 
Corporate Governance Principles to expressly 
affirm its commitment to seeking diverse director 
candidates, and through our combination with 
Andeavor, we increased the number of women on 
our Board. And, 50% of our Board committee chair 
positions are now held by individuals from typically 
underrepresented groups.  
Beyond the Board, we strive to reflect diverse 
backgrounds, experiences and perspectives 
at all levels of leadership within the company. 
Our Officer team, composed of our most senior 
company leaders, is responsible for day-to-
day leadership of MPC’s business and strategic 
direction. In 2018, we expanded this highly 
qualified team to 29 individuals as part of our 
ongoing growth, including doubling the number  
of women officers.The daily contributions and performance of 
our divisions and departments are led by our 
talented Senior Management group. These 149 
leaders are among our top four pay grades below 
officer level, and we actively develop this team 
as potential internal successor candidates for 
officer-level positions. 
As part of our commitment to diversity and 
facilitating equal opportunities among our senior 
management and officer ranks, in the spring of 
2018, we implemented balanced slates during 
the hiring process for posted positions in our 
top six non-officer pay grades. This means we 
strive to consider at least one qualified individual 
from racial/ethnic minority groups or one female, 
either an internal or external candidate, in the 
final candidate pool for these job openings.17%Board of Directors
25%
women racial/ethnic 
minority groups21%Officers
3%
women racial/ethnic  
minority groups15%Senior Management*
9%
women racial/ethnic  
minority groupsBuilding Awareness
Building awareness of what makes us different and unique is 
the first step of our strategy. We regularly host D&I workshops, 
employee panels and activities, including more than 80 in the 
legacy MPC organization alone in 2018. For example, we hosted 
a dialogue on race during Black History Month and one on 
gender in the workplace during Women’s History Month.
We also developed and introduced three new diversity-focused 
trainings in 2018. These included a training on Diversity of 
Thought to help leaders better understand how to practice 
inclusion and one on avoiding unconscious bias in the hiring 
process. Nearly 300 leaders attended these courses.
To celebrate MPC’s D&I month in November, we hosted three-
time NBA champion Bruce Bowen for a presentation webcast to 
the whole company. Bowen discussed the importance of coming 
together as a team to achieve success, especially during times 
of change – a message especially relevant as we worked to 
integrate thousands of employees from Andeavor.
Moving into 2019, we plan to relaunch our Employee Networks 
companywide, creating six employee-led teams and chapters 
dedicated to supporting, mentoring and helping to advance  
specific diverse populations.
Increasing Representation
We actively work to increase the representation of qualified 
women, those from racial/ethnic minority groups, military 
veterans and other diverse individuals in our workforce through 
targeted external recruitment efforts, military recruitment 
activities and on-campus efforts. 
One example is our ongoing involvement with Minority 
Bridge Programs to build our talent pipeline and invest in 
future generations. These programs are designed to support 
the successful transition to college of incoming freshmen of 
socioeconomically, racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds 
through staff and faculty guidance, skill development and 
professional mentoring. In 2018, we continued our sponsorships of Minority Bridge 
Programs at five universities, and 18 of our intern/co-op  
positions were filled by students from these programs.
●  Louisiana State University – Summer Scholars
●  Michigan State University – Engineering and Science Success 
Academy (ESSA)  
●  North Carolina A&T State University – Helping Orient 
Minorities to Engineering (HOME)
●  The Ohio State University – Pre First-Year Academic and 
Career Engagement (PREFACE)
●  University of Cincinnati – Emerging Ethnic Engineers (E3) 
Ensuring Success
We believe our long-term success is fueled both by fostering 
inclusion at our worksites as well as in the communities where  
we live and work. We conduct community outreach and 
participate in community-led diversity celebrations and 
educational events to help build awareness outside our doors. 
In 2018, our offices and field locations participated in a number 
of local events supporting the diverse backgrounds of their 
communities. A few include Dorr Street Live in Northwest Ohio 
(an urban festival celebrating African-American heritage); a Martin 
Luther King Day march and Diwali Festival in Texas; and several 
Pride events with the LGBTQ+ community, including a Pride picnic 
in Kentucky. 
In 2018, we also partnered with the Findlay-Hancock County 
Chamber of Commerce to lead the formation of the Community 
Inclusion Coalition, a coalition of local businesses and civic 
organizations focused on building a more inclusive community. 
The coalition meets quarterly to discuss and address  
community and business issues and opportunities related  
to diversity and inclusion.  DEVELOPING DIVERSE LEADERS
As a high school senior, Tracie 
McCall was awarded an 
engineering scholarship by 
Ashland Inc., a company 
that later became part of 
MPC. After graduating 
from the University of 
Kentucky, she joined our 
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, 
refinery. Starting as  
a young engineer, Tracie 
took advantage of MPC’s 
personal and professional 
development classes, including 
leadership development programs and 
courses enhancing commercial, communication  
and presentation skills.
Tracie applied those skills to excel in several roles at 
MPC, including process design engineer, technical 
buyer, quality professional and petrochemicals 
manager at several of our U.S. locations. She has 
now returned to Catlettsburg as the Product Control 
Manager, leading a team of more than 120. 
“MPC has afforded me career opportunities and 
the ability to grow in ways that I couldn’t imagine,” 
explains Tracie. “I’ve been able to parlay those 
opportunities into so many unique career paths. 
The company gives employees the opportunity and 
platform to grow, and I’m grateful for the support 
and preparation I’ve received.” 
As part of our efforts to encourage other women and 
employees with diverse racial/ethnic backgrounds to 
seek leadership roles, we have created and hosted 
a wide range of D&I activities, including an annual 
D&I month and worksite-based teams, to nurture a 
culture of belonging. 
“From a career perspective, employees want to have 
career fulfillment and feel like they belong,” Tracie 
shares. “MPC’s D&I program allows for people who 
are allies and supporters to participate in our efforts. 
The ‘lunch and learn events,’ presentations, panels 
and other activities really help to raise awareness 
and support.” 
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
We recognize that an inclusive culture 
makes us a better company and ensures 
better results for our business. In 1999, 
we established our Diversity and Inclusion 
(D&I) program based on key insights and 
learnings from the diverse communities 
where we operate and the people who 
come to work for us each day. 
Today, our D&I program – led by our 
officer-level Diversity Committee and 
managed by our D&I Office – focuses 
on equipping leaders and employees to 
practice inclusive behaviors; creating 
awareness of how our differences benefit 
each other, the company and our many 
stakeholders; and tracking our progress. 
We also enforce Human Resource policies 
to protect and support employees, such 
as anti-discrimination, anti-harassment, 
drug and alcohol use, workplace violence 
and reasonable accommodation policies.A STRATEGIC APPROACH
Our combination with Andeavor presented a critical opportunity to build upon our D&I efforts as our 
workforce expanded. Following the merger, we immediately enhanced our D&I strategy and assessed 
existing tactics for alignment and improvement opportunities. Our new, more focused strategy is built 
on three pillars: building awareness, increasing representation and ensuring success. Underlying each 
pillar is a process for accountability and measurement.
MPC employees speak at a 
women’s forum held at the 
company headquarters in 
Findlay, Ohio*Excludes Speedway26        |    Our People       Our People    |   27
INVESTING IN OUR FUTURE
Chelsea Parson joined the 
Engineering and Science 
Success Academy 
(ESSA) at Michigan 
State University 
(MSU) to broaden her 
horizons and gain an 
appreciation for the 
engineering profession.
ESSA is a four-week, 
residential, academic 
intensive program designed 
to acclimate incoming 
freshmen to both the academic 
and environmental aspects of post-secondary 
education. Through ESSA, Chelsea met recruiters 
from MPC, a program sponsor since 2016, who 
offered her hands-on experience. 
“MPC’s sincere approach and willingness to invest 
in my success convinced me to apply for the 
company’s co-op program,” recalls Chelsea, a 
mechanical engineering major. “In turn, I was able 
to build a strong network and future at MPC.” 
Since first joining us as a project engineer co-op 
in spring 2017, Chelsea has completed three 
additional co-op terms with MPC, and plans to 
return as a full-time employee upon graduating in 
June 2020.
“I was really impressed that during my first 
co-op rotation I was able to participate on a 
cross-functional team tasked with inspecting 
an interstate butane pipeline partially located in 
one of MPC’s refineries,” explains Chelsea, who is 
currently president of MSU’s National Society for 
Black Engineers chapter. “Between that and being 
part of the first intern-led D&I team, I quickly 
realized that I could be part of meaningful work 
and influence significant changes that would 
benefit MPC and its employees.” 
2018 HIRES
24%Total Hires  
2,650*
19%
women racial/ethnic  
minority groups
36%Interns/Co-ops  
519
24%
women racial/ethnic 
minority groups
35%Intern-to-Employee Conversions  
119
20%
women racial/ethnic 
minority groups
* Excludes Speedway and employees who joined through our strategic combination with AndeavorCOMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
We are committed to providing a work environment that 
inspires and rewards the dedication and performance of our 
employees. Both MPC and Andeavor provided competitive 
compensation and offered health benefits to all eligible 
employees, their spouses or domestics partners, and their 
dependents, including medical, dental and vision insurance. 
Other benefit programs offered by both companies included 
retirement programs, life insurance, education assistance, 
family assistance, short-term disability and paid vacation  
and sick time.
No substantial changes were made to legacy company  
benefit programs between Oct. 1, 2018, and year-end. As 
part of our efforts to quickly unify our growing workforce, 
we introduced integrated and enhanced benefit programs 
starting on Jan. 1, 2019.
LOOKING FORWARD
The engagement of our people and the strength of our 
culture are imperative to the success of our business and 
the work we do each day – and both require ongoing 
reinforcement and active support from our leaders. In 2018, 
we began work 
to develop 
a vision and 
strategic pillars, 
and to enhance 
our core values, 
to reflect our 
larger, stronger 
company, and we 
look forward to 
introducing the 
outcome to all our 
employees in 2019. ATTRACTING TOP TALENT
We recognize that competing for the 
best talent is more challenging than ever. 
Following our combination with Andeavor, 
we created three distinct segments in 
our Talent Acquisition team – Executive 
Recruiting, Experienced Recruiting and 
University Recruiting – to specialize in 
the company’s broad range of current 
and future talent needs and differing 
candidate expectations. This allows us 
to engage more personally with each 
potential candidate as we work together 
to explore why MPC could be the right 
choice for their next career step. 
To attract the best candidates, we 
believe it’s essential that our Talent 
Acquisition team reflects our commitment 
to hiring qualified individuals with 
diverse backgrounds, perspectives and 
experiences.  
53% 59%
women racial/ethnic  
minority groupsTALENT ACQUISITION TEAMRECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT
We actively work to recruit and retain top talent and 
develop the skills and capabilities of all our people. 
Our Human Resources department manages several 
programs to attract candidates from all walks of life. 
For example, our University Recruiting program is 
championed by our officer team and is designed to 
recruit students and recent graduates and provide 
them tools to succeed as they start their careers. We 
also engage in certain external programs focused on 
placing military veterans in civilian jobs.
Internships and Co-ops
Our paid intern/co-op program is our primary 
pipeline for full-time, entry-level hires. College 
students can participate in one of our program’s 
three terms – spring, summer and fall – after 
completing their freshman year, and opportunities are typically available year-round 
at 20 to 25 locations across the 
company. In 2018, we hired  
519 interns and co-ops at various 
stages in their college careers, and 
119 accepted our offers for  
full-time employment.
Training and Development
Career training and development 
are critical for retaining a successful 
and engaged workforce. In 2018, 
623 employees participated in our 
companywide MPC Leadership 
Development Program. The 
program, which has been in 
place for more than a decade, 
offers a variety of courses with 
different focus areas targeted at different levels, 
including leadership skills related to safety and 
environmental stewardship, supervisor development 
and commercial skills training. For some programs, 
we partner with colleges and universities, like our 
Marathon Advanced Leadership Program, a two-
week course that we conduct in partnership with 
the University of North Carolina. 
We also offer employees additional development 
opportunities, such as mentoring, local leadership 
programs and classes on topics like delivering 
powerful presentations, negotiating and advancing 
their careers. The MPC Leadership Development 
Program and other training programs are 
undergoing changes as a result of our combination 
with Andeavor, and we anticipate offering an 
enhanced program in 2019.
Members of MPC’s Talent 
Acquisition team attend 
a recruiting event in 
Cincinnati, Ohio.28        |    Our Community       Our Community   |   29
Our Community
INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES 
In order to create shared value with our stakeholders, 
we work to act responsibly and make real, positive 
impacts in the communities where we operate. We  
do this by providing support to 501(c)(3) nonprofit 
and government-related organizations and agencies  
in the form of foundation grants, corporate 
contributions and sponsorships, and through 
workplace giving and volunteerism. 
Through our strategic combination with Andeavor  
and our continued commitment to creating 
sustainable, shared value, we continue to evolve  
our strategy to assess and contribute to helping  
all our communities thrive. We invest in our 
communities in three primary ways:
●  Charitable giving, which includes through the 
Marathon Petroleum Foundation and other 
company donations.
●  Corporate and local giving, which includes our 
support of local organizations and local chapters  
of national organizations.
●  Employee giving and volunteering, through which 
we support our employees’ desires to continue 
making their communities better places to live  
and work. 
Both MPC and Andeavor provided monetary support, expertise and 
volunteers to national and local nonprofit organizations and causes 
that aligned with our business priorities, values, business expertise, 
and geographies. Each organization focused on philanthropic 
activities to create long-term, strategic relationships with nonprofits 
and other organizations to create innovative, sustainable solutions to 
meet local needs. 
MPC GIVING
MPC supports the work of United Way, an organization that shares 
our dedication to improving lives and strengthening communities 
where we live and work every day. Within these communities, 
we’re addressing important issues such as kindergarten-readiness, 
workforce development and financial stability. We couldn’t create 
this positive impact on society without the overwhelming help and 
support of our employees and community partners. Together, we 
donated more than $2.4 million to the United Way in 2018. 
MPC is a title sponsor of the Findlay Miracle League, an organization 
dedicated to promoting the health and well-being of individuals with 
disabilities. Athletes from around the nation visit Findlay, Ohio, each 
year to play on a field custom-designed to accommodate special-
needs children, providing an astroturf surface with thick padding to 
ensure a safe environment for wheelchairs and for children who may 
have difficulty with mobility. 
MPC subsidiary Speedway LLC, based in Enon, Ohio, raises funds 
for the Children’s Miracle Network (CMN) Hospitals, which includes 
canister collections at the point of sale in Speedway stores and 
specially themed days for employees to engage customers. 
Speedway holds an annual Speedway Miracle Tournament in Ohio, 
which in 2018 alone raised nearly $3 million and has become one of 
the largest golf events benefiting CMN Hospitals. In 2018, Speedway 
contributed more than $9.5 million to the organization. The company 
also committed $1 million over five years to Dayton’s Children’s 
Hospital to construct the Flight Gallery Atrium, which is part of 
the new, eight-story patient tower providing new technologies and 
spaces for patient activities and treatments.
A Miracle League athlete has some fun 
at the Blanchard Valley Health System 
Miracle Park in Findlay, Ohio. MPC 
management, employees and retirees 
were integral to the planning, funding 
and construction of the park, which 
provides sensory-stimulating activities 
for individuals with special needs.Employees from MPC’s Catlettsburg, 
Kentucky, refinery volunteer for an 
Honor Flight, taking veterans to 
Washington, D.C., war memorials.      Our Community    |   31 30        |    Our Community
THE MARATHON PETROLEUM COMPANY FOUNDATION
Andeavor followed the foundation model of giving and strategically focused its community 
investments on three core areas where it could make a positive, measurable impact: science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) education; environmental conservation/sustainability; 
and public safety. A sampling of the foundation’s efforts in these three categories include: 
   Awarded $25,000  to the Los 
Angeles Harbor College (LAHC)  
in support of the first class of  
LAHC STEM scholars.  
   Awarded $100,000 grant 
to the Marine Mammal Care Center 
in Los Angeles, California, for mobile 
education units.   Contributed  $50,000  to the 
Children’s Hospital of San Antonio 
Foundation’s Fasten for Life Child 
Safety Seat Program. 
The combination of MPC and Andeavor created the opportunity to refine and strengthen 
MPC’s platform for charitable investment. As part of our shared value approach to business, 
MPC adopted the foundation approach to serve local needs and tap into the philanthropic 
passions of our employees. The new Marathon Petroleum Foundation’s strategic objectives are 
to promote vocational and STEM education, environmental conservation and public safety. 
BRINGING OUR GIVING STRATEGY TO LIFE 
A Focus on STEM  
MPC’s success relies on our ability to recruit and 
retain employees with exceptional STEM-related 
skills. STEM-related skills are also in high demand 
throughout the job market and offer rewarding 
careers to job seekers. Investing in STEM-related 
initiatives is a strategic focus area that allows us to 
better prepare middle school, high school and career/
technical education students for professional and 
academic success through increasing access to  
high-quality educational resources and instruction.Public Safety at MPC and  
in Our Communities 
Health and safety is a core value at 
MPC, and we are focused on making our 
communities stronger and safer places to 
live, work and play. We provide funding, 
equipment and support to first responders, 
government agencies and community-based 
organizations to increase the overall safety of 
the communities where we operate.Championing Environmental  
Conservation/Sustainability  
Environmental stewardship is another core value 
for MPC. We support government agencies, 
environmental and community groups, and 
trade, professional and industry associations 
devoted to efforts that protect, conserve and 
sustain our environmental resources.
Riverside High School students participate 
in a STEM program provided by funding 
from MPC’s refinery in El Paso, Texas.32        |    Our Community 
EMPLOYEE GIVING AND VOLUNTEERING
Our employees embrace their role as good neighbors, 
and we work to support them in making a difference  
in their communities. 
We support our employees in their personal 
charitable donations to nonprofit organizations by 
supplementing gifts made by employees, retirees 
and directors to colleges and universities through 
our Matching Gifts Program. When a contribution 
of at least $50 is made to an accredited college or university, MPC will contribute a dollar-for-dollar 
match, up to $10,000 annually. 
Our Volunteer Incentive Program helps to recognize 
and encourage employee volunteerism with 
community organizations by providing contributions 
to qualified nonprofit organizations where employees 
and/or their spouses volunteer their time. The program 
provides up to $500 annually to the organizations on 
behalf of employees, family members and friends. 
MPC’S CINCINNATI 
BIOREFINING DIVISION 
NAMED A CORPORATE HERO 
BY THE UNITED WAY
In 2018, our Cincinnati Biorefining 
Division earned a Corporate Heroes 
Award from the United Way of 
Greater Cincinnati for the second 
consecutive year, recognizing their 
contribution of volunteer support  
to the organization. 
In total, 72% of our Cincinnati 
biorefinery’s employees devoted  
over 1,000 hours  
through both company-sponsored 
volunteer events and personal 
volunteerism. MPC’s biorefinery  
is the first-ever back-to-back  
Corporate Heroes Award winner.
MPC employees volunteer for  
Habitat for Humanity in Findlay, Ohio.      Our Community   |   33
ECONOMIC IMPACT IN OUR COMMUNITIES
Our business generates significant economic value and positive impact in communities where we operate 
and for the broader economy. With our newly integrated company in 2018 and expansion across the 
U.S. and Mexico, we maximized our economic impact across many communities. By the end of 2018, we 
employed more than 60,000 employees while paying millions of dollars in local, state and federal taxes. 
Last fall, we completed the Los 
Angeles Refinery Integration and 
Compliance Project to physically 
connect the adjacent Carson and 
Wilmington facilities, thus further 
integrating and upgrading the 
combined Los Angeles refinery 
for cleaner and more efficient 
operations. The $460 million project 
lead to both environmental and  
local community benefits, as well  
as operational efficiencies across  
the business. We value our hometown of 
Findlay, Ohio – where we’ve been 
headquartered for over a century – 
and work hard to be a good neighbor 
by making sure our hometown is a 
vibrant, prosperous community to 
live and work. Recently, we have 
committed millions of community 
investment dollars to support the 
local school district and University 
of Findlay, as well as the Marathon 
Center for the Performing Arts. 
Community investment is, and will 
continue to be, an integral part of 
our business.FINDLAY, OHIO:  
A SPOTLIGHT ON OUR HOMETOWNLOS ANGELES REFINERY INTEGRATION PROJECT 
CENTERS ON COMMUNITY IMPACT
Highlights from the project include:
●  Created 4,000 jobs over the project 
lifespan, including more than 1,800 
union jobs
●  Generated more than $264 million in 
total labor income for the region
●  Expected to generate an additional 
$86 million in tax revenues at local, 
state and federal levels 
●  Expected to lead to a $700 million 
revenue increase for local businesses
34        |    Environment 
Environment
We believe we have an obligation to be environmentally 
sustainable and responsible on behalf of all our 
stakeholders. This is why we have invested – and continue 
to invest – hundreds of millions of dollars to make our 
operations more energy efficient, reduce our environmental 
impacts and emissions, and diversify our business. Working 
with internal and external stakeholders in communities 
across the country, we hold meaningful discussions, listen 
and take action to address their concerns. Our work gained 
recognition in 2018 from the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency as a leading petroleum company in energy 
efficiency and environmental compliance as an ENERGY 
STAR® Partner of the Year. We have also earned the award 
in 2019.
Environmental Leadership and Management 
A culture that champions environmental stewardship comes 
from the top. That’s why, in late 2018, our Board established 
its Sustainability Committee to oversee sustainability 
practices and performance, including our annual 
Sustainability Report and Perspectives on Climate-Related 
Scenarios report. 
In addition to the Sustainability Committee, our senior 
management team has developed a strong enterprise risk 
management (ERM) process for identifying, assessing 
and managing environmental, social and reputational risk, 
as well as monitoring the performance of risk-mitigation 
strategies. 
Our Health, Environmental, Safety and Security (HES&S) 
Management Committee at the executive-leadership level 
is a critical component of our Enterprise Risk Management 
process. This committee meets quarterly with HES&S 
personnel and leadership across the enterprise to evaluate 
performance and to discuss strategic HES&S, corporate 
citizenship and public policy issues, as well as climate-
related matters.       Environment    |   35
Following the 2018 strategic combination with Andeavor, 
we’ve been working to deploy our management systems, 
standards and programs enterprise-wide, as well as 
integrating our processes and procedures to ensure 
consistency of our environmental performance and 
standards. For more information on our operational 
management systems, see Page 10 of this report.
CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS
Our stakeholders expect us to consider climate-related 
risks, the environment and the communities where we 
operate. For three consecutive years, we have published 
our Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report 
to provide our stakeholders a better understanding of 
climate-related risks. This report is based on the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures’ (TCFD’s) 
set of recommendations for “consistent, comparable, 
reliable, clear and efficient climate-related disclosures  
by companies.” 
Our 2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios 
report includes information about our scenario 
planning, business strategy, energy efficiency-efforts 
and accomplishments, water management and climate 
resiliency. We believe our investors, and other interested 
stakeholders, will find that the extensive disclosures in 
this report, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Perspectives 
on Climate-Related Scenarios report and website align 
with the TCFD’s principles and demonstrate our financial 
strength, adaptiveness and resilience to climate-related 
risks. What’s more, the report demonstrates our industry 
leadership in reviewing and assessing climate-related risks 
while articulating our long-term strategy to enhance our 
business and protect the environment.36        |    Environment
ENERGY
Energy efficiency is a vital factor in creating long-term 
value both for MPC and the communities where we 
live and work. We consider energy efficiency to be a 
core business function, an important responsibility and 
an opportunity. Energy efficiency is one of the most 
important factors in reducing greenhouse gases (GHGs) 
and other emissions. 
Being more energy efficient also makes economic sense. 
Our energy-efficiency strategy has helped us save almost 
$500 million in energy costs over the past 10 years. With 
the integration of the Andeavor assets into our portfolio, 
we expect to identify additional energy-efficiency 
opportunities over the coming years, which we expect 
will further reduce our energy use and lead to additional 
emission reductions (for more information, please see 
the GHG Emissions section, on Page 37). Since 2014, we 
have reduced our energy intensity by 16%.
Refining’s Focus on Energy Program 
Our “Focus on Energy” program was established in 
2010 as the cornerstone of our overarching strategy 
to effectively manage and reduce energy usage at our 
refineries. The program is championed by an “Energy 
Technologist” who works with dedicated energy 
coordinators at each refinery. This team interacts with 
refining management, operations and engineering staff 
to identify and implement energy saving strategies.  
The program is now being expanded to the legacy 
Andeavor refineries. 
In 2018, our “Focus on Energy” program provided the 
foundation with an updated version of our MPC Refining 
Energy Business Plan, which aims to improve energy 
performance by executing across five strategies: 1) 
identifying, establishing, tracking and communicating ENERGY REDUCTION RECOGNITION
Our energy-efficiency 
programs have been 
recognized by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) through 
the ENERGY STAR® and 
SmartWay® Programs. 
The EPA also recognized MPC in 2018 as an 
ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for Energy 
Management. This is the highest level of EPA 
recognition under the program, and we were 
the only petroleum company in 2018 to earn 
this distinction. 
One of the primary drivers behind our 
achievement is the formation of a company-
wide, cross-functional Energy Team where 
members share ideas, make plans and 
implement projects. In 2018, we also worked 
with the EPA and community stakeholders 
to host an Energy Industrial Showcase event 
with representatives from other industries 
and community members in the region at our 
Garyville, Louisiana, refinery. The event was 
an opportunity to share information about 
our energy-efficiency programs and will be 
held in future years following the success of 
this 2018 event. 
Industry collaboration was another important 
factor in our success. In 2018, we worked 
with ENERGY STAR Partner companies 
and the EPA to benchmark and share best 
practices for building and growing energy-
efficiency programs. As an outcome of this 
collaboration, we are assessing how we can 
further incorporate learned practices from 
other companies.individual operating parameters; 2) benchmarking energy 
performance; 3) incorporating energy efficiency into 
proposed capital and expense projects; 4) identifying  
and implementing energy-efficiency improvements; and 
5) embedding energy efficiency into our culture. 
Overall, the program has allowed us to greatly increase 
our energy efficiency and decrease our GHG intensity. 
Additionally, we saved approximately $500 million in 
energy costs since 2007 and, in 2018, $57 million. To read 
more about this program, please see our Perspectives on 
Climate-Related Scenarios report.
Other Efforts to Improve Energy Efficiency
Outside of our Refining segment, we also track and 
measure energy efficiency to implement reduction efforts 
throughout our company. One example is Speedway’s 
comprehensive energy assessment program, in which a 
cross-functional team evaluates and implements store-
level, energy-saving initiatives. In 2018, the team worked 
to assess incremental energy-efficiency improvements, 
including lighting upgrades, across almost 800 of our 
more than 3,900 convenience stores. The improvements 
aim to reduce electricity consumption for lighting at  
each store. 
Throughout 2018, our Marine organization continued  
to implement its fuels optimization program in our  
inland and oceangoing marine fleets. The program  
has reduced fuel usage by up to 2 million gallons per year 
while preventing the emission of over 20,000 tonnes 
of greenhouse gases. The program requires captains to 
continuously monitor speed and acceleration, resulting 
in an average speed reduction of about 2 mph and an 
overall reduction of fuel usage by as much as 20%.       Environment   |   37
ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENTS 
AT TRUCK TERMINALS
Our Terminal, Transport and Rail organization 
continually examines its operations to bolster 
environmental performance. This has led to 
ongoing investments in upgraded technology 
at light-products terminals. We have installed 
vapor recovery units (VRUs) at 53 of our 
terminals in the Eastern United States to 
replace vapor combustion units. The older 
technology burns fuel vapors that result from 
loading transport trucks, but VRUs collect 
and recycle the vapors to eliminate emissions 
that would result from burning the vapors. 
In 2018, our VRUs recovered approximately 
16 million gallons of product, avoiding nearly 
140,000 tonnes of GHG emissions.
Armed with this success, we also proactively 
installed continuous emission monitoring 
systems (CEMS) with SmartStart® VRU 
processing equipment at 46 terminals. The 
VRUs in these systems operate only when a 
truck is being loaded, resulting in power cost 
savings of more than $1.2 million in 2018. The 
CEMS also helps us to lower GHG emissions, 
and aids regulatory compliance by shutting 
down the terminal if it detects elevated 
emission levels. LOWER SPEEDS, NEW FUEL, 
HYBRID POWER: A WINNING 
COMBINATION ON THE WATER
Our Marine group has been recognized 
by the Port of Long Beach, California, for 
its participation in the port’s Green Flag 
vessel speed-reduction program. Our 
vessels voluntarily lower their speeds to 
reduce emissions of diesel particulates, 
nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides. In  
2018, this practice also saved almost 
67,000 gallons of fuel, which avoided an 
estimated 686 tonnes of GHG emissions.
Additionally, our Marine organization 
requires non-MPC vessels that come  
to any of our five docks in Long Beach  
to comply with these speed requirements. 
To further enhance these efforts, our 
vessels have switched from using fuel with  
3.5% sulfur content to using fuel with only 
0.1% sulfur content more than one year 
before it was required. GHG Emissions
Due to the nature of our business, our operations result 
in both direct and indirect GHG emissions. Direct GHG 
emissions are produced through the combustion of 
natural gas and other fuels that we use to generate heat, 
steam and electricity and to power vehicles. Direct GHG 
emissions also result from the production of hydrogen. 
Indirect GHG emissions are the result of purchasing 
utilities such as electricity and steam. Beyond energy-
efficiency measures, we have proactively taken other 
measures to reduce our GHG emissions per unit of 
throughput, referred to as GHG intensity. 
In addition to reducing our energy use, we have focused 
on diversifying our business to include natural gas 
gathering and processing, biofuels manufacturing and 
expanded retail offerings. This strategy has significantly 
decreased the carbon intensity of 
our company over the past five 
years as more of our manufacturing 
inputs shift toward lower carbon-
intensity fuels.
In 2018, we decreased our direct 
and indirect GHG emissions (also 
referred to as Scope 1 and 2 
emissions) intensity by 2% through 
GHG emissions reduction methods 
such as flare reduction, actively 
reducing methane emissions and 
continuing to diversify our portfolio. 
0 5 10 15 20 25 3020182017201620152014 30
28
2528
26 Direct and Indirect  
Greenhouse Gas Intensity  
(tonnes C02e/mboe input)
Includes data from facilities that MPC did 
not yet own so that performance can be 
compared across the same asset base over 
time. Assets included are those which MPC 
owned/operated as of Dec. 31, 2018.38        |    Environment
FLARE REDUCTION STRATEGY
Flares are essential safety equipment 
that combust excess gases that are 
unable to be recovered. Flaring is, 
however, something we try to avoid 
where possible. To do so, we have a 
flare reduction program that helps us 
to prevent flaring, recover gases and 
ensure effective combustion, if gases 
must be flared.  
In 2018, we completed a multiyear 
project to install flare-gas recovery 
systems at our refineries, with a total 
project cost of more than $500 million. 
Flare-gas recovery systems recover gas 
that has entered the flare system, so it 
can be used as fuel within the refinery 
rather than being burned in the flare. 
Recovering these gases reduces the 
need to purchase natural gas, lowering 
GHG and pollutant emissions. 
Since 2014, we have recovered more 
than 41 billion cubic feet of gases 
and avoided approximately 1.7 million 
tonnes of GHG emissions. In 2018 
alone, we have avoided more than 
500,000 tonnes of GHG emissions 
due to the flare-gas recovery systems. 
We estimate that our flare-reduction 
program has resulted in more than a 
90% reduction in emissions of volatile 
organic compounds and a nearly 60% 
reduction in GHG emissions from flares.
REDUCING METHANE EMISSIONS
Within our natural gas gathering and 
processing operations, we actively work to 
reduce fugitive methane emissions – known 
as unintended methane leakage – from 
our systems. As part of an agreement 
with the U.S. EPA, we have developed new 
technologies, increased monitoring systems 
and modified our operations practices to 
effectively lower fugitive methane emissions. 
One new technology includes a redesigned 
pipeline launching and receiving station that 
minimizes emissions by as much as 91% when 
In our natural gas gathering and 
processing operations, launching 
and receiving systems that help clear 
liquids from pipelines have become 
much more efficient, and we make 
the technology available to our 
industry peers on our website.it is used, which equates to an estimated 
1,000 tonnes of methane emissions 
avoided per year. As agreed with the EPA, 
we have shared our innovative launching 
and receiving station designs with others 
in our industry to promote additional 
methane reductions. We also deployed 
specially designed emission collection 
systems for our pipelines that allow the 
gases to be reused rather than flared, 
resulting in reduced emissions and flaring.
      Environment    |   39
Air quality is important to our business and our 
stakeholders, including the local communities where 
we operate. We are committed to implementing 
programs and strategies that improve air quality. 
Since 2002, our facilities reduced emissions of 
criteria pollutants (six pollutants defined and tracked 
by the U.S. EPA) by 42% – more than 44,000 
tons. In 2018, we continued this trend. Criteria 
pollutants we track and report include sulfur dioxide, 
nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, volatile organic 
compounds (VOC) and particulate matter. 
Air Emissions
Air emissions are a byproduct of crude oil refining 
and gas-processing operations and are also 
generated at logistics facilities in loading, unloading, 
transporting and storing crude oil and refined 
products. We monitor, track and report our emissions 
in accordance with federal and state laws and 
regulations. We have also implemented a variety of 
programs and projects to reduce air emissions and 
improve air quality. 
We have invested over $1 billion since 2002 to 
achieve our criteria pollutant emissions reductions. 
We are also making ongoing improvements within 
our natural gas gathering and processing operations 
designed to further reduce emissions.
0 22 44 66 88 110201820172016201520142002 106
62
6665
64
6242% ReductionCompany-wide Criteria Pollutant Emissions  
(thousand tons)
Data includes Andeavor assets. We have achieved the overall 
reduction in criteria pollutant emissions while increasing throughput 
in our Refining segment, adding our entire natural gas Gathering 
and Processing business, and growing our logistics assets since the 
2002 baseline year.AIR QUALITY AND EMISSIONS
SOx NOx VOC CO PM1040        |    Environment 
SPILL PREPAREDNESS AND 
RESPONSE
Our business operates vessels, pipelines 
and facilities where releases of oil and other 
hazardous substances could potentially occur.  
We strive to achieve zero spills of crude oil, 
petroleum products or other materials. We  
work continuously to prevent spills through 
operational practices and technology, and  
we plan and practice spill response to be 
prepared in the event a release occurs. 
Regulations require us to maintain emergency 
plans at our facilities so that we are prepared 
to respond in the event of an oil or hazardous 
substance release. Our Oil Spill Response 
Plans/Facility Response Plans are reviewed and 
approved by various agencies, such as the U.S. 
Coast Guard and the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration. We go above and beyond in planning and preparing in 
the event of a release so we can act swiftly, 
safely and effectively.  
An important component of our 
preparedness program is conducting 
simulation and training exercises. Our 
emergency response team conducts 
simulations at different locations each 
year. In 2018, we conducted 43 regional 
simulation exercises and 40 regional 
equipment deployment simulations. These 
events are an opportunity for us to exercise 
and update our response skills. In addition, 
each of our business units maintain on-site 
emergency preparedness groups that train, 
exercise and drill commensurate with the 
potential risk of a release from each site. 
PREVENTING RELEASES THROUGH NEW TECHNOLOGIES
The adoption of new technologies and innovation in our industry is an important 
component of our spill preparedness and response strategy, as they can be used 
to assess the integrity of our assets and address releases when they occur. In-line 
inspection technology, for instance, can provide useful data to identify corrosion, 
cracking, defects, third-party or weather damage, and hazards before a leak or 
spill occurs. Drones are another tool used to collect better, closer imagery of 
potential damage to a pipeline relative to images we can obtain from aircraft. 
These technological tools provide additional benefits such as maintaining 
personnel safety and reducing the cost of other methods to assess asset 
integrity. MPC is committed to being a leader in this area.Pipeline Integrity Management 
To ensure the integrity and safety of our pipelines, we use 
comprehensive integrity management practices to address  
the various risks to pipelines. The risks may include third- 
party damage, corrosion, operator error, equipment failure  
or weather events. 
Our asset-integrity management program for our pipelines 
is made up of a variety of routine processes and procedures. 
This includes an operator-qualification program, design and 
construction standards to meet and exceed various regulatory 
and compliance requirements, ongoing equipment inspections 
and maintenance, and public awareness and stakeholder 
engagement, among others. More information about these 
programs can be found at www.marathonpipeline.com.
We work hard to prevent pipeline incidents. When an incident 
does occur, our trained emergency responders act quickly to 
shut down the pipeline and isolate the release. We work closely 
and collaboratively with federal, state and local agencies to 
address and investigate the incident, and then we take lessons 
learned to inform our continuous improvement efforts. 
DEIs include three categories of environmental incidents: releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency 
enforcement actions. Data includes MPC, Speedway, and MPLX.0 50 100 150 200 25020182017201620152014 225
124 
116119
98DEIs 
(count)
Tier 2 DEIs Tier 3 & 4 DEIs0 9,000 18,0002018201720162015201417,044
1,385
3,483
871
3,922
2,223
1,473Oil Spills  
(barrels)
Spills to land Spills to water
Tier 2 DEIs are less severe than Tier 3 and 4 DEIs. We report them here because we consider them a leading indicator that helps us to identify potential problems before 
they occur. Spills that are less than 1 barrel but reported to an agency due to local regulation are also included; spill data from entities purchased by MPC are included as 
reported by the acquired company.      Environment    |   41
such as beneficial reuse, reclamation and recycling. 
One example is the installation of thermal 
desorption units (TDUs) at our Garyville, Louisiana, 
and Robinson, Illinois, refineries, with one in 
development at our Galveston Bay refinery in Texas 
City, Texas, as well. The process carried out by these 
units has three primary benefits: 1) hydrocarbons 
are recovered and returned to the refining process 
as feedstock; 2) the hazardous characteristics of 
the waste materials are removed; and 3) the total 
volume of waste material is reduced. 
Another example of managing waste responsibly is 
our Waste Management Vendor Approval Program, 
a corporate program that requires hazardous 
and nonhazardous waste management vendors 
be approved by our corporate environmental 
department before our operating components 
may use the vendor. As part of the program, we 
use a structured vetting process to ascertain 
environmental compliance to ensure our waste 
materials are disposed of responsibly and in 
accordance with the law.  
A similar example is our Business Partner Pre-
Qualification Review Standard that sets forth 
procedures for identifying, assessing and mitigating 
risks and liabilities among business partners that are 
in a direct contract relationship with MPC and have 
custody and control over our product. 
Waste Management & Recycling
MPC sustainably manages hazardous refinery 
wastes from tank-cleaning projects and other 
recurring maintenance activities. As refinery tanks 
are cleaned, the residual material is removed and placed in secure waste containers and then trucked 
to a cement kiln for processing into waste-derived 
fuel. Since 2014, more than 66,000 tons of waste 
from our refineries became an alternative-fuel 
source for the cement manufacturing industry.  
The primary fuel firing cement kilns to heat raw 
materials and chemically transform them into 
cement has historically been coal. The waste-
derived fuel blend from our waste reduces the 
amount of coal the cement manufacturer would 
otherwise need to use in their process. In addition, 
sand, sediment, iron scale or other material in the 
fuel blend becomes part of the cement product. By 
recycling the waste in this manner, we also avoid 
sending the material to landfills. By turning our 
wastes into fuel and cement, cement manufacturers 
have reduced coal use by over 33,000 tons. In 2018, 
932,528 gallons of waste-derived fuel was sent to 
cement kilns, which kept 2,792 tons of waste out  
of landfills. 
WASTE MINIMIZATION TO REDUCE  
THE AMOUNT OF WASTE REQUIRING  
OFF-SITE DISPOSAL
We also actively manage waste on- and off-site to recover  
oil for reuse in the refining process and minimize the total 
amount of waste requiring other treatment or disposal.  
These waste management operations include a combination  
of 1) centrifuging to separate water, oil and solids to reduce  
the volume of material prior to disposal; 2) thermal separation 
to recapture oil vapors so that they can be condensed back  
to liquid phase; and 3) coker injection used to recover and 
recycle oil waste as feedstock and solid waste to become 
petroleum-coke product. In 2018, we recovered 160,700 barrels 
of oil, which were reintroduced into the refining process to be 
turned into transportation fuels. WASTE AND HAZARDOUS WASTE
In refining, transporting and marketing petroleum 
fuels, both nonhazardous and hazardous wastes 
are generated. MPC’s environmental engineers 
work with our operations planners to focus on 
safely managing the wastes we generate. We 
carefully contain and label drums, boxes, bins 
and roll-off containers; work to minimize the 
waste we generate; and recycle or beneficially 
reuse as much of the waste as possible. We work 
to ensure that our waste materials are sent to 
properly permitted waste disposal and recycling 
facilities that we verify have a good track record of 
compliance with state and federal waste disposal 
regulations. The volume of waste generated in 
any given year varies significantly, as it is highly 
dependent on scheduled maintenance and 
remediation activity.  
Reducing 
the amount 
of waste 
we produce 
carries both 
financial and 
environmental 
benefits. As 
such, we 
continually 
work to reduce 
the volume 
of waste 
generated, 
while seeking 
alternatives 
for disposal, 0 250 50020182017201620152014Waste Generation & Disposal  
(thousand tons)
Hazardous Waste
Nonhazardous Waste
Recycled Waste
Includes MPC, Speedway and Andeavor for all years shown.42        |    Environment 
0 10 20 30 40 50 6020182017201620152014 58
49
4648
45Wastewater Discharge Intensity•  
(m3/mboe input)
WATER AND WASTEWATER 
Managing Our Water
Water is an essential resource to our business and 
managing it responsibly is critical to our operations, 
the communities where we operate and the 
environment. Water is used to add heat to the process 
(as steam), remove heat from the process (as cooling 
water), remove salts and impurities from crude oil, 
protect equipment from corrosion, generate hydrogen 
and clean equipment during maintenance activities.  
With our recent acquisitions, we have additional 
operations located in water-stressed areas that are 
projected to become more stressed by mid-century 
due to population growth, changing climate and 
rainfall patterns. We monitor information sources such 
as the National Climate Assessment, Aqueduct Water 
Risk Atlas and real-time government drought data 
to identify which operating locations are in current 
and future water-stressed areas, so we can effectively 
focus resources accordingly.
Managing Water in Water-stressed Regions
The availability of clean fresh water is vital to our  
operations and the communities where we operate. 
Responsibly managing the use and sourcing of fresh  
water is a critical focus, particularly in the water-
stressed regions in the U.S.
Our primary water conservation efforts are divided 
into four primary areas: 1) design; 2) reduction; 3) 
reuse and recycling; and 4) sourcing. Specific case 
studies and our strategies for each of these focus 
areas can be read in our Perspectives on Climate-
Related Scenarios report. 
Within our Refining organization, we are developing a 
“Focus on Water” program similar to our “Focus on  
Energy” program described on Page 36 of this report. Managing Wastewater 
MPC’s wastewater standards are established by the 
EPA and state regulatory agencies, which require 
that we obtain permits for wastewater discharges. 
We monitor the water we discharge to ensure we are 
meeting the standards reflected in these permits and 
report monthly to relevant regulatory agencies. 
We actively track wastewater discharge to publicly 
owned treatment works (POTW), surface water and 
injection wells, and look for ways to reuse wastewater 
wherever possible. In the instances we are unable 
to recycle wastewater, we properly treat it before 
releasing it back into the environment. Wastewater 
discharged from our operations must meet strict 
quality standards. 
0 30 60 90 12020182017201620152014 103
93
8691
88Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity•  
(m3/mboe input)
*Charts on this page include Refining and Midstream operational segments. Includes MPC and Andeavor data for all years shown.
Wastewater discharge levels are influenced by variation in annual precipitation levels.
A crane at MPC’s certified wildlife 
habitat in Garyville, Louisiana
     Environment    |   43
BIODIVERSITY 
Some of our operations are located near environmentally 
sensitive habitats and ecosystems. As part of our commitment 
to being a responsible neighbor and community member, we 
work toward safeguarding and protecting our local habitats. 
This includes site reviews when determining new pipelines as 
well as our ownership and maintenance of wildlife habitats 
certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC). 
In 2018, we owned 1,347 acres of WHC-certified habitat land 
across 23 certified habitats. The WHC promotes and certifies 
habitat conservation and management on corporate lands 
through partnerships and education. MPC participates in 
habitat certification and carries out community education and 
engagement programs and partnerships. Key highlights from 
2018 include:
 ●  Contributing to the Fort-Rouge Gateway (FRoG) Partnership, a Detroit-
based group focused on developing the Fort Street Bridge Park, and 
hosting 60 eighth-graders at our conservation site near our Detroit 
refinery.
 ●  Carrying out a project with Texas City Parks Department to reestablish 
wildlife habitats and a wildlife observation trail at local parks near our 
Galveston Bay refinery.
 ●  Maintaining a 15-year partnership with local schools at Marathon Pipe 
Line’s Martinsville, Illinois, location. A 2018 highlight was the “Formal 
Learning” project with local high school science classes to provide a 
field location and support for a grasshopper study at the location’s 
conservation site.
 ●  Hosting local community groups such as the Wabash Valley Pollinator 
Club at one of our Robinson refinery habitats in Illinois. 
Other highlights include school partnerships and tours for 
students ranging from kindergarteners to college students, 
making habitats available to academic institutions for 
conservation studies, and opening our gates to community 
members simply wanting to enjoy the nature found in their 
local communities. 
MPC’s certified wildlife habitat close 
to our Garyville, Louisiana, refinery44        |    Renewable Energy and Products
OUR RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO
Over the years, we have made significant 
investments in the production and blending 
of renewable fuel sources and the research 
and development of new technology as part 
of our overall business strategy. Renewable 
products help MPC meet our compliance 
requirements but more importantly drive  
the continued improvement in fueling our 
nation and the world. In addition, MPC’s 
strategy has helped to position us for future 
business success. Providing renewable 
transportation fuel – and associated 
renewable products – is an example of our 
approach and commitment to shared value.
Renewable Production
Through various operations and 
collaborations, we currently produce several 
forms of renewable fuel and blendstocks – 
products that are blended into gasoline or 
diesel fuel prior to its being sold. We produce 
approximately 410 million gallons of corn 
ethanol annually through joint ownership  
in three plants. We also own and operate  
a biodiesel plant that uses soybean oil as  
a feedstock. 
In 2018, we completed a retrofit of a unit 
at our Dickinson, North Dakota, refinery to 
allow for the co-processing of renewable 
feedstock and regionally sourced Bakken 
crude oil, enabling the production of a 5% 
renewable diesel blend. Encouraged by 
this success, we made the final decision to 
complete the full conversion of the refinery’s 
production to renewable diesel.Renewable Energy and Products
Technology Advancement
With the aim of developing lower-carbon 
renewable products, we are working with 
several early-stage renewable companies. To 
support efficient and competitive renewable 
development, we are fostering technologies  
that will leverage our existing integrated 
refinery infrastructure to develop high-
quality, low-carbon, infrastructure-compatible 
renewable products that can be blended 
seamlessly with traditional fuels for use in 
vehicles on the road today. 
A wholly-owned subsidiary, Virent is focused 
on developing a commercial facility to produce 
cost-effective, low-carbon, bio-based fuels 
and bio-paraxylene (a key raw material used in 
the production of bio-polyester). We also are 
continuing a cooperative effort to develop the 
first commercial facility to process separated 
municipal solid waste to produce a bio-
feedstock, which we intend to co-process at 
our Martinez, California, refinery along with 
traditional refinery feedstock. 
Soybeans will be the key ingredient 
of MPC’s planned renewable diesel 
plant in Dickinson, North Dakota.     Performance Data    |   45
Company Performance Metric 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE(1)
Sales and other operating revenue $mm  97,817  72,051  63,339  74,733  96,504 
Income from operations $mm  4,149  4,708  2,386  4,018  5,571 
Net income attributable to MPC $mm  2,524  2,852  1,174  3,432  2,780 
Capital expenditures and investments $mm  4,738  16,283  3,059  3,106  4,304 
Environmental expenditures $mm  535  630  883  792  957 
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
Manufacturing Inputs(2)million boe 1,358 1,522 1,588 1,669 1,717
     Refining million boe 1,026 1,055 1,075 1,107 1,111
     Midstream gas plants million boe 332 466 513 562 605
Refining crude oil capacity utilization  percent 95 99 95 97 9646        |    Performance Data
Greenhouse Gas Emissions(2)(3)Metric 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Total company direct and energy indirect GHG emissions million tonnes CO2e 42.2 43.9 45.2 44.2 44.4
   Scope 1 direct GHG emissions(4)million tonnes CO2e 35.3 36.1 36.9 36.7 36.4
      CO2   (carbon dioxide) million tonnes CO2 34.6 35.3 35.9 35.8 35.5
      CH4  (methane) thousand tonnes CH4 22.8 26.2 30.7 26.1 28.4
      N2O  (nitrous oxide) thousand tonnes N2O 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2
      SF6 and tracer (sulfur hexafluoride) tonnes SF6 and tracer 0.8 3.7 1.4 0.04 2.2
      Refining million tonnes CO2e 31.5 31.2 31.7 31.6 31.1
          From petroleum refining processes million tonnes CO2e 25.0 24.8 25.1 25.0 24.6
            From refinery flares million tonnes CO2e 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.6
          From hydrogen production million tonnes CO2e 1.7 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.7
From cogeneration million tonnes CO2e 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.8
   Of which sold to 3rd parties million tonnes CO2e 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1
      Refining excluding cogen to 3rd parties million tonnes CO2e 30.4 30.1 30.6 30.5 30.0
      Midstream million tonnes CO2e 3.7 4.9 5.1 5.1 5.3
          Natural gas gathering & processing million tonnes CO2e 3.5 4.6 4.8 4.8 5.0
      Retail and other million tonnes CO2e 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.04 0.04
   Scope 2 energy indirect GHG emissions(5)million tonnes CO2e 6.9 7.8 8.3 7.6 8.0
      Refining million tonnes CO2e 4.2 4.3 4.4 3.9 3.9
      Midstream million tonnes CO2e 2.3 3.1 3.4 3.2 3.7
        Natural gas gathering & processing million tonnes CO2e 1.8 2.6 2.8 2.8 3.1
      Retail and other(6)million tonnes CO2e 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.5
   Direct & Indirect GHG Intensity tonnes CO2e/mboe input 30.3 28.1 27.8 25.8 25.2
     Refining (excluding exported power) tonnes CO2e/mboe input 33.8 32.6 32.5 31.0 30.4
     Midstream Gathering & Processing (G&P) tonnes CO2e/mboe input 16.0 15.3 14.9 13.6 13.4     Performance Data    |   47
Air Emissions(2)(3)Metric 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Total MPC criteria pollutant emissions thousand tons 61.6 64.5 64.2 66.2 61.7
      SOx (oxides of sulfur) thousand tons 6.0 5.4 5.4 5.2 3.8
      NOx (oxides of nitrogen) thousand tons 19.8 22.2 22.9 22.8 21.9
      CO (carbon monoxide) thousand tons 14.0 15.0 14.4 16.3 14.6
      VOC (volatile organic compounds) thousand tons 17.8 18.0 17.8 18.3 17.6
      PM10 (particulate matter, less than 10 microns) thousand tons 4.0 3.9 3.8 3.7 3.8
Total MPC criteria pollutant Intensity tons/million boe 45.3 42.4 40.5 39.7 35.9
      SOx tons/million boe 4.4 3.6 3.4 3.1 2.2
      NOx tons/million boe 14.6 14.6 14.4 13.6 12.8
      CO tons/million boe 10.3 9.9 9.0 9.7 8.5
      VOC  tons/million boe 13.1 11.8 11.2 11.0 10.2
      PM10 tons/million boe 3.0 2.6 2.4 2.2 2.2
Refining criteria pollutant emissions thousand tons 43.5 41.0 40.6 39.0 36.9
      SOx thousand tons 5.9 5.4 5.3 5.1 3.7
      NOx thousand tons 14.2 14.0 14.1 13.4 13.0
      CO thousand tons 9.5 9.1 9.1 9.0 8.5
      VOC thousand tons 10.0 9.0 8.7 8.3 8.4
      PM10 thousand tons 3.8 3.6 3.4 3.2 3.3
Refining criteria pollutant Intensity tons/million boe 42.4 38.9 37.7 35.2 33.2
      SOx tons/million boe 5.8 5.1 4.9 4.6 3.3
      NOx tons/million boe 13.9 13.3 13.2 12.1 11.7
         CO tons/million boe 9.3 8.6 8.4 8.1 7.6
         VOC tons/million boe 9.8 8.5 8.1 7.5 7.5
         PM10 tons/million boe 3.7 3.4 3.2 2.9 2.9
    Midstream natural gas gathering & processing criteria pollutant emissions thousand tons 12.3 17.8 18.9 21.2 18.7
         SOx thousand tons 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1
         NOx thousand tons 5.1 7.7 8.3 8.9 8.5
         CO thousand tons 2.8 4.1 4.3 5.1 3.9
         VOC thousand tons 4.2 5.6 5.9 6.6 5.8
         PM10thousand tons 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5
    Midstream natural gas gathering & processing criteria pollutant Intensity tons/million boe 37.1 38.2 36.8 37.7 30.9
         SOx tons/million boe 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
         NOx tons/million boe 15.2 16.4 16.1 15.9 14.0
         CO tons/million boe 8.5 8.8 8.5 9.1 6.4
         VOC tons/million boe 12.6 12.1 11.4 11.8 9.5
         PM10 tons/million boe 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.9
 Midstream logistics and storage and other criteria pollutant emissions thousand tons 5.8 5.7 4.8 6.0 6.1
         SOx thousand tons 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.02 0.01
         NOx thousand tons 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4
         CO thousand tons 1.7 1.8 1.0 2.2 2.2
         VOC thousand tons 3.5 3.4 3.3 3.4 3.4
         PM10 thousand tons 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.0248        |    Performance Data
Metric 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
WATER(7)
Freshwater withdrawal million cubic meters (m3) 140 142 145 146 148
     Municipal million m350 42 42 44 46
     Groundwater million m317 22 22 21 20
     Surface Water million m373 78 81 81 82
Freshwater withdrawal intensity m3/mboe input 103 93 91 88 86
Reclaimed water used(8)million m38 7 8 8 7
Wastewater discharged million m378 74 76 75 79
     To publicly owned treatment works (POTW) million m321 20 20 19 18
     To injection well million m32 2 3 3 2
     To surface million m355 51 53 54 58
Wastewater discharge intensity m3/mboe input 58 49 48 45 46
WASTE & HAZARDOUS WASTE
Hazardous waste generated and not recycled thousand tons 23 33 20 24 16
Nonhazardous waste generated and not recycled thousand tons 387 462 401 455 402
Waste recycled thousand tons 279 317 293 182 230
OIL SPILLS > 1 BBL(9)
Oil spilled to land bbl 17,044 1,385 3,483 3,922 2,223
     Count of land spills > 1 bbl count 117 114 115 111 158
Oil spilled to water bbl 37.6 2.9 871.1 49.8 1,473.2
     Count of water spills > 1 bbl count 17 12 11 28 25     Performance Data    |   49
Metric 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
ENERGY USE
Total energy use billion gigajoules 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6
     Refining billion gigajoules 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
     Midstream G&P billion gigajoules 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1
Energy intensity gigajoules/boe processed 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
     Refining gigajoules/boe processed 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
     Midstream G&P gigajoules/boe processed 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Avoided energy consumption from efficiency efforts million gigajoules 17.5 19.1 25.9 18.4 20.1
TIER 2, 3 AND 4 DESIGNATED ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs )(10)
Count of Tier 2, 3 and 4 DEIs Count 225 124 119 98 116
     Tier 2 DEIs Count 175 80 80 67 93
     Tier 3 and 4 DEIs Count 50 44 39 31 23
CERTIFIED WILDLIFE HABITATS
Number of Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) certified habitats maintained by MPC Count 20 20 21 21 23
     Total Acres of land Acres 1,289 1,284 1,327 1,352 1,347
Workforce
Total Workforce(11)employees 45,340 45,440 44,460 43,800 60,350
 Women percent 50 51 50 50 46
    Racial/ethnic minority groups percent 27 25 26 27 31
Workforce excluding Speedway(11)employees 9,940 11,620 11,580 11,650 20,120
      Women percent 20 20 20 20 19
      Racial/ethnic minority groups percent 12 12 12 12 22
Total hires(12)employees NA NA NA NA 2,650
     Women percent NA NA NA NA 24
     Racial/ethnic minority groups percent NA NA NA NA 19
Unionized employees employees NA NA NA NA 4,78050        |    Performance Data 
Personal Safety Performance(2)(3)Metric 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
TOTAL COUNT OF SAFETY INCIDENTS
Refining Count 115 97 105 85 78
     Employee Count 39 38 45 37 25
     Contractor Count 76 59 60 48 53
Midstream Count 57 95 89 110 130
     Employee Count 41 68 70 55 34
     Contractor Count 16 27 19 55 96
Retail Count 532 669 683 612 681
     Employee Count 519 665 682 612 680
     Contractor Count 13 4 1 0 1
FATALITIES(13)
Total company Count 0 0 2 1 2
     Employee Count 0 0 0 0 1
     Contractor Count 0 0 2 1 1
FATALITY RATE (13)
Total company per 200,000 hours worked 0.000 0.000 0.002 0.001 0.002
     Employee per 200,000 hours worked 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.002
     Contractor per 200,000 hours worked 0.000 0.000 0.008 0.004 0.004
OSHA RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE(14)
Refining per 200,000 hours worked 0.40 0.36 0.34 0.29 0.27
     Employee  per 200,000 hours worked 0.31 0.31 0.36 0.30 0.20
     Contractor  per 200,000 hours worked 0.46 0.39 0.33 0.28 0.32
Midstream per 200,000 hours worked 0.66 0.82 0.63 0.65 0.76
     Employee  per 200,000 hours worked 0.82 1.19 0.93 0.73 0.45
     Contractor  per 200,000 hours worked 0.44 0.46 0.29 0.59 1.00
Retail per 200,000 hours worked 2.36 2.03 2.08 1.81 1.99
     Employee  per 200,000 hours worked 2.31 2.02 2.08 1.82 1.99
     Contractor  per 200,000 hours worked 18.33 5.52 1.32 0.00 1.44
DAYS AWAY RESTRICTED OR TRANSFERRED RATE(15)
Refining per 200,000 hours worked 0.06 0.08 0.07 0.04 0.04
     Employee per 200,000 hours worked 0.06 0.10 0.07 0.07 0.07
     Contractor per 200,000 hours worked 0.06 0.06 0.07 0.02 0.02
Midstream per 200,000 hours worked 0.19 0.27 0.23 0.19 0.20
     Employee per 200,000 hours worked 0.32 0.52 0.36 0.25 0.19
     Contractor per 200,000 hours worked 0.00 0.02 0.08 0.14 0.21
Retail per 200,000 hours worked 1.50 1.10 1.10 0.97 1.20
     Employee per 200,000 hours worked 1.47 1.10 1.10 0.98 1.20
     Contractor per 200,000 hours worked 12.69 1.38 1.32 0.00 0.00     Performance Data    |   51
Process Safety Performance Metric 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
PROCESS SAFETY EVENT RATE(16)
Tier 1 Refining(Total Tier 1 Count / Total 
Work Hours) × 200,0000.06 0.08 0.04 0.05 0.05
Tier 1 Midstream(17)(Total Tier 1 Count / Total 
Work Hours) × 200,0000.07 0.02 0.00 0.05 0.07
Tier 2 Refining(Total Tier 2 Count / Total 
Work Hours) × 200,0000.21 0.22 0.16 0.15 0.16
Tier 2 Midstream(17)(Total Tier 2 Count / Total 
Work Hours) × 200,0000.13 0.14 0.06 0.14 0.14
Notes
(1) As reported in the MPC 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 (2)  Includes data from facilities that MPC did not yet own so that performance can be compared across the same asset base over time. Assets included are those which MPC owned/operated as of Dec. 31, 2018, 
unless otherwise noted. 
(3) Environmental performance reported for facilities of which MPC has operational control.
(4)  Scope 1 direct GHG emissions include those from Refining, Midstream & Retail and are typically calculated per the EPA’s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program or the 2009 API Compendium of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry. Global Warming Potentials used are from Table A-1 to Subpart A of 40 CFR Part 98 as of the year they were reported. It includes 
emissions from fuel combustion, company vehicles and fugitive emissions. 
(5) Scope 2 emissions include indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam.
(6) “Other” includes the administrative office complex in Findlay, Ohio.
(7) Includes Refining and Midstream business segments.
(8) Includes purchased treated wastewater and water re-used within the organization (e.g., filtering and reusing refinery wastewater effluent).
(9) Spills that are < 1 bbl but reported to an agency due to local regulation also included; spill data from entities purchased by MPC included as reported by the acquired company.
(10)  DEIs include three categories of environmental incidents: releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. These include both Speedway 
and MPC/MPLX. Tier 3 and 4 DEIs are the most significant types of DEIs. DEI performance is only inclusive of assets/entities that MPC owned in the reporting year and were brought into the DEI program.
(11) 2018 data reflects our workforce post-Andeavor combination. 2014-2017 data is pre-combination.
(12) Excludes Speedway and employees who joined through our strategic combination with Andeavor.
(13) Includes occurrences during MPC ownership.
(14)  The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate represents the number of incidents per 200,000 hours of work, and includes data from facilities that MPC did not yet own so that performance can be compared across 
the same asset base over time. Assets included are those which MPC owned/operated as of Dec. 31, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
(15)  The Days Away rate represents injuries that caused at least one missed day of work per 200,000 hours of work, and includes data from facilities that MPC did not yet own so that performance can be 
compared across the same asset base over time. Assets included are those which MPC owned/operated as of Dec. 31, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
(16) Process safety events (PSEs) are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a material from one of MPC’s processes. PSE rate is the count of events per 200,000 hours. Tier 1 PSEs are the most serious PSEs.
(17) PSE data for MPLX G&P and former Andeavor Logistics assets not included in the 2014 - 2016 Midstream PSE rates as the input data is not available.52        |    IPIECA GRI Index
IPIECA GRI Index
IPIECA Topic(s) IPIECA Indicator GRI Standard & Disclosure Location of Disclosure MPC Material Topic
Climate Change & 
EnergyE1: Greenhouse gas emissions201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change  
305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  
305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions  
305-4: GHG emissions intensity2018 Sustainability Report, Page 37  
2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios Report  
2018 Annual ReportAir Emissions (including greenhouse gas 
emissions)
Climate Change & 
EnergyE2: Energy use201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change  
302-1: Energy consumption within the organization  
302-3: Energy intensity  
302-4: Reduction of energy consumption2018 Sustainability Report, Page 36  
2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios Report  
2018 Annual ReportRenewable Energy; Air Emissions 
(including greenhouse gas emissions)
Climate Change & 
EnergyE4: Flared gas N/A2018 Sustainability Report, Page 38  
2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios Report  
2018 Annual ReportRenewable Energy; Air Emissions 
(including greenhouse gas emissions)
Endangered Species & 
EcosystemsE5:  Biodiversity and 
ecosystem services304-3: Habitats protected or restored 2018 Sustainability Report, Page 43 Endangered Species & Ecosystems
Water E6: Fresh water201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change  
303-1: Interactions with water as a shared resource  
303-3: Water withdrawal2018 Sustainability Report, Page 42  
2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios Report  
2018 Annual ReportWater Use and Wastewater Management
Water E7: Discharges to water201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change  
303-4: Water discharge2018 Sustainability Report, Page 42  
2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios Report  
2018 Annual ReportWater Use and Wastewater Management
Local Environmental 
ImpactE8: Other air emissions201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change  
305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 
and other significant air emissions2018 Sustainability Report, Page 39  
2019 Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios Report  
2018 Annual ReportAir Emissions (including greenhouse gas 
emissions)
Local Environmental 
ImpactE9: Spills to the environment 306-3: Significant spills2018 Sustainability Report, Page 40  
2018 Annual ReportOil Spill Prevention
Local Environmental 
ImpactE10: Waste 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 2018 Sustainability Report, Page 41 Waste Minimization and Handling
Product Health, Safety 
& Environmental RisksHS1: Workforce participation403-4: Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety2018 Sustainability Report, Page 14  
2018 Annual Report  
MPC Health & Safety websiteAsset Safety; Worker Safety
Product Health, Safety 
& Environmental RisksHS2: Workforce health403-1: Occupational health and safety management 
system  
403-3: Occupational health services  
403-5: Worker training on occupational health and 
safety  
403-6: Promotion of worker health  
403-7: Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships2018 Sustainability Report, Pages 12-17  
2018 Annual Report  
MPC Health & Safety websiteAsset Safety; Worker Safety     IPIECA GRI Index    |   53
IPIECA GRI Index
IPIECA Topic(s) IPIECA Indicator GRI Standard & Disclosure Location of Disclosure MPC Material Topic
Product Health, Safety 
& Environmental RisksHS3: Occupational injury and 
illness incidents403-9: Work-related injuries2018 Sustainability Report, Page 13  
2018 Annual Report  
MPC Health & Safety websiteAsset Safety; Worker Safety
Process Safety & Asset 
Integrity HS5: Process safety403-1: Occupational health and safety management 
system  
403-7: Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships2018 Sustainability Report, Page 16  
2018 Annual Report  
MPC Health & Safety websiteAsset Safety; Worker Safety
Community & SocietySE1: Local community impacts 
and engagement102-40: List of stakeholder groups  
102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders2018 Sustainability Report, Pages 21, 28-33  
2018 Annual ReportPhilanthropic Investment and Employee 
Volunteerism; Community and Stakeholder 
Engagement
Community & Society SE2: Indigenous peoples411-1: Incidents of violations involving rights of 
indigenous peoples2018 Sustainability Report, Page 21 Native People Engagement
Community & Society SE4: Social investment 2018 Sustainability Report, Pages 28-33Philanthropic Investment and Employee 
Volunteerism
Business & 
TransparencySE11: Preventing corruption205-2: Communication and training about  
anti-corruption policies and procedures2018 Sustainability Report, Pages 18-19  
2019 Proxy StatementAnti-corruption Practices; Ethical Business 
Practices 
Business & 
TransparencySE12: Preventing corruption 
involving business partners205-2: Communication and training about  
anti-corruption policies and procedures2018 Sustainability Report, Page 18  
2018 Annual ReportAnti-corruption Practices; Ethical Business 
Practices 
Business & 
TransparencySE14: Public advocacy and 
lobbying415-1: Political contributions2018 Sustainability Report, Page 20  
2018 Annual Report  
MPC Political Engagement & Disclosure websiteEthical Business Practices 
Labor PracticeSE15: Workforce diversity and 
inclusion405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees2018 Sustainability Report, Pages 23-27  
2018 Annual Report  
2019 Proxy StatementWorkforce Diversity, Inclusion and Equal 
Opportunity; Board and Executive 
Leadership Diversity
Labor PracticeSE17: Workforce training and 
development2018 Sustainability Report, Pages 13, 15, 18, 19, 25, 26, 40
Labor PracticeSE18: Non-retaliation and 
grievance system2018 Sustainability Report, Pages 14, 19Anti-corruption Practices; Ethical Business 
Practices 
We are committed to incremental improvements and updates related to our sustainability performance and strategy, and will update our GRI/IPIECA index throughout the year 
as more information and disclosures are available. To see the latest version of our Index, please visit our website. 54        |    Glossary
Glossary
BBL.: Barrel (42 U.S. gallons)
BOE:  Barrel of oil equivalent, used to measure both oil and natural gas. 
Equivalent to the amount of energy in one barrel of crude oil.
BPD: Barrels per day
BTU:  British thermal unit. A measure of heat energy often used to 
quantify the energy in different types of fuel. For example, 
gasoline has 124,300 Btu per gallon, and ethanol has 84,500 Btu 
per gallon.
CO2E:  Carbon dioxide equivalent. Because various greenhouse gases 
have heat-trapping effects that are stronger or weaker than 
carbon dioxide (CO2), they are often expressed as the equivalent 
amount of CO2 to provide a consistent measure.
DAR:  Days Away Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of full 
days of work missed by employees due to injuries, per 200,000 
work hours.
DEI:  Designated Environmental Incident. A metric adopted by MPC 
to capture several categories simultaneously. It includes releases 
to the environment (including to air, land or water), permit 
exceedances and agency enforcement actions. MPC ranks DEIs in 
terms of their severity, with Tier 4 being the most severe, and Tier 
1 being the least. Below are partial descriptions of the DEI Tiers:
 TIER 4
  ¾  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater 
than or equal to 1,000 bbl.
  ¾   Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water 
body greater than or equal to 100 bbl.
  ¾   Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or 
equal to 100 times the reportable quantity
 TIER 3 
  ¾  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater 
than or equal to 100 bbl. but less than 1,000 bbl.
  ¾   Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water 
body greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl. 
  ¾   Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than 
or equal to an established reportable quantity but less than 100 
times the reportable quantity TIER 2 
  ¾   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater 
than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl.
  ¾  Safety system failure or bypass
  ¾   Release of oil or other hazardous material into a regulated water 
body greater than or equal to 1 bbl. but less than 10 bbl.
  ¾   Release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal 
to 80% of a reportable quantity but less than an established 
reportable quantity
 TIER 1
   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land  
that is less than 10 bbl. (if less than 1 bbl., release must also be 
reported)
ENERGY STAR®:  An EPA program recognizing energy efficiency. To 
achieve this status, applicants must perform in the top 
quartile for energy efficiency and have no unresolved 
environmental compliance actions from state or 
federal regulators.
EPA:  The U.S. federal government’s Environmental Protection Agency
G&P:  Natural gas gathering and processing
GHG:  Greenhouse gases, so named because of their heat-trapping 
properties. They include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide 
and other substances.
GIGAJOULE:  A measurement unit of energy. One gigajoule is roughly 
equivalent to 1 million British thermal units.
GRI:  Global Reporting Initiative. An independent international 
organization that provides standards on sustainability reporting.
HES&S:  MPC’s Health, Environment, Safety & Security organization, 
which is tasked with planning, executing, monitoring and 
continually improving the company’s performance in these 
critical areas.
IPIECA:  International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association. The global oil and gas industry’s association for 
advancing environmental and social performance.
MBOE:  Thousands of barrels of oil equivalent. One barrel of oil 
equivalent is approximately 5.8 million British thermal units.MM: Millions
MPC: Marathon Petroleum Corporation
OSHA:   The U.S. federal government’s Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration.
ORIR:  OSHA Recordable Incident Rate. An OSHA term representing 
the number of injuries of the types that must be reported to 
OSHA, per 200,000 work hours.
PSE:  Process safety event. These are unplanned or uncontrolled 
releases of a material from one of MPC’s processes. Tier 1 PSEs, 
which we report in this publication, are the most serious PSEs. 
Below are detailed descriptions of the PSE Tiers:
 TIER 1
  ¾  Loss of primary containment (LOPC) exceeding Tier 1 threshold 
quantity
  ¾  LOPC resulting in a fatality, lost time injury, community 
evacuation or shelter-in-place.
  ¾  LOPC with fire or explosion damage > $100,000
 TIER 2 
  ¾  LOPC exceeding Tier 2 threshold quantity
  ¾  LOPC resulting in a recordable injury
  ¾  LOPC with fire or explosion damage > $2,500
 
RC14001®:  A management system that combines Responsible Care 
with the globally recognized ISO14001 environmental 
management system, established by the International 
Organization for Standardization.
TONNE:  Metric ton. While a ton is 2,000 pounds, a tonne (or metric 
ton) is 2,205 pounds.
MPC's refinery in Dickinson, North Dakota. A 
project under way at the facility will convert 
it to the production of renewable diesel.
Disclosures regarding forward-looking statements
This publication includes forward-looking statements. You can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “design,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” 
“goal,” “guidance,” “imply,” “intend,” “objective,” “opportunity,” “outlook,” “plan,” “position,” “pursue,” “prospective,” “predict,” “project,” “potential,” “seek,” “strategy,” “target,” “could,” 
“may,” “should,” “would,” “will,”  or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. We have based our forward-looking statements on our current 
expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. We caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly 
on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. In addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future 
events that may prove to be inaccurate. While our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, 
regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our actual results may differ 
materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. In accordance with “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we have included in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2018, and Forms 10-Q, cautionary language identifying important factors, though not 
necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Copies of MPC’s Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q are 
available on the SEC website, MPC’s website at https://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Investors/ or by contacting MPC’s Investor Relations office.MPC employees volunteer at Bonita 
Elementary School in Los Angeles
Contact us at: 
MPC Corporate Communications
539 S. Main St.
Findlay, OH 45840
sustainability@marathonpetroleum.com