    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20131 
®Marathon 
Petroleum Corporation
CITIZENSHIP  
REPORT
2013  2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORTcontents
1 LETTER FROM THE CEO
 A message from President and Chief Executive Officer Gary R. Heminger 
2 ABOUT US  
 What we do, and a brief look at how we do it
4 MANAGING FOR CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT  
 The management system we use to make sure we are always getting better   
5 MPC IN YOUR COMMUNITY  
 How MPC employees contribute to stronger communities  
 and a stronger America  
21 HEALTH & SAFETY   
 Injury rates, process safety events and employee wellness 
26 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
 Air pollutant emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, toxic release inventory,  
 waste generation and recycling, energy use, spills, designated environmental incidents
34 OUR PEOPLE
 Employee workforce metrics 
36 GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY
 Independent board members, business integrity and compliance cases 
38 ECONOMIC IMPACT
 Dividends paid, company ownership, capital expenditures, payroll,  
 total expenditures, targeted procurement spending, income tax expenses,  
 consumer excise taxes remitted
40 ADVOCACY
 Our positions on certain legislative and regulatory issues 
44 GLOSSARY
 Descriptions of acronyms and definitions of terms 
46 LOCATION INDEX
 Where to find reference to communities that are important to you 
ON THE COVER:
A lab technician at 
MPC’s Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, Texas    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20131 
LETTER  
FROM  
THE  CEO
At Marathon Petroleum Corporation, we are proud of 
the work we do. Our 30,000 employees manufacture, transport and market fuels and other products that make people’s lives better in innumerable ways.
Our fuels power the farm equipment that plants and 
harvests our food. Our fuels move the trucks, trains, ships and aircraft that bring food and other goods to within a quick drive of your homes. The freedom we all enjoy to transport ourselves to work, school and recreation is fundamental to our way of life, and MPC is proud to produce the fuels that empower us with that mobility. The asphalt we manufacture paves roads and is a main component of asphalt shingles. The petroleum coke from our refineries provides fuel for steel mills and powers electric plants. We manufacture petrochemicals that help make insulation, plastics, paints, inks and much more.
Every one of us at MPC cares about our friends, 
neighbors, co-workers and the environment we all share. That’s why we are dedicated to doing our important work as safely, efficiently and responsibly
 
as possible.
Sincerely,
Gary R. Heminger  
President and Chief Executive Officer
Fellow shareholders and neighbors, Every one of us at MPC cares 
about our friends, neighbors,  co-workers and the environment 
we all share. That’s why we are 
dedicated to doing our important work as safely, efficiently and responsibly as possible.
”“MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20132 ABOUT  
US
MPC is the nation’s fourth-largest refiner, 
with a crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar 
day in its seven-refinery system. Marathon 
brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,200 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s fourth-largest convenience store 
chain, with approximately 1,480 convenience 
stores in nine states.
MPC optimizes operations through an 
extensive logistics system, including more 
than 150 owned and third-party terminals, 
an inland waterway system of towboats and owned or leased barges, 170 transport trucks, and more than 2,100 owned or leased railcars. We also own, lease or have ownership 
interests in approximately 8,300 miles of 
pipeline. Through subsidiaries, we own the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership.BELOW IS A LIST OF THE TOP 10 REFINED 
PRODUCTS MPC MANUFACTURED IN 2013,  
BASED ON VOLUME.
 1.  Product: Gasoline 
Used for: Transportation fuel
 2.  Product: Diesel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
 3.   Product: Jet fuel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
 4.   Product: Refinery fuel 
Used for: Non-salable hydrocarbon materials used to fuel refinery units
 5.    Product: Asphalt 
Used for: Road paving and the manufacture of roofing shingles
 6.    Product: Petroleum coke 
Used for: Fuel in boilers and cement kilns. Some grades can be further treated and used in carbon anodes for aluminum smelting and as electrodes  for electric arc furnaces.
 7.   Product: Aromatics (xylene, benzene, cumene, 
toluene) Used for: Production of paints, printing inks, adhesives, flexible foam, styrene and plastics
 8.   Product: Propane 
Used for: Primarily a heating fuel
 9.  Product: Olefins (primarily propylene) 
Used for: Production of paints, household detergents, carpet fibers, foam insulation and  auto parts
 10.  Product: Heavy fuel oil/slurry 
Used for: Fuel for some utilities and marine vesselsWHAT WE MANUFACTURE
The core of MPC’s business is manufacturing. 
We use feedstocks – crude oil and other blendstocks – to produce a variety of 
refined products used by tens of millions 
of consumers. The products we and other refining companies manufacture are used directly or indirectly by virtually every single 
person in our nation. The fuels we produce get 
children to schools, bring produce to grocery stores and heat homes. Asphalt paves roads 
and is the main ingredient in the manufacture 
of shingles. Lesser-known products like cumene or propylene are used to manufacture items that make our lives easier, safer and 
more convenient, such as plastics, paints and 
inks, cosmetics and flexible foam.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20133 
REFINING AND 
TRANSPORTATION  NETWORK
As of Dec. 31, 2013
MPC’s refineries 
are managed as one 
integrated system, 
optimizing feedstock and raw material inputs. This results 
in economies of scale 
that optimize capital expenditures and capacity. 
* Nelson Complexity Index (NCI) calculated per Oil & 
Gas Journal NCI formula
** Weighted Average NCI
 Source: MPC DataCRUDE OIL REFINING CAPACITY
 BPCD NCI*
Garyville (Louisiana) 522,000 11.0
Galveston Bay (Texas) 451,000 13.1
Catlettsburg (Kentucky) 242,000 10.2
Robinson (Illinois) 212,000 10.0
Detroit (Michigan) 123,000 9.9
Texas City (Texas) 84,000 8.0
Canton (Ohio) 80,000 8.8
TOTAL                          1,714,000            11.0 **MPC LOGISTICS: By the numbers
 66 Owned and part-owned light product terminals
 60 Third-party light product terminals
 19 Owned asphalt terminals
 10 Third-party asphalt terminals
 8,300  Approximate miles of pipeline that MPC owns, 
leases or has ownership interest in
 18 Inland waterway towboats
 184 Owned barges
 16 Leased barges
 170 Owned transport trucks
 2,165 Owned or leased railcarsLight Product Terminals
MPC Owned and Part-ownedThird PartyAsphalt TerminalsMPC Owned
Third Party
Water-Supplied Terminals
Coastal
InlandMPC Refineries
PipelinesMPC Owned and OperatedMPC Interest: Operated by MPCMPC Interest: Operated by OthersPipelines Used by MPC
PipelinesTank Farms
Butane Cavern
Barge Dock®MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20134 MANAGING FOR 
CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT
We use the “Plan – Do – Check – Adjust” 
framework, aligned with the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care
® Management 
System.
Through the implementation of this system, 
we take a best-practices approach to health, environment, safety and security processes, integrating risk assessment and risk management into our business and operating 
planning cycles and decision-making processes. 
We bolster our management system with performance-based standards that clearly delineate the outcomes we expect of ourselves. We regularly update these standards to reflect legislative or regulatory changes, and 
to incorporate lessons learned from audits or 
incident investigations. Continual improvement is the ongoing objective.
MPC’s commitment to its values is safeguarded 
and driven by various empowered internal 
organizations, including Health, Environment, Safety & Security (HES&S); Diversity and Inclusion; Business Integrity and Compliance; Community Relations; Supplier Diversity; and 
Internal Auditing.Because MPC’s commitment 
to its core values is a 
powerful driver of its 
long-term success, we have woven continual 
improvement into the fabric 
of our performance.
    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20135 MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
In addition to the hundreds of activities you’ll see in 
this report, MPC donates millions of dollars to dozens of national, state and local charities in the areas of 
arts and culture, education, environment, health and 
human services, and more. The causes include local neighborhood projects, such as our commitment of  $2 million to the Kemeny Recreation Center in Detroit, Mich., as well as national organizations, such as our $300,000 contribution to the Ronald McDonald House 
and $450,000 commitment to Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospitals.MPC’s commitment to the 
communities in which it operates is steadfast. It is driven by our thousands of employees who care deeply about their friends, 
neighbors and the institutions 
that make our communities better places to live.
TRENT JUNGA, Health, 
Environment and Safety 
Professional at MPC’s Texas City, Texas, refinery 
and Volunteer Fireman
MICHAEL FILKINS, 
    Operator at MPC’s         Catlettsburg, Ky.,  
         refinery and 
          Volunteer for  
             Relay for LifeMARLA GIBBS,   
Technical Writer  
        at MPC’s            headquarters               in Findlay,               Ohio, and                 United Way                  VolunteerSTEVE MARSH,  
   Machinist at 
     MPC’s Canton, 
     Ohio, refinery        and Boy  Scout         LeaderWHERE’S MY COMMUNITY?
To see what pages your community appears 
on, go to page 46.
MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20136 ◗ MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
donated $15,000 to each of its four 
adopted schools in St. John the Baptist 
Parish, La . The schools include Garyville 
Mt. Airy Magnet School, East St. John Elementary, East St. John High School 
and South Central Louisiana Technical 
College. MPC also donated $1,000 each to every other K-12 school in the parish.
◗ MPC employees in  Findlay, Ohio , 
participated in a “build-a-bear” workshop, at which they assembled stuffed animals for children. The furry toys were donated to the Findlay Fire Department to be distributed to children who have suffered traumatic events.
◗ MPC’s refinery in  Canton, Ohio , 
dispatched technical advisors and air-monitoring equipment to support federal, 
state and local emergency services that 
were responding to a fire in northeast Canton that was the source of pollutant emissions.
◗ MPC’s Texas City refinery in  Texas 
City, Texas , won the company’s 
President’s Award for Responsible Care® 
for its safety, environmental and other values-driven performance in 2012, and 
distributed its $10,000 prize money 
received in 2013 to three local charities: Teen Health Center of Galveston County, Gulf Coast Chapter of Big Brothers Big Sisters, and the Texas City Independent School District Foundation for the Future.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Garyville, La. , 
presented a $10,000 check to Louisiana Technical College – River Parishes Campus 
to fund scholarships for students in the 
school’s Process Technology and Industrial Maintenance Technology courses. 
◗ MPC employees at its headquarters 
in Findlay, Ohio , coordinated a Coats 
for Christmas collection, gathering and donating about 140 winter coats, as well as 
hats and scarves, for local families in need.
◗ In Norcross, Ga. , MPC employees who 
were there for a series of meetings took time from business matters to unload 
school supplies from trucks at the Norcross Cooperative Ministry and pack them into backpacks for underprivileged kids in 
Gwinnett County . They also helped 
accomplish some office work while they 
were there. 
◗ Volunteers from MPC’s refineries in  
Texas City, Texas , helped build a Habitat 
for Humanity home for a family in financial 
need.
◗ MPC employees in  Garyville, La. , visited 
schools in the St. John the Baptist Parish, 
La., to share with kids the importance 
of calling 811 before digging to avoid pipelines or other underground features. 
The employees also provided information and tools about hurricane preparedness, 
including hurricane-tracking maps, 
magnets with emergency information, 
glow-in-the-dark pencils and more.
◗ MPC’s refinery in  Detroit, Mich. , 
completed its Oakwood Heights Property Purchase Program, through which it 
purchased most of the properties in  the 
Oakwood Heights neighborhood directly adjacent to the refinery in order to create a green space. The vast majority of eligible owners chose to participate in 
 
the program.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
Texas City, Texas , refinery maintained 
their ongoing focus on education in 2013. Employees served as judges in the Texas 
City Independent School District (TCISD) 
Science Fair, and representatives from the Texas City refinery and the Galveston Bay refinery serve on the board of the TCISD Foundation for the Future, which 
raises funds for educational initiatives 
that aren’t state-funded.
◗ MPC’s Marine Transportation 
organization donated $2,500 each to Boyd County Family Resource Center 
East and Boyd County Family Resource 
Center West in 
Boyd County, Ky . The 
organizations provide services that connect schools, communities and 
families to help those in need.
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
Neighborhood green space created from the Oakwood Heights Property 
Purchase Program, near MPC’s refinery in Detroit, Mich.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20137 
◗ As MPC organizations compete with 
each other for the company’s President’s 
Award for Responsible Care®, finalists 
receive a cash prize to donate to charities of their choice. Marathon Pipe Line 
LLC, an MPC subsidiary, chose the 
Palmer Home for Children in 
Columbus, 
Miss. ; Embarras River Basin Agency in  
Greenup, Ill. ; Toys for Tots, St. John 
Center for Homeless Men, Chained Inc., and the Wounded Warrior Project in the 
Ohio Valley region ; and Children’s 
Mentoring Connection, Homework Central, Findlay City Mission and 
Blanchard Valley Center in 
Findlay, 
Ohio .
◗ Various groups and individuals at 
MPC’s Galveston Bay refinery in Texas 
City, Texas , adopted 26 families over 
the holidays through the Mainland 
Children’s Partnership, providing items 
from the families’ Christmas wish lists.
◗ During a series of business meetings in 
Nashville, Tenn. , MPC employees took 
time off to pack boxes into a cooler at 
the Second Harvest Food Bank of Middle Tennessee, and presented the food bank 
with a $1,250 check.◗ MPC employees in  Findlay, Ohio , 
sponsored the Back to School Backpack 
Program, providing 63 backpacks full 
of new clothing to children of families 
being helped by the Hope House and Open Arms Domestic Violence Shelter.
◗ MPC employees assembled and 
donated backpacks full of basic school supplies to Fairview Elementary School 
in
 Westwood, Ky ., and Wayne Middle 
School in  Wayne, W.Va.
◗ Employees at MPC’s Marine 
Transportation facility in Catlettsburg, 
Ky., participated in an American Red 
Cross blood drive, donating a total of  
26 units of blood.
◗ MPC employees from the company’s 
Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, 
Texas , collected toiletries and other 
household goods for local senior citizens, 
assembling the donations into “Senior 
Baskets,” along with food items, and 
delivered them to 50 seniors at a low-income senior citizen apartment complex.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, Ohio , 
adopted dozens of families during the Christmas season, providing food, clothes and gifts for the families through local charitable organizations like the Salvation Army.
◗ MPC employees in  Speedway, 
Ind., volunteered their time to clean 
up a vacant property, collecting and disposing of several bags of trash right 
before the Indianapolis Mini-Marathon 
and Indianapolis 500 races increased pedestrian and vehicle traffic in the area.
◗ MPC employees in Nashville, Tenn. , 
met with students at the Bordeaux Enhanced Option Elementary School 
to discuss the oil industry and the 
importance of math and science education. MPC volunteers also spent an afternoon landscaping and building an outdoor classroom area at the school.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
headquarters in  Findlay, Ohio , received 
the Light of Hope award from Court Appointed Special Advocates/Guardian 
Ad Litem (CASA/GAL) for volunteer 
efforts to assist CASA/GAL in its mission to serve as the voice for children 
involved in the court system.
MPC employees from the company’s 
refinery in Garyville, La., conduct science 
experiments with St. John the Baptist 
Parish elementary-school students.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20138 
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
◗ Through generous donations from 
its customers, vendors and employees, 
Speedway’s fundraising efforts for 
Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals 
(CMNH) exceeded $7.6 million in 2013.  Since 1991, Speedway has raised more than $60 million for CMNH. 
◗ MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
donated $500 checks to each of the athletic programs of East St. John High 
School, St. Charles Catholic High School, 
Riverside Academy and West St. John High School.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in  
Canton, Ohio , raised more than  
$42,000 for the United Way of Greater Stark County.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Detroit, Mich ., donated 480 coats and 
raised funds to purchase an additional 120 new winter coats, donating the total 
of 600 coats to those in need through the 
Salvation Army.
◗ MPC’s refinery in  Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
was the Silver Sponsor of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) annual Freedom Fund banquet in
 Ashland, Ky . MPC was 
lauded for consistently demonstrating its “commitment to diversity and outreach” 
in the community, according to the local 
NAACP’s president.
◗ MPC employees from the company’s  
Robinson, Ill. , refinery purchased school 
supplies and about 75 backpacks, filling them up and delivering them to Crawford 
County school children in need.
◗ MPC’s refinery in  Detroit, Mich. , 
made its yearly contribution to Epiphany, 
a Detroit-based organization that 
coordinates college visits for local high-
school students.
◗ About 20 MPC employees from 
Martinsville, Ill. , raised funds and 
participated in the Wabash Valley  
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure in  
Terre Haute, Ind.
◗ MPC partnered with the College of 
the Mainland in  Texas City, Texas , 
to provide job training to almost 300 workers who received Skills 
Development Fund grants from the Texas Workforce Commission. The 
training prepares workers for jobs that 
pay an average wage of more than 
 
$38 per hour.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
headquarters took part in the American Heart Association’s Heart Walk in 
Findlay, Ohio , raising more than 
$22,000 – the top fundraising team for the sixth consecutive year.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , 
provided volunteers and financial resources to support the curriculum 
 
and other offerings at the Lincoln  
Trail College.
◗ Employees in  Nashville, Tenn. , 
participated in the Christmas 4 Kids event, which provides about 400 children 
the opportunity to receive a new 
 
winter coat and spend $150 at a local 
Wal-Mart for Christmas. MPC employees also presented the Christmas 4 Kids 
organization with a $1,250 check.
Speedway employees pose with toy bears they donated 
to the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20139 
“WHEN MARATHON PETROLEUM SHARES INFORMATION ABOUT THEIR 
BUSINESS IN OUR COMMUNITY , IT HELPS ASSURE THE COMMUNITY  
THAT THEY’RE DOING A GOOD JOB, AND IT AFFIRMS THEIR  
COMMITMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP , YOUTH  
DEVELOPMENT AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT . IT’S LIKE  
NEIGHBORS HELPING NEIGHBORS.”
JOSÉ BOIX
Coordinator, Texas City-La Marque Community Advisory Council 
Texas City, Texas
◗ At MPC’s  Catlettsburg, Ky. , refinery, 
200 employees organized its annual 
Career Day, which brought almost 3,000 
eighth-grade students from 25 schools 
in Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia to learn about the refinery and what types of work its employees do. Booths provided information on a wide variety of jobs, 
including mechanical, fire and rescue, 
marine, laboratory, accounting, security, safety, environmental and many more.
◗ MPC volunteers in  Findlay, Ohio , 
participated in a Christmas luncheon and holiday sing-along at the Blanchard 
Valley School and Industries, which 
increases opportunities for people with developmental disabilities. Employees provided and served a Christmas feast, and provided ukulele accompaniment for 
the sing-along.
◗ In 2013, MPC’s refinery in Detroit, 
Mich ., completed its fourth year of 
funding process-technology scholarships 
at Detroit’s Henry Ford Community 
College. MPC has committed to funding 
up to 10 scholarships per year for  
10 years.
◗ MPC employees attending a series 
of business meetings in  Holland, 
Mich. , volunteered their time at 
the local Salvation Army, helping to move and organize boxes of toys for 
underprivileged children, and weeding 
and landscaping the front yard of the Salvation Army office.◗ In Greenville, S.C. , MPC employees 
volunteered on a Habitat for Humanity home for a single mother of two. 
◗ MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery donated 
$1,000 to the Louisiana State University chapter of the National Association of Black 
Accountants.
◗ MPC employees in Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
volunteered to be “Test Champions,” 
helping students at Catlettsburg Elementary 
prepare for standardized tests.
◗ Dozens of volunteers from MPC’s refinery 
in Garyville, La. , have sponsored luncheons 
at the St. John Council on Aging in Reserve, 
La., where they serve meals, sing songs  
and sponsor bingo games with prizes.
Eighth-grade students try on firefighting gear at the annual 
career fair held by MPC’s Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201310 
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
◗ MPC employees and retirees 
participated in an Adopt-A-Highway 
cleanup on U.S. 224 in Findlay, Ohio , 
cleaning up a two-mile stretch of the road four times during 2013.
◗ MPC employees raised almost $14,500 
for the March of Dimes March for Babies in 
Ashland, Ky .
◗ MPC volunteers partnered with 
the Army Corps of Engineers in the Yatesville Lake Kids Fishing Day near 
Louisa, Ky . The event encourages kids 
to enjoy the outdoors, and provides food and prizes along with the fun of fishing.
◗ MPC employees volunteered at the 
Special Olympics event at Huntington High School in 
Huntington, W.Va. , to help participants in events such as foot races and the long jump
.
◗ MPC employees in Garyville, La. , 
donated $13,000 to the John L. Ory Communication Magnet School to help 
with recovery from a fire and the 
 
effects of Hurricane Isaac. 
◗ MPC’s 2013 United Way campaign 
at its headquarters in Findlay, Ohio , 
raised more than $1.6 million with 
a variety of efforts by hundreds of individual employees and groups contributing to the final tally.
◗ MPC employee Carole Raley was 
recognized by the United Way of Metropolitan 
Nashville, Ten n., with 
the organization’s Oscar Award, which recognizes volunteers who go above and 
beyond the call of duty in organizing and 
championing United Way events in their companies.
◗ To help the St. John Council on Aging 
in Reserve, La. , recover from the effects 
of Hurricane Isaac, MPC’s refinery in 
Garyville, La. , donated $5,000 to the 
organization.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in  
Canton, Ohio , held a fundraiser for 
the Susan G. Komen Foundation to 
fight breast cancer. For each employee 
donation, local hair stylists volunteered their time to provide pink hair extensions or temporary dye to the donors.
“BEFORE MPC’S MARINE TRANSPORTATION GOT INVOLVED, WE WERE  
TO THE POINT OF HAVING TO ASK TEACHERS AND STAFF AT THE  
SCHOOLS FOR DONATIONS, AND YOU CAN ONLY ASK FOR SO MUCH. 
IT’S NICE TO LIVE IN A COMMUNITY WHERE PEOPLE NOT NECESSARILY 
CONNECTED WITH OUR SCHOOLS HAVE A HEART FOR THE KIDS AND A 
DESIRE TO HELP WITH THEIR BASIC NEEDS.”
RUTH ELLEN CHANEY
Coordinator, Boyd County Family Resource Center West
Boyd County, Ky.
MPC employees in Indianapolis, Ind., take a break from cleaning up a public park.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201311 
◗ About 40 MPC employees volunteered 
to clear out and rehabilitate a dilapidated 
park in Indianapolis, Ind.  The team 
cleared brush, pulled weeds, removed debris, and cleaned and painted 
playground equipment and picnic tables.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, Ohio , 
assisted the local Salvation Army in its 
annual food drive by picking up donated 
food items from collection points at 
Findlay city schools and helping sort the donations into 1,500 boxes. The donations helped feed 750 families during the holiday season.
◗ MPC employees in  Nashville, Tenn. , 
partnered with other local organizations to engage two dozen third-graders in 
wildlife education and a discussion 
about petroleum and MPC’s role in manufacturing, transporting and marketing petroleum products. The 
 
day’s events took place at MPC’s certified wildlife habitat at its asphalt terminal property.
◗ MPC was recognized by the Hancock 
County, Ohio , Parks Department for 
the number of volunteer hours spent by employees who helped clean up various park areas and prepare them for visitors.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Garyville, La. , donated $4,700 to 
purchase backpacks and school supplies for students in need at East St. John 
Elementary School and Garyville Mt. Airy 
Magnet School.
◗ MPC employees in  Texas City, Texas , 
provided career guidance to almost 700 fifth- and sixth-grade students at Barber 
Middle School in 
Dickinson, Texas , and 
College of the Mainland in Texas City.
◗ A group of MPC employees from its 
Canton, Ohio , refinery worked with 
representatives from the Stark County 
Educational Service Center to develop 
real-world scenarios for local students to 
solve, boosting interest in science, math, engineering and technology.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Detroit, Mich. , 
donated state-of-the-art surveillance cameras to monitor the parking lot at the 
Southwest Detroit Business Association 
to help prevent vehicle break-ins.
◗ MPC employees in  Findlay, Ohio , 
supported our military by mailing boxes of food, magazines, personal care items 
and signed Christmas cards to four 
soldiers stationed in Afghanistan. The employees also adopted a local military veteran family, delivering food, wrapped 
presents for the kids, and Christmas 
cards.
◗ About 30 MPC volunteers from the 
company’s Catlettsburg, Ky. , refinery 
participated in the 13th annual Ashland, 
Ky., Repair Affair, which provides home-
improvement help to homeowners based on financial need. Volunteers cut grass, 
removed trash, cut saplings, made minor 
repairs and painted siding
.
◗ MPC donated $4,000 to th e Kenova, 
W.Va. , police department to help fund 
law enforcement activities.
◗ For the fifth consecutive year, MPC’s 
Garyville, La. , refinery hosted dozens 
of ninth- and 10th-grade girls as part of Louisiana State University’s Exploration Camp for Inspiring Tomorrow’s Engineers (XCITE) program, which 
introduces young high-achievers to 
engineering disciplines through hands-on demonstrations, field trips and 
contact with industry professionals. 
Third-graders learn how to use a compass during a visit to the 
certified wildlife habitat at MPC’s Nashville, Tenn., asphalt terminal.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201312 
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
◗ MPC employees in Robinson, Ill. , 
sponsored a food-drive for the Oblong 
Children’s Christian Home, providing 
non-perishable food, toiletries and 
personal items.
◗ MPC employees at its refineries in 
Texas City, Texas , volunteered to help 
set up the Miles for the Mainland race, which raises funds for the United Way 
Galveston County Mainland. Volunteers 
from MPC’s Galveston Bay refinery prepared and served hot dogs 
 
after the race, and the refinery won the  
Industry Cup for having the most  
participants in the race – more than 100.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
headquarters in  Findlay, Ohio ,  
participated in the American Cancer  
Society’s Relay for Life, which was partly sponsored by MPC. Participants from the 
company raised more than $2,500.
◗ MPC employees in  Martinsville, Ill. ,  
read The Skin You Live In – a book that  
teaches about diversity and inclusion –  
to kindergarteners and first-graders at  
Martinsville Elementary School, and  
conducted an accompanying drawing 
activity.◗ MPC employees in Wood River, Ill. ,  
assisted local emergency responders  
as they contained a diesel fuel spill and fire that resulted from an automobile accident on Illinois Route 3 near 
Hartford, Ill.
◗ MPC employees collaborated with 
contractors and vendors supporting MPC’s Owensboro-to-Catlettsburg 
pipeline project to host a charity golf 
outing in 
Mt. Sterling, Ky. , that raised 
more than $20,000 for the American Cancer Society in 
Lexington, Ky.
◗ Volunteers from MPC’s refinery in 
Robinson, Ill. , provided educational 
activities and nature walks to hundreds of students from local elementary 
schools at the refinery’s Neil Pit 
certified wildlife habitat. Participating schools were from 
Hutsonville, 
Oblong, New Hebron, Robinson 
and Palestine .
◗ After receiving a donation of a swing 
set, Children’s Mentoring Connection needed help transporting and building 
the playground equipment. MPC 
employees in 
Findlay, Ohio , picked up the swing set, transported it to Camp Beck in
 Wyandot County, Ohio , and put 
it together.
◗ More than a dozen volunteers 
from MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
volunteered to restore two homes in St. John the Baptist Parish that were 
damaged by Hurricane Isaac.
◗ More than 320 MPC employees from 
its headquarters in  Findlay, Ohio,  ran in 
the inaugural Susan G. Komen Northwest Ohio Race for the Cure. MPC was the 
presenting sponsor of the race, and its runners were the top fundraisers for the event, donating more than $35,000 to the cause.
◗ At the American Cancer Society Relay 
for Life in  St. John the Baptist Parish, 
La., MPC’s  Garyville, La. , refinery was 
a $5,000 Gold Sponsor of the event and 
sponsored two teams to participate. 
MPC volunteers also raised an additional $6,600 on the day of the event by selling food, T-shirts and more.
At MPC’s Neil Pit certified wildlife habitat in Robinson, Ill., employees from its  
refinery volunteered to provide educational activities and nature walks to hundreds  
of elementary school students.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201313 
◗ About 20 Speedway employees 
participated in the American Cancer 
Society’s Making Strides Against Breast 
Cancer 5K Walk in Canton, Ohio . Their 
participation, as well as donations from 
generous Speedway customers, provided 
almost $15,000 to the charity.
◗ MPC funds the annual Step Back in 
Time event at the historic San Francisco 
Plantation in Garyville, La. , which was 
held for the 10th time in 2013. The  
event hosted fourth-grade students  
from St. John the Baptist Parish, La.
◗ Through its annual $5,000 donation to 
the Canton South High School, the MPC refinery in 
Canton, Ohio , contributed to the school’s ability to purchase a mill that allows students to make models of engineering drawings. The purchase was part of the school’s Project Lead the Way program, which works to spark 
interest in math and science.
◗ MPC donated $46,500 to the 
Texas City Independent School 
District Foundation for the Future in 
Texas City, Texas , to help fund the 
organization’s educational initiatives.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Detroit, Mich. , collected and donated 
more than 2,000 personal care items to the Detroit Rescue Mission to help 
individuals and families in need.◗ MPC’s refinery in Catlettsburg, 
Ky., sponsored the Gus Macker charity 
basketball tournament in Ironton, Ohio , 
which had its best year ever in terms 
of participation: 210 total teams, three 
of which were from the Catlettsburg 
refinery.
◗ As a charter member of the Supriya 
Jindal Foundation for Louisiana’s Children, MPC helped to fund 
interactive, high-tech instructional 
technologies for every public-school kindergarten classroom in 
St. John the 
Baptist Parish, La.
“MARATHON PETROLEUM IS AN EXCELLENT AND DEPENDABLE 
NEIGHBOR. ITS HELP RANGES FROM OUTRIGHT FINANCIAL AID TO 
COACHING VARIOUS TEAMS AT SCHOOL, COOKING AT A BOOTH AT OUR 
FALL AND CHRISTMAS FESTIVALS, HOLDING OFFICES AT EVERY LEVEL 
OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND EDUCATION, AND THEIR EMPLOYEES’ 
GENEROUS CONTRIBUTION OF TIME AND EXPERTISE ANYWHERE IT IS 
NEEDED IN THE COMMUNITY .”
ROBERT BERTY
Director, Crawford County Development Association
Robinson, Ill.
An MPC employee in Texas City, Texas, participates in the Marathon Petroleum Skeet Tournament, 
which raises funds for United Way Galveston County Mainland.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201314 
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
◗ MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , 
donated $2,500 to the Oblong Children’s 
Christian Home to help fund the 
organization’s equestrian therapy center. 
Employees also volunteered to install emergency lighting, clean donated furniture, remove dirt from the arena to replace it with sand, and other tasks to 
bring the center to completion.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
headquarters in Findlay, Ohio , helped 
move donated items at the Findlay City 
Mission to higher ground to protect 
them from potential flooding. The group 
also helped prepare food boxes for distribution to food banks in the area.
◗ In Akron, Ohio , MPC employees 
volunteered at the Akron-Canton Regional Food Bank to prepare food 
for distribution throughout the eight 
counties served by the bank.
◗ MPC employees volunteered at the 
Forgotten Harvest food packaging warehouse in 
Oak Park, Mich. , where 
they prepared food boxes for distribution to families in need.◗ MPC employees in Findlay, Ohio , 
raised almost $3,900 for the Reeves Northrup Memorial Multiple Sclerosis 
(MS) Bike to the Bay event, which 
provides funding to combat MS and to support people in northwest Ohio living with the disease. The volunteers then rode the 150 miles of the event route 
over two consecutive days.
◗ MPC donated $16,000 to the College 
of the Mainland in Texas City, Texas , 
in support of the school’s Collegiate 
High School and Process Technology 
programs.
◗ About 20 employees from MPC’s 
two refineries in Texas City, Texas , 
volunteered during the Christmas Senior 
Share, which brought about 700 seniors 
from throughout Galveston County 
together for a meal, entertainment and prizes. The volunteers helped decorate the venue for the event and served food 
to the attendees.
◗ In Charleston, S.C. , MPC employees 
spent an afternoon volunteering at the 
Charleston Animal Society, putting 
together hundreds of dog treats and 
cat toys for the animals there, as well as creating educational materials for children about the promotion of animal 
welfare.
◗ MPC’s Garyville, La. , refinery 
contributed $20,000 to the St. John the 
Baptist Parish Sheriff’s Department 
for post-Hurricane Isaac disaster relief 
efforts. This is in addition to the $50,000 donation made in 2012 for the same purpose.
◗ MPC employees participated in the 
annual Ohio River Sweep, in which volunteers collect and dispose of litter 
along the length of the river. MPC 
volunteers focused on the river’s banks in 
Catlettsburg, Ky.
◗ MPC employees volunteered their 
time to construct a parade float that won second place in the 
Ironton, Ohio , 
Memorial Day parade.
◗ MPC employees volunteered at the 
Grayson Lake Cleanup in Grayson, Ky. , 
collecting debris for proper disposal.
◗ MPC donated medical supplies to 
the Ebenezer Medical Outreach, which provides free health care to those in 
need in 
Huntington, W.Va.
A student from Patoka, Ill., shows off her winning entry from 
MPC’s “Call 811 Before You Dig, Safe Digging Month” contest.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201315 
◗ MPC’s employees at its refinery in 
Garyville, La. , conducted a fundraising 
drive for the St. John the Baptist Parish 
United Way, resulting in a donation  
of $312,000.
◗ MPC employees at the company’s 
Texas City, Texas , refinery and its 
Galveston Bay refinery volunteered their time to participate in Junior 
Achievement, providing educational 
activities that teach students about civics and the role of industry in communities.
◗ In cooperation with the Canton Joint 
Engineering Council, MPC employees at the 
Canton, Ohio , refinery hosted 
an Engineer for a Day program, through which 20 local students spent a day 
learning what an engineer’s workday is 
like.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Robinson, Ill. , sold safety-related 
T-shirts to raise money for local food pantries. The effort resulted in a $1,350 
donation.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Garyville, La. , 
was title sponsor for the San Francisco 
Plantation’s Annual Arts and Crafts 
Festival, which raised $137,000 for the 
historic antebellum museum.◗ MPC’s Detroit, Mich. , refinery 
prioritized education in 2013, making financial contributions to various local 
schools and educational organizations, 
including Mark Twain Elementary, Pierre Toussaint Academy, Cornerstone Schools, Matrix Head Start and the Mercy Education Project.
◗ More than 550 MPC employees at 
its headquarters in Findlay, Ohio , 
volunteered their time during the United Way Days of Caring. Employees provided 
hands-on assistance to 21 United Way 
agencies during the event, helping them with maintenance, cleanup and 
 
other projects.
◗ Employees from MPC’s two refineries 
in Texas City, Texas , volunteered 
in the annual Trash Bash, the largest waterway cleanup event in the state, 
collecting trash for proper disposal.
◗ MPC employees in Detroit, Mich. , 
raised more than $145,000 for the 
United Way for Southeastern Michigan 
through various fundraisers, including a 
March Madness bracket contest and an employee chili cook-off.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
donated $2,500 to the Good Samaritan Center in 
Kenova, W.Va. , for the 
organization’s Walking Out Hunger project, which raised funds for food banks throughout West Virginia.
◗ At Christmas time, MPC employees 
from its refinery in  Robinson, Ill. , 
purchased gifts for 50 children from families in need.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, Ohio , held 
collection drives for clothing items, books and more for Specialized Alternatives for 
Family and Youth, an organization that 
works to place children into adoptive or foster homes.
◗ MPC employees in  Texas City, Texas , 
volunteered at the July 4th Senior Share, where more than 500 senior citizens from 
across Galveston County took part in a 
celebration with a meal, patriotic music and prizes.
◗ In Lucas, Ohio , MPC employees 
volunteered to clean, weed and plant flowers at the Malabar Farm State Park 
visitor’s center to get it ready for an influx 
of visitors during the Ohio Heritage Days.
◗ MPC employees in Indianapolis, Ind. , 
collected and donated more than 70 large grocery sacks filled with non-perishable food for Community Caring and Sharing, a nonprofit that provides weekly food deliveries to those in urgent need.
During the United Way Days of Caring in Hancock County, Ohio, 
MPC employees help get a public park ready for summer crowds .MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201316 
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
◗ About 120 MPC employees gathering 
at a multiday meeting in Lexington, Ky. , 
divided into 17 teams that each built, 
painted and named a rocking horse. The 
rocking horses were donated to four 
local charities: the Kentucky Children’s Hospital; Lexington Hearing and Speech Center; Bluegrass Domestic Violence Program; and the Center for Women, 
Children and Families. A rocking horse 
also was donated to the Open Arms Domestic Violence and Rape Crisis Center in 
Findlay, Ohio .
◗ The MPC refinery in Canton, Ohio , 
hosted a “Lunch and Learn” with the 
Louisville, Ohio , High School Diversity 
Initiative Team, with the objective of contributing to the team’s efforts to 
increase diversity awareness in their 
school and community.
◗ About 100 volunteers at MPC’s 
Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, 
Texas , organized its 13th annual United 
Way Golf Tournament, which attracted almost 300 golfers and raised more than 
$83,000 for local charities funded by 
United Way Galveston County Mainland.
◗ On Earth Day, MPC employees from its 
refinery in Detroit, Mich. , visited four local schools – Mark Twain Elementary, Pierre Toussaint Academy, Allendale 
Elementary and Matrix Simpson Center 
– to talk to students about environmental stewardship. Volunteers gave each student a spruce tree seedling.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Catlettsburg, Ky. , sponsored a team in 
the American Cancer Society’s Making Strides Against Breast Cancer 5K Walk in 
Ashland, Ky.  The refinery’s team was the 
largest single fundraising team, donating more than $5,300 to the cause.
◗ MPC employees from its Robinson, 
Ill., refinery provided a Christmas lunch 
for the clients at Lawrence/Crawford Association for Exceptional Citizens. 
Employees served the meal and provided 
entertainment.
◗ In Indianapolis, Ind. , 35 MPC 
employees volunteered to help build two 
Habitat for Humanity homes, working 
on interior framing, exterior trim work, painting and more.
◗ About 100 MPC employees and 
family members volunteered for various functions at the Marathon Classic LPGA 
charity golf tournament in 
Toledo, 
Ohio . The Marathon Classic raised $378,000, which was donated to more 
than 20 children’s charities throughout 
northwest Ohio  and southeast 
Michigan . Since the tournament was 
founded almost 30 years ago, it has donated $8.1 million to more than 100 
children’s charities in the region. MPC 
began serving as the title sponsor of the event in 2013.
◗ MPC employees at its headquarters 
in Findlay, Ohio , held a fundraiser for 
the Red Cross Armed Forces Family Network, raising almost $700 for the 
charity.
◗ Dozens of employees from MPC’s 
Galveston Bay refinery in  Texas City, 
Texas , volunteered at the Special Kids’ 
Day at the Galveston County Fair and 
Rodeo, cooking and serving about 
1,000 hot dogs to the children and their 
caregivers, and helping kids get on and off rides safely.
◗ MPC donated funds to Rogers 
Elementary School in Detroit, Mich. , 
to help fund a garden project. MPC employees from its refinery in Detroit 
helped students and parents build the 
garden, which was then used in the school’s curriculum.
The Marathon Classic LPGA charity golf tournament in Toledo, Ohio, raised $378,000, which was donated 
to more than 20 children’s charities throughout northwest Ohio and southeast Michigan.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201317 
“MARATHON PETROLEUM IS A GOOD NEIGHBOR. THEY GIVE BACK 
TO THE COMMUNITIES AND THE SCHOOLS. SOME COMPANIES ONLY 
CARE ABOUT MAKING A DOLLAR, AND IT’S ALL ABOUT THE MONEY . 
BUT MARATHON PETROLEUM TAKES CARE OF US… THEY WANT TO 
TAKE CARE OF THEIR NEIGHBORS.”
TIM OSBORNE
Community Advisory Panel member
Canton, Ohio
◗ About a dozen MPC employees 
from its refinery in Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
volunteered weekly at the Big Brothers 
Big Sisters school-based mentoring 
program at Catlettsburg Elementary 
School. MPC employees also fundraise for the organization by selling Christmas trees each year.
◗ Every Friday, MPC employees from 
the refinery in Robinson, Ill. , delivered 
lunch to 15 senior citizens’ households in Crawford County.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, Ohio , 
sponsored a Christmas party for residents at the Open Arms Domestic 
Violence and Rape Crisis Center. 
Employees made about 500 desserts, donated gifts for 150 children and provided $20 Marathon gift cards to 100 
families.
◗ At the Gleaners Food Bank in 
Indianapolis, Ind. , MPC employees 
assembled almost 7,000 backpacks of 
individually packaged food items and 
donated $3,000 to the organization.
◗ MPC employees from the company’s 
Canton, Ohio , refinery volunteered 
at Dueber Elementary School to share 
age-appropriate science experiments 
with students. Dueber Elementary is the 
refinery’s local adopted school.
◗ Members of the Hispanic Network at 
MPC’s Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, Texas , prepared meals for the 
Galveston Ronald McDonald House once each quarter.
◗ MPC employees at its headquarters in 
Findlay, Ohio , volunteered in Habitat 
for Humanity’s “Women’s Build,” which brought together a group of men and 
women to help finish roofing and other 
aspects of a home being built for a local family. 
◗ MPC employees in Detroit, Mich. , 
volunteered at Mark Twain and Allendale Elementary Schools in Detroit 
as part of the schools’ Career Day, telling 
kids about their jobs in engineering, operations, health, environment and safety.
MPC employees in Indianapolis, Ind., prepare food boxes for the Gleaners Food Bank.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201318 
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Catlettsburg, Ky. , organized fundraisers 
for the United Way of Northeast 
Kentucky, including remote-control car 
races, an online auction, refinery control-
room visits, a yard sale and more. The efforts resulted in more than $212,000 being donated.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , 
raised a total of $215,000 for the United 
Way of Crawford County, comprising 
about 75 percent of the organization’s local funding.
◗ MPC employees in Findlay, Ohio , 
raised funds and gathered donations for the Clothe-A-Child program, providing 
new winter clothes for 238 children 
when cold weather began.
◗ MPC volunteers in Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
participated in Riverworks Discovery, a program that promotes awareness of the 
marine environment and marine industry 
to local fourth- and fifth-graders.
◗ Attorneys and staff at MPC’s 
headquarters in Findlay, Ohio , 
volunteered their time and resources to provide free legal support to people 
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
in need on matters such as wills, powers 
of attorney and litigation. They also supported a monthly domestic relations 
clinic, provided free counsel to call-in 
clients from rural counties, served as court-appointed special advocates and guardians ad-litem for abused, neglected or dependent children, and more.
◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Canton, Ohio , held a supplies drive for its 
adopted school, Dueber Elementary, in the fall, and in December held a hat, mitten 
and scarf drive for students. Employees 
donated school supplies and warm clothing to children from families in need.
◗ MPC’s two refineries in Texas City, 
Texas , donated $10,000 to the Bay Area 
Council of Boy Scouts to fund uniforms and camping fees for low-income Scouts.
◗ MPC employees from its refinery in 
Detroit, Mich. , volunteered for the Motor 
City Makeover Day, cleaning up a vacant lot near the refinery.
◗ MPC employees in Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
filled almost 100 backpacks with clothes and school supplies, donating them to 
local school children from families in need.◗ MPC employees from its refinery in 
Robinson, Ill. , sponsored their Annual 
Book Event for all first-grade classrooms 
in Crawford County . Volunteers read 
A Rainbow of Friends to the students, incorporating a message of diversity and 
inclusion, and that everyone is different 
in their own way.
◗ MPC transport drivers participated 
in a Career Vehicle Day sponsored by 
the Findlay, Ohio , Center for Autism 
and Dyslexia. The drivers answered 
questions and helped kids safely sit in 
the cabs of the trucks.
◗ MPC helped sponsor the annual Duck 
Derby festival, which raises funds for the 
Texas City Independent School District’s 
Foundation for the Future in Texas 
City, Texas . MPC volunteers won the 
festival’s duck decorating contest.
◗ MPC’s Canton, Ohio , refinery 
sponsored the Nimishillen Creek  
Cleanup Day, and about two dozen 
employees volunteered to help  
remove litter and other debris from  
the waterway.
MPC employees working on a Habitat for Humanity build in Findlay, Ohio .    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201319 ◗ MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , 
held the “Real World II” event, hosting 
students interested in engineering 
and sciences for tours of the refinery, 
presentations about careers and interaction with MPC employees. High school students from 
Lawrenceville, 
Red Hill, Robinson, Hutsonville, 
Palestine, Sullivan  and Oblong  
participated.
◗ MPC employees at its Galveston 
Bay refinery in Texas City, Texas , 
volunteered at the MPC-sponsored 
D’Feet Breast Cancer Celebration of 
Life run/walk, raising money to fund 
mammograms and follow-up care for those who cannot afford it. 
◗ MPC employees at its Catlettsburg, 
Ky., refinery participated in the annual 
Christmas Wish Adopt-A-Family, providing Christmas gifts for 37 families, 
including 86 children.
◗ MPC employees at its Robinson, Ill. , 
refinery collected and donated 400 pairs 
of shoes for people in need through the 
global Soles for Souls program.◗ MPC donated $20,000 to the Feed-A-
Child Program in Findlay, Ohio . The 
organization provides meals, drinks 
and snacks to families in need every 
weekend during the school year.
◗ MPC transport drivers in Lansing, 
Mich. , prepared and decorated an MPC 
transport truck to participate in the city’s 
Silver Bells in the City Christmas parade. 
Employees steam-cleaned the truck to 
ensure no flammable products were in it, carefully inspected the vehicle prior to decorating it with more than 5,000 lights, and walked along with the vehicle 
during the parade as an extra measure of 
safety.
◗ About two dozen employees from 
MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio , 
volunteered in the United Way Day of Caring, working at the Stark County Job 
and Family Services office to help paint, 
clean, organize and landscape.
◗ Several musically-inclined MPC 
employees from the company’s Galveston Bay refinery in 
Texas City, 
Texas , put on performances each 
month for residents at Independence Village, a group home for adults with 
developmental disabilities. MPC 
employees also become elves each Christmas, decorating the home inside and out.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Detroit, Mich. , 
donated $10,000 to the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure in Detroit, and more 
than 60 employees and their family 
members participated in the race, raising another $1,000 in entry fees.
◗ At the Stark County, Ohio , Junior 
Fair Beef Auction, MPC employees at its refinery in 
Canton, Ohio , successfully 
bid for a shorthorn steer, supporting the Junior Fair, Future Farmers of America 
and 4-H.
◗ At the Savage Branch Wildlife 
Preserve, MPC’s certified wildlife 
habitat near Catlettsburg, Ky. , MPC 
volunteers hosted 640 students from Kentucky and West Virginia schools over 15 days, teaching students about the many aspects of a wildlife habitat and 
engaging them in hands-on activities.
MPC employees and family participate in the Race for the Cure in Detroit.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201320 ◗ MPC employees at its refinery in 
Robinson, Ill. , organized an Easter egg 
hunt to raise funds for the Alzheimer’s 
Association.
◗ The Findlay, Ohio , board of health 
designated MPC as Public Health Champion of the Year to recognize 
the company’s volunteering of its 
headquarters complex as a location to dispense medication in the event of a local, state or federal state of emergency, 
such as a pandemic.
◗ MPC volunteers from the Canton, 
Ohio , refinery sponsored Christmas wish 
lists for 33 foster children through the 
Christian Children’s Home of Ohio Wish 
List Program. Employees purchased, 
wrapped and delivered the gifts to the Children’s Home.
◗ MPC donated $10,000 to the M.I. Lewis 
Social Services Center in Dickinson, 
Texas,  to help pay for its new building. The center provides food and financial assistance to individuals and families 
 
in need.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Detroit, Mich. , 
donated $2,500 to help fund Southwest Detroit Environmental Vision’s annual 
Tire Sweep, which collects and properly 
disposes of discarded tires in the southwest Detroit area.
◗ On U.S. Route 23 in Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
more than 70 MPC employees, retirees and family members helped clean up 
a section of the highway, collecting 22 
bags of debris for proper disposal.
◗ As a finalist for MPC’s President’s 
Award for Responsible Care®, MPC’s 
refinery in Robinson, Ill. , received a 
cash prize. Employees at the refinery voted to donate the money to the Oblong 
Children’s Christian Home.◗ MPC engineers at its headquarters in 
Findlay, Ohio , volunteered their time to 
provide high school students with career 
guidance and hands-on engineering 
activities through the Engineering 
Explorers program. The program provides an engineering activity each month during the school year.
◗ The MPC refinery in Canton, 
Ohio , hosted 20 local vocational 
technical school students and three 
of their instructors at a “Refining 
101” presentation and tour of the refinery, which focused on safety in the workplace.
◗ MPC’s Robinson, Ill. , refinery 
sponsored a regional ethics conference at Indiana State University in 
Terre 
Haute, Ind. , where MPC’s head of 
Business Integrity and Compliance 
delivered a keynote address.
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY
MPC’s headquarters in Findlay, Ohio, earned the Ohio Environmental 
Protection Agency’s silver award for Encouraging Environmental Excellence.
MPC  
IN YOURCOMMUNITY    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201321 
HEALTH  
& SAFETY
An operator at MPC’s Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, TexasMPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201322 We are uncompromising in our approach 
to health and safety, and to our vision: that every day is accident-free, and every 
employee and contractor at our facilities 
goes home injury-free. Health and safety are therefore built into our daily work, whether it’s in office buildings, at refineries and 
terminals, on marine vessels or in vehicles.
Health and safety are important to our success as a company;   
if our employees and contractors are not safe, then other measures of success lose their meaning. 
We track the metrics reported in this section as a matter of accountability to our employees and contractors and to the communities in which we live. We want you to know how we’re doing.
FATALITIES TIER 1 PROCESS  
SAFETY EVENTS 
(PSEs) *MPC SAFETY * SPEEDWAY SAFETY * 
05101520
2013 2012 2011 2010 200910
811
316}Galveston Bay re/f_inery 
(acquired Feb. 1, 2013)
* Prior-year PSEs have been recalculated to comply with current standards and 
to exclude assets no longer owned by MPC, including a refinery in St. Paul Park, Minn., which MPC sold in 2010. These PSEs do not include Speedway.
*Includes employees and contractors05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2013 2007
2 or Fewer Health Risks
3-4 Health Risks
5+ Health Risks850
1,335
576571
1,208
98233% reduction  
in the number of 
employees with the most health risks}EMPLOYEE WELLNESS 
ASSESSMENT *0.000.100.200.300.400.500.600.700.80
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
MPC OSHA Recordable Incident Rate
MPC Days Away Rate0.080.12
0.030.450.61
0.45
0.030.24
0.030.32
0.000.501.001.502.002.503.003.50
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Speedway OSHA Recordable Incident Rate
Speedway Days Away Rate3.263.13
2.96
1.66 1.711.782.71
1.682.71
1.612.69
*Includes contractors; excludes Speedway*Excludes contractors
012345
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
MPC* (excluding Speedway)
Speedway (excluding contractors)2
11
0 0 0 00.00.10.20.30.40.50.6
2013 20120.380.55MPC SAFETY PERFORMANCE 
INDEX (MSPI) *
DISCUSSION: The 2013 Wellness Assessments 
revealed a 33 percent reduction in the number of 
employees with the largest number of health risks 
compared to a baseline survey conducted in 2007. In order to ensure statistically valid comparability, MPC selects the assessment population each year to control 
for attrition and other changes in the group over time.*  The MSPI is a safety metric similar to the OSHA Recordable Incident Rate and Days 
Away Rate metrics reported in this section, but is weighted for severity. 2012 was the first year that the MSPI was used as one of the criteria to determine a portion of employee compensation.
DISCUSSION: The increase in process safety events 
in 2013 is a concern that MPC is addressing. For each 
process safety event that takes place in the company, 
an in-depth analysis is conducted to determine the causes and how to avoid them in the future. These 
analyses are then provided to all impacted employees to 
ensure widespread awareness, and changes are made to processes and procedures as necessary. MPC also is involved in an industry-wide effort to share process safety 
lessons for continual improvement.MetricsHEALTH  
& SAFETY
DISCUSSION: As MPC grows, we work to ensure 
every aspect of our business performs to our high safety 
standards and continually improves. The increase in our 
MSPI in 2013 is due primarily to the expansion of our business, and our target remains continual improvement in health and safety.
*Excludes Speedway
For more information about any 
of the terms on this page, please 
see the Glossary on page 44.DISCUSSION: The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate 
represents the number of incidents per 200,000 hours of 
work. The Days Away Rate represents injuries that caused 
at least one missed day of work, also per 200,000 hours of work.DISCUSSION: The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate represents the number of incidents per 200,000 hours of 
work. The Days Away Rate represents injuries that caused 
at least one missed day of work, also per 200,000 hours of work.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201323 
◗   MPC’s refineries in Garyville, 
La.; Detroit, Mich.; Robinson, Ill.; 
Catlettsburg, Ky.; Texas City, 
Texas; and Canton, Ohio,  earned 
the Meritorious Safety Performance 
Award from the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers. The award recognized the plants’ excellent safety 
records. 
◗ A seven-member MPC pipeline 
construction and maintenance crew 
accrued more than 1,000 workdays with no OSHA recordable injuries, a significant milestone for a crew that conducts excavation work with heavy equipment in all kinds of weather.
◗ MPC’s Marathon Pipe Line subsidiary 
hosted members of the Tallahatchie County Local Emergency Planning Committee for a pipeline safety and awareness meeting in 
Charleston, 
Miss.  Topics addressed by MPC technicians included what to do in the event of a pipeline emergency and what products are shipped through local 
pipeline systems.
◗ When contractors performing MPC 
pipeline right of way work incurred 
four OSHA recordable injuries in 2011, MPC decided to hold a safety summit. In 2012, there were no OSHA recordables. 
In 2013, the safety summit continued, 
bringing together MPC employees and contractors working on right of way clearing to engage in hazard-awareness training and receive copies of the new “Best Practices Right of Way Handbook: Think, then Act.”
◗ MPC’s Safe Digging School Program 
in 2013 reached hundreds of students, their teachers and parents at schools in areas where the company has significant 
pipeline operations. Through the program, MPC employees teach children 
the importance of calling 811 before digging to protect their families, the environment and underground utilities.
◗ To recognize the safety practices 
of locations with more than 20,000 exposure hours worked, the American Chemistry Council presents Certificates of Excellence to member companies that 
have no fatalities, no injuries resulting 
in missing a day of work, and no injuries resulting in restricted duty. MPC earned these certificates at 42 of its operations locations.
◗ MPC earned Norfolk Southern railroad’s 
Thoroughbred Chemical Safety Award in 2013, in recognition of MPC’s rail operations resulting in zero non-accident releases. A non-accident release is 
one that is not associated with a train 
accident.Behind the
NumbersHEALTH  
& SAFETY
MPC firefighters at the company’s Galveston Bay refinery in Texas 
City, Texas, participate in a training exercise.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201324 
Behind the
NumbersHEALTH  
& SAFETY
◗ The American Heart Association (AHA) 
recognized MPC with the Fit Friendly 
Company Award in 2013 for our efforts to champion the health of employees and create a culture of physical activity and 
health in the workplace. MPC is one of 
fewer than 300 companies nationwide to receive the platinum level of recognition – the AHA’s highest for the award.
◗ At MPC’s Eisenhower terminal in 
Port Everglades, Fla. , MPC conducted 
a day-long emergency drill with other companies from the area, local firefighters and other emergency responders.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio , 
achieved Gold Level Certification from the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies in recognition of the plant’s behavioral-based safety program’s comprehensiveness, success and dedication to continual improvement.◗ MPC’s refinery in Detroit, Mich. , 
collaborated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to provide training to Special Weapons and Tactics and Special Response Teams from 11 U.S. states and 
territories. The refinery provided access 
to MPC-owned buildings, allowing the trainers to demonstrate techniques for forcing entry into buildings in order to rescue victims of hostage situations.
◗ MPC’s Terminal, Transport and Rail 
organization earned the Platinum Safety Award from the International Liquid Terminals Association (ILTA) for its exemplary safety performance.  
ILTA represents 80 companies and 
partnerships that operate bulk liquid storage terminals in 49 countries.
◗ MPC’s Marine Transportation 
organization was recertified by the American Waterways Operators as a Responsible Carrier after successfully being audited by a third-party auditor to 
ensure compliance with the program’s 
requirements.
◗ MPC’s Marine Transportation 
organization in Catlettsburg, Ky. , 
participated in a joint confined-space rescue drill with the 
Boyd County, Ky. , 
Emergency Management Services and the
 Grayson, Ky. , Fire Department.
◗ MPC’s Marine Transportation 
organization was recognized by the Chamber of Shipping America with 13 Jones F. Devlin Awards. The award recognizes vessels that have operated 
for at least two years without a seafarer 
involved in a lost-time injury.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio , 
earned the Responsible Care® Certificate 
of Achievement Award, which recognizes facilities with zero fatalities and zero days-away incident cases for employees.
MPC employees working on a pipeline project in Kentucky    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201325 
◗ MPC was recognized by Union Pacific 
Railroad with its Pinnacle Award 
for chemical transportation safety. The award recognizes Union Pacific customers that implemented successful 
prevention and corrective plans, and 
achieved a rate of zero non-accident releases for regulated hazardous materials shipments. Non-accident releases are those not due to a rail accident.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , was 
awarded with the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies’ Outstanding Behavior-Based Safety Outreach Award. The award recognizes the plant’s efforts to extend behavior-based safety principles and practices to contractor companies that work at the refinery.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , 
was recognized by OSHA with its National Voluntary Protection Program Participants’ Association (VPPA) Outreach Award for outstanding 
efforts in mentoring nine contracting 
companies to achieve behavior-based safety accreditation. The refinery also received the Region 5 VPPA Outreach Award for its efforts to grow and promote the Voluntary Protection Program.◗ MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Ill. , held 
a Behavior-Based Safety Conference, attracting more than 400 participants from local industry and contracting companies to hear from safety experts on 
behavior-based safety practices used at 
the refinery.
◗ MPC’s refinery in Garyville, La. , 
hosted its annual firefighting training for more than 50 local volunteer firefighters, providing classroom and hands-on instruction on fighting flammable gas 
and liquid fires.“MARATHON PETROLEUM HAS ALWAYS BEEN VERY OPEN AND WILLING  
TO REPORT ANY SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION AT  
OUR MONTHLY MEETINGS. THE MANAGER READILY ANSWERS ANY  
QUESTIONS POSED BY THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANEL MEMBERS.”
SYLVIA BOTTOLFS 
Community Advisory Panel member
Garyville, La.
MPC employees participate in a Corporate Emergency Response Team drill, in which they practice 
working with federal, state and local emergency responders to address a simulated incident.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201326 
ENVIRONMENTAL  
STEWARDSHIP
Part of MPC’s certified wildlife habitat in Garyville, La.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201327 
We have in place multiple systems 
and processes to minimize impacts on the environment. 
We constantly evaluate wide 
ranges of projects and programs to improve our energy efficiency, reduce emissions, minimize waste-generation and much more. For example, MPC designates 
engineers at each of our refineries 
and a corporate technologist specifically to enhance our energy efficiency, which directly impacts greenhouse gas and criteria air pollutant emissions.As MPC grows to meet our nation’s need for fuel and other refined products, we achieved larger 
throughput volumes, increased 
production and higher activity levels in 2013. As a result, many of our metrics increased in 2013 on an absolute basis.
One of the most significant factors 
in our growth was the acquisition of the Galveston Bay refinery in Texas City, Texas, in February 2013. This one facility increased 
our refinery processing capacity 
by 36 percent. The employees and management at Galveston Bay have made great strides in bringing their operations into compliance 
with MPC’s standards for safety 
and environmental stewardship.
Because of different reporting 
requirements, some of the metrics 
on the following page reflect 
environmental metrics for the Galveston Bay refinery’s full year of operations in 2013, even though we did not own or operate it during January. These include criteria air 
pollutant emissions, greenhouse 
gas emissions and energy use.Our employees and our neighbors 
value clean air, land and water because we all share the same 
world. Just as important, we 
hold these resources in trust for our children and all generations to come. As we conduct the 
important business of meeting 
consumers’ energy needs, we continually improve on our ability to protect the environment.
“AS CONTRACTUAL REPRESENTATIVES OF OHIO ENVIRONMENTAL  
PROTECTION AGENCY’S DIVISION OF AIR POLLUTION CONTROL FOR  
STARK COUNTY , OHIO, OUR AGENCY INTERACTS WITH MPC’S CANTON  
FACILITIES QUITE FREQUENTLY . I CAN SAY THAT MPC HAS AN  
EXCELLENT REPUTATION FOR BEING COOPERATIVE AND RESPONSIVE  
REGARDING REGULATORY ISSUES.”
CARL SAFREED 
Air Pollution Control Engineer, Canton City Health Department 
Canton, Ohio
MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201328 050100150200250300350
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Non-hazardous, non-recycled waste
Waste recycled
Hazardous, non-recycled waste262 267
113147
106282
201
6317
191
9311
226
15}Galveston Bay re/f_inery: 16
Galveston Bay re/f_inery: 41
Galveston Bay re/f_inery: 5.5
0306090120150
2013 2012 2011 2010(a)2009140
3443
2760
}Galveston Bay re/f_inery: 27
050100150200250300
2013 2012 2011 2010 200988
65 62
NA281
}Galveston Bay re/f_inery: 140WASTE GENERATION *
Thousand tons
TIER 3 AND TIER 4 DESIGNATED  
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs) * TIER 2 DESIGNATED  
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs) * ENERGY USE
Trillion BtuOIL SPILLS
050100150200250300350
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009203221
202234319
}Galveston Bay re/f_inery: 103
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Volume of Spills - barrels
Number of Spills0102030405060708056 5677
40
1,3801,603
52111,172
18741
* DEIs include three categories of environmental incidents: releases to the 
environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency 
enforcement actions. These include both MPC and Speedway. Tier 3 and 4 DEIs are 
the most severe types of DEIs.
(a) 2010 was the first year MPC began categorizing DEIs into tiers based on severity.* DEIs include three categories of environmental incidents: releases 
to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. These include both MPC and Speedway.GREENHOUSE GAS 
(GHG) EMISSIONS
Million tonnes CO2eCRITERIA AIR POLLUTANT 
EMISSIONS *
Thousand tonsTOXIC RELEASE 
INVENTORY (TRI)
Million pounds
 (a) Direct emissions are those associated with the combustion of hydrocarbons,  
venting sources and fugitive sources within MPC-operated facilities.
(b) Indirect emissions are primarily those associated with the use of purchased  
electricity and steam at MPC facilities.Direct emissions(a)
Indirect emissions(b)10.110.6
4.9* 4.9*10.1
5.6*9.9*
5.{4.6
05101520
2013 2012 2011 2010 200917.2
Galveston Bay 
re/f_inery: 7.2
6.2Galveston Bay 
re/f_inery: 0.8 4.2*
* 2013 data is not available, due to the timing of 
required regulatory reporting.0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009NA*2.95
2.332.90
2.29
051015202530
2013 2012 2011 2010 200922 22
201926
Galveston Bay 
re/f_inery: 7}
Discussion: The Galveston Bay refinery, which we 
acquired Feb. 1, 2013, used 103 trillion Btu in 2013. 
Included in this 103 trillion Btu total is a natural gas 
co-generation plant that provides the refinery with all of its electricity and steam needs. Eighteen trillion Btu of this total was used to generate 1.8 million megawatts of 
electricity that was not used for refinery operations, and 
was sold into the electrical grid for the region.
Discussion: Tier 2 DEIs are less severe than Tier 3 and 4 DEIs. We report them here because we consider them a leading indicator that helps us to identify potential 
problems before they occur.Discussion: For perspective, MPC’s total refinery 
and pipeline throughput was almost 1.5 billion barrels during 2013. The amount spilled represented about five thousandths (0.005) of an ounce for every barrel of throughput. Our vision continues to be no accidents,  no injuries and no damage to the environment.Discussion: Because the EPA periodically 
changes the substances that must be reported in the Toxic Release Inventory, it is difficult to 
compare one year to the next in an entirely 
consistent fashion. Other factors affecting the TRI include MPC’s crude oil throughput, production volumes, continuing expansions and revised 
reporting methodologies.MetricsENVIRONMENTAL  
STEWARDSHIP
* Some emissions for 2009 through 2012 differ from those reported in last 
year’s Citizenship Report because they have been recalculated. As a result, these amounts have increased for each of those years.* Six air pollutants are designated as criteria pollutants by the Clean Air Act. They include: particulate matter (PM), ground-level ozone, carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and lead. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are a precursor to ground-level ozone, and as such are regulated by the EPA. MPC operations typically emit and report on SO2, NO2, VOCs, CO and PM.
For more information about any 
of the terms on this page, please 
see the Glossary on page 44.* Waste numbers do not include general waste from retail locations.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201329 ENVIRONMENTAL  
STEWARDSHIP
Behind the Numbers
◗   In 2013, three of MPC’s seven 
refineries performed in the top 25 
percent of all U.S. refineries of similar 
size and complexity, according to the 
industry-recognized energy-efficiency standard, the Solomon Energy Intensity Index
®. Two of those sites performed at 
the “best-in-class” level.
◗   MPC’s  Garyville, La. , refinery hosted 
about 30 students and two professors from Louisiana State University at 
MPC’s Certified Wildlife Habitat in 
Garyville, where the students toured various parts of the 450-acre site, collected data and took pictures. Each student used the information to craft a wildlife management project for MPC’s 
evaluation and potential implementation.
◗   MPC employees at the company’s 
Stoy, Ill. , terminal completed the second 
phase of a three-phase project toward 
certifying its 20-acre wildlife habitat 
as a Wildlife at Work site through the 
Wildlife Habitat Council. The first phase, completed in 2012, consisted of planting red cedars. The second phase, planting almost 50 fruit trees, was completed in 
2013 with the help of Boy Scouts from 
Lawrenceville, Ill. , who received  
merit badges for their efforts. The last 
phase will be a pollinator garden and prairie area.◗   The Certified Wildlife Habitat at 
Speedway’s headquarters in Enon, Ohio , 
was recertified for a three-year term – the maximum term allowed, which is 
awarded only to the most exemplary 
applicants. Along with indexing lists of flower, plant and animal species that thrive in the habitat, the volunteers from Speedway also chronicled the location’s 
future plans and community involvement.
◗   MPC’s refineries in Detroit, Mich.; 
Robinson, Ill.; Garyville, La. ; and 
Canton, Ohio , received the American 
Chemistry Council’s Responsible 
Care® Energy Efficiency Award in 2013 
for emissions reduction and energy conservation.
MPC’s Texas City refinery in Texas City, Texas, won the company’s 
President’s Award for Responsible Care® for its safety, 
environmental and other values-driven performance. Refinery 
General Manager Connie Bradley accepted the award on behalf of the employees, and here is shown also accepting an award of 
merit from the city of Texas City.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201330 
◗   MPC’s refineries in Canton, Ohio , 
and Garyville, La. , received the EPA’s 
ENERGY STAR recognition in 2013 for 
superior energy efficiency. Of the 34 
ENERGY STAR recognitions the EPA 
has awarded to refineries, MPC has earned 26. In addition to the Canton and Garyville refineries, MPC’s refineries in 
Detroit, Mich. , and Texas City, 
Texas , have earned the ENERGY STAR 
designation in past years.
◗   In mid-2013, the wastewater 
treatment plant at MPC’s refinery in 
Canton, Ohio , achieved eight years 
of compliance with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, 
successfully meeting thousands of 
permit limits and requirements while processing 4.5 billion gallons of water used in refinery processes.◗   MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio , 
held an electronics waste-collection day in cooperation with the city of Canton, 
during which 3,600 pounds of electronics 
were collected for safe disposal.
◗   MPC employees at its refinery 
in Robinson, Ill. , have formed 
the Committee for Awareness and Responsibility for Environmental 
Stewardship, which coordinated the 
Crawford County Conservation Day, 
 
as well as household hazardous  
waste collections, waste minimization efforts at the refinery and other environmental activities.
◗   MPC’s headquarters complex 
in Findlay, Ohio , earned the Ohio 
Environmental Protection Agency’s silver award for Encouraging Environmental 
Excellence. The award recognizes 
companies that have demonstrated a commitment to go above and beyond environmental compliance, have 
a mature system of environmental 
management and aggressive performance goals.
◗   MPC’s Marine Transportation 
organization was recognized by the Chamber of Shipping America with 
 
11 Environmental Achievement Awards, which recognize vessels that have gone at least two years without any reportable 
spills or pollution violations.
◗   MPC was recognized by American 
Commercial Lines with its Marine 
Environmental Stewardship Award for 
safely handling more than 2.5 billion 
gallons of chemicals, petroleum products and other liquid cargoes.ENVIRONMENTAL  
STEWARDSHIP
Behind the Numbers
MPC’s certified wildlife habitat at Speedway’s headquarters in Enon, Ohio    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201331 
Our activities in this area during 2013:
	  MPC’s 976-kilowatt solar facility in Findlay, 
Ohio , completed one year of power generation 
in November 2013, having generated a total of 
813 megawatt hours of electric power. All of the power was donated to the city of Findlay. The array is comprised of four types of photovoltaic 
systems, totaling almost 6,000 panels. MPC is 
evaluating the array’s performance for possible application at MPC facilities.   A total of 147 Speedway convenience stores offered E-85 fuel (up to 85 percent ethanol) at year-end 2013, with plans to incorporate E-85 into all newly built and rebuilt Speedway locations. In 2013, Speedway sold approximately 7.9 million gallons of E-85, out of total sales of 3.15 billion gallons of gasoline and distillates (which include diesel and kerosene).
   MPC is currently conducting a study to evaluate the economics of installing a power-generating wind turbine at a company location.We hold a  60 percent equity interest in  
an ethanol production facility in Clymers, Ind., 
a 43 percent interest in an Albion, Mich., 
plant and a 67 percent interest* in a plant in 
Greenville, Ohio. In April 2014, we purchased 
a manufacturing facility in Cincinnati, Ohio, 
that produces biodiesel and other products.ADDITIONAL ENERGY 
RESOURCES
MPC is active in seeking economic 
sources of energy that meet our company’s needs, and those of our customers. MPC holds equity interests in three ethanol plants to 
help provide economically priced 
ethanol for our blending needs. 
*Combined direct and indirect interest
MPC’s solar array in Findlay, OhioMPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201332 
“I ENJOY ATTENDING THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY PANEL MEETINGS  
AND FIND THEM EXTREMELY EDUCATIONAL AND INFORMATIVE. THE  
LEADERSHIP PROVIDES CONSIDERABLE INFORMATION ABOUT THE  
INDUSTRY IN GENERAL AND SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE OPERATIONS  
OF THE ROBINSON REFINERY . THEY ARE VERY OPEN TO PARTICIPANT  
QUESTIONS AND I ALWAYS ASK QUESTIONS. I FEEL I GET OPEN AND  
HONEST ANSWERS.”
DON ANNIS 
Chief Executive Officer, Crawford Memorial Hospital
Robinson, Ill.
Certified Wildlife HabitatsENVIRONMENTAL  
STEWARDSHIP
MPC maintains 18 wildlife habitats 
certified by the Wildlife Habitat 
Council (WHC), comprising 1,331 
acres . These sites are certified as 
either Wildlife at Work or Corporate Lands for Learning sites, and in 
some cases both. The WHC’s 
Wildlife at Work program provides a structure for cooperative efforts between management, employees 
and community members to create, 
conserve and restore wildlife habitats on corporate lands. Corporate Lands for Learning is a certification program that gives us a framework for opening 
our habitats to members of the 
community for educational purposes. 
  HABITAT SITE:  Garyville, La. refinery property
  Acres managed for wildlife : 450
 Wildlife at Work certified since 2001.
  HABITAT SITE: Savage Branch Wildlife Reserve, 
Catlettsburg, Ky.
    Acres managed for wildlife: 360
  Wildlife at Work certified since 1994, and Corporate 
Lands for Learning certified since 1999.
  HABITAT SITE:  Big Spring, Ky. This site is unique 
in that the land is not owned by MPC, although MPC has a right of way for an underground pipeline 
through the property. Part of the property, including 
the right of way, is managed for wildlife habitat 
cooperatively between MPC and the landowner.
  Acres managed for wildlife: 4
 Wildlife at Work certified since 2001.
  HABITAT SITE:  Martinsville Tank Farm, 
Martinsville, Ill.
  Acres managed for wildlife:  188
  Wildlife at Work certified since 1999, and Corporate 
Lands for Learning certified since 2008.
  HABITAT SITE:  Palestine Neil Pit, Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 80
  Wildlife at Work certified since 2006 and Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2008.
    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201333 
 HABITAT SITE:  Lincoln Trail College 
and Palestine High School Nature 
Habitat, Robinson, Ill.
Acres managed for wildlife:  50
Wildlife at Work certified since 2010 and Corporate Lands for Learning certified 
since 2012.
HABITAT SITE:  Speedway Office 
Complex, Enon, Ohio
Acres managed for wildlife: 42
Wildlife at Work certified since 1999.
 HABITAT SITE:  Washington Park, 
Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife:  31
Wildlife at Work and Corporate Lands 
for Learning certified since 2005.
 
HABITAT SITE: Kuttawa Asphalt 
Terminal, Kuttawa, Ky.
Acres managed for wildlife:  35
Wildlife at Work certified since 2004.
HABITAT SITE:  Huntington Light 
Product Terminal, Huntington, Ind.
Acres managed for wildlife:  8
Wildlife at Work certified since 2011.HABITAT SITE:  Cane Run Asphalt 
Terminal, Louisville, Ky.
Acres managed for wildlife:  7
Wildlife at Work certified since 1999.
HABITAT SITE:  Mt. Vernon Asphalt 
Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Ind.
Acres managed for wildlife:  10
Wildlife at Work certified since 2009.
 HABITAT SITE:  St. Elmo Asphalt 
Terminal, St. Elmo, Ill.
Acres managed for wildlife:  4
Wildlife at Work certified since 2011.
HABITAT SITE:  Hutsonville School 
Nature Habitat, Hutsonville, Ill.
Acres managed for wildlife:  3
 Wildlife at Work certified since 2008, 
and Corporate Lands for Learning 
certified since 2009.
HABITAT SITE:  Former Old Dutch 
Refinery, Muskegon, Mich.
Acres managed for wildlife:  54 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2011.  HABITAT SITE: Nashville Asphalt 
Terminal, Nashville, Tenn.
 Acres managed for wildlife:  3 
 Wildlife at Work certified since 2007.
  HABITAT SITE:  North Bend 
Asphalt Terminal, North Bend, Ohio
 Acres managed for wildlife:  1
 Wildlife at Work certified since 2012.
  HABITAT SITE:  Findlay Office 
Complex, Findlay, Ohio
 Acres managed for wildlife:  <1
 Wildlife at Work certified since 2000.
Wildlife at an MPC certified wildlife habitat near Robinson, Ill.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201334 
OUR 
PEOPLE
MPC employees at a pipeline terminal in 
Woodhaven, Mich.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201335 MPC’s employees make it a great company. We are committed to providing 
a work environment that nurtures – and rewards – the innovation and dedication they bring to their jobs every day. In addition to providing 
competitive pay and benefits, we strive for a workplace characterized by a 
deep appreciation for diversity and inclusion. Toward our goal of creating an environment where all employees can maximize their talents and 
contributions, we actively seek to recruit the best candidates from diverse 
backgrounds to ensure that we continue to reap the benefits of inclusion.
0510152025
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Percent minorities (excluding Speedway)
Percent minorities (Speedway)8.1 8.39.08.218.5 18.6
16.117.7
12.324.2
01020304050607080
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Percent women (excluding Speedway)
Percent women (Speedway)21.5
17.0 18.221.164.761.9 62.163.6 64.8
19.9MINORITIES IN OUR WORKFORCE  WOMEN IN OUR WORKFORCE  
Our definition of diversity 
extends beyond the surface. We believe that a truly diverse 
workforce includes not just those 
differences that are visible and external, but also the diversity of thought, ideas and opinions that promote creativity and capitalize on differing points of view.“I BELIEVE THAT MARATHON PETROLEUM’S COMMITMENT TO A  
DIVERSE WORKFORCE IS STRONGER THAN IT’S EVER BEEN. IN  
RECENT YEARS, MANY MORE WOMEN AND MINORITIES ARE  
ENTERING THE WORKFORCE. THE COMPANY RECOGNIZES THAT  
IT CAN MEET ITS FULL POTENTIAL BY INCLUDING EVERYONE.  
IT’S EMPOWERING TO KNOW THAT YOUR VOICE IS BEING HEARD.”
SHANNON GUIDRY 
Domain Supervisor, MPC’s Louisiana Refining Division
Garyville, La.
A diversity and inclusion event at MPC’s headquarters in Findlay, OhioMPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201336 
GOVERNANCE 
AND  INTEGRITY
Thomas J. Usher, chairman of MPC’s board of directors, addresses shareholders at 
the company’s annual meeting.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201337 MPC’s Business Integrity and Compliance office implements 
the Code of Business Conduct through various programs, as well as administering an Integrity Helpline. This gives 
employees, business partners and others an anonymous 
means of reporting suspected violations of the Code.
“I HAVE HAD THE HONOR AND PRIVILEGE OF BEING ASSOCIATED  
WITH MARATHON PETROLEUM SINCE THE LATE ‘70S. MY IMPRESSION  
OF THE COMPANY’S ETHICS AND INTEGRITY IS THAT EVERYONE ELSE  
IS BATTLING FOR SECOND PLACE. YOU WILL NEED TO GET UP AWFUL  
EARLY TO EVER GET AHEAD OF THE FOLKS FROM MARATHON  
PETROLEUM. I HAVE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO WORK WITH MANY OF  
THEM, AND I KNOW THAT I AM PROUD TO CALL THEM MY FRIENDS.”
TIM RAMSDELL 
President, Jordan Oil Company
Radford, Va.
MPC adheres to a corporate governance 
framework that promotes accountability and provides transparency to investors, employees 
and our neighbors. Our board of directors is 
guided by our Corporate Governance Principles and committee charters, which we post on our website and send to anyone who is interested. 
Likewise, MPC employees and officers are 
required to adhere to the company’s Code of Business Conduct.
0100200300400500600
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009260275300351509
* Includes allegations, inquiries and other contacts entered into MPC’s Business Compliance and Integrity case 
management system. Because prior to the spinoff of MPC on June 30, 2011, several functions were shared by Marathon Oil Corporation’s upstream and downstream segments, numbers for 2011 and earlier are approximate to account for the complexities associated with clearly designating some employees as belonging to the downstream segment (which became MPC after the spinoff in mid-2011) or the upstream/corporate segment (which remained Marathon Oil Corporation).BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND 
COMPLIANCE CASES * INDEPENDENT BOARD MEMBERS
2011: 90 percent
2012: 90 percent
2013: 92 percent
Allegations (substantiated or partially substantiated)
Allegations (unsubstantiated)
Allegations (undetermined status as of year-end)
Inquiries
Customer service/other75
123
28141142Discussion: Eleven of MPC’s 12 directors 
are independent, as defined by our Corporate 
Governance Principles.
Discussion: Continued communication and training have enhanced awareness among employees about business integrity issues. As a result, the number of reports received 
and entered into the Business Integrity and Compliance case management system has increased. Over the reporting years, allegations have decreased as a percentage of the 
total reports, while the percentage of inquiries has increased. These trends indicate that 
employees are proactively contacting Business Integrity and Compliance to ensure their actions are consistent with the Code of Business Conduct to avoid placing themselves, or 
the company, at risk.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2013
38 ECONOMIC
IMPACT
A Speedway convenience store in Nashville, Tenn.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201339 
MPC provides tremendous value to 
society by manufacturing, transporting and marketing fuels and other products. 
In doing so, we have also generated 
significant economic value for shareholders, employees, governments, and the communities where we do 
business. In 2013, we returned more than 
$3.3 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. On this page, you will find metrics that show the various ways we have injected money 
into the economy.
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2013 2012 2011 2010 20091,4602,585
1,1731,3232,789CAPITAL EXPENDITURES *
Millions of Dollars  
03006009001,2001,500
2013 2012 2011 2010 20091,1771,115 1,119 1,1061,476PAYROLL *
Millions of Dollars  
020406080100
2013 2012 2011 2010 200978.6
47.662.876.399.6TOTAL EXPENDITURES *
Billions of Dollars  
* Federal Wage Base reported on employees’  W-2 for 
the years indicated.* Includes capital expenditures, investments, payroll and other expenditures.DIVIDENDS PAID
Millions of Dollars
* Represents only half of 2011, from the time MPC became an 
independent, publicly traded company.
050100150200250300350400
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009372
179258329 328TARGETED PROCUREMENT 
SPENDING *
Millions of Dollars  
05001,0001,5002,000
2013 2012 2011 2010 20092361,845
4001,330
1,113INCOME TAX EXPENSES *
Millions of Dollars  
* Includes discretionary and non-discretionary spending 
with minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs), as well as veteran-owned and disabled veteran-owned businesses, as certified by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Targeted Procurement Spending is a subset of, and not in addition to, the total expenditures (also reported in this section).*Includes federal, state, local and foreign.
012345678
2013 2012 2011 2010 20095.7
4.95.2 5.16.3CONSUMER EXCISE TAXES 
REMITTED *
Billions of Dollars  
* MPC is required by law to collect state and federal excise 
taxes on fuels we sell to consumers, and remit these taxes to the relevant government entities. In January 2013, state and federal excise taxes averaged about $0.49 per gallon of gasoline, according to the American Petroleum Institute.
Discussion: In 2012, MPC began 
including our spending with U.S. Small 
Business Administration-certified veteran-
owned and disabled veteran-owned businesses. Without these categories of spending, our MWBE spending would be 
$284 million in 2013.COMPANY OWNERSHIP
MPC is owned by thousands of shareholders, which include 
a broad range of investors. MPC shareholders are individuals as well as large and small institutions such as mutual funds, 
pension funds, banks, insurance companies, endowment 
funds and others. Directors and executive officers of MPC, on a combined basis, own less than one percent of MPC stock.0100200300400500
2013 2012 2011*160407484
*Includes investmentsMPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201340 
ADVOCACYMPC is in a heavily regulated 
industry, and we work with lawmakers and regulators at the 
federal, state and local levels to 
keep them apprised of the impact of existing or proposed laws and regulations on our ability to most 
effectively meet the needs of our 
customers and other stakeholders. This sometimes involves taking positions on proposed laws or regulations. This section highlights 
some of our positions.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201341 THE ISSUE:   Proposed repeal of the LIFO 
inventory accounting method
BACKGROUND: Last-In, First-Out (LIFO) is an 
accounting method that has been a recognized  
means of valuing inventory under the U.S. tax code 
since 1939. Under LIFO, the most recent inventory purchased is deemed to be used first. In times of 
 
rising prices, the LIFO accounting method results  
in better matching of costs and revenues, because  
cost of goods sold are valued at the current cost of replacing that inventory. MPC has consistently 
 
used the LIFO accounting method for decades to present our financial results and calculate our 
 
taxes. Retroactive LIFO repeal has been proposed  
by President Obama, and by chairmen of the tax-writing committees in the U.S. House and Senate. Comprehensive tax reform, which could include 
 
repeal of the LIFO accounting method, is not  
expected during 2014, but could be under  
consideration in future sessions of Congress.
MPC’S POSITION:   We oppose repeal  
of the LIFO inventory 
accounting method.
WHY WE TOOK THIS POSITION:  Retroactive 
LIFO repeal could result in a multibillion dollar tax 
penalty on industry. The proposal would require  
MPC and other companies like us to recalculate our inventory values and the resulting tax liability using 
 
a different accounting method, and then pay tax on  
the difference. This would be a retroactive imposition  
of a new tax liability.
For any company that has been using this  
accounting method for a number of years, LIFO  
repeal and subsequent recapture of tax would, in  
effect, impose an after-the-fact penalty for lawful 
accounting practices. It would be akin to repealing  
the mortgage interest deduction that homeowners receive, and then making them pay the taxes they 
 
had saved by legally deducting the interest in  
prior years. This is unfair, expensive and could significantly impact many manufacturers at a time 
 
when the country is looking to those companies to continue creating jobs.THE ISSUE:   Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS)
BACKGROUND: In 2007, Congress passed the 
Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA ‘07), which required increases in the volume of 
biofuels that refiners and others (called “obligated 
parties”) must blend into the nation’s fuel supply. This mandate organizes biofuels into four separate categories based on their greenhouse gas emissions. It also requires obligated parties to use renewable identification numbers (RINs) to 
demonstrate compliance with the standard. RINs 
are generated when biofuels are blended with gasoline and diesel transportation fuels, and can be used to demonstrate compliance with the mandate or traded independently.
Congress based EISA ‘07 volumetric requirements 
on projected growing demand for transportation fuels. However, the government’s fuel demand estimates did not accurately predict the significant 
decrease in demand that resulted from reduced 
economic growth and increased Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency standards. It’s also worth noting that ethanol is less fuel-efficient than petroleum transportation fuels. This means the mandated increase in fuel efficiency conflicts with the 
mandate to blend more of the less-efficient biofuel. 
The unintended consequence of the biofuels mandate is that the refining industry is burdened with an inflexible requirement to add more and more corn ethanol to a gasoline pool that has been 
steadily in decline.
In November 2013, the EPA acknowledged that 
the volumes of biofuel mandated under EISA ’07 might exceed the 10 percent per gallon of ethanol 
that can be safely absorbed by the vehicle fleet in 
the U.S. This limit is called the “E-10 blendwall.” As a result, the EPA proposed reduced mandated biofuels volumes. As of June 2014, that proposal was still not finalized.
In addition to the E-10 blendwall, another 
RFS problem is that three of the four types of biofuels (corn ethanol, biodiesel and sugar cane ethanol) are commercially available, while one of them (cellulosic ethanol) is still not available in 
“I CAN ALWAYS COUNT ON MARATHON TO DO WHAT THEY SAY .  
MARATHON PETROLEUM HAS ALWAYS EXHIBITED ETHICS AND  
INTEGRITY IN OUR RELATIONSHIP OF ALMOST 50 YEARS. IT IS AN  
AMERICAN-BASED COMPANY THAT IS NOT ONLY PATRIOTIC, BUT ALSO  
SUPPORTIVE OF OUR AMERICAN SPIRIT , INCLUDING OUR HERITAGE  
AND VALUES AS A FREE SOCIETY .”
CHARLES KEY 
Chairman of the Board, Keystops LLC
Franklin, Ky.
 MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201342 commercial quantities. Nonetheless, the EPA, 
which is responsible for enforcing the law, continues to require obligated parties to blend 
volumes of cellulosic ethanol that do not exist. 
Obligated parties – including MPC – face onerous fines under the Clean Air Act if they fail to blend the required volumes of total biofuels, or pay a fee as an alternative means of compliance for the cellulosic volumes.
MPC’S POSITION:  We advocate repeal 
of the RFS.
WHY WE TOOK THIS POSITION: Despite the 
mandate reductions proposed by the EPA, which 
would apply only to 2014, the RFS provisions 
in EISA ’07 are simply unworkable. In order to 
satisfy the demands of the Clean Air Act, the EPA requires MPC – and other obligated parties – to force more corn ethanol biofuel into gasoline transportation fuel than the vehicle fleet can safely absorb, and to blend cellulosic biofuels that 
do not exist. And we face significant fines if we do 
not comply with these requirements.THE ISSUE:  Keystone XL pipeline construction
BACKGROUND:  The Keystone XL pipeline is 
a $5.3 billion project that could transport up to 830,000 bpd of crude oil from Canada and the 
northern U.S. to the oil trading hub of Cushing, 
Okla., and on to the U.S. coast of the Gulf of Mexico, where the majority of U.S. refining assets are located. Before Keystone XL can be built, the U.S. State Department must approve the project 
because it crosses the U.S. border with Canada. 
The State Department’s Final Environmental Impact Statement, published in August 2011, concluded there would be no significant negative impact from the project. However, a few months 
later, the State Department announced that it 
would delay its decision on the pipeline.
On February 1, 2014, the State Department 
released its final supplemental environmental 
impact statement on the proposed Keystone XL 
pipeline and found no major climate change or security concerns. This was viewed as a positive development for the beleaguered project, since the administration indicated it would only be 
approved if it did not drive up greenhouse gas 
ADVOCACY
    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201343 emissions. The statement started a national 
interest determination process at the State Department that included a 30-day public 
comment period and 90-day period for at 
least eight other federal agencies to weigh in. But the review process set no deadline for the secretary of state to make a final recommendation to President Obama.
Congress has demonstrated strong support for 
approval of the pipeline project. Both chambers have submitted bipartisan letters of support for the pipeline project.
MPC’S POSITION:  We support 
approval of the 
Keystone XL 
pipeline.
WHY WE TOOK THIS POSITION: 
Additional crude oil supplies from Canada – a 
stable, friendly neighbor that is the United States’ largest trading partner – enhances 
our nation’s energy security. Also, pipelines 
are by far the safest method of transporting crude oil, and the safety of modern pipelines is better than ever. Keystone XL’s performance will be regulated by the federal Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 
which requires rigorous safety protocols.
From an economic standpoint, an independent 
study found that construction of Keystone XL should provide significant, positive 
contributions to U.S. energy security and  
the U.S. economy valued at more than  $20 billion. The study further concluded that once the pipeline is operational, the states along the pipeline route are expected to 
receive an additional $5.2 billion in property 
taxes during the estimated operating life of the pipeline. The pipeline project is expected to directly create more than 20,000 high-wage 
manufacturing and construction jobs across 
the U.S., stimulating significant additional economic activity.“IN THE YEARS THAT WE HAVE BEEN WITH MARATHON, WE HAVE  
NEVER QUESTIONED THE ETHICS OR INTEGRITY OF THE ENTIRE STAFF,  
FROM THE TERRITORY MANAGER THROUGH THE LEADERSHIP TEAM…  
I CAN COUNT ON THE ENTIRE TEAM KEEPING THEIR WORD AND  
ACCOMPLISHING THEIR COMMITMENTS.”
BRIAN BURROW
President, Campbell Oil
Massillon, Ohio
INDUSTRY POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Some advocacy groups are concerned about the fact 
that political action committees (PACs) are able to participate in the political process by contributing 
to political campaigns, enabling those running for 
elected office to fund their campaigns. The bar chart below shows the amounts raised by the top 15 PACs in the 2013-2014 election cycle, as of March 31, 2014, using Federal Election Commission data. Of the top 15 PACs, none is a corporate PAC. The combined receipts 
for the top 15 oil and gas industry PACs amount to 
about 3.5 percent of the top 15 PACs overall.
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350Top 15 
Oil & Gas Industry PACsTop 15 
Corporate PACs**Top 15
PACs*POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE RECEIPTS
*None of the top 15 PACs are corporate PACs.
**Only one of the Top 15 corporate PACs is an oil and gas industry PAC.
TOP 15  POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES BY RECEIPTS
 1. ActBlue: Democrat leaning ($103.8 million)
 2.  Service Employees International Union: Labor union  
($38.4 million)
 3. EMILY’s List: Democrat ($26.3 million)
 4. Senate Majority PAC: Democrat ($20.5 million)
 5.  Americans for Responsible Solutions: Gun control  
($15.4 million)
 6. National Rifle Association: Gun rights ($14.8 million)
 7. House Majority PAC: Democrat ($13.1 million)
 8.  National Association of Realtors®: Real estate agents  
($13 million)
 9. American Federation of Teachers: Labor union ($12.4 million)
 10.  American Federation of State, County and Municipal 
Employees: Labor union ($11.7 million)
 11. Plumbers and Pipefitters: Labor union ($11.6 million)
 12. Senate Conservatives Fund: Republican leaning ($10.3 million)
 13.  International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers: Labor union  
($10 milli  on)
 14. Teamsters: Labor union ($9.7 million)
 15.  NextGen Climate Action: Climate change advocacy  
($9.5 million)Millions of Dollars
Additional information regarding our lobbying and political activity is available on our website:
http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Corporate_Citizenship/Political_Engagement/MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201344 bbl.: Barrel (42 U.S. gallons)
bpcd:  Barrels per calendar day. This is an average of how much crude oil or other feedstock a plant processes 
over a period of time, divided by the number of days in that period.
bpd:  Barrels per day
Btu:  British thermal unit. A measure of heat energy often used to quantify the energy in different types of  
fuel. For example, gasoline has 124,300 Btu per gallon, and ethanol has 84,500 Btu per gallon.
CO2e: Carbon dioxide equivalent. Because various greenhouse gases have heat-trapping effects that are 
stronger or weaker than carbon dioxide (CO2), they are often expressed as the equivalent amount of CO2 to 
provide a consistent measure.
DAR:  Days Away Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of full days of work missed by employees due 
to injuries, per 200,000 work hours.
DEI*:  Designated Environmental Incident. A metric adopted by MPC to capture several categories 
simultaneously. It includes releases to the environment (including to air, land or water), permit exceedances and 
agency enforcement actions. MPC ranks DEIs in terms of their severity, with Tier 4 being the most severe, and Tier 1 being the least. Below are partial descriptions of the DEI Tiers:
 Tier 4
  • Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 1,000 bbl.
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 100 bbl.
  •  Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 100 times the reportable quantity
 Tier 3  
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 100 bbl. but less than 
1,000 bbl.
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl. 
  •  Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to an established reportable quantity but less than 100 times the reportable quantity
 Tier 2 
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than  100 bbl.
  • Safety system failure or bypass
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material into a regulated water body greater than or equal to 1 bbl. but less than 10 bbl.
  
•  Release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 80 percent of a reportable quantity but less than an established reportable quantity
 Tier 1
  •  Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land that is less than 10 bbl. (if less than 1 bbl., release 
must also be reportable)
Dividend:  A per-share quarterly payment to owners of MPC common stock.
ENERGY STAR:  An EPA program recognizing energy efficiency. To achieve this status,  
applicants must perform in the top quartile for energy efficiency and have no unresolved 
environmental compliance actions from state or federal regulators.
EPA:  The U.S. federal government’s Environmental Protection Agency.
GHG:  Greenhouse gases, so named because of their heat-trapping properties. They include carbon dioxide, 
methane, nitrous oxide and other substances.GLOSSARY
* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC. As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets performance goals 
related to these metrics.    MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201345 HES&S: MPC’s Health, Environment, Safety & Security organization, which is tasked with planning, executing, 
monitoring and continually improving the company’s performance in these critical areas.
MPC:  Marathon Petroleum Corporation
MSPI*:  Marathon Safety Performance Index. A safety indicator similar to the ORIR and the DAR (which are also 
defined in this glossary), but weighted for severity.
M/V:  Motor vessel. This abbreviation typically precedes the formal name of a marine vessel.
MWBE:  Minority- or woman-owned business enterprise. This refers to organizations certified by a specialized 
agency as majority-owned by women or minorities. Certifying agencies we work with include the National Minority 
Supplier Development Council and the U.S. Small Business Administration.
OSHA:  The U.S. federal government’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
ORIR: OSHA Recordable Incident Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of injuries of the types that must 
be reported to OSHA, per 200,000 work hours.
PSE*:  Process safety event. These are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a material from one of MPC’s 
processes. Tier 1 PSEs, which we report in this publication, are the most serious PSEs. Below are detailed descriptions of the PSE Tiers:
 Tier 1
  • Loss of primary containment (LOPC) of a liquid or gas
  • Fatality, lost-time injury or community evacuation
  • Fires exceeding $25,000 in damages
 Tier 2
  • LOPC of a liquid or gas
  • Results in recordable injury
  • Fires exceeding $2,500 in damages
 Tier 3 
  • Operating outside of system parameters
  •  Safety system failure or bypass, “not-to-exceed”  alarm level exceeded
  
• All other fires resulting from LOPC
 Tier 4
  •  Overdue recommendations and mechanical inspections
  • Management of change not well executed
Responsible Care®: A program of the American Chemistry Council designed to continually improve performance 
in the areas of health, safety, environmental protection and more. Companies that choose to participate in Responsible Care undergo audits of their headquarters and facilities to ensure they have a structure and system in place to measure, manage and verify performance.
Tonne: Metric ton. While a ton is 2,000 pounds, a tonne (or metric ton) is 2,205 pounds.
TRI: Toxic Release Inventory. This includes releases of toxic materials to air, water and land, as well as off-site 
disposal. The TRI we are required to report to the EPA also includes materials we send off-site for recycling, energy recovery and other forms of further treatment; however, we do not report these latter metrics in this publication.
Tier 1
LOPC Events of
Greater Consequences
Tier 2
LOPC Events of
Lesser Consequences
Tier 3
Challenges to Safety Systems
Tier 4
Operating Discipline & Management System
Performance IndicatorsSeverity
* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC. As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets performance goals 
related to these metrics.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201346 LOCATION
INDEX
Florida
 Port Everglades: 24
Georgia 
Gwinnett County: 9
 Norcross: 6
Illinois 
Crawford County: 8, 13, 17,  
  18, 30 
 Greenup: 7
 Hartford: 12
 Hutsonville: 9, 19, 33
 Lawrenceville: 19, 29
 Martinsville: 8, 12, 32
 New Hebron: 9
 Oblong: 9, 19
 Palestine: 9, 19, 32, 33
 Red Hill: 19
 Robinson: 3, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14,  
  15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 25,  
  29, 30, 32, 33, 47
 St. Elmo: 33
 Stoy: 29
 Sullivan: 19
 Wood River: 12
Indiana 
Clymers: 31
 Huntington: 33
 Indianapolis: 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,  
  15, 16, 17
 Mt. Vernon: 33
 Speedway: 7
 Terre Haute: 8, 20Kentucky
 Ashland: 8, 10, 11, 16
 Big Spring: 32
 Boyd County: 6, 10, 24
 Catlettsburg: 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,  
  11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,  
  20, 23, 24, 32, 47
 Grayson: 14, 24
 Kuttawa: 33
 Lexington: 12, 16 
 Louisa: 10
 Louisville: 33
 Mt. Sterling: 12
 Westwood: 7
Louisiana 
Garyville: 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,  
  12, 13, 14, 15, 23, 25, 26, 29,  
  30, 32, 35
 Reserve: 9, 10
 St. John the Baptist Parish: 6, 7,  
  12, 13, 14, 15
Michigan 
Albion: 31
 Detroit: 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 13,  
  15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24,  
  29, 30
 Holland: 9
 Lansing: 19
 Muskegon: 33
 Oak Park: 14
Mississippi 
Charleston: 23
 Columbus: 7Ohio 
Akron: 14
 Canton: 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13,  
  15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24,  
  27, 29, 30
 Cincinnati: 31
 Enon: 29, 30, 33
 Findlay: 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,  
  12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,  
  30, 31, 33, 35
 Greenville: 31
 Hancock County: 11, 15
 Ironton: 13, 14
 Louisville: 16
 Lucas: 15
 North Bend: 33
 Stark County: 19, 27
 Toledo: 16
 Wyandot County: 12
South Carolina 
Charleston: 14
 Greenville: 9
Tennessee 
Nashville: 7, 8, 10, 11, 33, 38
Texas 
Dickinson: 11, 20
 Texas City: cover, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8,  
  9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18,  
  19, 21, 23, 27, 29, 30
West Virginia 
Huntington: 10, 14
 Kenova: 11, 15 
 Wayne: 7Where to find reference to places that are important to you, listed by state and community:
Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information for the Purpose of “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
This publication contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other 
things, MPC’s expectations, estimates and projections concerning MPC business and operations. You can identify forward-looking statements by words such as 
“anticipate, ” “believe, ” “estimate, ” “expect, ” “forecast, ” “project, ” “could, ” “may, ” “should, ” “would, ” “will” or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of 
future events or outcomes. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond MPC’s control and are difficult to predict. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: volatility in and/or degradation of market and industry conditions; the availability and pricing of crude oil and other feedstocks; slower 
growth in domestic and Canadian crude supply; completion of pipeline capacity to areas outside the U.S. Midwest; consumer demand for refined products; 
transportation logistics; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; our ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; impacts from our repurchases of shares of MPC common stock under our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; 
state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the Renewable 
Fuel Standard; other risk factors inherent to our industry; and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in MPC’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2013, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, the forward-looking statements included herein could be 
affected by general domestic and international economic and political conditions. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed here or in MPC’s Form 10-K 
could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Copies of MPC’s Form 10-K are available on the SEC website, MPC’s website at  http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com or by contacting MPC’s Investor Relations office.     MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201347 
ON THIS PAGE:
ON THE BACK COVER:MPC’s refinery in 
Robinson, Ill.
The M/V Garyville passes 
the company’s refinery in Catlettsburg, Ky.MPC CITIZENSHIP REPORT 201348 
 
PO Box 1Findlay, OH 45839-7836
citizenship@marathonpetroleum.com
ABOUT MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION
MPC is the nation’s fourth-largest refiner, with a crude oil processing capacity of approximately 1.7 
million barrels per calendar day in its seven-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,200 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s fourth-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 1,480 convenience stores in nine states. MPC also owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of pipeline. MPC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company’s distribution network in the Midwest, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions. For additional information about the company, please visit our website at http://www.marathonpetroleum.com.PRSRT STD
US POSTAGE
PAID
PERMIT NO. 98
FINDLAY, OH