CITIZENSHIP REPORT
20 
161 LETTER FROM THE CEO
 A message from Chairman, President and Chief  
 Executive Officer Gary R. Heminger
3  ABOUT US     
 What we do, and a brief look at how we do it
5 HIGHLIGHTS
 Some of our most recent accomplishments
7  MANAGING FOR CONTINUAL 
IMPROVEMENT  
 The management system we use to make sure we are  
always getting better
9 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 
 How MPC contributes to stronger communities 
 and a stronger America 
19 HEALTH & SAFETY
  How we protect employees, contractors and communities
25 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
 How we protect the air, land and water we all share
35 OUR PEOPLE
 How we recruit, retain and treat our most valuable asset
41 GOVERNANCE & INTEGRITY
 How we promote and maintain an ethical culture
47 ECONOMIC IMPACT
 How we contribute to a vibrant economy
53 ADVOCACY
 Our positions on certain legislative and regulatory issues
59 METRICS
  Charts that show our numbers in a variety of areas
69 GLOSSARY
 Descriptions of acronyms and definitions of termsCITIZENSHIP 
REPORTCONTENTS
 20 16
MPC’s refinery in Garyville, Louisiana, owns and 
maintains this wetland as a wildlife habitat certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council. MPC maintains a total of 1,284 acres of wildlife habitat (see Page 33 for more).On the cover: Employees at MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio1    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    2 
FELLOW EMPLOYEES, NEIGHBORS AND SHAREHOLDERS,
Our approach to business sets us apart. We work under the assumption that we will be 
successful only if we get our health and safety, environmental stewardship, corporate citizenship, integrity, and diversity and inclusion right. This Citizenship Report provides insight into how we are performing in these critical areas.
It’s worth asking how our values-based approach has worked for us. Consider a few 
important facts:
   We lead the refining industry in energy efficiency. Since the EPA’s ENERGY STAR
® 
Program began, Marathon Petroleum has received 33 of the 44 ENERGY STAR 
designations awarded to refineries. This represents 75 percent of the recognitions — a huge share, considering our refineries represent less than 10 percent of the total U.S. capacity
.
   We were the first U.S. refining company to adopt the American Chemistry 
Council’s rigorous Responsible Care® management system companywide. To this 
day, we are the only refiner to do so. Responsible Care gives us a structured system for continually improving our performance in health, environment, safety and security
.
   We have 10 locations, including our headquarters and four of our refineries, that are certified as Star sites under the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Voluntary Protection Program. This is a challenging certification that we choose to implement because it’s a way for us to go well above regulatory requirements as we strive to make our workplaces ever safer.
I could say that despite the enormous investments of time and money these accomplishments have required, we are a profitable company. Instead, I would argue that these investments make us more profitable.
Marathon Petroleum Corporation traces its roots back to its founding in 1887. No 
company can achieve that kind of longevity without being committed to the health and safety of its employees and the communities where it operates. No business can put profits ahead of environmental stewardship and expect to succeed. No corporation can ignore the needs of its neighbors and expect to attract and retain employees, or be welcome in a community.
That our values contribute to our bottom line is unambiguous. At year-end 2015, total 
return on our shares was 171 percent, or 25 percent annualized, since we became an independent company in mid-2011. During that time, we earned a cumulative $13 billion in profit and returned an average of $5.7 million every day to our shareholders.
Our values are not mere words, repeated for their feel-good resonance; they are 
integrated into our identity as a company, and they drive our success. They require us to take concrete actions, to expend significant effort and resources. Yes, we conduct our business with uncompromising financial acumen; we rigorously evaluate our return on capital employed, monitor our debt, track our price-to-earnings ratio and optimize expenses. But our values set us apart from companies that make those metrics their sole criteria for success.
I invite you to read this Citizenship Report to learn more about what sets us apart.
Gary R. Heminger 
MPC Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerFROM THE CHAIRMAN, 
PRESIDENT AND CEO
3    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    4 
WHAT WE MANUFACTURE
The core of MPC’s business is manufacturing. We use feedstocks – crude 
oil and other blendstocks – to produce a variety of refined products used by tens of millions of consumers. The products we and other refining companies manufacture are used directly or indirectly by virtually every single person in our nation. The fuels we produce transport children to schools, deliver produce to grocery stores and heat homes. Asphalt paves roads and is the main ingredient in the manufacture of roofing materials. Lesser-known 
products like cumene or propylene are used to manufacture items that make 
our lives easier, safer and more convenient, such as plastics, paints and inks, cosmetics and flexible foam. 
MPC is the nation’s third-largest refiner, with a crude oil refining capacity 
of approximately 1.8 million barrels per calendar day in its seven-refinery 
Barge DockPipelines
Butane CavernTank FarmsBiodiesel FacilityEthanol FacilityPipelines
MPC Owned & OperatedMPC Interest: Operated by MPCMPC Interest: Operated by OthersPipelines Used by MPCLight Product TerminalsMPC Owned and Part-ownedThird PartyAsphalt/Heavy Oil TerminalsMPC Owned Third PartyWater Supplied TerminalsCoastalInlandMPC Refineries
MarkWest AssetsMarketing Area
®Refining, Marketing and Transportation NetworkABOUT US
system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately  
5,400 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. In  addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s second-largest convenience store chain, with approximately  2,770 convenience stores in 22 states.
MPC owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately  
8,400 miles of crude and light product pipelines and 5,000 miles of gas gathering and natural gas liquids (NGL) pipelines. MPC also has ownership interests in 54 gas processing plants, 13 NGL fractionation facilities and two condensate stabilization facilities. Through subsidiaries, MPC owns the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership. MPC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, NGLs, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company’s distribution network and midstream service businesses in the Midwest, Northeast, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions. TOP 10 REFINED PRODUCTS  
MPC MANUFACTURED IN 2015   
BASED ON VOLUME
   Product: Gasoline  
Used for: Transportation fuel
   Product: Diesel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
   Product: Jet fuel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
    Product: Refinery fuel 
Used for:  Non-salable hydrocarbon materials used  to fuel refinery units
 
   Product: Asphalt 
Used for:  Road paving and the manufacture of  roofing shingles
 
   Product: Petroleum coke  
Used for:  Fuel in boilers and cement kilns. Some 
grades can be further treated and used in 
carbon anodes for aluminum smelting and as electrodes for electric arc furnaces.
 
   Product:  Aromatics (xylene, benzene, 
cumene, toluene)
  Used for:  Production of paints, printing inks, 
adhesives, flexible foam, styrene and 
plastics
    Product: Heavy fuel oil/slurry 
Used for: Fuel for some utilities and marine vessels
    Product: Olefins (primarily propylene) 
Used for:  Production of paints, household detergents, 
carpet fibers, foam insulation and auto parts
    Product: Propane 
Used for:  Primarily a heating fuel
* Nelson Complexity Index (NCI) calculated  
per Oil & Gas Journal NCI formula
**Weighted Average NCI
BPCD: barrels per calendar day
Source: MPC DataMPC’s refineries are managed as one integrated 
system, optimizing feedstock and raw material inputs. This results in economies of scale that optimize capital expenditures and capacity. CRUDE OIL REFINING CAPACITY
 BPCD  NCI*
Galveston Bay 459,000 13.5
Garyville 539,000 11.2
Robinson 212,000 10.5
Detroit 132,000 9.7
Catlettsburg 273,000 9.2
Canton 93,000 7.8
Texas City 86,000 7.8
TOTAL 1,794,000 10.9** Map information as of Dec. 31, 2015173 2,210Owned or leased railcars63
Owned and 
part-owned 
light product 
terminals120
Third-party 
light product 
terminals18
Owned 
asphalt 
terminals2
Third-party 
asphalt 
terminals
8,400Approximate miles of pipeline that MPC 
owns, leases or has ownership interest in
19Inland waterway towboats205Owned barges14Leased barges
Owned transport trucks
5    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    6 
2016   HIGHLIGHTS
American 
Chemistry 
Council Responsible Care
® awards
 55  Certificates of Excellence
 8  Certificates of Honor
 6  Certificates of Achievement
MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Illinois, was 
awarded the first-ever Platinum 
Accreditation from the 
Cambridge Center for Behavior Studies
, for the facility’s  
behavior-based safety program.6975%MPC has earned
of the Environmental 
Protection Agency’s 
ENERGY STAR  
recognitions awarded  
to refineries.MPC facilities received 
That’s 
despite 
owning and 
operating 
just10%MPC earned the  
Platinum Safety 
Award  
from the International  
Liquid Terminals Association  
for exemplary safety.
of the most efficient 
freight companies  
for our category in the EPA’s 
SmartWay Transport Partnership. 
We have been in the best performance range for grams of 
carbon dioxide per ton-mile for 
three straight years.MPC has 
placed in the top20%1,284
acres of  
certified habitat  
for wildlife.10MPC facilities have earned 
the federal Occupational 
Safety and Health 
Administration’s highest  
Voluntary 
Protection  Program status.
MPC managesMPC earned the  
Perfect Game 
award from the  
Association  
of American 
Railroads .
13of MPC’s inland vessels earned the 
Chamber 
of Shipping 
America’s Jones F. Devlin Safety Award
, 
which recognizes vessels 
that have operated for at 
least two years without  a seafarer involved in a 
lost-time injury. of total U.S.  
refining capacity.7    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    8 
MPC is the only refiner that adheres to the rigorous 
requirements of Responsible Care.
You might find yourself wondering why 
Responsible Care matters. After all, refining 
companies have to adhere to federal, state 
and local regulations when it comes to health, 
safety and environmental performance. And 
refiners also have their own processes and 
procedures to stay safe. But Responsible Care 
requires a company to go beyond minimum 
requirements, and to continuously improve.
Through Responsible Care, companies improve their environmental, health, safety and security performance for their facilities, processes and products. And this commitment must include their entire operating system. In MPC’s case, that means Responsible Care covers our seven refineries, dozens of refined-product terminals, thousands of miles of pipelines, hundreds of barges, scores of transport trucks and much more.
A key element of the Responsible Care Management 
System is mandatory certification by an independent, accredited auditor. All companies taking part in Responsible Care in the U.S. undergo headquarters and facility audits to ensure they have structures and systems in place to measure, manage and verify their performance.
And the program yields results. Responsible Care 
companies are almost five times safer than the average of the U.S. manufacturing sector as a whole, and three times safer than the chemicals industry overall. Responsible Care companies have reduced process safety incidents by 51 percent since 1995, and from 1988 to 2014, they have reduced hazardous releases to the air, land and water by more than 74 percent.
“Responsible Care is integrated into everything we do,” 
says Melissa Kinn, MPC’s Responsible Care coordinator. “Because we have been a Responsible Care company for well over a decade, we don’t consider it a program that we impose on our business. Instead, it’s simply the way we operate.”Responsible Care  
Guiding Principles
  To lead our companies in ethical ways that 
increasingly benefit society, the economy and the 
environment.
  To design and develop products that can be 
manufactured, transported, used and disposed of 
or recycled safely.
  To work with customers, carriers, suppliers, 
distributors and contractors to foster the safe and secure use, transport and disposal of chemicals, and provide hazard and risk information that can be accessed and applied in their operations and products.
  To design and operate facilities in a safe, secure and environmentally sound manner.
  To instill a culture throughout all levels of the organizations to continually identify, reduce and manage process safety risks.
  To promote pollution prevention, minimization of 
waste and conservation of energy and other critical resources at every stage of the life cycle of our products.
  To cooperate with governments at all levels and organizations in the development of effective and efficient safety, health, environmental and security laws, regulations and standards.
  To support education and research on the health, safety, environmental effects and security of products and processes.
  To communicate product, service and process risks to stakeholders and listen to and consider their perspectives.
  To make continual progress toward a goal of no accidents, injuries or harm to human health and the environment from products and operations, and openly report health, safety, environmental and security performance.
  To seek continual improvement in the integrated Responsible Care Management System to address environmental, health, safety and security performance.
  To promote Responsible Care by encouraging and assisting other companies to adhere to these guiding principles.
MANAGING FOR  
CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT
WE IMPLEMENTED RESPONSIBLE CARE®  
IN 2002, AND IT SETS US APART
MPC’s Corporate Responsible Care® Coordinator Melissa Kinn9    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    10  
MPC employees volunteer during the United Way 
Days of Caring in Hancock County, Ohio.COMMUNITY  
INVOLVEMENT11     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    12  COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
THE PRODUCTS WE 
MANUFACTURE  
HELP THOSE IN NEED
The Salvation Army’s Bed & Bread Club truck, fueled 
by MPC, provides meals to Detroit residents in need.As the Salvation Army’s Bed & Bread truck travels through some of Detroit’s 
poorest neighborhoods distributing food, one resource the charity doesn’t have to worry about is the vehicle’s next tank of gas. MPC’s Detroit refinery actively supports the Bed & Bread program by providing fuel for the vehicle, keeping it moving as it takes meals to those in need.
“One of the inspiring aspects of our business is that every day we come to 
work, we’re manufacturing the fuels that make modern life possible,” said Dave Roland, general manager of the Detroit refinery. “Donating fuel to the Salvation Army’s Bed & Bread truck is a concrete way for us to make life better for those who need it most.”
Because petroleum products are fundamental to transportation, they play a 
role in almost every aspect of daily life that benefits the public. In addition to hunger alleviation, another example is law enforcement. Since July 2013, the Detroit refinery has helped to refurbish three Detroit Police Department (DPD) vehicles, fund officers’ pay for directed patrols in neighborhoods adjacent to the refinery, and has provided all the fuel for police cruisers conducting the directed patrols.
“Road repairs that were being conducted in the area had been affecting 
the DPD’s response times to calls in our area, so we thought funding these directed patrols would be a good solution for our neighbors,” said Rich Robell, head of refinery security. “Initially, the program was jointly funded with the Michigan Department of Transportation and the city of Detroit, but since their funding ran out, we’ve been happy to continue financing the program.”
Through March 2016, the program had funded more than 1,300 shifts and 
resulted in shorter average response times than the rest of the city of Detroit.
“Charity and public safety are just two aspects of daily life that we help make 
possible through the products we make,” said Roland. “We’re happy to use our core business as a way to enhance our neighbors’ lives.”
13     C CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    14  
When you make a purchase at any of Speedway’s 
2,770 stores, you are likely to see a canister by the register with the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals
® logo on it. Maybe you’ll drop some of your 
change in that canister, not giving it much thought.
But that small act of charity adds up to enormous 
benefits for sick and injured children.
Speedway LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of MPC, has been a corporate 
partner with Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals since 1991. It has contributed over $78 million to the nonprofit organization, with the majority of funds raised coming from the generosity of our millions of customers. This fundraising supports 58 Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals in regions where Speedway does business.
  Those donations have had a tangible impact on children’s lives.  
  Just a few examples:
  The Speedway Burn Center at Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis
   Support for the Kosair Children’s Hospital transport team in  
Louisville, Kentucky
   A mobile intensive care unit at Dayton Children’s Hospital in  
Dayton, Ohio
   A family kitchen on the pediatric intensive care unit floor at Chicago’s Ann & 
Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital
   A family waiting area in the neonatal and pediatric intensive care units at 
Beaumont Children’s Hospital in Royal Oak, Michigan
Speedway contributions also come from Miracle Balloon icon campaigns, 
bowl-a-thons and employee payroll contributions programs. Through the generosity of its vendor partners, Speedway also hosts the largest single-day golf fundraising event for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, raising more than $2 million in 2015 alone.
“Year after year we are in awe of Speedway’s commitment to supporting 
children’s hospitals in its communities,” said John Lauck, president and CEO of Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. “It’s partners like this – that fully embrace our mission to care for sick and injured kids – that allow us to provide more valuable resources to our hospitals.”
This year, Speedway is celebrating 25 years of supporting the charity. “I 
am quite proud of Speedway’s partnership with Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, and humbled by the generosity of our customers and vendor partners as well as the enthusiasm of our employees for this very worthwhile cause,” said Tony Kenney, president of Speedway. “When you hear these kids’ stories of bravery and courage, you understand why Speedway is so passionate in our efforts to help. These are, after all, the children in our own backyards, and they deserve our very best effort.”COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
SPEEDWAY AND ITS CUSTOMERS 
FUND CRITICAL TREATMENTS 
AND SERVICES FOR CHILDREN
Two-year-old Dominic Corson 
puts his money where the miracles are by donating to Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals at Speedway.15     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    16  
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
A LARGE PART OF OUR 
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IS 
A CORPORATE COMMITMENT 
TO UNITED WAY
MPC employees spread mulch at a 
park in Hancock County, Ohio, during the local United Way Days of Caring.At MPC, our charitable giving – like our community involvement as a whole – 
is a grassroots effort, driven by our employees. Every community where we operate has a unique set of needs, and nobody knows these needs better than the people who live there. MPC employees volunteer their time, resources and talents for organizations they care about. MPC matches their qualifying charitable contributions, donates to eligible nonprofits where they volunteer, and more.
United Way operates with a very similar approach, identifying and supporting 
the organizations that meet their communities’ unique needs most effectively.
For example, the United Way Galveston County Mainland – which serves the 
area of Texas where two of our refineries are located – supports 31 partner agencies, ranging from the local chapters of national organizations like the American Red Cross and the Salvation Army, to more community-specific groups like the Sunshine Center and Connect Transit.
Robinson, Illinois, where another of our refineries is located, is served by the 
United Way of Knox County, Indiana, and Crawford County, Illinois. It supports 12 agencies in Crawford County and 24 in Knox County, focusing on meeting the needs that characterize these rural areas.
In contrast, the United Way for Southeastern Michigan, covering the area 
where our Detroit refinery is located, partners with more than 80 agencies, and is geared toward the needs of the large metropolitan area.
And so it goes in each community where MPC operates: the company and 
United Way support their neighbors in need.
Given the United Way’s tailored, community-driven approach, it’s only natural 
that MPC has partnered with it. In fact, our partnership goes back decades. When the United Way of Hancock County, Ohio, first took shape in 1955, we donated office space in our headquarters to house it.
Today, our employees throughout our operating areas raise funds for the 
United Way through golf tournaments, raffles, auctions and much more. MPC matches a portion of these donations to augment the total contribution. Since MPC became a standalone company in 2011, our matching contributions alone have been $5,126,110.
“Our decision to support United Way at the corporate level was an easy 
one,” says Administrative Services Manager Paul Smith, who oversees the 
company’s philanthropic budget. “We look closely at a community’s needs and allocate funding to high-quality nonprofits that make people’s lives better. At the end of the day, that’s what we all want.”17     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    18  
At our refinery in Detroit, we planned a project to enable us to produce 
lower-sulfur gasoline required by the “Tier 3” rule from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Since the project would require us to install new equipment at our facility, we filed a permit application with the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) to install it.
Adding new processes to a refinery – especially to remove sulfur from fuels – 
typically requires more energy. It also means there will be more emissions. 
In our permit application with the MDEQ, we projected our additional 
emissions would include about 22 tons per year of sulfur dioxide (SO
2), most 
of which our existing permit already allowed us to emit; 22 tons per year of nitrogen oxides; and smaller increases in several other pollutants that are regulated by the EPA. Our emissions of all pollutants still would have been well under the levels allowed under our permit.
However, during public hearings held in Detroit, we heard from community 
residents, elected officials and civic leaders, who told us they opposed any increase in emissions from the refinery at all. They were especially concerned about SO
2.
Within a 2-mile radius of the Detroit refinery, there are several industrial facilities, including steel mills, power plants and more. In fact, all of the Detroit refinery’s emissions of “criteria air pollutants” – those that are regulated and tracked by the EPA – amount to only 3 percent of those emissions within that 2-mile radius. Nonetheless, residents were concerned about the cumulative effect of even a small increase.
We then shared as much information as possible with local residents and 
elected officials. Among other details, we noted that we are committed to other projects that would reduce our overall SO
2 emissions more than the  
Tier 3 Project’s increases.
“What we heard from the community, including Detroit Mayor Michael 
Duggan’s administration, was this: If you’re going to reduce SO2 emissions 
anyway, then add those reductions to your current permit application, and make them enforceable,” said Dave Roland, general manager of the Detroit refinery. “So we worked with Mayor Duggan’s administration and the MDEQ, and that’s exactly what we did.”
Through engineering and technology adjustments, we were able to change our 
projected increases of three pollutants, including SO
2, into net decreases, and 
we are projecting much smaller increases in other criteria pollutants.
Roland said that when we applied for the permit with the MDEQ, the company 
did everything by the book. “But in doing so, we overlooked something important – we should have contacted the elected officials from Detroit and neighboring communities before we filed, to let them know about the project, what benefits it will provide and why we were applying,” he said. “I think the Tier 3 permit process turned out well for everyone in the end, and as a result, our approach will be more positive and proactive in the future.”COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
WE RESPOND TO OUR  
NEIGHBORS’ CONCERNS
At MPC’s Detroit refinery, we are implementing 
several pollution-control measures.
19     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    20  
HEALTH & 
SAFETY
MPC employees at our Detroit refinery.21     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    22  
HEALTH & SAFETY
WE WORK CLOSELY 
WITH LOCAL EMERGENCY 
RESPONDERS IN THE 
INTEREST OF PUBLIC SAFETY
MPC and other industry partners pooled resources with the 
Green Bay, Wisconsin, Fire Department to purchase a firefighting and rescue boat to serve the community and local industry.When a tanker truck full of gasoline and diesel crashed and caught fire on 
Interstate Highway 94 near Detroit, local firefighters requested help from MPC’s Detroit refinery. The refinery’s firefighters have the expertise and the specialized equipment to control hydrocarbon fires, and they were happy to lend a hand.
“When it comes to guarding against threats to public safety, there is no 
fence between company and community,” said Dave Whikehart, MPC’s vice president of Environment, Safety and Corporate Affairs. “When we join forces, everyone benefits.”
That’s why, at any given moment, MPC refineries, terminals and other 
locations are working with local firefighters, law enforcement and emergency management agencies to help strengthen their ability to protect the communities that rely on them.
Sometimes that means lending a hand, like during the fire in Detroit, and 
many similar mutual-aid requests our firefighters respond to. Other times, it means providing critical training and equipment to law enforcement, firefighters and other emergency responders.
In 2015 alone, MPC provided rescue equipment, mobile data computers, 
radios, personal protective equipment, gas monitors, body cameras and specialized training to various emergency responders. The police departments, fire departments and others benefiting from the equipment and training were from communities throughout MPC’s operating areas. Charlotte, North Carolina; Knoxville, Tennessee; Kuttawa, Kentucky; Lansing, Michigan; and St. Elmo, Illinois, are just a few of the dozens of communities that benefited from MPC’s commitment to help.
One of the largest single contributions was at MPC’s Green Bay, Wisconsin, 
terminal, where we and two other industry partners agreed last year to pay $225,000 toward the cost of a state-of-the-art emergency response boat. The Green Bay Fire Department paid $90,000 toward the cost of the vessel, and retains use of it for the public’s benefit. “I’ve been around the fire service profession going on 34 years, and I’ve never before seen a commitment by local industry like this,” said Green Bay Metro Fire Chief David Litton.23     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    24  
We have an ambitious vision of no injuries, no incidents 
and no harm to the environment. For a manufacturing company that processes, transports and markets volatile substances, that means we never allow ourselves to be satisfied with how safe we are. We are constantly on the lookout for better ways to protect our employees, contractors and communities.
That’s where our interests align with those of the 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The federal agency’s Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) gives us a structured way to avoid fatalities, injuries and illnesses.
The minimum requirement to be part of VPP is to 
maintain injury and illness rates below the Bureau of Labor Statistics averages for our industry. But MPC strives for much more. “Our focus is to continue moving our facilities to VPP Star status,” says Keith Robson, MPC’s manager of Safety, Security and Emergency Preparedness. “Star status is difficult to achieve and requires a deep commitment by everyone involved. But this is the kind of focus on safety we want.”
To become a Star site under the VPP program, a facility 
has to apply to OSHA, and then undergo a rigorous, on-site evaluation by a team of safety and health professionals from OSHA and from other VPP sites. This evaluation team can consist of up to 20 people, depending on the size and complexity of the site, and the evaluation can take up to 10 days.
The evaluation team focuses on how engaged employees 
and management are in the site’s safety, whether hazards are being prevented and controlled, the type of training provided to employees and contractors, and much more. This  in-depth evaluation must be repeated every three to five years for a  location to remain certified as a VPP Star site.
Ten MPC facilities have earned VPP Star status, and five others are in 
various stages of working toward the designation. It’s a lot of effort for the sites involved, but Robson says it’s well worth it. “VPP, and the many other safety programs and processes we use, are integrated into everything we do because safety is non-negotiable,” says Robson. “There is no business objective that supersedes our health and safety commitment.”HEALTH & SAFETY
WHEN IT COMES TO SAFETY,  
JUST COMPLYING WITH  
THE RULES ISN’T ENOUGH
MPC’s certified  
VPP Star Sites
   Marathon Pipe Line facility in  
Clermont, Indiana
  Terminal in Speedway, Indiana
  Terminal in Columbus, Ohio
   Marketing and Transportation  Engineering office in Indianapolis, Indiana
  Texas City, Texas, refinery
  Detroit, Michigan, refinery
   Marathon Pipe Line-operated Capline facility in Patoka, Illinois
	  Headquarters Office Complex  in Findlay, Ohio
	 Robinson, Illinois, refinery
	 Garyville, Louisiana, refineryVoluntary Pr otection Pr ogram s
An OSHA Cooperative Pr ogram
Operator Kristin Avery at the rail 
yard loading rack at MPC’s refinery in Robinson, Illinois, a VPP Star site.25     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    26  
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
A goose and her goslings at MPC’s certified wildlife habitat at 
its Cane Run Asphalt Terminal in Louisville, Kentucky.27     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    28  
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE ARE CONDUCTING 
RESEARCH WITH ARGONNE 
NATIONAL LABORATORY  
IN SEARCH OF GREATER ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Ever since automobiles were invented, their engines – and the fuels that  
run them – have been steadily improving. This process has accelerated  over the past few decades as emissions reductions have become increasingly important.
“Automotive and fuels researchers have made significant strides in efficiency 
over the past 30 years,” said MPC Fuels Technology Manager Fred Walas. “As our products become more and more specialized, we realize we cannot optimize the fuel and engines independently. Instead, we must treat them as a combined system to achieve higher efficiencies economically.”
So MPC and Argonne National Laboratory – part of the U.S. Department 
of Transportation – have joined forces to research fuel-engine interactions. Argonne and MPC both have decades of expertise, and our collaboration will bring together experts on fuel design, analysis and production with scientists who work on advanced engine combustion and emissions formation.
The joint effort supports the Co-Optimization of Fuels and Engines initiative, 
launched by the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Office and Bioenergy Technologies Office. The researchers hope to make substantial gains that couldn’t be achieved by working on engines or fuels separately.
In addition to supplying test fuel and expertise, MPC has also provided 
Argonne with a Cooperative Fuel Research engine, a test platform used throughout the industry to determine how fuels perform in internal combustion engines. Argonne’s engineers will work closely with MPC experts to ensure efficient knowledge transfer and to assess potential improvements.
“Our effort is aimed at gaining knowledge that can help not just MPC, and 
not just our industry, but the public at large,” said Walas. “We’re proud that we can contribute to Argonne’s mission of advancing America’s scientific leadership and preparing the nation for a better future.”
Director of Argonne National Laboratory’s Energy 
Sciences Division Don Hillebrand, left, shakes hands with Fred Walas, MPC’s Fuels Technology manager, at MPC’s Refining Analytical Development facility in Catlettsburg, Kentucky.29     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016
 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016     30  
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE ARE ACTIVELY EXPLORING 
THE POTENTIAL FOR  
WIND AND SOLAR POWER  
AT OUR FACILITIES
In November 2012, we installed a 6,000-panel solar array  at 
the municipal Water Pollution Control Center in Findlay, Ohio. Our objective 
was to study the potential for using solar energy at our industrial facilities.  “At the three-year mark, the array had generated 2,460 megawatt hours, all of which we donated to the city of Findlay,” said Jim Northrup, an engineer with MPC’s Supply, Distribution and Planning organization.
That amount of electricity offset the city’s power costs by more than 
$190,000. “That’s a significant savings for the city, and we’re happy to continue making that contribution,” said Northrup.
But if the array were generating power for an MPC facility, those cost-savings 
wouldn’t be enough to offset the amount of investment we have made in the facility for construction and ongoing maintenance. “We’re learning a lot about how a solar array works, but we’re not seeing a cost reduction we would consider compelling,” he said.
Implementing what we learned from the Findlay array, we installed solar 
panels to power monitoring equipment on some of our storage tanks in Florida. This helped us avoid running power lines to the equipment.
MPC will operate the Findlay solar array at least until late 2017, continuing to 
gather data on its performance.
MPC is also exploring the potential for wind power.  In 
February 2016, a wind turbine at our pipeline pump station in Harpster, Ohio, began operation. The turbine – built, owned and operated for us by a third party – generated about 673,000 kilowatt hours through April, which provided us a savings of $4,000. “So far, the wind turbine is generating results that are about what we expected,” said Northrup.
The main driver behind the turbine is its potential to save the company money. 
In the area where the pump station is located, we project our electricity costs are likely to increase over the next several years. Our agreement with the company that built the turbine gives us a slight reduction in power rates each year for the term of our agreement with them.
A second reason for the project is to gain knowledge. “The wind turbine 
company will share all project and operating information with us,” said Northrup. “This gives us the opportunity to learn about how wind technology might be useful at some of our other locations.”
MPC’s 6,000-panel solar array at the Findlay, 
Ohio, Water Pollution Control Center allows us to study the array’s performance while donating the electricity to the city.31     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    32  
By January 2019, U.S. petroleum refiners will have 
to be in compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Refinery Sector Rule. But throughout its seven-refinery system, MPC is already substantially in compliance. “We are well ahead of the rule, primarily because we worked with the EPA to help establish the science behind several aspects of the rule,” said MPC Refining Environmental Manager Ruth Cade.
One of the primary drivers behind our aggressive 
approach to compliance is our collaborative research efforts on flare performance as part of an enforcement action that began in 2008. When notified of the EPA’s concerns regarding flare combustion efficiency, we took action. We conducted the first-ever performance tests of operating flares at our Texas City and Detroit refineries, and used the knowledge gained to establish operating parameters for all of the 22 flares throughout our refining system at the time. Our compliance strategy was formalized in a “consent decree,” which was finalized in 2012. 
Our research helped provide the basis for the new 
flare standards in the EPA’s Refinery Sector Rule. In essence, the rule protects public health and the environment by determining the best processes and technologies to control emissions. The EPA determines what technologies are available to refiners, and also looks at pollutant thresholds that could impact public health. Based on the two factors, the EPA establishes rules for the industry.
“For most of the new rule’s standards, we are 
substantially in compliance today,” said Cade.  “Rather than looking at environmental compliance as a drain on productivity, our philosophy is that being a safe, compliant operator is fundamental to our success as a company. We like to lead in areas of environmental stewardship because we see real business value. It’s simply not acceptable to cut corners, and in fact, we consistently go above and beyond what’s required of us.”
There are five primary areas that refiners will ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE ARE YEARS AHEAD  
OF EPA REGULATIONS ON  
THE REFINING INDUSTRY
There are five primary areas that 
refiners will be required to address under the EPA’s new Refinery Sector Rule. MPC’s refineries are currently either in compliance, or well ahead of the deadline for compliance, in all of these areas:
1. Flare emissions: Flares are used 
by refiners as safety features. If there is any unit upset at a refinery, excess materials can be routed to the flare to be burned, rather than released into the air. This reduces toxicity. The new rule sets operating limits designed to ensure efficient flare combustion.
2. Coker emissions: At refineries 
that produce petroleum coke (a coal-like solid fuel), the large coke drums must  be depressurized before they are  emptied. The new rule requires the  drums’ internal pressures to be at a low level, to avoid excess emissions when they’re depressurized.
3. Atmospheric relief valves: 
Many refineries have valves that allow process materials to vent into the atmosphere if the pressure gets too high. This is a safety feature to avoid a more serious incident. The new rule requires three levels of safeguards for these valves before they vent to the atmosphere, in order to reduce the potential occurrence  of these events. 
4. Ambient fenceline monitors: 
Refiners will have to place portable carbon tubes that detect benzene levels around their facilities. Benzene is toxic in high concentrations.
5. Standards for startup and 
shutdown: In the past, normal operating standards during startup and shutdown  of refining operations were exempt and  not regulated, because these phases  only occur on an infrequent basis. The  new rule establishes standards for these  special circumstances.
MPC’s refinery in Canton, Ohio
33     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    34  
  HABITAT SITE:  Washington Park,  
  Robinson, Illinois  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 31
HABITAT SITE:  Kuttawa Asphalt Terminal,  
  Kuttawa, Kentucky  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 25
HABITAT SITE:  Mt. Vernon Asphalt Terminal,  
   Mt. Vernon, Indiana  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 10
HABITAT SITE:  St. Elmo Asphalt Terminal,  
  St. Elmo, Illinois  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 9
HABITAT SITE:  Marathon Pipe Line Heath   
  Station, Heath, Ohio  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 8.35
HABITAT SITE: Huntington Light Products  
  Terminal, Huntington, Indiana  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 8HABITAT SITE: Cane Run Asphalt Terminal,   
  Louisville, Kentucky  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 7
HABITAT SITE:  Big Spring, Kentucky  
This site is unique in that the land is not owned 
by MPC, although MPC has a right of way for an 
underground pipeline through the property. Part of 
the property, including the right of way, is managed for wildlife habitat cooperatively between MPC and 
the landowner.
 
 Acres managed for wildlife: 4
HABITAT SITE:  Mt. Vernon Light Products   
  Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Indiana  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 4
HABITAT SITE: Nashville Asphalt Terminal,  
  Nashville, Tennessee  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 3.5HABITAT SITE: Hutsonville School Nature  
  Habitat, Hutsonville, Illinois  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 3
HABITAT SITE: North Bend Asphalt Terminal,  
  North Bend, Ohio  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 1
HABITAT SITE: Findlay Office Complex,  
  Findlay, Ohio  
 Acres managed for wildlife: <1
HABITAT SITE:  Owensboro Station,  
  Owensboro, Kentucky  
 Acres managed for wildlife: <1  ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE MAINTAIN 1,284 ACRES OF 
CERTIFIED WILDLIFE HABITATS
MPC owns and maintains 20 wildlife habitats certified by the Wildlife Habitat 
Council (WHC), with a total of 1,284 acres of land. The WHC promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management on corporate lands through partnerships and education. MPC participates in habitat certification as part of its long-time commitment to environmental stewardship.
HABITAT SITE: Garyville, Louisiana,  
  refinery property  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 450  
HABITAT SITE: Savage Branch Wildlife   
   Reserve, Catlettsburg, Kentucky  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 360
HABITAT SITE: Martinsville Tank Farm,   
   Martinsville, Illinois  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 188
HABITAT SITE: Palestine Neil Pit, Palestine, Illinois  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 80
HABITAT SITE: Lincoln Trail College and  
  Palestine High School Nature  
  Habitat, Robinson, Illinois  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 50
HABITAT SITE: Speedway Office Complex,  
  Enon, Ohio  
 Acres managed for wildlife: 42 35     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016
 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    36  
OUR PEOPLE
MPC employees in Speedway, Indiana, celebrate 
achieving the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s designation as a Star Worksite under the Voluntary Protection Program.37     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016
 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    38 OUR PEOPLE
FORBES  RANKED US 
AMERICA’S BEST EMPLOYER; 
WE CREDIT OUR EMPLOYEES 
AND OUR VALUES
If you ask MPC senior vice president of Human Resources and 
Administrative Services Rod Nichols for the formula that got us to the top of the 
Forbes  list, he’ll tell you it’s simple: define your 
company values, articulate clearly what they mean, and consistently adhere to them.
Easier said than done.
“A company’s culture is the product of all it has done, and all it does 
on a daily basis,” said Nichols. “We’ve been in business since 1887, and historically we have had a high level of loyalty and low employee turnover. It’s extremely difficult for other companies to match that kind of history and the strong values and culture it creates.”
But if other employers are looking for hints, Nichols is happy to 
share one of MPC’s defining characteristics: ”Our values are a 
product of our culture, and they begin and end with our employees,” 
he said. “We put them into words and articulate them all the time.”
Even if an employee can’t rattle off MPC’s five core values – health 
and safety, environmental stewardship, corporate citizenship, diversity and inclusion, and integrity – they nonetheless live them every day. “We don’t hang a list of our five values in offices or at  our operating sites, but we reinforce them in hundreds of ways,” said Nichols.
As just one example, he cites our value of integrity. “If an employee 
questions the integrity of a fellow employee’s actions, it’s not just 
because he or she knows integrity is one of our values,” Nichols 
said. “It’s because we provide tools and processes to follow up – 
anonymous reporting and protection from retaliation, for example. 
So our values – and the culture they have built – are already there; 
we just make sure we support them.”
Some of MPC’s support for our values and culture comes through 
specific programs, like Diversity and Inclusion or Business Integrity and Compliance. But by and large, our culture comes from our people. “Our employees place enormous value on safety, environmental stewardship, and on their role as good, honest citizens,” Nichols concluded. “So they want MPC to reflect that. The company’s role in most cases is not to steer people toward action, but to find ways to facilitate what they want to do anyway.”
In a short video, employees of MPC and its subsidiaries shared 
their thoughts on what factors helped us achieve the No.1 ranking on Forbes’ “America’s Best Large Employers” list. You can find the video by searching “Marathon Petroleum: America’s Best Employer” on http://www.YouTube.com39     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    40  
OUR PEOPLE
OFFERING BENEFITS TO 
SAME-SEX SPOUSES IS 
NOTHING NEW TO US
Same-sex marriage is a hot-button social issue that can affect people 
deeply. It can resonate on personal, spiritual and political levels, which makes it an issue that can be controversial – and even divisive.
But MPC is a corporation, charged with doing its critical work as 
effectively, safely and efficiently as possible. This means our policies 
look at the matter with a practical eye: we want to attract the best employees for every position in our company. If we lose an excellent 
employee, or fail to attract one, then our performance could suffer.
Our pay, benefits and policies reflect this; we consider our employees 
our most valuable asset, and that’s how we treat them. For years, we have offered health benefits to employees’ spouses and domestic partners, regardless of their gender. So when the U.S. Supreme Court’s Obergefell v. Hodges ruling in 2015 made same-sex marriage legal across the nation, the biggest change to our benefits was that same-sex spouses were recognized under our retirement plan.
“Before the Obergefell ruling, if an employee was legally married in 
a state that allowed same-sex marriages, then his or her spouse would have been eligible for our company-sponsored health, vision, dental and other insurance benefits,” said Rod Nichols, MPC’s senior vice president of Human Resources and Administrative Services. “We strive to deliver a benefits package that is socially and fiscally responsible; consideration of our diverse population is essential in designing benefits that are attractive.”
But MPC’s practical approach doesn’t stop at mere policy or benefits. 
After all, there are many for whom same-sex relationships – including marriage – violate deeply held personal beliefs. Our Diversity and Inclusion organization provides workshops, panel discussions with  gay employees, and discussion sessions companywide to address  the issue.
“Our emphasis is always very practical,” said Jaime De La Cruz,  
MPC’s manager of Diversity, Inclusion and Talent Management. “A diverse array of thinking, life experience, socio-economic origin and demographics makes us a much stronger, smarter company. This doesn’t always mean agreement, endorsement or friendship, but it does mean professionalism and valuing your fellow employees.”
As a corporation, MPC’s policies are designed 
to be practical: we want to attract the best employees for every position. Above, MPC’s headquarters in Findlay, Ohio, shows our employee pride.41     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    42  
MPC Chairman of the Board Thomas Usher 
addresses shareholders at the 2016 Annual Shareholders Meeting. This was Usher’s last meeting before retiring.GOVERNANCE 
& INTEGRITY43     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    44  
GOVERNANCE & INTEGRITY
OUR COMPANY IS LED  
BY DIRECTORS WHO 
ADHERE TO SOUND 
GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES
MPC’s management team – officers of the company who run it on a day-to-day 
basis – are accountable to our board of directors. Our directors oversee the company’s affairs, including its strategic direction, with long-term shareholder value foremost in their considerations.
Our owners are MPC’s shareholders – pension funds, investment funds and 
individual investors. The makeup of our board of directors is designed to ensure that our shareholders’ interests are served. If you own MPC stock, our directors chart the company’s strategic direction on your behalf.
There are several factors that help to ensure our board of directors’ interests are 
aligned with those of our owners:
 Independence: Eight of our board’s 10 members are independent. In other 
words, they have no executive role in the day-to-day operation of the company and they meet independence requirements outlined in our proxy statement (information on the proxy statement is at the end of this article). These requirements are to ensure that the board exercises independent judgment.
	   In addition, our independent directors regularly meet in closed sessions 
without MPC’s chief executive officer (who is also chairman of the board, and is not an independent director).
 Experience: Eight of our board’s 10 members are current or former chief 
executive officers. This brings an enormous amount of expertise from a variety of industries and sectors of society.
 Engagement: Our directors’ attendance averaged 98 percent of all board and 
committee meetings in 2015.
 Alignment: To help ensure our board of directors keep in mind our owners’ 
interests, we maintain stock ownership guidelines for directors.
For more information about how MPC protects our owners’ interests, please 
look through our annual proxy statement. This easy-to-read publication contains information about our executives’ pay, compensation of our directors, proposals brought by our shareholders, background information about the directors who serve on our board, and much more.
The proxy statement can be found on MPC’s website,  
http://www.marathonpetroleum.com, by clicking on the  “Investor Center” tab, and then clicking on “Proxy Statement.”
MPC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
Gary R. Heminger speaks with shareholders at the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.45     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    46  
GOVERNANCE & INTEGRITY
WE ARE TRANSPARENT 
ABOUT LOBBYING AND 
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
The involvement of corporations in politics is a touchy subject. As a company, we have 
to keep in mind that millions upon millions of people rely on us to produce the fuels and other products they use every day to make their lives better. And they expect us to do it in a safe, clean and affordable manner.
At the same time, lawmakers and regulators are considering, debating, passing and 
enforcing laws and rules that can have a profound effect on our ability to meet the public’s expectations for reliable, affordable fuels.
So the question is: How do we balance these sometimes conflicting factors?The answer is: political engagement. Here are the four primary ways we are involved in 
policy matters:
  Lobbying: We have lobbyists on staff, as well as contracted lobbyists, who work at the federal and state levels. Why? It’s often the case that lawmakers and regulators are not experts in our industry. So we work with them on ways to meet their objectives without compromising our ability to meet energy consumers’ needs.
  Corporate contributions: Where allowed by law, we make contributions to candidates for state and local offices. We focus on candidates who support policies that help us do our important work efficiently and effectively. We don’t care what party they belong to – we consider only their positions on issues important to us.
  Employee contributions: The Marathon Petroleum Corporation Employees Political Action Committee (MPAC) is a voluntary organization that some employees are eligible to join. If they choose to join, they make contributions to MPAC, which then decides (through a board of directors) which political candidates should receive funding. About 53 percent of eligible employees are members of MPAC.
  Trade association memberships: We belong to trade associations that represent our industry. These associations, like the American Petroleum Institute or the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, allow us to join other companies in our industry as we speak out on issues that affect us all.
In order to be transparent about our involvement, we disclose our lobbying, political contributions and high-cost trade association memberships on our website,  http://www.marathonpetroleum.com. On our “Political Engagement and Disclosure” pages, found under the “Corporate Citizenship” tab, we provide links to these disclosures so that interested parties can access this important information.  Below is the information we provide access to:
 Our quarterly federal lobbying disclosure reports for the past five years
 Corporate contributions to political candidates, including names, dates and amounts
 MPAC contributions to political candidates, including names, dates and amounts
  Maps of the states where we have filed lobbyist disclosures and political contributions
  A list of the trade associations to which we paid annual dues of more than $50,000 in 2014 and 2015
 A detailed discussion of the philosophy and purpose of our political engagementJohn Evans is one of MPC’s Government Affairs managers. 
Pictured here in the New Jersey Statehouse, John works with lawmakers, regulators and others in six states in the Northeast.47     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    48  
A Marathon station 
in Tampa, FloridaECONOMIC 
IMPACT49     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    50  
ECONOMIC IMPACT
CONSIDER WHAT PETROLEUM 
FUELS MAKE POSSIBLE IN YOUR LIFE
It’s fashionable in some circles to portray petroleum 
fuels as a villain. With any energy source, there are trade-offs, and petroleum fuels certainly are no exception. At the same time, it’s critical that we consider the benefits of any energy source as well  (see sidebar at right).
We often hear about the trade-offs involved in 
petroleum fuels, but seldom do we hear about those for other energy sources. For wind and solar power, we have to consider the mining operations required to procure some of their most basic components; the amount of land they require to generate their power; the fact that they’re not consistently available; and the killing of wildlife caused by wind turbines and some solar technologies. For biofuels, we must consider how much land they require to grow; the energy that goes into planting, fertilizing and harvesting them; the lesser energy content of some biofuels; and the extent to which biofuel crops displace food crops.
Trade-offs like these have to be carefully weighed 
against benefits. In this report, you will find (on  Pages 61 through 68) environmental, safety and  other measurements that are important to our business. We want you to know about how we handle the trade-offs society is accepting in exchange for the enormous, life-enhancing, life-saving benefits of petroleum fuels.
We are constantly working to reduce our emissions, 
increase our efficiency and enhance overall well-being. Our company – indeed, our industry – produces petroleum fuels more efficiently and cleanly than ever before, reducing the trade-offs we have to accept as our energy-rich future unfolds.Which of these would you 
give up?
There are no energy sources capable of 
replacing petroleum fuels in our society; not today, and not in the foreseeable future. Below are just a few examples of daily activities and benefits that would be impossible without the fuels we manufacture.
   Drive reasonably priced vehicles that can take 
you, your family and your belongings hundreds of miles on a single fueling.
 
  Travel to faraway places by plane, train  or boat.
 
  Find any food, clothing or other goods you want. They will be on the shelves courtesy of petroleum fuels that power the ships, trains and trucks that deliver them.
 
  Save lives with ambulances, fire trucks and law enforcement vehicles that are kept on the road with diesel and gasoline.
 
  Build our nation, communities and neighborhoods. Petroleum fuels power the bulldozers, cranes, backhoes, cement trucks and generators that make construction possible.
 
  Feed the world by manufacturing the fertilizers that make modern agriculture possible, as well as powering the tillers, combines and other equipment that plant, tend and harvest our crops.
 
  Live full, independent lives as we take our kids to sports practices, games, music lessons and school events; visit the doctor’s office; attend church; go to the supermarket, department store or mall; go for a drive in the country; run the air conditioning if it’s hot; move your daughter into her dorm at college; attend your family reunion two states away… and so much more we can take for granted.
Transport trucks load fuel and asphalt at MPC’s terminal 
in Tampa, Florida, serving hundreds of thousands of consumers in the region.51     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    52  
ECONOMIC IMPACT
WE RECOGNIZE ABILITY AND  
DRIVE, AND WE REWARD IT  
WITH CAREER ADVANCEMENT
At MPC, our ranks are full of employees who have worked their way up from  
entry-level positions to roles of great responsibility. Our retail subsidiary, Speedway LLC, is a great example of how we reward merit.
“Because we are a retail organization, we have more than 33,000 employees 
interacting with millions of customers each day,” said Phil Hall, Speedway’s vice president of Human Resources and Training. “That’s an enormous number of opportunities for our people to show their drive and dedication, and we’re constantly on the lookout for that kind of enthusiasm and ability.”
Speedway’s vast talent pool has yielded results. Many Speedway non-store and 
management positions, including at its headquarters in Enon, Ohio, are filled by people who have started out in one of Speedway’s 2,770 stores and taken their careers in directions that made sense for them.
Geritha Courts, for example, started with Speedway in 2000 as a part-time 
customer service representative to help her parents pay for her wedding. Having worked with managers of various styles and ability, Courts decided she wanted to put the best of what she had seen into practice. Speedway managers saw her talent and gave her the opportunity. “And after I decided to stay on, I found that I really loved training and building people up so they could achieve the next level of management,” she said. “That’s what really inspired me – helping people achieve their potential with the company.”
Courts rose to the level of senior general manager, running five successful stores 
over six years. This year, she began a new career trajectory as a recruiter for Speedway. “Over time, I decided I wanted to explore new options and return to school,” she said. “This position will allow that to happen.”
Gene Freeman started as a store manager in 1989 and rose through the ranks 
as a district manager, pricing coordinator, training coordinator and other positions at over a dozen locations. Freeman is currently the company’s manager of Training and Communications. “If you would have told me in 1989, when I was a store manager, that today I would be in this position with the second-largest company-owned and -operated convenience store chain in the nation, I would have shaken my head in disbelief,” said Freeman. “This has been an amazing journey.”
Like Freeman, Heidi Lewis started as a store manager in 1989, rose through the 
ranks, worked at more than a dozen locations, and now is head of the company’s Light Products Pricing and Fuel Optimization organization.“There are so many stories like this throughout Speedway,” says Hall.
There’s Michael Earegood, who started as a district manager trainee, and now 
is a maintenance manager for more than 1,200 stores. There’s Diana Anderson, who started as a store manager and earned her degree while working her way up to her current position as a division human resources manager. “A comprehensive list would be very, very long,” Hall said. “We are proud of the opportunities we provide, and we’re so fortunate to have such talented employees who make their careers with us.”
Speedway Recruiter Geritha Courts started her career as a 
part-time customer service representative. Her talent and drive opened up a variety of options.
53     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    54  
ADVOCACY
The Washington Monument in 
Washington, D.C.55     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    56  
ADVOCACY
WHEN WE ADVOCATE 
FOR OUR INDUSTRY, WE 
ADVOCATE FOR THOSE WHO 
RELY ON OUR PRODUCTS
Since we produce fuels and other products that make modern life 
possible, the stakes are high in our business. Therefore, we work with lawmakers and regulators at the federal, state and local levels to keep them apprised of the impact laws and regulations have on our industry. Some of these laws and regulations – whether current or proposed – can have profound effects on our ability to effectively meet the needs of the millions of people who rely on our products every day. For this reason, we sometimes take positions on existing or proposed laws or regulations.
The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): The 2007 Energy 
Independence and Security Act requires refiners and others to blend specific volumes of biofuels – like ethanol and biodiesel – into the nation’s fuel supply. The major problem with the law is that we are required, regardless of fuel demand, to blend increasing amounts of biofuels into petroleum fuels. As a consequence of decreasing fuel demand over the past 10 years, our industry has been required to force an increased percentage of ethanol into the gasoline supply in order to meet the requirements of the RFS. In 2016, the ethanol requirement imposed by the statute now exceeds 10 percent of projected gasoline demand for the first time ever. This makes compliance difficult and increasingly problematic, as most vehicles on the road today cannot safely accommodate fuel with higher than a 10 percent blend of ethanol. 
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is required by law to 
set the annual biofuel volume mandate by Nov. 30 of the preceding 
year; however, since 2009, the EPA has only met this deadline once. 
These delays inject a significant amount of uncertainty into our 
business decisions, because we don’t know how much biofuel we will 
be required to blend during the course of the year. For example, the 
EPA didn’t finalize the 2014 and 2015 biofuel requirements until 
November 2015.
MPC continues to advocate for repeal of the RFS. Its provisions are 
unworkable, given the ratio between ethanol blending required by the law and gasoline demand. This is compounded by lack of timely administration of the program.
(continued on Page 57)
Patricia Richards, center, leads MPC’s Federal 
Government Affairs in Washington, D.C. With Richards are, left to right: Jake Menefee, Guy Beeman, Michael Birsic and Dwight Williams. Not pictured: Stephen Higley57     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    58  
Methane Rules: The shale revolution has changed the American 
energy landscape. The United States stands to realize tremendous 
benefits from the development of new domestic natural gas and oil resources in many parts of the country. Not only do these resources represent abundant, reliable and affordable homegrown energy supplies for American families and consumers, they hold the promise of a strong foundation for a rebirth in American manufacturing.
Unfortunately, the EPA is putting that resource development at 
risk with a series of new mandates that will impose significant 
additional burdens on American oil and natural gas producers, and 
the midstream companies that process and move these resources. 
Recently finalized regulations that include more stringent requirements 
for new and modified oil and gas development infrastructure will cost hundreds of millions of dollars by EPA’s own estimate, and may end up costing more – while providing dubious environmental benefits, at best. But of even greater concern are the regulations that EPA is now in the process of developing for already-existing oil and natural gas operations – regulations that threaten to discourage the development of resources and are expected to increasingly negatively affect the midstream sector.
Through improvements in equipment and infrastructure and other 
voluntary actions, the domestic natural gas industry has already 
significantly reduced emissions from its operations, and it will continue 
to do so. MPC supports the continued responsible development of 
our domestic energy resources, but we oppose heavy-handed and 
unwarranted EPA regulations that will only serve to stifle development  
and hinder economic growth. 
Ozone NAAQS Implementation Harmonization: The EPA 
delayed work on the 2008 National Ambient Air Quality Standard 
(NAAQS) for ozone for two years while it pursued, and then abandoned, a reconsideration of that standard. These administrative activities pushed the EPA so far behind schedule that it was not able to provide states with the guidance necessary to implement the 2008 ozone standard until partway through 2015.
Then, rather than let states finish work on the delayed 2008 ozone 
standard, the EPA imposed a new, tighter ozone standard in 2015. 
States will now face conflicting implementation requirements on competing timelines. States and businesses are now facing significant new costs and burdens to achieve a new, tighter standard that the  
EPA admits will be achieved by 2025 even without this new tighter 
standard. This would happen as a consequence of full implementation 
of the 2008 standard and numerous other regulations that will be 
coming into effect over the next 10 years.
MPC is advocating for “implementation harmonization” of the recent 
tighter ozone NAAQS standard with both the 2008 ozone standard and a variety of other regulations. This will in large part bring the country into compliance with the emissions goals of the 2015 tighter standard, but without all the costs and unnecessary duplication involved in imposing a new set of requirements.ADVOCACY
The U.S. Capitol Building in 
Washington, D.C.59     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    60  
METRICS
MPC’s biorefining facility in 
Cincinnati, Ohio61     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    62  
Health and safety are 
important to our  
success as a company; 
 
if our employees and 
contractors are not safe, then other measures 
of success lose their 
meaning. We track the metrics reported in this section as a matter of accountability to our employees and contractors 
and to the communities in 
which we live. We want you to know how we’re doing.FATALITIESTIER 1 PROCESS SAFETY 
EVENTS (PSEs)*MPC SAFETY*
SPEEDWAY SAFETY*  05101520
2015 2014 2013 2012 201112
3
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 201318
1618
* These PSEs do not include Speedway.0.000.100.200.300.400.50
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
MPC OSHA Recordable Incident Rate
MPC Days Away Rate0.07
0.030.410.45
0.030.24
0.060.41
0.030.32
0.000.501.001.502.002.503.00
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Speedway OSHA Recordable Incident Rate
Speedway Days Away Rate2.072.96
1.141.782.69
1.682.71
1.612.59
1.69*Includes contractors; excludes Speedway
*Excludes contractorsMPC (excluding Speedway)
Speedway (excluding contractors)0 0 0 0012345
2015 2014 2013 2012 201100.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8
2015 2014 2013 20120.550.690.72
0.38MPC SAFETY PERFORMANCE 
INDEX (MSPI)*
* The MSPI is a safety metric similar to the OSHA 
Recordable Incident Rate and Days Away Rate metrics reported in this section, but is weighted for severity. 2012 was the first year that the MSPI was used as one of the criteria to determine a portion of employee compensation.
We work to continually reduce process safety 
events as our operations expand.
As MPC grows, we work to ensure every aspect of our business performs to our high safety standards and continually improves. Our target remains continual improvement in health and safety.The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate represents the number of incidents per 200,000 hours of work. The Days Away Rate represents injuries that caused at 
least one missed day of work, also per 200,000 hours 
of work.We are 
uncompromising 
in our approach to 
health and safety, 
and to our vision: 
that every day is 
accident free, and 
every employee and contractor at 
our facilities goes 
home injury free. 
Health and safety 
are therefore 
built into our daily 
work, whether it’s in office buildings, 
at refineries and 
terminals, on 
marine vessels or 
in vehicles. 
For more  
information about  
 any of the terms  
on this page, 
please see  
the Glossary  
on Page 69.The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate represents the 
number of incidents per 200,000 hours of work. The Days 
Away Rate represents injuries that caused at least one 
missed day of work, also per 200,000 hours of work.Metrics
HEALTH & SAFETY63     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    64  050100150200250300
2015 2014 2013 2012 201180
66 64281
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 2013175TIER 2 DESIGNATED  
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs)*ENERGY USE
Trillion Btu
050100150200250300350400450
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011225 226349358
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 2013362
0100200300400500600
Re/f_ining throughput500800
700
506 508671 675706
050100150200250300350400
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Non-hazardous, non-recycled waste
Waste recycled
Hazardous, non-recycled waste379
296
28282
201
6317
191
9274261
13
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, 
acquired Feb. 1, 2013311
226
15
}WASTE GENERATION*
Thousand tonsOIL SPILLS
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Volume of spills - barrels
Number of spills020406080100120
5698
40
1,38011,172
18741
2,44396
1,142
0102030405060
2015 2014 2013 2012 20114443
2760
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 201350TIER 3 AND TIER 4 DESIGNATED  
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs)*
* DEIs include three categories of environmental 
incidents: releases to the environment (air, land 
or water), environmental permit exceedances 
and agency enforcement actions. These include both MPC and Speedway. Tier 3 and 4 DEIs are the most severe types of DEIs.* DEIs include three categories of environmental 
incidents: releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. These include both 
MPC and Speedway.GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
Million tonnes CO2eCRITERIA AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS
Thousand tons
 (a)  Direct emissions are those associated with the combustion 
of hydrocarbons, venting sources and fugitive sources within MPC-operated facilities.
(b)  Indirect emissions are primarily those associated with the use of purchased electricity and steam at MPC facilities.Direct emissions(a)
Indirect emissions(b)17.3
6.2
4.89.9 9.8
05101520
2015 2014 2013 2012 20115.9
4.85.9
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, 
acquired Feb. 1, 2013}Total re/f_inery throughputs (million barrels per year)200300400500600700
17.3
Non-hazardous, non-recycled waste9.917.6800 25
100
0 051015202530
2015 2014 2013 2012 201124
20
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 2013200300400500600800
25 26
Total re/f_inery throughputs (million barrels per year)19700The Galveston Bay refinery, which we acquired Feb. 1, 2013,  
used 119 trillion Btu in 2014. Included in this total is a natural 
gas co-generation plant that provides the refinery with all of its 
electricity and steam needs. Surplus electricity is sold into the 
electrical grid for the region.
Tier 2 DEIs are less severe than Tier 3 and 4 DEIs. We report them here because we consider them a leading indicator that helps us to identify potential problems before they occur.TOXIC RELEASE INVENTORY (TRI)
Million pounds
* 2015 data is not available, due to the timing of 
required regulatory reporting.
**Galveston Bay refinery, acquired Feb. 1, 2013012345678
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011NA*3.02
2.366.22
Toxic Release Inventory
GBR** Toxic Release Inventory
Recycling, Recovery, Treatment6.85
Because the EPA periodically changes the substances that must be reported in the Toxic 
Release Inventory, it is difficult to compare one year to the next in an entirely consistent 
fashion. Other factors affecting the TRI include MPC’s crude oil throughput, production volumes, 
continuing expansions and revised reporting methodologies. TRI shown in this chart differs slightly from those reported in this publication in prior years due to regulatory reporting periods.
 Six air pollutants are designated as criteria pollutants by the 
Clean Air Act. They include: particulate matter (PM), ground-
level ozone, carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO
2), 
nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and lead. Volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) are a precursor to ground-level ozone, and as such 
are regulated by the EPA. MPC operations typically emit and 
report on SO2, NO2, VOCs, CO and PM. Refining throughputs 
are included to show the relative decline in our companywide 
emissions intensity.* Waste numbers do not include general waste from 
retail locations.
The GHG emissions shown in this chart differ slightly from those reported in this publication 
in prior years due to recalculations we have done to make the figures more accurate. These 
are the figures we have reported to the EPA. Refining throughputs are included to show the 
relative decline in our companywide emissions intensity.Metrics
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP
For more  
information about  
 any of the terms  
on this page, 
please see  
the Glossary  
on Page 69.For the purposes of this metric, oil spills include 
crude oil and refined products on land or water, 
and we report spills here that are, in some cases, 
as small as a few drops.65     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    66  
05101520253035
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Percent minorities (excluding Speedway)
Percent minorities (Speedway)8.1 8.218.517.7
12.332.7
12.324.2
11.728.5
01020304050607080
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Percent women (excluding Speedway)
Percent women (Speedway)21.5 21.164.7 63.661.3
19.964.8
19.961.2
19.5MINORITIES IN OUR WORKFORCE  
WOMEN IN OUR WORKFORCE 
0100200300400500600700800
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011270282336367698
The significant increase in 2015 is primarily due to MPC’s acquisition 
of approximately 1,200 additional retail locations, which caused a large 
increase in the number of employees. We also use ongoing awareness 
efforts to encourage employees to report ethics or compliance concerns.
These numbers include allegations and inquiries entered into MPC’s 
Business Compliance and Integrity case management system. Because prior to the spinoff of MPC on June 30, 2011, several functions were 
shared by Marathon Oil Corporation’s upstream and downstream 
segments, numbers for 2011 are approximate to account for the complexities associated with clearly designating some employees 
as belonging to the downstream segment (which became MPC after 
the spinoff in mid-2011) or the upstream/corporate segment (which remained Marathon Oil Corporation).BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND 
COMPLIANCE CASES  2012: 90 percent
2013: 92 percent2014: 92 percent2015: 83 percent
At year-end 2015, 10 of MPC’s 12 directors were independent, as 
defined by our Corporate Governance Principles. Two directors retired 
in April 2016, and the board now consists of 10 directors, eight of 
whom are independent.MPC’s employees make 
it a great company. 
We are committed 
to providing a work environment that nurtures – and rewards 
– the innovation and 
dedication they bring to their jobs every day. In addition to 
providing competitive 
pay and benefits, we strive for a workplace 
characterized by a deep 
appreciation for diversity and inclusion. Toward our goal of creating 
an environment where 
all employees can maximize their talents and contributions, 
we actively seek 
to recruit the best candidates from diverse 
backgrounds to ensure 
that we continue to reap the benefits of inclusion.MPC adheres to a corporate governance 
framework that promotes 
accountability and provides transparency to investors, employees and our 
neighbors. Our board of 
directors is guided by our Corporate Governance Principles and committee 
charters, which we post on 
our website and send to anyone who is interested. 
Likewise, MPC employees 
and officers are required to adhere to the company’s Code of Business Conduct.
MPC’s Business Integrity 
and Compliance office 
implements the Code of Business Conduct through various programs, as 
well as administering an 
Integrity Helpline. This gives employees, business partners and others 
an anonymous means 
of reporting suspected violations of the Code.83% 92% 92%INDEPENDENT  
BOARD MEMBERSMetrics
OUR PEOPLEMetrics
GOVERNANCE & INTEGRITY
For more  
information about  
 any of the terms  
on this page, 
please see  
the Glossary  
on Page 69.For more  
information about  
any of the terms  
on this page, 
please see  
the Glossary  
on Page 69.90%67     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016
 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016   68  MPC provides 
tremendous value 
to society by 
manufacturing, transporting and marketing 
fuels and other 
products. In doing so, we have also generated significant 
economic value 
for shareholders, employees, 
governments and the 
communities where we do business. On this page, you will 
find metrics that 
show the various ways we have contributed to 
 
the economy.05101520
2015 2014 2013 2012 20111.46 1.322.79approximately 1
4.7416.3CAPITAL EXPENDITURES*
Billions of Dollars
0.00.51.01.52.0
2015 2014 2013 2012 20111.18 1.111.72
1.482.0PAYROLL*
Billions of Dollars
020406080100
2015 2014 2013 2012 201178.676.398.499.6
81.0TOTAL EXPENDITURES*
Billions of Dollars
* Federal Wage Base reported on employees’  W-2 for 
the years indicated.* Includes capital expenditures, investments, payroll and other expenditures.DIVIDENDS PAID
Millions of Dollars
0100200300400500600700800
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011258329308328684TARGETED PROCUREMENT SPENDING*
Millions of Dollars
0.00.51.01.52.0
2015 2014 2013 2012 20111.85
1.33 1.28
1.111.51INCOME TAX EXPENSES*
Billions of Dollars  
* Includes discretionary and non-discretionary spending 
with minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs), as well as veteran-owned and disabled veteran-owned businesses, as certified by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Targeted Procurement Spending is a subset of, and not in addition to, the total expenditures (also reported in this section).*Includes federal, state, local and foreign.
012345678
2015 2014 2013 2012 20115.7
5.16.7
6.37.7CONSUMER EXCISE TAXES REMITTED*
Billions of Dollars  
* MPC is required by law to collect state and federal excise 
taxes on fuels we sell to consumers, and remit these taxes to the relevant government entities. In April 2016, state and federal excise taxes averaged about $0.48 per gallon of gasoline, according to the American Petroleum Institute.In 2012, MPC began including our spending with U.S. 
Small Business Administration-certified veteran-owned 
and disabled veteran-owned businesses.
COMPANY OWNERSHIP
MPC is owned by thousands of shareholders, including a broad range of investors. MPC shareholders are 
individuals as well as large and small institutions such as mutual funds, pension funds, banks, insurance companies, endowment funds and others. Directors and executive officers of MPC, on a combined basis, 
own approximately 1 percent of MPC stock.0100200300400500600700800
2015 2014 2013 2012407524
484613
*Includes investments.Metrics
ECONOMIC IMPACT
For more  
information about  
 any of the terms  
on this page, 
please see  
the Glossary  
on Page 69.69     CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016 CITIZENSHIP REPORT   |  2016    70  
bbl.: Barrel (42 U.S. gallons)
bpcd:   Barrels per calendar day. This is an average of how much crude oil or other feedstock a plant processes over a period of time, divided by the number of 
days in that period.
bpd:  Barrels per day
Btu:   British thermal unit. A measure of heat energy often used to quantify the energy in different types of fuel. For example, gasoline has 124,300 Btu per gallon, and ethanol has 84,500 Btu per gallon.
CO2e:  Carbon dioxide equivalent. Because various greenhouse gases have heat-trapping effects that are stronger or weaker than carbon dioxide (CO2), they 
are often expressed as the equivalent amount of CO2 to provide a consistent measure.
DAR:  Days Away Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of full days of work missed by employees due to injuries, per 200,000 work hours.
DEI*:   Designated Environmental Incident. A metric adopted by MPC to capture several categories simultaneously. It includes releases to the environment (including to air, land or water), permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. MPC ranks DEIs in terms of their severity, with Tier 4 being the most severe, and Tier 1 being the least. Below are partial descriptions of the DEI Tiers:
 Tier 4
   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 1,000 bbl.
   Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 100 bbl.
    Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 100 times the reportable quantity
 Tier 3  
    Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 100 bbl. but less than 1,000 bbl.
   Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl. 
    Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to an established reportable quantity but less than 100 times the  reportable quantity
 Tier 2 
    Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl.
   Safety system failure or bypass
    Release of oil or other hazardous material into a regulated water body greater than or equal to 1 bbl. but less than 10 bbl.
   Release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 80 percent of a reportable quantity but less than an established reportable quantity
 Tier 1
   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land that is less than 10 bbl. (if less than 1 bbl., release must also be reportable)
Dividend:  A per-share quarterly payment to owners of MPC common stock.
ENERGY STAR®:  An EPA program recognizing energy efficiency. To achieve this status, applicants must perform in the top quartile 
for energy efficiency and have no unresolved environmental compliance actions from state or federal regulators.
EPA:  The U.S. federal government’s Environmental Protection Agency.
GHG:  Greenhouse gases, so named because of their heat-trapping properties. They include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other substances.
HES&S:  MPC’s Health, Environment, Safety & Security organization, which is tasked with planning, executing, monitoring and continually improving  the company’s performance in these critical areas.
MPC:  Marathon Petroleum Corporation
MSPI*:  Marathon Safety Performance Index. A safety indicator similar to the ORIR and the DAR (which are also defined in this glossary), but weighted  for severity.
M/V: Motor vessel. This abbreviation typically precedes the formal name of a marine vessel.
MWBE:  Minority- or woman-owned business enterprise. This refers to organizations certified by a specialized agency as majority-owned by women or minorities. Certifying agencies we work with include the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the U.S. Small Business Administration.
OSHA: T he U.S. federal government’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration.ORIR:   OSHA Recordable Incident Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of injuries of the types that must be reported to OSHA, per 200,000  
work hours.
PSE*:  Process safety event. These are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a material from one of MPC’s processes. Tier 1 PSEs, which we report in 
this publication, are the most serious PSEs. Below are detailed descriptions of the PSE Tiers:
 Tier 1
   Loss of primary containment (LOPC) of a liquid or gas
   Fatality, lost-time injury or community evacuation
   Fires exceeding $25,000 in damages
 Tier 2 
   LOPC of a liquid or gas
   Results in recordable injury
   Fires exceeding $2,500 in damages
 Tier 3 
   Operating outside of system parameters
    Safety system failure or bypass, “not-to-exceed”  
alarm level exceeded
   All other fires resulting from LOPC
 Tier 4
   Overdue recommendations and mechanical inspections
   Management of change not well executed
Responsible Care®:  A program of the American Chemistry Council designed to continually improve performance in the areas of health, safety, environmental protection and more. Companies that choose to participate in Responsible Care undergo audits of their headquarters and facilities to ensure they have a structure and system in place to measure, manage and verify performance.
Tonne: Metric ton. While a ton is 2,000 pounds, a tonne (or metric ton) is 2,205 pounds.
TRI:  Toxic Release Inventory. This includes releases of toxic materials to air, water and land, as well as off-site disposal. The TRI we are required to report to the EPA also includes materials we send off-site for recycling, energy recovery and other forms of further treatment; however, we do not report these latter metrics in this publication.
Tier 1
LOPC Events of
Greater Consequences
Tier 2
LOPC Events of
Lesser Consequences
Tier 3
Challenges to Safety Systems
Tier 4
Operating Discipline & Management System
Performance IndicatorsSeverity
* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC.  As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets 
performance goals related to these metrics.* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC.  As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets 
performance goals related to these metrics.
On the back cover:  The MPC towboat M/V Garyville passes 
MPC’s Catlettsburg, Kentucky, refinery.
Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This publication includes forward-looking statements. You can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” 
“goal,” “intend,” “objective,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “position,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “target,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will” or other similar 
expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. We have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections 
about our industry and our company. We caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. In addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove 
to be inaccurate. While our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory 
 
and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our actual results may differ 
materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. In accordance with “safe harbor” provisions of the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we have included in our attached Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2015, cautionary language identifying important factors,  
though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Copies of MPC’s Form 10-K 
are available on the SEC website, MPC’s website at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com or by contacting MPC’s Investor Relations office.GLOSSARYABOUT MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION
MPC is the nation’s third-largest refiner, with a crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.8 million barrels per calendar 
day in its seven-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,400 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s second-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 2,770 convenience stores in 22 states. MPC owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately 8,400 miles of crude and light product pipelines and 5,000 miles of gas gathering and natural gas liquids (NGL) pipelines. MPC also has ownership interests in 54 gas processing plants,13 NGL fractionation facilities and two condensate stabilization facilities. Through subsidiaries, MPC owns the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master limited partnership. MPC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, NGLs, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company’s distribution network and midstream service businesses in the Midwest, Northeast, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions.539 S. Main St.Findlay, OH 45840
citizenship@marathonpetroleum.com