CITIZENSHIP  
REPORT®Marathon 
Petroleum Corporation
2015   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   5       CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
1 LETTER FROM THE CEO
 A message from President and Chief Executive Officer  
 Gary R. Heminger
3  ABOUT US     
 What we do, and a brief look at how we do it
7 SOCIAL BENEFITS OF CARBON
  How fossil fuels make life safer, healthier and more prosperous
9  MANAGING FOR CONTINUAL 
IMPROVEMENT  
 The management system we use to make sure we are  
always getting better
11 COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY  
 How MPC contributes to stronger communities 
 and a stronger America  
17 HEALTH & SAFETY
 How we protect employees, contractors and communities
23 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
 How we protect the air, land and water we all share
31 OUR PEOPLE
 How we recruit, retain and treat our most valuable asset
39 GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY
 How we promote and maintain an ethical culture
43 ECONOMIC IMPACT
 How we contribute to a vibrant economy
47 ADVOCACY
 Our positions on certain legislative and regulatory issues
49 METRICS
  Charts that show our numbers in a variety of areas
53 GLOSSARY
 Descriptions of acronyms and definitions of termsCITIZENSHIP REPORT
CONTENTS
PG 11
PG 23
PG 31
Employees at an MPC pipeline facility  in Lima, Ohio
On the cover: An employee at MPC’s refinery in Garyville, La.2015   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   2 1 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
Fellow shareholders, friends and neighbors,
Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC) helps make our communities and our 
nation stronger. We’re a manufacturing company that provides well-paying jobs, 
our manufacturing plants are located in the U.S., and the products we make are 
produced with over 80 percent North American crude oil. 
We are actively engaged in improving the communities where we do business, 
and we voluntarily participate in initiatives that take our health, safety, 
environmental, governance and other performances well beyond minimum 
requirements. We advocate on behalf of our industry and the interests of our 
customers, and we’re transparent about our political engagement.
Our commercial success and service to society are inextricably related. Our 
profitability contributes to the prosperity of shareholders across the nation, including retirees and pension funds, among others. 
Fueling opportunity: MPC’s employees work to manufacture, transport and sell 
the fuels and other petroleum products that make life better for tens of millions 
of people in the U.S. and around the world. Our products unlock opportunity for 
people in all walks of life by making transportation and commerce possible on 
a massive scale. Our manufacturing facilities, offices and other work locations 
provide thousands of well-paying jobs, and our extensive network of Speedway 
convenience stores provide employees with opportunities to gain valuable 
skills and long-term career prospects in a successful, technology-oriented retail 
environment.
Helping neighbors: Our company is actively engaged in the communities where 
we do business. We take a grassroots approach to our community involvement 
– one that is driven by our employees who live in and near the communities 
where we work. Every community has unique needs, and nobody knows a 
community better than the people who live there. Our employees volunteer their 
time, their resources and their expertise accordingly, and MPC is proud to support 
their efforts. We match charitable contributions, donate to nonprofits for which 
employees volunteer, and more. Our employees also help to determine how 
MPC’s financial contributions to communities are allocated. The end result is that 
we contribute where, when and how it is most needed.
Protecting people: We take an uncompromising approach to the safety of our 
employees and neighbors. At our facilities – whether it’s refineries, pipelines or 
terminals – employees are empowered to shut down operations if they believe 
there is a potential safety hazard. We constantly work to reduce our incident rate, 
and we won’t stop until every employee and contractor goes home just as safe and healthy at the end of every shift as when they arrived.Protecting the environment: We manufacture the fuels that millions of people rely 
on every day, and we work toward accomplishing this critical work with an ever-
smaller environmental footprint. As an example, at the six refineries we owned 
from 2002 through 2014, we increased gross throughputs by almost 40 percent. 
But during that same period, our greenhouse gas emissions – a measure of energy 
efficiency – increased by only 8 percent. In short: we are doing more with less.
We make enormous contributions to society, and I’m proud to present this Citizenship 
Report to detail some of our important accomplishments and progress.
Sincerely,
Gary R. Heminger
President and Chief Executive OfficerFROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
3   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   4 
community
independence
WHAT WE MANUFACTURE
The core of MPC’s business is manufacturing. We use feedstocks 
– crude oil and other blendstocks – to produce a variety of refined products used by tens of millions of consumers. The products we and other refining companies manufacture are used directly or indirectly by virtually every single person in our nation. The fuels we produce transport children to schools, deliver produce to grocery stores and heat homes. Asphalt paves roads and is the main ingredient in the manufacture of roofing materials. Lesser-known products like cumene or propylene are used to manufacture items that make our lives easier, safer and more convenient, such as plastics, paints and inks, cosmetics and flexible foam. 
Barge DockPipelinesButane CavernTank Farms®Biodiesel FacilityEthanol FacilityPipelines
MPC Owned and OperatedMPC Interest: Operated by MPCMPC Interest: Operated by OthersPipelines Used by MPCLight Product TerminalsMPC Owned and Part-ownedThird PartyAsphalt/Heavy Oil TerminalsMPC Owned Third PartyWater Supplied TerminalsCoastalInlandMPC RefineriesRefining, 
Marketing and Transportation NetworkABOUT US
MPC is the nation’s fourth-largest refiner, 
with a crude oil refining capacity of 
approximately 1.7 million barrels per 
calendar day in its seven-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,500 independently 
owned retail outlets across 19 states. 
In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s second-largest convenience 
store chain, with approximately 2,750 
convenience stores in 22 states.
MPC optimizes operations through an 
extensive logistics system, including 
more than 200 owned and third-party 
terminals, an inland waterway system of 
towboats and owned or leased barges, 142 transport trucks, and more than 2,200 owned or leased railcars. We also 
own, lease or have ownership interests 
in approximately 8,300 miles of pipeline. Through subsidiaries, we own the general partner of MPLX LP, a midstream master 
limited partnership. TOP 10 REFINED PRODUCTS  
MPC MANUFACTURED IN 2014  
BASED ON VOLUME
   Product: Gasoline  
Used for: Transportation fuel
   Product: Diesel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
   Product: Jet fuel 
Used for: Transportation fuel
    Product: Refinery fuel 
Used for:  Non-salable hydrocarbon materials used  
to fuel refinery units
    Product: Asphalt 
Used for:  Road paving and the manufacture of  roofing shingles
 
   Product: Petroleum coke  
Used for:  Fuel in boilers and cement kilns. Some 
grades can be further treated and used in 
carbon anodes for aluminum smelting and as electrodes for electric arc furnaces.
 
   Product:  Aromatics (xylene, benzene, cumene,  
toluene)
  Used for:  Production of paints, printing inks, adhesives, 
flexible foam, styrene and plastics
    Product: Olefins (primarily propylene) 
Used for:  Production of paints, household detergents, carpet fibers, foam insulation and  
auto parts
 
   Product: Propane 
Used for:  Primarily a heating fuel
    Product: Heavy fuel oil/slurry 
Used for: Fuel for some utilities and marine vessels
* Nelson Complexity Index (NCI) calculated  
per Oil & Gas Journal NCI formula
**Weighted Average NCI
BPCD: barrels per calendar day
Source: MPC DataMPC’s refineries are 
managed as one 
integrated system, 
optimizing feedstock and raw material inputs. This results in economies of 
scale that optimize capital 
expenditures and capacity. MPC LOGISTICS: By the numbers
 66 Owned, part-owned and leased light product terminals
 118 Third-party light product terminals
 18 Owned asphalt terminals
 10 Third-party asphalt terminals
 8,300  Approximate miles of pipeline that MPC owns, leases 
or has ownership interest in
 19 Owned and leased inland waterway towboats
 199 Owned barges
 12 Leased barges
 142 Owned transport trucks
 2,210 Owned or leased railcarsCRUDE OIL REFINING CAPACITY
 BPCD  NCI*
Garyville 522,000 11.4
Galveston Bay 451,000 13.3
Catlettsburg 242,000 10.2
Robinson 212,000 10.1
Detroit 130,000 9.8
Canton 90,000 8.0
Texas City 84,000 8.0
TOTAL 1,731,000 11.1**
All information as of Dec. 31, 2014 All information as of Dec. 31, 2014   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   6 5   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
By manufacturing petroleum 
products, we help make virtually every aspect of modern life possible. And because of ever-improving processes and technologies, we do this critical work more cleanly and safely  than ever before.
The fuels we produce enable farmers to till, irrigate, plant 
and harvest crops to feed themselves and their communities. 
Reliable and affordable fuels empower people to transport 
themselves to markets, schools, medical facilities and community events. Diesel and gasoline allow businesses to provide the goods of our everyday lives, as they procure raw 
materials, manufacture products and transport them to those 
who need them.
During times of emergency, petroleum fuels can help alleviate 
suffering. Recovery from natural disasters is quicker and safer 
with petroleum-fueled ambulances, fire trucks and law-
enforcement resources. During power outages, electricity at hospitals and markets can be quickly restored with petroleum-powered generators. Food, medical supplies and construction 
materials are provided to those in need by trucks, aircraft and 
marine vessels powered by petroleum fuels.
Petroleum fuels enable us to build the structures in which we 
live, work, shop, learn and heal. Petroleum products are all 
around us – in our computers, the inks in our printers, the 
foams that make safe helmets and effective insulations, the plastics that make cars light and strong, and so much more.
In this Citizenship Report, we provide insight into how we 
provide petroleum products, so critical to every aspect of our 
lives, while we maintain safe, environmentally sound and community-conscious operations.THE MEANING OF  
OUR WORK
commerce
community
independence
mobility
7   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   8 
SOCIAL BENEFITS OF CARBON
PEOPLE’S LIVES ARE  
WHAT MATTER MOST
Fossil fuels don’t just make our lives more comfortable and convenient; fossil fuels save 
lives. That may seem like a bold statement, especially with so many environmentalists advocating that we dramatically and quickly reduce our use of fossil fuels.
But consider: If a hurricane or tornado cuts power to hospitals and grocery stores, it’s 
diesel- and gasoline-powered generators that will prevent medicines and food from going 
bad and keep operating rooms well-lit. If your home catches fire, diesel-powered fire trucks 
and ambulances respond. In many regions of the world – including some places in the U.S.– fossil fuels power desalination plants that turn seawater into fresh water for crops, livestock and people. 
In addition to saving lives, consider how fossil fuels make modern life possible: growing 
the food that feeds the world, manufacturing the textiles that clothe us and the materials that house us, and moving these building blocks of life to where they’re most needed. Transportation over long distances – by air, rail, road and water – makes commerce and trade economically feasible for billions of people.
There is no energy source other than fossil fuels that can accomplish these things on the 
scale needed to meet our needs – not currently, and not even on the horizon.
All these activities that require energy also result in carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions. In fact, 
CO2 emissions are almost synonymous with energy use.
Carbon emissions, prosperity and poverty reduction:  From 1990  
through 2011,* world gross domestic product (GDP) in current dollars increased from  
about $23 trillion to over $72 trillion. During this time, global CO2 emissions increased  
from about 23 gigatons per year to over 34 gigatons per year. In short, for every additional metric ton of carbon dioxide emissions, global GDP increased by about $4,400.
During this same period – 1990 through 2011 – as GDP and CO
2 emissions rose, the world 
poverty rate went from about 36 percent to about 14 percent. That’s hundreds of millions  
of lives made better in innumerable ways.
So when some environmentalists or politicians tell us we have to dramatically reduce our 
use of fossil fuels, they are telling us we have to sacrifice not just comfort and convenience, 
but also sacrifice prosperity, poverty reduction and the many other benefits that come from using fossil fuel energy – better health, longer lifespans, safer homes, lifesaving capabilities 
and much more.
There are those who refer to the “social cost of carbon.” But look around you, and you’ll see 
the social benefits of carbon. These benefits are not only everywhere; they are immediate. They make lives better today. They save lives today. If human life is a priority – and we believe it is the priority – then these benefits are paramount. As we work to continually improve our health, safety and environmental performance, the social benefits of carbon continue to be more widespread, and at less cost than ever before.
Marathon Petroleum Corporation is proud to make people’s lives better through the fuels  
and other products we manufacture, and by adhering to the values we have outlined in  
this Citizenship Report. We are proud to contribute to the social benefits that fossil fuels  
make possible.
*The latest year for which the World Bank provides global poverty data9   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   10 
Sabrina Wilkin
Corporate Responsible Care® Coordinator
MANAGING FOR CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT
RESPONSIBLE CARE®  
EMBODIES OUR COMMITMENT  
TO CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT
“Marathon Petroleum Corporation is the only petroleum refiner in 
the U.S. that has chosen to adhere to the rigorous requirements of 
Responsible Care,” says Sabrina Wilkin, MPC’s Responsible Care 
coordinator. “Throughout our more than 125-year history, we have 
had a strong commitment to improving our health, 
environment, safety, security 
and community involvement, and 
this has given us a comprehensive 
management system to help further that.”
Responsible Care is the American 
Chemistry Council’s global certification initiative that helps MPC achieve repeatable, effective and sustainable processes. Since joining Responsible Care in 2002, we have reduced our Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable injury rate by more than 75 percent and also reduced waste-generation and emissions significantly.*
A key part of the Responsible Care 
Management System is mandatory certification by an independent, accredited auditor. All companies taking part in Responsible Care in the U.S. undergo headquarters and facility audits to ensure they have structures and systems in place to measure, manage and verify their performance.
“As the Corporate Responsible Care 
coordinator, I have the  opportunity to see how the management system works corporation-wide,” says Wilkin. “Responsible Care isn’t a program imposed on our day-to-day activities – it’s completely integrated into everything we do, from the earliest planning stages to the most mature projects and processes.”Responsible Care Guiding Principles
    To lead in ethical ways that  
increasingly benefit society, the  economy and the environment.  
 
  To design and develop products 
that can be manufactured,  transported, used and disposed of or recycled safely.   
 
  To work with customers, carriers, suppliers, distributors 
and contractors to foster the safe and secure use, transport and disposal of chemicals, and provide hazard and risk information that can be accessed and applied in their operations and products.  
 
  To design and operate facilities in a safe, secure and 
environmentally sound manner.   
   To instill a culture throughout all levels of the 
organizations to continually identify, reduce and manage process safety risks.   
 
  To promote pollution prevention, minimization of waste 
and conservation of energy and other critical resources at every stage of products’ life cycles.   
 
  To cooperate with governments at all levels and 
organizations in the development of effective and efficient safety, health, environmental and security laws, regulations and standards.   
 
  To support education and research on the health, 
safety, environmental effects and security of products and processes.   
 
  To communicate product, service and process risks 
to stakeholders and listen to and consider their perspectives.   
 
  To make continual progress toward a goal of no 
accidents, injuries or harm to human health and the environment from products and operations, and openly report health, safety, environmental and security performance.   
 
  To seek continual improvement in the integrated 
Responsible Care Management System to address environmental, health, safety and security performance. 
 
  To promote Responsible Care by encouraging and 
assisting other companies to adhere to these  guiding principles.
*This includes six of MPC’s seven refineries; we 
exclude the Galveston Bay refinery and Cincinnati 
Renewable Fuels from this total, as they are newly 
acquired and are working toward Responsible 
Care certification.11   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   12 
COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY
OUR VALUES PROMOTE 
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recognizes environmental justice as the “fair 
treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin  or income with respect to the development, implementation and enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies.” 
EPA recognizes communication as a pillar of environmental justice, as it helps to ensure open 
and honest access to information and resources. At MPC, we recognize that doing business  
in our communities is a privilege and have embraced community engagement through our core values.
Community engagement is a key part of being a good neighbor to the people who live near  
our major facilities. We strive to ensure open, two-way communication and take into account the needs of our neighbors when conducting our business.
Open Communication
The most visible of these efforts are the Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) at our refineries. CAPs are made up of representatives from the communities in which our refineries operate – teachers, retirees, business owners, elected officials, activists and others.
At each meeting, a member of the refinery leadership team provides an update to the 
community members, detailing the facility’s safety and environmental performance and providing updates on any significant projects.
Some CAPs meet monthly, while others meet every other month. Some of the CAPs are 
dedicated only to the MPC refinery, while others include several industrial facilities in the same meeting, depending on the level of industrialization in the area. For example, multiple industrial facilities attend a joint CAP meeting in Texas City, Texas, including our two MPC refineries there. 
We also use other means to ensure open communication with communities, tailored to meet 
the needs of each location. Our Detroit refinery is a good example, as it is located in a heavily industrialized area with residential neighborhoods nearby. That facility maintains a website to provide status updates to neighbors when refinery alarms are sounded for operational reasons. Neighbors can sign up on the website to receive the status updates via text message, email or automated voice call. The refinery also publishes a newsletter after each CAP meeting and sends it to every address in the two ZIP codes nearest the refinery.
We Respond to Community Concerns
When major projects are planned at MPC refineries, local communities are kept fully informed via public meetings where we seek their feedback. As an example, in advance of an expansion at the Detroit refinery, completed in 2012, MPC held public informational meetings and made numerous commitments to the community to minimize environmental burdens. Just some of these included retrofitting all Detroit city school buses with particulate-matter controls, sweeping public streets to reduce dust from construction traffic, installing ambient air monitors near the refinery and establishing a fully paid scholarship program, among other measures.
In addition, we listened to the communities’ concerns about our expanding footprint toward 
nearby homes and initiated a program to offer above-market purchase prices to residential 
homeowners in the neighborhood. About 90 percent of the homeowners opted to participate in 
this home buyout program.
Similarly, while we evaluated a potential project at our Garyville, La., refinery in 2014, we held 
two public meetings in the area to describe the project and hear what residents had to say. We held these meetings even though the project was not certain, because we feel it’s important to keep our neighbors informed. Community response was positive. We have since deferred a final decision on the project due to market conditions. Galveston Bay Refining General 
Manager Ray Brooks and Texas City Refining General Manager Connie Bradley
 at a meeting of the Texas 
City - La Marque Community Advisory Council. 
Ray and Connie provide safety, environmental and community activities updates to community members at the council meetings.13   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   14 
COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY
WE WORK TOWARD 
STRENGTHENING THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE
Through individual efforts and by joining with their fellow co-workers, MPC’s 
thousands of employees work to make the communities where they live – and where MPC operates – stronger, safer and more prosperous.
Cleaning up public spaces, fundraising for United Way, contributing to law 
enforcement, participating in charity runs and walks, serving those in financial 
distress, contributing to the education of our young people… these activities 
and dozens more are integral to many employees’ lives, and are integral to MPC’s role as a responsible corporate citizen. “We recognize that there are almost as many causes deserving of support as there are people in our company,” says Paul Smith, MPC’s Administrative Services manager. “We have a sizable budget allocated each year to cultural and scientific organizations, scholarships, educational institutions, United Way and more. But we also take a grassroots approach and ask our employees to help determine where our philanthropic dollars should go.”
One way this is done is through MPC’s Local Giving network, which consists of 
charitable giving committees at locations where MPC has major operations. These groups, because they are most familiar with the unique needs of their communities, make decisions about how the company’s charitable contributions can have the most positive impact on those who live nearby. 
Another way to tap our employees’ collective wisdom about where company 
donations will do the most good is MPC’s Volunteer Incentive Program. For a community-based public charity at which an employee or his or her spouse volunteers at least 24 hours in a calendar year, MPC will donate $500, for a total of $1,000 per family each year.
While there is great variety in the organizations and causes to which we 
donate, what all our philanthropic donations have in common is that they align with our values: health and safety, environmental stewardship, an inclusive culture, integrity and corporate citizenship.
MPC employees volunteer their time   
at Gorman Heritage Farm, a nonprofit outdoor education  center in Evendale, Ohio.   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   16 15   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY
WE FOCUS ON  
OUR VALUES
MPC employees have long been aware of the company’s – 
and their co-workers’ – commitment to the values that make us a strong company. For decades, internal publications have kept employees informed about our community involvement – raising funds for charities, supporting local schools, volunteering for churches and other organizations, organizing events, building homes, cleaning up public areas and much more.
In 2014, MPC launched the 
MPC Newsroom, so that others who have a stake in the communities that we all share can stay informed about our efforts. The MPC Newsroom provides an in-depth look at our community involvement – what we do, who benefits from our activities and who organizes them.
We also provide stories about our commitments to health and 
safety, environmental stewardship, integrity, and our diversity and inclusion efforts. For example, in 2014 MPC’s office location in Indianapolis achieved Voluntary Protection Program Star Worksite status from the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. How difficult is that status to achieve, and what does it mean? The MPC Newsroom article provides a story, photos and video to explain.
The MPC Newsroom also provides insight 
into MPC’s business. How is our conversion 
of new retail locations to the Speedway 
brand progressing along the East Coast? 
How does MPC’s emergency response 
team work? How is MPC’s Canton, Ohio, 
refinery handling new liquids production 
from the Utica Shale formation? How does 
MPC ensure we expand supplier diversity? 
These questions – and many more – are 
addressed in “The Business of MPC” 
section of the Newsroom.
The MPC Newsroom also encourages 
two-way communication; you can contact 
any member of MPC’s Public Affairs team 
directly from the Web page.
OUR VALUES
  Health and Safety
  Environmental Stewardship
  Integrity
  Corporate Citizenship
  Inclusive Culture
Through generous donations from its customers, vendors and employees, 
Speedway LLC (a subsidiary of MPC)  contributed more than 
$8 million to Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals in 2014. Speedway has contributed approximately $68 million to the organization since 1991.
http://news.marathonpetroleum.com/17   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   18 
Refining Process Safety Manager Jim Nelson 
holds an on-site meeting with Health, Environment and Safety 
Professional Cindy Budrick at MPC’s Detroit refinery.
HEALTH & SAFETY
PROCESS SAFETY  
IS CRITICAL TO  
PROTECTING WORKERS  
AND COMMUNITIES
In simplest terms, process safety means that our pipes, tanks, processing units, valves and other hardware all work as intended – keeping hazardous substances where they belong, at the right temperatures and being handled the right way. Of course, for that to work, the controls we have in place must all function properly too – maintenance plans, equipment testing, alarms, monitoring systems and the procedures people use as they work with  these components.
“There isn’t a single moment of any day or night that we aren’t focusing on 
process safety,” says Jim Nelson, MPC’s Refining Process Safety manager.  “It’s absolutely fundamental – we construct, maintain and operate our  facilities with the constant awareness that process safety events can have  dire consequences.”
That awareness spurs a companywide commitment to share information  
about process safety events. Whenever process safety events take place  at an MPC facility, a detailed investigation and analysis are conducted,  and the results are shared throughout the company by publishing a  Process Safety Advisory (PSA). “PSAs are part of our effort to ensure that  all of our employees – from management to operators – are equipped  with information that can help us avoid conditions that have led to process  safety events in the past,” says Nelson.
This commitment to share process safety lessons is also a characteristic of 
our industry as a whole. As we produce the fuels and other refined products that make people’s lives better, refiners and petrochemical manufacturers want all workers to be safe, whether at our own companies or elsewhere in our industry. That’s why we – MPC and others – share process safety event findings with other companies through the American Fuel and Petrochemical 
Manufacturers, an industry association.
Our strong, companywide emphasis on process safety protects employees, 
contractors and the communities where our facilities operate. We not only adhere to rigid standards to avoid process safety events, but we empower our employees to shut down operations, without having to check with a supervisor, when they feel there is a process safety risk. At our union and non-union plants, we investigate incidents – including near-misses – with teams of employees that include both hourly and salaried personnel.
“Whether it’s the safety of our people, the safety of communities or the 
integrity of our operations, process safety is one of the most critical aspects 
of Marathon Petroleum’s day-to-day work,” Nelson says. “I’m proud to work for a company that places such an emphasis on this, not just internally, but 
among our colleagues in the industry as well.”19   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   20 
Employees  at MPC’s refinery 
in Texas City, Texas
HEALTH & SAFETY
WE PROTECT OUR  
PEOPLE THROUGH  
ALL-ENCOMPASSING 
SAFETY PROGRAMS
Manufacturing, transporting and marketing the fuels and other petroleum products that 
millions of people rely on every day requires constant vigilance. The feedstocks we use, and the products we make from those feedstocks, can pose multiple hazards if handled improperly. After being in the petroleum business for 128 years, we have a very strong set of processes and procedures that enable us to conduct our important work safely. But our vision is to have zero injuries, so we are constantly looking for ways to improve.
From a cultural standpoint, health and safety permeates every facet of our operations. 
Whether it’s at one of our refineries, pipeline facilities or fuels terminals; on one of our marine vessels or transport trucks; or in a control room or office building, we emphasize safety first and foremost.
To be clear, there is no business objective that supersedes the safety of our employees 
and contractors.
Toward achieving our vision of zero injuries, we implement behavior-based safety 
programs throughout our operations. Safety 1 is one such program, implemented companywide. In the past, our employees took personal responsibility for themselves, but were sometimes reluctant to correct each other if they saw potentially unsafe behaviors. Safety 1 addresses this by providing specific guidance on peer-to-peer communications – not just how to communicate safety advice to a co-worker, but how to receive such advice. “Permission and Pledge” is a central component of Safety 1 – employees give others permission to correct them if they ever see them working unsafely, and pledge to do the same for others if need be.
In 2014, MPC’s Texas City, Texas, refinery joined its sister refineries in Robinson, Ill.; Detroit, 
Mich.; and Canton, Ohio, in being accredited by the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies, using well-defined standards of evidence-based practice. Since 2003, the four refineries have been accredited or reaccredited 25 times. The accreditation process involves an extensive application and an on-site visit, during which auditors review the program, verify data, and interview employees and management. Receiving accreditation places the behavior-based safety programs at these MPC facilities among the top  1 percent of all behavior-based safety programs practiced throughout the world.
MPC also participates in the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP). The VPP requires a rigorous application and 
inspection process, resulting in three levels of designation: Demonstration, Merit and Star Status. The highest level of designation is Star Status, which eight MPC facilities have 
earned. Five MPC facilities have submitted their applications and are awaiting a VPP audit 
or are actively working toward VPP Star Site designation, and five more MPC sites plan to 
submit VPP applications to OSHA this year.
“MPC’s vision of zero injuries is ambitious, which is why for years we have gone above 
and beyond minimum safety requirements,” says Keith Robson, MPC’s corporate manager of Safety, Security and Emergency Preparedness. “We work every day to identify ways of achieving that vision.”   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   22 21   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
HEALTH & SAFETY
WE ARE IMPLEMENTING 
NEW PRODUCT SAFETY STANDARDS
In the U.S., we’ve been using petroleum products widely for about 150 years. 
All these years of experience give MPC a head start when it comes to product safety; it would be difficult to find anyone who isn’t already familiar with the common hazards associated with gasoline, diesel or kerosene. To help our customers and the public with these basics, MPC routinely distributes or makes available precautionary handling fact sheets called “Safety Data Sheets” (SDSs) for our products. In an effort to be fully transparent, MPC has also placed SDSs for every finished product we manufacture on our website: http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/brand/products/sds/
But we won’t simply assume that the product safety measures we’ve 
employed in the past can’t be enhanced. “Part of being an American 
Chemistry Council Responsible Care
® company is going the extra mile in the 
name of product stewardship, and adopting the new Product Safety Code’s management practices is along that extra mile,” says Dr. Rudy Breglia, MPC’s manager of Toxicology and Product Safety. Adopting the management practices, Breglia added, demonstrates that doing business the right way is vitally important to MPC, and to anyone who handles or uses our products.
The Product Safety Code goes beyond regulatory requirements to reassure 
consumers that the chemical industry makes products that are safe for their 
intended uses, understands its responsibility and considers health, safety and 
environmental stewardship top priorities. We recognize that while people need 
and want our products, everyone also wants to feel safe when using them.
Breglia notes that implementing the new Product Safety Code is a complex 
process, requiring 11 management practices to be put in place. By the end of 2014, MPC President and CEO Gary R. Heminger signed the Responsible Care Product Safety Code attestation statement noting that the company had implemented the first three practices: 
		 Leadership commitment: Our company leadership is committed to a culture of product safety in word, policy and deed.
		Accountability and management: We have clearly established accountability for product safety, and these practices are integral to the way we operate.
		Prioritization of products: We use a risk-based process to consider available hazard, exposure and intended use information to rank products in need of further evaluation.
As a company that is ultimately responsible for meeting its consumers’ needs, Breglia emphasizes that an increased focus on product safety – and management practices to ensure a sound approach – will strengthen MPC’s commitment to safeguard our employees, facilities, neighbors and the consumers we serve.
Dr. Rudolph Breglia
Manager of Toxicology and Product Safety   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   24 23   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE ARE THE  
INDUSTRY LEADER IN 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
In order to produce the fuels and other products our millions of customers 
rely on, MPC must use a significant amount of energy. Our electric bill in 2014, for example, was approximately $450 million. We also use natural gas in many of our energy-intensive processes. We therefore have a powerful incentive to implement processes and install equipment that increase our energy efficiency.
These efforts have consistently paid off, making MPC the industry leader 
in energy efficiency. Since the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) started awarding ENERGY STAR
® designations to refineries, it has awarded 
39 such recognitions. MPC has earned 30 of them. That’s 77 percent of 
refinery ENERGY STAR awards, despite the fact that MPC owns and operates 
just under 10 percent of the nation’s refining capacity.
MPC Energy Technologist Michael Harp notes that achieving ENERGY STAR 
designations requires not just first-quartile energy efficiency, but also environmental compliance with no outstanding environmental violations. “This is a situation in which we have achieved industry leadership because business considerations and our values work together to benefit everyone,” says Harp. “We are committed to being good stewards of the environment, good neighbors and responsible with our shareholders’ resources. Energy efficiency helps us to keep each of those commitments.”
In 2010, MPC 
established the 
Focus on Energy Initiative to bolster our commitment 
to improving 
efficiency of 
operations. As part of this initiative, a team of specialists 
work to make 
energy-efficiency 
incentives 
more visible to operations and 
technical personnel at our refineries. The initiative has also identified 
medium- and long-term improvements for implementation, having 
completed dozens of detailed unit reviews and identified hundreds of 
projects and studies.
“We’re certainly proud to be the industry leader in energy efficiency, but 
our culture of continual improvement means we’ll never consider our work complete,” says Harp. “We are always looking for that next opportunity to improve our efficiency. It’s good business, and it’s the right thing to do.”2005 Operating Year
EPA Label Year 20062006
20072007
20082008
20092009
20102010
20112011
20122012
20132013
2014
Can ton
Detroit
Garyville
Robinson
Texas Cit y
TOTAL A WARDS   - 30
TOTAL A WARDS  - 9
3       2      0    0          0        1       1      1    1MPC Re/f_ineries / EPA ENERGY STAR History 
as of 1/9/2015
An employee at MPC’s South Houston 
Green Power co-generation plant ,  
which is co-located with MPC’s Galveston Bay refinery.  
The co-generation plant generates steam and electricity from natural gas, meeting all of the power needs of the refinery and selling excess power into the local grid.25   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   26 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE CONTINUALLY 
IMPLEMENT EMISSIONS-
REDUCTION MEASURES
Manufacturing fuel and other products at our seven refineries is the most 
energy-intensive and emissions-intensive aspect of MPC’s operations. Our refineries account for 87 percent of the “criteria air pollutants” emitted by MPC. These substances, monitored and regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, include sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, total particulate matter and volatile organic compounds. 
Consistent measurement of MPC’s criteria air pollutant emissions over a 
period of several years can be complicated by changes in our assets. We sold a refinery in 2010, for example, and acquired one in 2013. Excluding 
these changes, however, we can see the trend for the six refineries we 
owned from 2002 through 2014. This trend shows that we have reduced 
criteria air pollutant emissions by 57 percent, even as gross throughput at these refineries increased by 39 percent. We have accomplished these reductions primarily by installing the latest control technologies.
In addition to criteria air pollutant emissions, MPC’s refining operations 
are the source of approximately 96 percent of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Indirect GHG emissions are primarily those associated with producing electricity and steam that we purchase to operate the refineries, as well as hydrogen necessary for some of our conversion processes, many of which produce low-sulfur fuels necessary for today’s cleaner-burning engines. When considering the six refineries  we owned from 2002 through 2014, our direct GHG emissions increased  by only 8 percent, even as gross throughputs increased 39 percent.
In other words, MPC is manufacturing more of the fuel and other products 
millions of people rely on, while doing so with a shrinking environmental footprint per unit produced.
It’s also worth noting that MPC’s GHG emissions are a small component 
of a much larger picture. American society, and the world at large, derive enormous benefits from the fuels we manufacture. MPC’s direct GHG emissions of 17.2 million metric tons in 2014 represent about 7 percent of the total GHG emissions associated with our fuel products, including our direct emissions and those from customers as they use our products. It’s also worth noting that the approximately 259.2 million metric tons of GHGs emitted from producing and consuming our fuel products represent about 4 percent of U.S. GHG emissions in 2013,* and less than 0.6 percent of global emissions in 2010.*
*The latest years for which the EPA provides data
Employees at MPC’s refinery  
in Garyville, La.   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   28 27   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE ARE PREPARED  
FOR EMERGENCIES
MPC’s Corporate Emergency Response Team (CERT) is ready 
to respond to an emergency at any time. Made up of specially 
trained employees from organizations throughout the company, 
CERT is a critical part of MPC’s role as a good corporate citizen.
CERT provides response management and corporate resources 
and technical support during an emergency situation. Members are trained to use the Incident Command System, widely used by government agencies and emergency responders. This allows CERT to integrate seamlessly in a time of crisis.
Rick DeFend, manager of MPC’s Corporate Emergency 
Preparedness, says CERT plays an important role in maintaining 
the company’s focus on what matters. “We conduct our business while protecting and preserving the health and safety of employees, contractors and community residents,” DeFend said. “We also protect the environment, as well as our property and that of our neighbors.”
One of the most important aspects of CERT’s training is a yearly 
three-day drill. This drill simulates an event that significantly impacts MPC’s operations, the environment, a community or sometimes all three. During these scenarios, CERT practices not just its own ability to respond to these events, but its ability to collaborate effectively with federal, state and local responders.
Just like real incidents, CERT drills involve federal organizations, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the 
U.S. Coast Guard; state environmental 
protection or wildlife agencies, such as the 
Texas General Land Office or the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality; and local emergency responders, such as 
fire departments, law enforcement and 
emergency managers.
Annual CERT drills enable MPC to 
continually improve its ability to respond to incidents, and to maintain successful working relationships with federal, state and local agencies involved in incident response.
“One of the most interesting facts about our 
CERT team is that everyone volunteers to 
be a part of it,” added DeFend. “These are 
employees who 
want  to lend their expertise 
to this effort, and that ensures our response capability is not only robust, but driven by a passion to do the right thing.”CERT Facts
 Established in 1990
 CERT is made up of two main groups:
 o  Emergency Strike Team  
(about 100 members)
 o  Emergency Support Group  
(about 85 members)
  CERT has responded to product releases, product quality issues and 
humanitarian efforts.
  CERT, along with federal, state and 
local responders, participates in an 
annual three-day exercise.
During a major drill in 2014 , 
MPC and local, state and federal authorities 
practiced responding to a crude oil release into a waterway near Memphis, Tenn. In this photo, responders conduct a briefing on the status of the simulated emergency.29   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   30 
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
WE MAINTAIN 
1,289 ACRES  
OF CERTIFIED 
WILDLIFE HABITATS
MPC owns and maintains 20 wildlife habitats certified by 
the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), with a total of 1,289 acres of land. These sites are certified as either Wildlife at Work or Corporate Lands for Learning sites, and in some cases both. The WHC’s Wildlife at Work program provides a structure for cooperative efforts between management, employees and community members to create, conserve and restore wildlife habitats on corporate lands. Corporate Lands for Learning is a certification program that gives us a framework for opening our habitats to members of the community for educational purposes. 
HABITAT SITE: Garyville, La., refinery property Acres managed for wildlife: 450 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2002 and Corporate  
Lands for Learning  certified in 2014
HABITAT SITE: Savage Branch Wildlife Reserve, Catlettsburg, Ky. Acres managed for wildlife: 360 
Wildlife at Work certified since 1994, and Corporate 
Lands for Learning  certified since 1999
HABITAT SITE: Big Spring, Ky. This site is unique in that the land is not owned by MPC, although MPC has a right of way for an underground pipeline through the property. Part of the property, including the right of way, is managed for wildlife habitat cooperatively between MPC and the landowner. Acres managed for wildlife: 4 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2001
HABITAT SITE: Martinsville Tank Farm, Martinsville, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 188 
Wildlife at Work certified since 1999, and Corporate 
Lands for Learning  certified since 2008HABITAT SITE: Palestine Neil Pit, Palestine, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 80 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2006 and Corporate 
Lands for Learning  certified since 2008
HABITAT SITE: Lincoln Trail College and Palestine High School Nature Habitat, Robinson, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 50 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2010 and Corporate 
Lands for Learning  certified since 2012
HABITAT SITE: Speedway Office Complex, Enon, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 42  
Wildlife at Work certified since 1999
HABITAT SITE: Washington Park, Robinson, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 31 
Wildlife at Work and Corporate Lands for Learning  
certified since 2005
HABITAT SITE: Kuttawa Asphalt Terminal, Kuttawa, Ky. 
Acres managed for wildlife: 35 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2004HABITAT SITE: Huntington Light Products Terminal,  Huntington, Ind. Acres managed for wildlife: 8 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2011
HABITAT SITE: Cane Run Asphalt Terminal, Louisville, Ky. 
Acres managed for wildlife: 7 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 1999
HABITAT SITE: Marathon Pipe Line Heath Station, Heath, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 8.35 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2014
HABITAT SITE: Mt. Vernon Asphalt Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Ind. Acres managed for wildlife: 10 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2009
HABITAT SITE: St. Elmo Asphalt Terminal, St. Elmo, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 4 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2011
HABITAT SITE: Mt. Vernon Light Products Terminal,  Mt. Vernon, Ind. Acres managed for wildlife: 4 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2014HABITAT SITE: Hutsonville School Nature Habitat, Hutsonville, Ill. Acres managed for wildlife: 3 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2008 and Corporate 
Lands for Learning  certified since 2009
HABITAT SITE: Nashville Asphalt Terminal,  Nashville, Tenn. Acres managed for wildlife: 3.5 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2007
HABITAT SITE: North Bend Asphalt Terminal,  North Bend, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: 1 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2012
HABITAT SITE: Findlay Office Complex, Findlay, Ohio Acres managed for wildlife: <1 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2000
HABITAT SITE: Owensboro Station, Owensboro, Ky. Acres managed for wildlife: <1 
Wildlife at Work certified since 2014
Part of MPC’s certified wildlife habitat 
near its Garyville, La., refinery31   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   32 
OUR PEOPLE
WE ARE COMMITTED 
TO AN INCLUSIVE  
WORK ENVIRONMENT
At MPC, we believe it’s critical to our success that we maintain a work 
environment where all employees are respected and valued for the full range of strengths and talents they bring to the workplace. After all, it doesn’t make sense to hire the best employees if they’re not able to perform to the best of their abilities with us. That’s why our Diversity & Inclusion office – and our employees – are always looking for ways to overcome barriers or challenges that might prevent full participation in the important work we do.
But it’s more than just a business imperative. It is, in fact, one of our five 
core values – part of our commitment to do right. As such, diversity and 
inclusion is not all business; there are often personal dimensions. “It’s 
not uncommon for people to tell me they’ve had personal moments of discovery during one of our workshops or presentations,” says MPC Senior Diversity Consultant George Stoll. “There are things they never realized about other people, and things they never realized about themselves, that can come out during these sessions.”
The issues Stoll discusses with employees can touch upon culture, 
heritage, politics, gender, religion and more. “Sometimes the information I provide – and that our fellow employees provide – can be fascinating and informative,” says Stoll, “and it can also shake the foundational beliefs that some people have about themselves and about others.”
For example, says Stoll, if an employee feels that certain terminology 
or ways of interacting in a workplace are upsetting, another employee might suddenly realize that she or he has been unwittingly contributing to someone’s discomfort. “Awareness is a big part of what we do, and we also give people concrete actions they can take to make sure they’re fostering as inclusive an environment as possible,” says Stoll.
The Diversity & Inclusion office uses the “Inclusion Continuum” to 
illustrate the progression MPC is striving to achieve. The Inclusion Continuum includes intolerance at its lowest level, and moves up through tolerance, awareness, understanding and finally valuing.
“Our objective is to move the entire company – every organization, every 
person – up the continuum,” said Stoll. “I am proud of what MPC has 
done so far, but we have more work to do. We will always be striving for 
a higher level.”
Senior Diversity Consultant 
George Stoll  conducts a diversity and 
inclusion workshop at MPC’s refinery in 
Garyville, La.33   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   34 
OUR PEOPLE
DIVERSITY IS A 
SUCCESS FACTOR 
AND A MATTER  
OF PRINCIPLE
For MPC’s Talent Acquisition team, the stakes are high. Because 
MPC manufactures the fuel and other products that make modern life possible, the work we do is critically important to millions of people every day.
“That means we’re searching for the best candidates for every 
position we have available,” says MPC Talent Acquisition Supervisor 
Tony Moore. “We make sure we are recruiting students and recent graduates from a diverse array of colleges and universities, as well as skilled professionals from everywhere – any industry, any geographic location.”
Moore and his team are looking for a combination of skills and 
characteristics that match MPC’s rigorous requirements. They look for people who are technically proficient in their chosen fields, so measures of performance – whether grades or job accomplishments – are important. “But it goes beyond that,” says Moore. “We have to keep in mind that millions of people rely on MPC for some of their most essential needs, so we also look for candidates who show drive and passion for this important work.”
One of the factors Moore and his team focus on is diversity. “This is 
important for us, because diversity directly correlates with success,” he says. “We know that when we have a diverse workplace, we have a wider range of backgrounds and abilities that provide different ways of understanding our world. That means that for any given project, problem or day-to-day task, we’re availing ourselves of the widest array of talent possible.”
Cultural, racial, religious, ethnic, political, gender … these 
measures of diversity, Moore says, are indicators, but aren’t necessarily the reason for his team’s diversity talent-acquisition efforts. “Those labels are markers that society uses, but what we’re striving for is actually much bigger than that,” he says. “Our society is one of the most vibrant the world has ever seen because of the amazing diversity of people who make it what it is. We work to tap that same diversity of talent and worldviews for the benefit of our company and the millions of people who rely on our products.”
MPC recruiters talk to job seekers  
during a jobs fair at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University in Greensboro, N.C.   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   36 35   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
OUR PEOPLE
OUR EMPLOYEES ARE 
OUR MOST VALUABLE 
ASSET, AND THAT’S 
HOW WE TREAT THEM
The work we do at MPC is critical to the millions of people who rely on 
the products we manufacture, transport and market. That’s why we strive to attract and retain the best people for every job we have. Part of that effort is our Total Rewards – the pay, career, benefits and work/life programs we offer employees.
In 2014, we invested more than $1.2 billion in pay for our employees. 
But take-home pay is just the start. We provide health insurance to our full-time employees, including options for dental and vision plans, as well as company-paid disability benefits and life insurance. We help secure our employees’ financial futures by offering a 401(k) with a company match and a cash balance plan that includes a contribution of up to 11 percent by the company, with a minimum of a 3 percent return. And we are one of just over 20 percent of the Fortune 500 companies that currently offer both a defined benefit pension plan and a 401(k) retirement plan.
“Our industry is extremely competitive when it comes to rewarding 
our employees, so at MPC we are always looking for new ways to add value to their lives in ways that are meaningful,” says Robin Love, MPC’s manager of Benefits Administration. Just this year, she noted, MPC increased the company-paid life insurance coverage to two times an employee’s annual pay, added a company-paid accidental death benefit of one year of an employee’s annual pay, and established a customer-service line with MPC’s health insurance provider that’s available exclusively to MPC employees and their families.
MPC’s benefits also seek to enhance employees’  
personal lives through programs like adoption 
assistance, scholarships, tuition reimbursement 
and providing cash donations to nonprofits 
where employees volunteer their time, among many other benefits.
“Our objective is to make sure our Total 
Rewards program is always greater than the sum of its parts,” says Love. “We want our employees to be happy and healthy in their careers, while at the same time we reinforce our corporate values of integrity, corporate citizenship and an inclusive culture.”
MPC ranked third  
on the Forbes  
Best Employers 2015  list,  
and outranked  
all its industry peers. 
For details, see  
www.forbes.com/best-employers/
Robin Love 
Benefits Administration Manager37   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   38 
OUR PEOPLE
OUR EMPLOYEES ARE ENGAGED
Every two years, MPC commissions a companywide survey of employees by organizational 
assessment and employee survey firm Sirota Consulting. Through this survey, we explore employee engagement and the perceptions of our health, environment, safety and security (HES&S) situation. The employee engagement portion of the 2014 survey included 49 questions, while the HES&S portion included 43. Employee participation in the engagement portion of the survey was  88 percent, while 86 percent participated in the HES&S portion.
We present some of the most important survey metrics below. If positive responses to a statement 
are 80 percent or higher, it is considered a strength. If positive responses are below 65 percent, it is considered an opportunity for improvement. We had only two statements that indicated opportunities 
for improvement.
OUR GREATEST STRENGTHS
Of the 92 total questions, 67 scored 80 percent positive responses or higher, and are considered 
strengths. Below are some of the highest-scoring items:
   Just about everyone feels that MPC promotes a culture of safety (95 percent) and environmental stewardship 
(94 percent).
   A huge majority (90 percent) of those surveyed would recommend MPC as a place to work and are proud to work for the company.
   Almost all employees (96 percent) enjoy a good relationship with their co-workers.
    Virtually all employees feel they have received adequate safety training (95 percent) and environmental 
training (92 percent) and often correct safety hazards themselves (92 percent).
    Most employees feel their supervisors would support them for stopping a job for safety reasons  
(93 percent) and also support the Behavior Based Safety program (91 percent).
    Nearly all employees would report something they believed to be illegal or unethical (94 percent) and also 
feel encouraged to report potential environmental violations (95 percent).
    Nine out of 10 employees have confidence in the future of the company and are highly motivated to go 
above and beyond to help MPC be successful.
OPPORTUNITIES TO IMPROVE
Of the 92 total questions, two scored less than 65 percent positive responses.
   Only 60 percent of employees feel their organization has enough employees to do a quality job .
    A similarly low proportion (61 percent) believe that the promotion process rewards employees with the ability and motivation to work safely.
HOW DO WE COMPARE?
A significant number of the employee engagement and HES&S questions on the survey allow us to compare ourselves to other companies in an industry comparator group. MPC rated substantially higher than comparator employee groups in several areas. Below are those in which we rated 20 percentage points or more above our comparator group:
    That we would report a minor injury: 20 percent higher
    Belief that management is more concerned about keeping people safe than with keeping the injury statistics 
low: 28 percent higher
    That meeting production goals rarely requires employees to put themselves at risk: 20 percent higher
    That my supervisor would support stopping work for safety reasons: 21 percent higher
    That we would report a near miss: 22 percent higher
    Belief that discipline for safety violations is fair and consistent: 20 percent higher
    Belief that everyone (including contractors) is held to the same safety standard: 20 percent higher
    Feel that our supervisors do not put production ahead of safety: 26 percent higher
    Our safety reward/recognition programs encourage employees to work safely and participate in safety 
activities: 20 percent higherHow does  
MPC Measure Up
2014  Employee Survey Results
?
MPC
Employee 
Engagement
89%
FavorableMPC
Culture of 
Environmental 
Stewardship
94%
FavorableMPC
Culture of Safety
95%
Favorable  
   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   40 39   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY
OUR COMPANY IS LED BY 
A BOARD OF ENGAGED, 
EXPERT DIRECTORS
MPC’s directors operate under a corporate governance framework that promotes 
accountability and is transparent to investors and others who have a stake in  our company.*
MPC’s board of directors currently consists of 10 members, although throughout 
2014 there were 12 members; two retired in April 2015. All of MPC’s board 
members bring strategic acumen and broad business experience to their roles. 
Most of our directors are current or former chief executives from a variety of industries, and all but one are independent of MPC; the exception is Gary R. Heminger, MPC’s president and chief executive officer.
As part of the board’s duties, it meets regularly in executive session without 
MPC’s chief executive officer present. Board members also meet in separate sessions of its three committees, which have specialized areas of responsibility. The members of these committees are only independent board members. The committees include:
	
 Audit
	 Compensation
	 Corporate Governance and Nominating
MPC’s Corporate Governance Principles govern the board of directors. These 
principles – available on our corporate website – are designed to ensure that 
MPC operates in the best interest of its owners – individual investors, mutual funds, pension funds, endowment funds and others who own MPC stock. 
The principles also are designed to encourage an actively engaged board with 
a stake in MPC’s long-term success. For example, each of the non-employee directors, including the chairman of the board, is expected to hold three times the value of his or her annual cash retainer in MPC common stock per the governance principles. Director attendance averaged 98 percent of all board and committee meetings in 2014.
*We publish relevant information and documents on our website. For more information, please visit  
http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Investor_Center/Corporate_Governance/
Thomas J. Usher, MPC’s chairman 
of the board of directors, listens to a 
shareholder during the company’s Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders in April 2015.41   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   42 
GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITY
INTEGRITY HAS BEEN OUR 
FOUNDATION SINCE 1887
For more than 125 years, MPC has been providing energy. During that time, 
we have adapted to dramatic shifts in technology, energy supplies, geopolitics, demographics and what society expects of us. There are very few facets of our company that remain unchanged by these developments. The values of trust, respect, dignity and honesty are among those constants.
Those values are part of our culture, entrenched in our daily work. Gene Farmer, 
manager of MPC’s Business Integrity and Compliance (BI&C) office, says there are two broad areas of BI&C focus. “First, we want to make sure our values are at the forefront of every decision we make,” he says. “And second, because we 
know our employees want to do the right thing, we make sure they understand 
we have a ‘speak up’ culture that empowers them to ask questions and to report 
potential misconduct.”
While employees are encouraged to seek guidance from their supervisors, MPC 
maintains and actively promotes a helpline for employees and third parties to 
anonymously ask questions and report allegations of unethical or illegal conduct. “We encourage a ‘speak-up’ culture through regular communication with employees about matters of ethics and compliance,” says Farmer.
And the effort has been consistently yielding results. For several years, the  
number of BI&C cases increased, indicating that communications efforts were enhancing awareness. After a peak of 367 cases in 2013, the number dropped  to 336 in 2014.
The emphasis on ethics and integrity isn’t limited to the BI&C office; it includes all 
employees, top to bottom. “A reputation for integrity is one of the most important assets any individual or company can possess,” says Gary R. Heminger, president and CEO. “Generations of employees before us have helped build our good reputation, but all their efforts can be ruined by a single unethical or thoughtless act. That’s why it is vital that each and every one of us makes a personal commitment to behave with uncompromising integrity.”
MPC’s Business Integrity and Compliance team: Left to right,  
Brianna Patterson, Gene Farmer,  
Carole Gauss and Heidi Kiffmeyer   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   44 43   CITIZENSHIP REPORT 
ECONOMIC IMPACT
WE ARE EXPANDING 
OUR SUPPLIER 
DIVERSITY
MPC works to continually increase the diversity of suppliers, 
targeting those that are owned by women, minorities, veterans or are considered small businesses. The corporation currently procures products and services from more than 250 suppliers that are diverse.
“Developing a diverse base of suppliers is much more than just 
the right thing to do,” says Gary R. Heminger, president and CEO. “By increasing supplier diversity, we gain access to a much broader base of competitive suppliers who provide innovative 
solutions and varying perspectives.”
MPC’s commitment to supplier diversity has resulted in 
significant gains. From 2012 through 2014, we increased the number of diverse suppliers with which we do business by  18 percent.
Part of MPC’s success in this area is its Supplier Diversity  
Internal Advocate Team, a group of volunteers who promote MPC’s supplier diversity and take a leadership role in activities that promote diverse supplier inclusion.
“We are committed to strategies that work, and a real driver of 
our success is collaborating with organizations throughout the corporation to create new opportunities for diverse suppliers,” says Allyson Earles, MPC’s Supplier Diversity coordinator. “We acknowledge our nation’s changing demographics and are fostering opportunities that encourage meaningful relationships with our diverse suppliers – something that will give us a competitive advantage in the future marketplace.”
 “By increasing  
supplier diversity,  
we gain access to a much 
broader base of competitive 
suppliers who provide 
innovative solutions and 
varying perspectives.”
Gary R. Heminger 
President and CEO
Procurement Contracts 
Specialist Ray Dussold  
talks with other attendees of the  
Women’s Business Enterprise Council Women’s Business Opportunity Expo  in New Orleans, La.45   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   46 
ECONOMIC IMPACT
OUR PROFITABILITY 
BENEFITS OUR 
SHAREHOLDERS
Whether they are individual investors, pension funds, mutual funds, insurance 
companies or others, MPC’s shareholders benefit from their ownership stake in the company.
One of the simplest measures of this benefit is how much the value of your 
ownership stake would grow as an investor. For example, if you had invested 
$100 in MPC when we became an independent company in June 2011, you 
would have seen the value of your stock grow to more than $235 by the end of 2014. This compares favorably to other refining companies, and to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. That $100 would have grown to an average of 
about $129 with our refining peers,* and to just over $168 with the S&P 500.
“Certainly it’s gratifying to see the value of our shares increase, but that’s only 
part of the story,” says Geri Ewing, director of Investor Relations. “It’s important to consider the other ways we share our prosperity with shareholders, such as our share repurchases and dividends.”
In 2014, MPC paid $524 million in dividends to shareholders, and returned 
another $2.13 billion to shareholders through share repurchases. Since MPC began as a publicly traded company in mid-2011, we returned a total of  $7.8 billion to shareholders through the end of 2014. That averages $6 million every day.
While providing returns on our owners’ investment in MPC is a basic duty 
of the company, Ewing says an even more important imperative makes those returns possible. “What we always keep in mind is that we can’t meet our owners’ expectations unless we meet our millions of customers’ needs efficiently,” she says. “That means we have to be safe, protect the environment, be a good neighbor and out-compete the rest of our industry.  In short, we have to adhere to our values and work hard, and we do that every day.”
*  Our refining peers include BP PLC, Royal Dutch Shell PLC, Chevron Corporation,  
HollyFrontier Corporation, Phillips 66, Tesoro Corporation, ExxonMobil Corporation  
and Valero Energy Corporation.
MPC’s Investor Relations team:  Left to right,  
Teresa Homan, Geri Ewing,  
Pat Manders and Cindy Hauenstein47   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   48 
ADVOCACY
WE ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF 
OUR INDUSTRY AND THOSE 
WHO RELY ON OUR PRODUCTS
MPC operates in a heavily regulated industry. That’s why we work with lawmakers and regulators 
at the federal, state and local levels – to keep them apprised of the impact of existing or proposed laws and regulations on our industry. Some of these laws and regulations can have profound effects on our ability to effectively meet the needs of the millions of people who rely on our products every day. For this reason, we sometimes take positions on existing or proposed laws or regulations. This section highlights a few examples.
The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS):  The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act 
requires refiners and others to blend specific volumes of biofuels – like ethanol and biodiesel – into the nation’s fuel supply. One problem with the law is that we are required to blend increasing amounts of biofuels into petroleum fuels, even if fuel demand overall goes down. This is 
problematic because most vehicles on the road today cannot safely accommodate fuel with  
higher blends of ethanol.
A second major problem with the RFS is that it injects a huge amount of uncertainty into our 
industry, because we don’t know how much biofuel we’ll be required to blend. For example, the EPA was supposed to inform refiners and others of our 2014 requirement by November 2013. That would have given us time to prepare. As of this publication’s printing in mid-2015, the EPA still has not finalized the 2014 or 2015 RFS volume obligation.
MPC continues to advocate repeal of the RFS. Its provisions are simply unworkable, even if it were 
properly administered.
EPA’s “Clean Power Plan Proposed Rule”:  In order to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, the EPA has proposed a rule for power-generation plants, which, by its own estimates, will increase electricity costs to U.S. consumers by 6 to 7 percent, and up to 12 percent in some locations. In order to accomplish the energy-intensive process of converting crude oil to useful products, MPC spent $450 million on electricity in 2014. A 6 to 12 percent cost increase would  be significant.
The EPA has proposed this rule to achieve a 30 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 
from U.S. power plants by 2030. But according to figures from the U.S. Energy Information 
Administration and the EPA, the amount of carbon dioxide emissions that will be reduced in  the year 2030 by this rule will equal only about three weeks of emissions from China.
Lifting the crude oil export ban:  Since the early 1970s, exporting U.S. crude oil has 
effectively been banned. Despite the increased domestic crude oil volumes, throughout 2014 and into 2015, U.S. refiners have kept pace with supplies, and there has been no oversupply of light sweet crude oil in the U.S. This is important to keep in mind, because some oil producers, and even some policymakers, suggest that there is a glut of light sweet crude in the U.S., and therefore the time has come to lift the crude oil export ban.
Any discussion about changing regulations that have been in place for so long must be based on 
facts rather than misinformation. U.S. refiners are – and will continue – handling domestic crude production. What would benefit U.S. energy consumers most is a comprehensive energy policy that 
removes our biggest barriers to a free market, such as the RFS. Selecting only one aspect of our 
energy policy that benefits only one sector of the energy industry simply picks winners and losers.
For more information on MPC’s advocacy activities,  
including contributions to political candidates, please see our website:  
http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/corporate_citizenship/Political_Engagement_and_Disclosure   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   50 49   CITIZENSHIP REPORT Health and safety are 
important to our  
success as a company; 
if our employees and contractors 
are not safe, then other measures of success lose their meaning. We track the metrics reported in this section as a matter of accountability to our employees and contractors and to the communities in which we live. We want you to know how we’re doing.FATALITIES
TIER 1 PROCESS  
SAFETY EVENTS (PSEs)*MPC SAFETY*
SPEEDWAY SAFETY*  
05101520
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010812
3
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 201318
16
* Prior-year PSEs have been r ecalculated to comply with current standards and 
to exclude assets no longer owned by MPC, including a refinery in St. Paul Park, 
Minn., which MPC sold in 2010. These PSEs do not include Speedway.*Includes employees and contractors0.000.100.200.300.400.500.600.700.80
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
MPC OSHA Recordable Incident Rate
MPC Days Away Rate0.12
0.030.61
0.45
0.030.24
0.060.41
0.030.32
0.000.501.001.502.002.503.003.50
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Speedway OSHA Recordable Incident Rate
Speedway Days Away Rate3.13
2.96
1.711.782.69
1.682.71
1.612.59
1.69*Includes contractors; excludes Speedway
*Excludes contractorsMPC* (excluding Speedway)
Speedway (excluding contractors)11
0 0 0 0012345
2014 2013 2012 2011 20100.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8
2014 2013 20120.55
0.380.72MPC SAFETY PERFORMANCE 
INDEX (MSPI)*
* The MSPI is a safety metric similar to the OSHA Recor dable Incident Rate 
and Days Away Rate metrics reported in this section, but is weighted for 
severity. 2012 was the first year that the MSPI was used as one of the criteria to determine a portion of employee compensation.
We work to continually reduce process safety 
events as our operations expand. Please see Page 17 for details on our process safety management program.As MPC grows, we work to ensure every aspect of our business performs to our high safety standards and continually improves. Our target remains continual improvement in health and safety.The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate represents the number of incidents per 200,000 hours of work. The Days Away Rate represents injuries that caused at least one missed day of work, also per 200,000 hours of work.We are uncompromising 
in our approach to health and safety, and to our vision: that every day is accident-free, and every employee and contractor at our facilities goes home injury-free. Health and safety are therefore built into our daily work, whether it’s in office buildings, at refineries and terminals, on marine vessels or in vehicles. 
050100150200250300350
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Non-hazardous, non-recycled waste
Waste recycled
Hazardous, non-recycled waste267
147
6282
201
6317
191
9274261
13
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, 
acquired Feb. 1, 2013311
226
15
}
0102030405060
2014 2013 2012 2011 20103443
2760
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 201350
050100150200250300
2014 2013 2012 2011 201088
66 64281
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 2013175WASTE GENERATION*
Thousand tons
TIER 3 AND TIER 4 DESIGNATED  
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs)* TIER 2 DESIGNATED  
ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs)* ENERGY USE
Trillion BtuOIL SPILLS
050100150200250300350400
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010221
202234338
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 2013362
020004000600080001000012000
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Volume of spills - barrels
Number of spills010203040506070805677
40
1,380
52111,172
18741
2,4439014,00096
* DEIs include thr ee categories of environmental incidents: releases to 
the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances 
and agency enforcement actions. These include both MPC and Speedway. Tier 3 and 4 DEIs are the most severe types of DEIs.*
  DEIs include thr ee categories of environmental incidents: 
releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental 
permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. These include both MPC and Speedway.GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) 
EMISSIONS
Million tonnes CO2eCRITERIA AIR POLLUTANT 
EMISSIONS
Thousand tonsTOXIC RELEASE INVENTORY 
(TRI)
Million pounds
 (a)  Dir ect emissions are those associated with the combustion of hydrocarbons,  
venting sources and fugitive sources within MPC-operated facilities.
(b) 
 Indir
ect emissions are primarily those associated with the use of purchased  
electricity and steam at MPC facilities.Direct emissions(a)
Indirect emissions(b)9.8
4.7 4.89.9 9.8
05101520
2014 2013 2012 2011 20106.0
4.917.2
6.1
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, 
acquired Feb. 1, 2013}Total re/f_inery throughputs (million barrels per year)20030040050060070017.3
* 2014 data is not a vailable, due to the timing 
of required regulatory reporting.0123456
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010NA*2.95 2.90
2.29
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 20135.67
051015202530
2014 2013 2012 2011 201022
20
Galveston Bay re/f_inery, acquired Feb. 1, 201320030040050060070026 26
Total re/f_inery throughputs (million barrels per year)19
The Galveston Bay refinery, which we acquired Feb. 1, 
2013, used 119 trillion Btu in 2014. Included in this total is a natural gas co-generation plant that provides the refinery with all of its electricity and steam needs. Surplus electricity is sold into the electrical grid for the region.
Tier 2 DEIs are less severe than Tier 3 and 4 DEIs. We report them here because we consider them a leading indicator that helps us to identify potential problems before they occur. Some of the amounts shown in this chart are more than those reported in this publication in prior years due to recalculations we have done to make the figures more accurate.Because the EPA periodically changes the substances that must be reported in the Toxic Release Inventory, it is difficult to compare one year to the next in an entirely consistent fashion. Other factors affecting the TRI include MPC’s crude oil throughput, production volumes, continuing expansions and revised reporting methodologies.
 Six air pollutants are designated as criteria pollutants by the Clean Air Act. They include: particulate matter (PM), ground-level ozone, carbon monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO
2), 
nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and lead. Volatile 
organic compounds (VOCs) are a precursor to ground-level ozone, and as such are regulated by the EPA. MPC operations typically emit and report on SO
2, NO2, VOCs, CO and PM. Refining 
throughputs are included to show the relative decline in our companywide emissions intensity. See Pages 24 and 25 for additional details.
For more  
information about 
 any of the terms  
on this page, please see 
the Glossar
y  
on Page 53.*Waste numbers do not include general waste from retail locations.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
For more  
information about 
 any of the terms  
on this page, please see 
the Glossar
y  
on Page 53.HEALTH & SAFETY Metrics Metrics
The OSHA Recordable Incident Rate represents the number of incidents per 200,000 hours of work. The Days Away Rate represents injuries that caused at least one missed day of work, also  
per 200,000 hours of work.The GHG emissions shown in this chart differ slightly from those reported in this publication in prior years due to recalculations we have done to make the figures more accurate. These are the figures we have reported to the EP
A. Refining throughputs are included to show the 
relative decline in our companywide emissions intensity. See Pages 24 and 25 for additional details.   CITIZENSHIP REPORT   52 51   CITIZENSHIP REPORT MPC provides tremendous 
value to society 
by manufacturing, 
transporting and 
marketing fuels and other 
products. In doing so, 
we have also generated 
significant economic value for shareholders, 
employees, governments 
and the communities 
where we do business. 
 
In 2014, we returned 
approximately $2.7 billion 
to our shareholders 
through dividends and 
share repurchases. On this 
page, you will find metrics 
that show the various ways 
we have injected money into the economy.012345
2014 2013 2012 2011 20101.46
1.171.322.79approximately 1
4.74CAPITAL EXPENDITURES*
Billions of Dollars  
0.00.51.01.52.0
2014 2013 2012 2011 20101.181.12 1.111.72
1.48PAYROLL*
Billions of Dollars  
020406080100
2014 2013 2012 2011 201078.6
62.876.398.499.6TOTAL EXPENDITURES*
Billions of Dollars  
* Federal Wage Base reported on employees’  W-2 for 
the years indicated.* Includes capital expenditures, investments, payroll and other expenditures.DIVIDENDS PAID
Millions of Dollars
050100150200250300350
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010179258329
308328TARGETED PROCUREMENT  
SPENDING*
Millions of Dollars  
0.00.51.01.52.0
2014 2013 2012 2011 20101.85
0.41.331.28
1.11INCOME TAX EXPENSES*
Billions of Dollars  
* Includes discretionary and non-discretionary spending with 
minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs), as well as veteran-owned and disabled veteran-owned businesses, as certified by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Targeted Procurement Spending is a subset of, and not in addition to, the total expenditures (also reported in this section).*Includes federal, state, local and foreign.
012345678
2014 2013 2012 2011 20105.7
5.2 5.16.7
6.3CONSUMER EXCISE TAXES  
REMITTED*
Billions of Dollars  
* MPC is required by law to collect state and federal excise 
taxes on fuels we sell to consumers, and remit these taxes to the relevant government entities. In April 2015, state and federal excise taxes averaged about $0.49 per gallon of gasoline, according to the American Petroleum Institute.
In 2012, MPC began including our 
spending with U.S. Small Business Administration-certified veteran-owned and disabled veteran-owned businesses.
COMPANY OWNERSHIP
MPC is owned by thousands of shareholders, including a broad range of investors. MPC shareholders are 
individuals as well as large and small institutions such as mutual funds, pension funds, banks, insurance companies, endowment funds and others. Directors and executive officers of MPC, on a combined basis, own 
approximately 1 percent of MPC stock.0100200300400500600
2014 2013 2012407524
484
*Includes investments
05101520253035
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Percent minorities (excluding Speedway)
Percent minorities (Speedway)8.19.08.218.5
16.117.7
12.332.7
12.324.2
01020304050607080
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Percent women (excluding Speedway)
Percent women (Speedway)21.518.221.164.762.163.661.3
19.964.8
19.9MINORITIES IN OUR WORKFORCE  WOMEN IN OUR WORKFORCE  
MPC’s Business Integrity and Compliance office implements the Code of Business 
Conduct through various programs, as well as administering an Integrity Helpline.  This gives employees, business partners and others an anonymous means of  
reporting suspected violations of the Code.
050100150200250300350400
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010243270282336367
 Includes allegations and inquiries entered into 
MPC’s Business Compliance and Integrity case management system. Because prior to the spinoff of MPC on June 30, 2011, several functions were shared by Marathon Oil Corporation’s upstream and downstream segments, numbers for 2011 and earlier are approximate to account for the complexities associated with clearly designating some employees as belonging to the downstream segment (which became MPC after the spinoff in mid-2011) or the upstream/corporate segment (which remained Marathon Oil Corporation). In 2014, we recalculated all of the cases to exclude customer-service calls, so the resulting numbers reflect only inquiries and allegations.BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND 
COMPLIANCE CASES  
2012: 90 percent
2013: 92 percent2014: 92 percent
During 2014, 11 of MPC’s 12 directors were 
independent, as defined by our Corporate Governance Principles. Two directors retired 
 
in April 2015, and the board now consists of  
10 directors, nine of whom are independent.MPC’s employees make it a great 
company. We are committed to 
providing a work environment 
that nurtures – and rewards – the 
innovation and dedication they bring 
to their jobs every day. In addition 
to providing competitive pay and 
benefits, we strive for a workplace characterized by a deep appreciation 
for diversity and inclusion. Toward 
our goal of creating an environment 
where all employees can maximize 
their talents and contributions, we 
actively seek to recruit the best 
candidates from diverse backgrounds to ensure that we continue to reap 
the benefits of inclusion.
MPC adheres to a 
corporate governance 
framework that promotes 
accountability and 
provides transparency to 
investors, employees and 
our neighbors. Our board 
of directors is guided by our Corporate Governance 
Principles and committee 
charters, which we post on 
our website and send to 
anyone who is interested. 
Likewise, MPC employees 
and officers are required to adhere to the company’s 
Code of Business Conduct.ECONOMIC IMPACT OUR PEOPLE
Metrics GOVERNANCE AND INTEGRITYMetrics Metrics
For more  
information about  
 any of the terms  
on this page, please see 
the Glossary  
on Page 53.For more  
information about  
 any of the terms  
on this page, please see 
the Glossary  
on Page 53.92% 90% 92%INDEPENDENT  
BOARD MEMBERS53   CITIZENSHIP REPORT    CITIZENSHIP REPORT   54 
GLOSSARY
bbl.: Barrel (42 U.S. gallons)
bpcd:  Barrels per calendar day. This is an average of how much crude oil or other feedstock a plant processes over a period of time, divided by the 
number of days in that period.
bpd:  Barrels per day
Btu: British thermal unit. A measure of heat energy often used to quantify the energy in different types of fuel. For example, gasoline has 124,300 Btu per 
gallon, and ethanol has 84,500 Btu per gallon.
CO2e: Carbon dioxide equivalent. Because various greenhouse gases have heat-trapping effects that are stronger or weaker than carbon dioxide (CO2), 
they are often expressed as the equivalent amount of CO2 to provide a consistent measure.
DAR:  Days Away Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of full days of work missed by employees due to injuries, per 200,000 work hours.
DEI*:  Designated Environmental Incident. A metric adopted by MPC to capture several categories simultaneously. It includes releases to the environment 
(including to air, land or water), permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. MPC ranks DEIs in terms of their severity, with Tier 4 being the most 
severe, and Tier 1 being the least. Below are partial descriptions of the DEI Tiers:
 Tier 4
   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 1,000 bbl.
    Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 100 bbl.
    Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 100 times the reportable quantity
 Tier 3  
    Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 100 bbl. but less than 1,000 bbl.
    Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl. 
    Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to an established reportable quantity but less than 100 times the  
reportable quantity
 Tier 2 
    Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 10 bbl. but less than 100 bbl.
   Safety system failure or bypass
    Release of oil or other hazardous material into a regulated water body greater than or equal to 1 bbl. but less than 10 bbl.
    Release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 80 percent of a reportable quantity but less than an established reportable quantity
 Tier 1
    Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land that is less than 10 bbl. (if less than 1 bbl., release must also be reportable)
Dividend:  A per-share quarterly payment to owners of MPC common stock.
ENERGY STAR®: An EPA program recognizing energy efficiency. To achieve this status, applicants must perform in the top 
quartile for energy efficiency and have no unresolved environmental compliance actions from state or federal regulators.
EPA:  The U.S. federal government’s Environmental Protection Agency.
GHG:  Greenhouse gases, so named because of their heat-trapping properties. They include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other 
substances.
HES&S: MPC’s Health, Environment, Safety & Security organization, which is tasked with planning, executing, monitoring and continually improving  
the company’s performance in these critical areas.
MPC:  Marathon Petroleum Corporation
MSPI*: Marathon Safety Performance Index. A safety indicator similar to the ORIR and the DAR (which are also defined in this glossary), but weighted  
for severity.
M/V: Motor vessel. This abbreviation typically precedes the formal name of a marine vessel.
MWBE: Minority- or woman-owned business enterprise. This refers to organizations certified by a specialized agency as majority-owned by women or 
minorities. Certifying agencies we work with include the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the U.S. Small Business Administration.OSHA: T he U.S. federal government’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
ORIR:  OSHA Recordable Incident Rate. An OSHA term representing the number of injuries of the types that must be reported to OSHA, per 200,000  
work hours.
PSE*: Process safety event. These are unplanned or uncontrolled releases of a material from one of MPC’s processes. Tier 1 PSEs, which we report in 
this publication, are the most serious PSEs. Below are detailed descriptions of the PSE Tiers:
 Tier 1
   Loss of primary containment (LOPC) of a liquid or gas
   Fatality, lost-time injury or community evacuation
   Fires exceeding $25,000 in damages
 Tier 2 
   LOPC of a liquid or gas
   Results in recordable injury
   Fires exceeding $2,500 in damages
 Tier 3 
   Operating outside of system parameters
    Safety system failure or bypass, “not-to-exceed”  alarm level exceeded
  
 All other fires resulting from LOPC
 Tier 4
    Overdue recommendations and mechanical inspections
   Management of change not well executed
Responsible Care®: A program of the American Chemistry Council designed to continually improve performance in the areas of health, safety, 
environmental protection and more. Companies that choose to participate in Responsible Care undergo audits of their headquarters and facilities to ensure they have a structure and system in place to measure, manage and verify performance.
Tonne: Metric ton. While a ton is 2,000 pounds, a tonne (or metric ton) is 2,205 pounds.
TRI: Toxic Release Inventory. This includes releases of toxic materials to air, water and land, as well as off-site disposal. The TRI we are required to 
report to the EPA also includes materials we send off-site for recycling, energy recovery and other forms of further treatment; however, we do not report these latter metrics in this publication.
Tier 1
LOPC Events of
Greater Consequences
Tier 2
LOPC Events of
Lesser Consequences
Tier 3
Challenges to Safety Systems
Tier 4
Operating Discipline & Management System
Performance IndicatorsSeverity
* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC. As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets performance 
goals related to these metrics.* These metrics are considered to be core performance commitments at MPC. As such, a portion of employee compensation is based on whether the company successfully meets performance 
goals related to these metrics.
On the back cover: The MPC towboat M/V Kentucky  
transports barges on the Ohio River.
Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information for the Purpose of “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
This publication contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, MPC’s 
expectations, estimates and projections concerning MPC business and operations. You can identify forward-looking statements by words such as “anticipate, ” “believe, ” 
“estimate, ” “expect, ” “forecast, ” “project, ” “could, ” “may, ” “should, ” “would, ” “will” or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Such 
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond MPC’s control and 
are difficult to predict. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: volatility in and/or degradation of 
market and industry conditions; the availability and pricing of crude oil and other feedstocks; slower growth in domestic and Canadian crude supply; completion of pipeline capacity to areas outside the U.S. Midwest; consumer demand for refined products; transportation logistics; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; our 
ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; impacts from our repurchases of shares of MPC common stock under our share repurchase authorizations, including 
the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the Renewable Fuel Standard; other risk factors inherent to our industry; and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in 
MPC’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2014, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, the forward-looking statements 
included herein could be affected by general domestic and international economic and political conditions. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed here or in MPC’s Form 10-K could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. Copies of MPC’s Form 10-K are available on the SEC website, MPC’s website at 
http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com or by contacting MPC’s Investor Relations office. ABOUT MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION
MPC is the nation’s fourth-largest refiner, with a crude oil processing capacity of approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar day in its  
seven-refinery system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through approximately 5,500 independently owned retail outlets across 19 states. In addition, Speedway LLC, an MPC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s second-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 2,750 convenience stores in 22 states. MPC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company’s distribution network in the Midwest, Southeast and Gulf Coast regions. For additional information about the company, please visit our website at http://www.marathonpetroleum.com.®Marathon 
Petroleum Corporation
539 S. Main St.Findlay, OH 45840
citizenship@marathonpetroleum.com