2011 Citizenship RepORt  
®Marathon 
Petroleum Corporation
2   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
Table of ConTenTs
Letter from the CeO ........................................................ 1
Managing for Continual improvement ...................... 2
health and safety ............................................................ 3
environmental stewardship ........................................ 11
Our p eople ........................................................................ 20
Corporate Governance and integrity ........................ 21
economic impact ............................................................ 23
Advocacy .......................................................................... 27
Community involvement .............................................. 28
On this page:   sunrise at MpC’s refinery in  
Catlettsburg, Ky.
On the cover:   MpC environmental and safety technician sandra smith works with a 
second grader from hager elementary school during a field trip at MpC’s savage Branch Wildlife Reserve in Catlettsburg, Ky. the reserve is one of 17 Wildlife habitat Council certified sites managed by MpC employee volunteers. Read more about these sites on pages 18 and 19. GlossaRY 
Abbreviations, acronyms and terms in this publication
bbl – Barrel
bpcd – Barrels per calendar daybpd – Barrels per dayBtu – British thermal units 
(a measure of heat energy)
CO2e – Carbon dioxide equivalent
DAR – Days Away Rate (an OshA measure)DEI – Designated environmental incidentDHOUP – MpC’s Detroit heavy Oil Upgrade projectDividend –  p er-share quarterly payment to owners 
of a company’s stock
ENERGY STAR –  U.s. ep A program recognizing 
energy efficiency
EPA –  U.s. federal government’s environmental 
protection Agency
GHG – Greenhouse gas
HES&S –  MpC’s health, environment, safety & 
security organization
MPC – Marathon p etroleum Corporation
MV – Marine vessel
MWBE –  Minority or Woman-owned Business 
enterprise
OSHA –  U.s. federal government’s Occupational safety and health Administration
ORIR – OshA Recordable incident Rate
PSE – process safety eventPSM – process safety ManagementTonne – Metric ton (2,204.62 pounds)TRI – t oxic Release inventoryMpC 2011 Citizenship Report     1
Fellow shareholders and neighbors:
it is a privilege and a pleasure 
for me to present Marathon petroleum Corporation’s first annual 
Citizenship Report. since becoming 
an independent, publicly traded company, a key driver of our success has been a long-time commitment to our corporate values and to creating shareholder value.
Our roots in the energy industry reach back 
to the 1880s, and although the industry has experienced dramatic changes in the 125 years since our founding, our commitment to conduct business responsibly continues to guide us.
in this publication, we provide insight into 
performance indicators we consider important, and we illustrate them in ways that shed light on our values: health and safety, environmental stewardship, positive community impact, integrity and an inclusive culture that values diversity. these are our corporate values because they are what we care about, and they are what our friends and neighbors care about.
the 24,000 MpC employees working in our 
refining, pipeline, terminal, transportation and retail operations belong to civic organizations, charitable networks and neighborhood associations. We are elected members of city councils and school boards and are active participants in parent-teacher organizations. We coach Little League teams and volunteer at nursing homes.
in short, we don’t just do business in 
communities; we are part of communities.
this is the root of our commitment to being a 
good corporate citizen and a good neighbor. We see our values in their broader context; our facilities and our people are a part of their communities, and so our commitment to living these values reaches beyond our fence lines.Gary R. HemingerPresident and Chief Executive Officer
our roots in the energy industry reach back to the 
1880s, and although the industry has experienced dramatic changes in the 125 years since our founding, our commitment to conduct business responsibly continues to guide us.
Our commitment also goes beyond regulatory 
requirements in many areas. For example, MpC is a participant in the U.s. Occupational safety and health Administration’s Voluntary protection program, through which we implement processes and procedures that go above and beyond federal regulations. in addition, we were the first refining company in the U.s. to adopt the Responsible Care
® Management system, giving us 
a comprehensive approach to achieve continual improvement in areas aligned with our values.
the world’s need for the products we manufacture 
continues to increase, and MpC is in a position to prosper in the short and long term. Our values will guide us as we leverage the opportunities before us and continue to deliver shareholder value.
As you read this report, it is my hope that you will 
come to a deeper understanding of who we are, and some of the important factors that help make MpC successful. We appreciate your interest in the company of which we are so proud, and we welcome your thoughts as we progress on our journey of continual improvement.
sincerely,
Gary R. heminger
president and Chief executive Officer2    MpC 2011 Citizenship Reportthrough the implementation of this system, 
we take a best-practices approach to health, environment, safety and security processes, integrating risk assessment and risk management into our business and operating planning cycles and decision-making processes.We bolster our management system with performance-based standards that clearly delineate the outcomes we expect of ourselves. We regularly update these standards to reflect legislative or regulatory changes, and to incorporate lessons learned from audits or incident investigations. Continual improvement  is the ongoing objective.
MpC’s commitment to its values is safeguarded 
and driven by various empowered internal organizations, including health, environment, 
safety & security (hes&s); Diversity and 
inclusion; Business integrity and 
Compliance; Community 
Relations; supplier 
Diversity; and internal 
Auditing. MAnAGinG foR  
COntinUAL iMpROVeMent
beCause MPC’s CoMMiTMenT T o iTs CoRe values is a 
PoweRful dRiveR of iTs lonG-TeRM suCCess, we Have 
woven ConTinual iMPRoveMenT inT o THe fabRiC of 
ouR PeRfoRManCe. 
Continual
Improvement
CHECK
Monitor & CorrectDO
Communicate
& ImplementPLAN
Create & Organize
ADJUST
Review & Revisewe use the “Plan – do – Check – adjust” framework, 
aligned with the american Chemistry Council’s 
Responsible Care® Management system. MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     3As a manufacturer and marketer of fuels, our 
business revolves around the safe handling of volatile substances on a constant basis, and our safety protocols are accordingly robust.
MPC recognizes that safety is not a program to be 
implemented on top of its operations, but rather a value that must be woven into the corporate culture MPC employees and contractors carry with them. Whether driving an MPC tanker truck on an interstate highway, piloting a boat on the Mississippi River, conducting a drill at a refinery or working in an office at the corporate headquarters, a commitment to safety is one of our common denominators.
2011 was a point of pride for every MPC 
employee and contractor, as we achieved one of our best-ever personal safety records with an Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Recordable Incident Rate (ORIR) of 0.45 injuries per every 200,000 hours worked. The figure includes employees and contractors, excluding Speedway operations. This compares favorably to the 0.61 rate for 2010 and matches our all-time best of 0.45 achieved in 2009. 
Another key safety metric is the company’s Days 
Away Rate (DAR), which represents the number  of injuries resulting in at least one missed day  of work, measured per 200,000 hours worked.  The 2011 rate of 0.03 for employees and contractors, excluding Speedway, is an all-time low for the company. Speedway finished the year with a record ORIR of 2.96, the 10th year of improvement during the last 11 years, and a  DAR of 1.78.
REfINING SAfETY
MpC’s continued focus on safety yielded excellent 
results as our Refining organization achieved an ORiR of 0.34 in 2011. that’s the lowest ever for the six-plant system and a significant reduction from the 0.61 rate reported in 2010. Our refineries in Garyville, La.; Robinson, ill.; and t exas City, t exas, each set new 
all-time low ORiRs.
the DAR for Refining hit an all-time low of 0.009 
during 2011; for the approximately 21.5 million man-hours worked by employees and contractors, there was only one lost-time event across MpC’s six-plant refining system during the year.
the Detroit heavy Oil Upgrade project (DhOUp) also 
achieved a world-class safety record, with an ORiR of 0.25 during 2011 and a project-to-date rate of 0.17 through year-end. this project-to-date rate represents less than one injury for every million man-hours worked since the construction project began in 2008. in addition, DhOUp finished the year without a single lost-time incident, achieving a DAR of zero.
MpC’s experience has shown that our culture of 
celebrating and advancing the safety of our people as a core value yields excellent operational results. As the company’s Refining organization continues to capture margins through efficient operations, and as DhOUp continues to be on budget and on schedule for startup by the end of 2012, it’s clear that MpC’s investment in keeping people safe results in positive returns.heAL th and sAFetY
one of MPC’s CoRe PRinCiPles is safeGuaRdinG THe 
Heal TH and safeTY of ouR eMPlo Yees, ConTRaCT oRs, 
THe CoMMuniTies wHeRe we aRe PRivileGed T o 
oPeRa Te and THe GeneRal PubliC in THe ManY sT aTes 
wHeRe we ConduCT business.
MPC’s continued focus on safety  
yielded excellent results as our Refining 
organization achieved an oRiR of 0.34 in 2011.Our vision is that every employee goes home at the end of each 
workday just as safe and healthy as when she or he arrived, and 
that our facilities and our people are seen as good neighbors by 
those who live nearby. 
4   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
MPC SAfETY *
 
SPEEDWAY SAfETY * Why it matters
ORiR is a measure widely used in U.s. industry to track 
on-the-job injuries. the ORiR in the tables to the left represent the number of MpC employee and contractor injuries per 200,000 hours of work. the lower the number, the closer we are to achieving our vision of no injuries. similar to the ORiR, the DAR is widely used in U.s. industry, and represents the number of incidents that resulted in a worker having to be away from work for at least one workday, measured per 200,000 hours worked. the DAR is important because our vision is to eliminate all injuries, and an injury that causes a worker to be off the job for a full day or more is generally more severe than other injuries.
How we improve
MpC regularly reviews its injury rates to track not only what types of injuries tend to recur, but also what groups of employees tend to accrue the most injuries. this allows us to continually improve the way we target our safety leadership training, cultural perception surveys, hazard recognition efforts, risk assessments and improvement of our training effectiveness. Because ORiR is the primary measure of safety, we have linked a portion of employee pay to successfully achieving annual goals of top-quartile performance in our ORiR.
MpC achieved an  
ORiR of 0.45 injuries 
per every 200,000 hours worked.  
the figure includes employees and contractors  
and excludes speedway operations.  
the 2011 DAR of 0.03 for employees  
and contractors, excluding speedway,  
is an all-time low for the company.
0.000.100.200.300.400.500.600.700.80
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
MPC OSHA Recordable Incident Rate (ORIR)
MPC Days Away Rate (DAR)0.130.100.080.12
0.030.80
0.50
0.450.61
0.45
0.000.501.001.502.002.503.003.504.00
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Speedway ORIR
Speedway DAR3.96
1.453.343.263.13
2.96
1.431.66 1.711.78
Top: an MPC employee and 
contractors at MPC’s Canton, ohio, refinery. bottom: an MPC truck at 
the Canton terminal.
The Mv Garyville navigates the big sandy River, with 
MPC’s Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery in the background.*Includes contractors; excludes Speedway
* Excludes contractorsMpC 2011 Citizenship Report     5
fATAlITIES
*Includes employees and contractors
Why it matters
in line with its vision of no accidents and no 
injuries, MpC regards any fatality as unacceptable.
How we improve
We diligently strive to avoid fatalities through the same programs we use to reduce our ORiR and DAR.
TIER 1 PROCESS SAfETY EVENTS (PSEs) *012345
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
MPC* (excluding Speedway)
Speedway4
2
11
0 0 0 0
024681012
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007NA910
811Why it matters
tier 1 pses represent the number of times MpC has 
experienced an unplanned or uncontrolled release of a hazardous material from one of its processes. thus, the lower the number of tier 1 pses, the closer we come to our vision of no accidents. tier 1 pses are the most serious pse events. eight of MpC’s facilities – including all six of our refineries – are regulated under the OshA process safety Management (psM) program. Four of our facilities, although not regulated under OshA psM, have voluntarily implemented these standards as part of our commitment to minimize abnormal incidents, including pses.
How we improve
MpC carefully monitors the type of pses that occur and investigates each one to determine what caused them and what improvements can be made to prevent a recurrence. We consider pses important enough that we have linked a portion of employee pay to successfully achieving annual goals of top-quartile performance in our pses. efforts in place or under 
development to achieve best-in-class results include:
	 in-depth reviews of MpC’s psM system
	 P sM audits and trending
	  Development of a companywide fatigue 
management standard
	  Use of multiple layers of protection to 
mitigate process risk
	  Development of an analysis tool that will identify opportunities to further improve existing protections
	   Open communication of process safety advisories to relevant MpC personnel, including causes of incidents, recommendations for improvement and sharing of best practices* Prior-year PSEs have been recalculated to comply with current standards and to exclude assets no longer owned by MPC, including a refinery in St. Paul Park, Minn., which MPC sold in 2010.
left: a speedway store in Columbus, ohio. Right: MPC’s Marine 
Transportation onshore training facility in Catlettsburg, Ky.neither MPC nor speedway  
experienced work-related fatalities in 2011. 
MpC experienced an increase in tier 1 pses  
from 2010 to 2011. t en of the 11 pses  
involved a loss of primary containment,  
two of which led to small fires.  
each Pse is thoroughly investigated 
to determine causes and establish measures  
to avoid recurrence. process safety Advisories  
for each pse are issued to relevant MpC personnel 
to communicate the causes and lessons learned.
6   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
EMPlOYEE WEllNESS ASSESSMENT*
*  Study population includes participants in a yearly survey of eligible 
employees, all of whom  participated in a baseline survey in 2007, 
for ongoing comparison purposes.  Until the spinoff of MPC in 201 1, 
participants included MPC and Marathon Oil Company employees, 
excluding Speedway.
(a) MpC only, excluding speedway.
since 2007 we have had significant  
success in reducing the number of  
health risk factors among employees.  
The number of employees with the  
highest number of health risks  
has gone down by 27 percent.Why it matters
Healthy employees are more satisfied with their 
careers and more productive, and are therefore better 
able to enjoy life at work and at home.
How we improve
MpC’s wellness program, called Well ALL Ways,  provides tools and incentives for employees to  take charge of their health risk factors. Anonymous group results are analyzed and Well ALL Ways is continually adjusted to ensure its programs target needs supported by the data. Well ALL Ways programs include incentives to participate in the wellness assessments, reimbursement for certain exercise  and dietary program expenditures, low- or no-cost health screenings, and health and fitness presentations and advice.
an employee accesses the company’s wellness 
website, Well ALL Ways .05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2011(a)2007
2 or Fewer Health Risks
3-4 Health Risks
5+ Health Risks1,109691907
1,391
633665
1,250
1,01627% reduction  
in the number of 
employees with the 
most health risks[five-year comparisons table of Tier 1 Pses, 2007-2011]
Voluntarily exceeding  requirements
MPC is CoMMiTTed T o MeeTinG oR exCeedinG ReGula ToRY 
RequiReMenTs foR safeTY . 
As part of OshA’s Voluntary protection program (Vpp), we 
have implemented processes and procedures that go above 
and beyond federal regulations, resulting in four of our 
facilities being certified as Vpp star worksites. 
MPC’s vPP star sites include our refineries in Garyville, 
la.; Robinson, ill.; detroit, Mich.; and the headquarters office complex in findlay, ohio. MPC is working toward certification of its refineries in Catlettsburg, Ky.; Texas City, Texas; and Canton, ohio.
we value the safety of everyone who works at our 
facilities, including non-employees. Therefore, we work 
with contractors to encourage them to become part of the vPP. for example, seven resident contractor companies at our Robinson refinery are vPP star certified, and during 2011, refinery safety personnel supported recertification audits of three others, while actively mentoring an additional six. similarly, detroit refinery staff have worked with contractors to certify them with the state of Michigan’s version of osHa ’s vPP.
MPC also lends its expertise in workplace safety to osHa. This is accomplished through osHa ’s special 
Government employee (sGe) program, through which MPC health and safety experts work alongside osHa during vPP on-site evaluations of non-MPC facilities. not only does this program benefit osHa by supplementing its on-site evaluation teams, but it gives industry and government an opportunity to work together and share views and ideas. MPC makes seven sGes available to osHa through this program.
MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     7
Top to bottom: MPC employees 
working safely at the company’s refinery in Canton, ohio; light 
products terminal in Garyville, la.; 
Garyville refinery (two photos); and detroit, Mich., refinery.
MPC employees at a joint job site safety exercise at our Garyville, la., refinery.Implementing a  cultural shift
beCause MPC’s RefininG oPeRa Tions involve THe laRGesT 
nuMbeR of ouR non-ReT ail eMPlo Yees and ConTRaCT oRs, 
THe RefininG oRGaniza Tion Has iMPleMenTed a safeTY 
PRoGRaM T ailoRed T o iTs needs. 
Called safety 1, the program seeks not just to increase 
awareness of safety risks, but to empower each worker to 
perform risk assessment and mitigation for themselves and 
for each other, including supervisors and managers.
The program works by providing employees and contractors 
at every level with the tools to take responsibility for their safety and that of their co-workers. safety 1 training acknowledges that it takes courage to point out someone’s potentially unsafe behavior and uses a “permission and pledge” agreement to help overcome this barrier; workers give each other permission to correct an unsafe behavior at any time and pledge to accept that safety transcends  other concerns.
To emphasize the application of personal accountability 
and responsibility for safety, safety 1 training primarily revolves around practical exercises that give workers the opportunity to learn and apply new skills to reinforce correct behaviors, handle difficult situations, speak to small groups about safety topics and make commitments to working safely every day. by practicing methods of fully recognizing the risks in any situation – even well-known situations – and using a shared vocabulary to communicate risks to one another, workers are able to establish common understandings of safety and how to mitigate risk.due to the success of safety 1 in the Refining organization, other MPC organizations have implemented the program. Three organizations – Terminal, Transport and Rail; Marine Transportation;  and Marathon Pipe line llC – each implemented  safety 1 in 2011, providing training to almost 2,000 employees and contractors at dozens of locations  throughout our areas of operation.  MPC’s headquarters – the  findlay office Complex –  is implementing safety 1 in 2012.
in January 2011, speedway implemented a safety 
program tailored to the unique challenges of the retail environment. Called “Target zero – no one Gets Hurt Today,” the initiative was communicated to all its employees. similar to safety 1, the speedway program is built around a seven-point safety Pledge that encourages employees to take responsibility for their own safety and for the safety of those around them.
8   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
MPC employees at our Garyville, la., refinery tank farm.
left: MPC’s Canton, ohio, rail terminal. Right: an operator at MPC Marine 
Transportation’s Catlettsburg, Ky., dispatch center.through the continued focus and dedication of MpC’s employees, our non-
retail ORiR and DAR have continued to decline. t o take this encouraging 
performance to the next level, we are revising our metrics to continue our drive toward the vision of an injury-free workplace.Measuring  leading  indicators
MPC Has aCHieved an iMPRoved safeTY PeRfoRManCe oveR THe PasT deCade and ReduCed iTs exPosuRes T o a sMall nuMbeR of 
inCidenTs THa T Have beCoMe inCReasinGl Y diffiCul T To TRend.
MpC 2011 Citizenship Report    9
Part of this revision is to measure leading indicators 
as well as lagging indicators. by measuring leading indicators – and acting on the results – we hope to head off even more injuries before they happen.
during 2011, MPC conducted an in-depth evaluation 
of several leading indicators to determine their potential for further reducing our already low injury rates. as a result, 2012 is the first year we will measure leading indicators and report them at the corporate level. leading indicators include risk identification, risk reduction, communication, training and culture. The safety engagement rate associated with risk identification, for example, would measure the number of workers engaged in task safety observations and other related activities. The other leading indicators would track the kind and quality of safety-related interactions among workers, as well as the extent to which safety has become integrated into all facets of operations.
in addition to these new leading indicators, we have 
also implemented a new metric called the MPC safety Performance indicator (sPi), which is a lagging indicator similar to the oRiR and daR, but weighted for severity. because MPC regards safety as one of its core values, in 2012 we will link a portion of employee compensation to successfully achieving annual goals of continual improvement in the sPi.
Top to bottom: Garyville, la., refinery; 
Canton, ohio, rail terminal; Graphic services print shop in findlay, ohio; 
Canton, ohio, light products terminal; 
barge maintenance at Marine Transportation’s Catlettsburg, Ky., maintenance dock.
a barge being cleaned at the MPC Marine Transportation Catlettsburg, Ky., maintenance dock. 
devlin award Certificates are awarded to merchant vessels that 
have operated for two full years or more without a crew member losing a full turn at watch because of an occupational injury. of the four MPC vessels that received the award in 2011, two of them have accrued more than 15 years without a disqualifying injury.After piloting a promising technology at two of its units in 2010, 
the Robinson refinery implemented it facility-wide in 2011 to 
assess its utility when applied broadly.Groundbreaking technology  
serving safety
MPC is ConTinuall Y on THe looKouT foR MeasuRes THa T will 
PRovide addiTional PRo TeCTion T o iTs woRKeRs .
10   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
Marine safety recognition
MPC’s MaRine TRansPoRT aTion oRGaniza Tion sTRives 
TowaRd ConsisTenTl Y safe PeRfoRManCe and Has 
aCHieved siGnifiCanT suCCess in THis aRea.
developed with a global technology services company, the “life safety solution” – a wearable safety monitoring system – detects multiple types of potentially hazardous gas and features a panic button, motion sensor and a GPs mechanism for immediately identifying the location of each worker anywhere in the plant. Given the Robinson refinery’s size – about 1,000 acres of process units, a tank farm and off-site facilities – keeping widely-dispersed employees safe is always a concern.
evaluation of the refinery’s 2011 results with the monitoring 
technology will determine whether it is adaptable to other  
MPC facilities.Top to bottom: Robinson, ill., refinery; 
monitoring the life safety solution system; the Mv Kentucky passes 
downtown Cincinnati, ohio; a Marine 
Transportation training class in Catlettsburg, Ky.; the Mv Kentucky passes through locks near Cincinnati; 
loading a barge at the Catlettsburg 
refinery.
in 2011, four MpC Marine vessels won the Chamber of shipping 
of America’s Jones F. Devlin Certificate for safety. 
employees using the life safety solution monitoring 
system at our Robinson, ill., refinery. 
MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     11As MPC expands and optimizes its operations 
to meet growing energy demand in the U.S. and international markets, we keep in mind our Responsible Care
®-driven vision of no accidents, 
no injuries and no harm to the environment. MPC’s commitment to environmental stewardship is a natural extension of its culture of continual improvement; when refineries, terminals, transportation systems and office complexes  are safe and efficient, they are also environmentally sound.
In 2011, the environmental stewardship metrics 
that MPC reports reflected our ongoing efforts to increase efficiency even as we expand our processing capacities in order to better meet the needs of fuel consumers in the U.S. and in overseas markets. With the expansion of our Garyville, La., refinery completed toward the end of 2009 – as well as many other factors, including global and domestic fuel demand – our crude oil throughput increased from 2009 to 2010, and again in 2011. This increase is reflected in energy consumption, given the energy-intensive nature of the refining business. 
Despite the increases in crude oil throughputs, 
we were able to continue reducing our criteria air pollutant emissions and the volume of waste we recycled has risen significantly over the past few years, while the volume of hazardous waste we dispose of has continued to decline.enViROnMent AL sTewaRdsHiP
MPC eMPlo Yees value Clean aiR, Clean wa TeR and 
Clean land in THe CoMMuniTies wHeRe THeY live 
and woRK; THe CoMP anY RefleCTs THeiR values b Y 
PRoTeCTinG THese faCeTs of ouR lives.
Why it matters
MpC reports total emissions of volatile organic 
compounds, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide and particulate matter. We work to reduce these emissions in compliance with relevant regulations, and toward our objective of protecting  
the health of our employees and their families, friends and neighbors in the communities where our facilities are located. 
How we improve
As a company committed to the Responsible Care vision of no environmental harm, MpC works toward continual improvement of its emissions performance. We evaluate emissions-reduction opportunities for new facility construction and for existing operations. Reduction efforts include cost-effective energy efficiency measures, incident prevention, prudent operations to reduce flaring and use of best control practices.05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,000
2011 2010 2009 2008 200725,176
23,802
21,803 21,696
19,773CRITERIA AIR POllUTANT EMISSIONS 
Tons
From 2007 to 2011, we have reduced  
our total criteria air pollutant emissions by   
more than 20 percent.12   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
MPC’s Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery.0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007NA*2.132.37 2.332.69TOxIC RElEASE INVENTORY (TRI) 
Million pounds
* 201 1 data is not available, due to the timing of  
required regulatory reporting.
the 2010 tRi reflects the first full year of  
operation at MpC’s then-newly expanded  
Garyville, La., refinery, several maintenance events 
that rely on the off-site disposal of catalyst and liquid 
streams, and improved data from our  
new flare monitoring  
implementation project.
Why it matters
the tRi includes releases of toxic materials to air, water and 
land, as well as off-site disposal. Releases associated with sending materials off-site for recycling, energy recovery and other forms of further treatment – which are required to be reported to the ep A – are not included in the tRi 
data presented here. Consistent with our commitment to Responsible Care, MpC tracks the tRi as part of our effort to continually move toward our vision of no harm to the environment.
How we improve
in order to ensure the most accurate measures, MpC is pursuing further standardization of our methodologies for tracking the tRi, which will contribute to more targeted strategies for tRi reduction. Although we consistently seek to reduce emissions of all kinds throughout our systems, regulatory changes will require that we report additional compounds as part of the tRi metric in future years, thereby likely increasing future tRi numbers.GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS 
Million tonnes CO2e
   * GHG emissions decreased from 2010 to 201 1, primarily due to MPC’s sale  
of  its St. Paul Park, Minn., refinery and its Neal, W. Va., maleic anhydride 
plant in late 2010.
  (a) Direct emissions are those associated with the combustion  
of hydrocarbons, venting sources and fugitive sources within  
MPC-operated facilities.
   (b) Indirect emissions are primarily those associated with the  use of purchased hydrogen, electricity and steam at MPC facilities.024681012
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Direct emissions(a)
Indirect emissions(b)10.4 10.1 10.210.7
3.5 3.5 3.54.010.1*
3.9*
By the end of 2011, the U.s. environmental 
protection Agency had recognized  
MPC refineries with 21 of the 26  
eneRGY sT aR designations  
it has awarded to refineries since 2005.
Why it matters
GhG emissions have come under scrutiny at the federal and 
state levels, and legislation and regulations have accordingly sought to address GhG emissions. MpC reports how much GhG is emitted in terms of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2e).
How we improve
MpC works to implement processes and install equipment that increase energy efficiency and avoid increasing emissions whenever possible. Our efforts have yielded positive results. in our Refining organization – by far the largest source of our GhG emissions – our GhG emissions intensity has gone down over recent reporting periods. in 2009, our Refining direct emissions were 8.4 tonnes CO
2e per barrel of daily throughput, 
while in 2010 that figure was down to 7.5 tonnes, and in 2011 it was 7.3 tonnes.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     13
Why it matters
in addition to the cost-advantages of reducing the amount 
of waste MpC must dispose of, less waste means higher operational efficiency and less material sent to landfills  and hazardous waste disposal sites.
How we improve
All MpC facilities have pollution prevention and waste minimization programs in place, whether it’s a refinery or an office building. these plans are designed to identify opportunities to reduce waste generation and drive continual improvement in waste disposal activities.050100150200250300350400
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Non-hazardous, non-recycled waste
Waste recycled
Hazardous waste360383
262 267
97109 113147
14 13 10 6282
201
6WASTE GENERATION 
Thousand tons
MpC waste disposal volume has   
decreased over the  
last several years.  
hazardous waste has declined from  
more than 14,000 tons in 2007 to  
about 6,000 tons in 2011,  
while recycling has increased  
during that same period.Why it matters
As a manufacturing company, MpC is always seeking ways to 
increase operational efficiency and reduce costs. energy use is a reliable measure of efficiency. Reduced energy use also allows us to reduce emissions and conserve natural resources.
How we improve
Because of the cost and environmental benefits inherent in reducing energy consumption, MpC has an energy efficiency t eam in place to identify efficiency opportunities 
and recommend measures to save energy. We implement process improvements and technological solutions that increase energy efficiency across all of our operations. Just two examples include installation of energy-efficient lighting at retail and office locations, and ensuring that our plant expansions – such as those at our Detroit, Mich., and Garyville, La., refineries – incorporate the most advanced energy-efficient technologies appropriate to our needs. By the end of 2011, the U.s. environmental protection Agency had recognized MpC refineries with 21 of the 26 eneRGY st AR 
designations it has awarded to refineries since 2005.050100150200250
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007208203 203221
184ENERGY USE
Trillion Btu
MpC’s energy use increased from 2009 to 2010  
primarily due to completion of a major expansion project  
at our Garyville, La., refinery in late 2009.  
our energy use dropped  
from 2010 to 2011  
due primarily to the sale of the st. p aul park, Minn.,  
refinery and related assets in late 2010.14   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
[five-year comparisons table, 2007-2011]
Why it matters
Consistent with our vision of no accidents, no injuries 
and no harm to the environment, oil spills must be prevented because of their negative impact on each of these three components of our vision. therefore, we track spills both in terms of the number of incidents and their severity, as indicated by the volume spilled. For the purposes of this metric, we include crude oil and refined product in our spill measurements.
How we improve
MpC prevents spills in a variety of ways, including intensive training of personnel, detailed procedures for critical tasks, rigorous preventive maintenance, equipment inspections and various mechanical safeguards. When a spill occurs, it is immediately addressed by highly trained emergency responders, and we conduct an investigation into its causes to determine steps that can prevent future occurrences.02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Volume of Spills - barrels (bbl)
Number of Spills01020304050607080
13255677
40
1178,742
1,603
52111,172OIl SPIllS
Why it matters
Although oil spills, toxic releases, air emissions and 
other metrics are reported to regulatory agencies, MpC established the Dei metric in order to combine various factors that might not otherwise be measured together, and use them to track our progress toward our vision of no harm to the environment. thus,  Deis include releases to the environment, permit exceedances and any agency enforcement action, whether federal, state or local.
How we improve
Because the Dei metric is an aggregation of other measures we report, the programs we have in place to work toward our vision of no accidents, no injuries and no harm to the environment all contribute to the reduction of Deis. We consider this measure so important that we have linked a portion of employee compensation to successfully achieving annual goals of continual improvement in our Dei numbers.01020304050607080
2011 2010(a)2009 2008 200775 7673
3441TIER 3 AND TIER 4 DESIGNATED  
ENVIRONMENTAl INCIDENTS (DEIs)*
* The DEI is a measure adopted by MPC to capture several categories 
simultaneously. DEIs include releases to the environment (including 
to air, land or water), permit exceedances and agency enforcement 
actions. As such, DEIs include some metrics reported under other categories in this section, as well as metrics not reported elsewhere in this publication. Tier 3 and 4 DEIs are the most severe type of DEIs.
(a) 2010 is the first year MPC began using a revised set of criteria to define a DEI.
While the number of oil spills decreased 
by almost 50 percent from 2010 to 2011,  
the volume increased, primarily due to six spills  
that exceeded 100 bbl each, collectively comprising  
95 percent of MpC’s total spill volume in 2011.  
eighteen of the 40 spills reached navigable water or 
an off-site location. the largest single spill in 2011  
was at a stockbridge, Mich., pipeline site, where 
approximately 9,000 bbl were released. in 2011,  
there were no mainline releases along MpC pipelines.Of the 41 tier 3 and tier 4 Deis,  
almost three-quarters (74 percent) were 
attributable to a spill or release, with a 
majority of these due  
to a release to air.  
permit exceedances accounted for 16 percent 
of the Deis, with a majority of these being 
air permit exceedances. the final 10 percent 
of tier 3 and tier 4 Deis consisted of agency 
enforcement actions, primarily at the  
state and local level.
a training exercise on the ohio River.Energy efficiency
in 2011, fouR MPC RefineRies eaRned THe  
u.s. enviRonMenT al PRo TeCTion aGenCY’s (eP a)  
eneRGY sT aR desiGna Tion. 
to attain ep A eneRGY st AR status, applicants must meet 
two stringent requirements: first, the site must perform in 
the top quartile for energy efficiency, and second, it must 
have no unresolved environmental compliance actions from 
either state or federal regulators.
The MPC plants that earned the designation in 2011 were 
our refineries in Canton, ohio; detroit, Mich.; Garyville, la.; and Texas City, Texas. only one other u.s. refiner received the 2011 recognition. by year-end 2011, eP a 
eneRGY sT aR recognitions had been issued to refineries 
only 26 times in the u.s. since the award’s inception in 2005. MPC has received 21 of those 26 awards.
Marine environmental awards
MPC’s CoMMiTMenT T o oPeRa Tional exCellenCe and 
enviRonMenT al sTewaRdsHiP is based on ouR values. 
To be eligible for the Csa environmental achievement award, vessels must have operated for at least two years with no reportable spills, no u.s. Coast Guard or port state citations for marine pollution violations, and no violations of state and local pollution regulations.
Marine Transportation also has won five william M. 
benkert Marine environmental Protection awards from the u.s. Coast Guard since 2002. The benkert awards recognize outstanding achievements in marine environmental protection that go beyond mere compliance with industrial and regulatory standards.Our Marine t ransportation organization has been recognized 
for excellence in this area by the Chamber of shipping 
of America (CsA), which presented its environmental 
Achievement Award to 12 MpC Marine vessels in 2011.
MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     15
Maintaining response capabilities
MPC is CoMMiTTed T o ConTinuall Y sTRivinG T owaRd no 
aCCidenTs, no inJuRies and no HaRM T o THe enviRonMenT , 
buT we aRe also PReP aRed T o ResPond T o inCidenTs 
quiCKl Y and THoRouGHl Y wHen THeY T aKe PlaCe. 
the company’s emergency preparedness Group (epG) is 
responsible for maintaining our readiness to respond, which 
it does by establishing clear processes and procedures for how incidents are handled based on their severity and type, training responders throughout the company and conducting 
regular drills that bring all the components together.
ePG conducts dozens of drills each year to exercise 
various aspects of the company’s emergency response capabilities. Many of these bring together our own employees with representatives of federal, state and local agencies. These drills provide an opportunity for government stakeholders and MPC emergency responders to interact cooperatively in the context of our incident command structure, further enhancing our working relationships with the agencies.
ePG also coordinates one major drill each year that 
brings together several company organizations to practice responding to a major incident. These major drills, usually lasting three days, include participation by representatives of the federal government – typically the u.s. Coast Guard – as well as state and local agencies and officials. in 2011, the major drill was conducted in florida and louisiana simultaneously to determine the company’s ability to accommodate two separate, major incidents.
The Mv Kentucky on the ohio River.
left: The Mv Louisville on the ohio River. Right: an MPC 
employee at a dock in Catlettsburg, Ky.preventing  pipeline releases
one of THe MosT iMPoRT anT faCeTs of PiPeline safeTY 
is inTeGRiTY ManaGeMenT , and MPC MainT ains a 
RiGoRous PRoGRaM T o MainT ain THe safeTY  
of iTs PiPelines. 
We use multiple inspection tools to assess pipeline integrity, 
checking for metal loss, cracking and third-party damage, 
depending on the unique needs of each segment. 
inspections continuously evaluate pipelines such  
that every mile of our regulated pipelines is inspected  
on no longer than a five-year rotation – an average  of approximately 1,200 miles of pipeline inspected  
each year.
in 2011, MPC conducted integrity assessments on 
dozens of pipeline segments totaling more than 1,000 miles. because some segments were assessed multiple times with different technologies and methods, the total number of assessment miles came to more than 5,000. The pipeline assessments were followed by an evaluation and investigation process, resulting in pre-emptive repairs and other remedial actions that are designed  
to address issues before they become problems.ethanol
MPC Holds equiTY inTeResTs in Two 
MidwesT eTHanol PlanTs T o HelP 
PRovide eConoMiCall Y PRiCed 
eTHanol foR iTs blendinG needs.
we hold a 50 percent equity 
interest in an ethanol plant in 
Greenville, ohio, and a 36 percent 
equity interest in a Clymers, ind., plant. The plants have a combined nameplate production capacity of 220 million gallons per year.
The Greenville plant began selling carbon dioxide, and 
both plants began selling e-85 fuel (up to 85 percent ethanol). w e continued evaluating other possibilities 
for the plants, including biodiesel production capability and siting an algae plant nearby that would produce biodiesel, leveraging the carbon dioxide stream produced by the ethanol distillation process. w e also worked 
with a global biotech firm to explore the possibility of producing cellulosic ethanol from corn cobs and corn stover at the Clymers and Greenville plants. The evaluation is ongoing
.in 2011, the profitability of both plants was enhanced by 
adding corn oil separation technology. 
16   MpC Citizenship Report
left: a pipeline right of way. Right: an MPC survey team. bottom: an 
operations analyst at the Marathon Pipe line operations Control Center in findlay, ohio.
left: a lab technician at the Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery lab. Right: an ethanol plant in Greenville, ohio, in which MPC holds an equity interest.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     17
Other  alternative fuels
MPC continued evaluations during 2011 with 
various partners, both formal and informal, 
toward establishing alternative fuels sources:
   we have been in discussions with developers  
in ohio, florida, iowa and California to 
determine the potential of algae-based fuel.  at a research and development facility at our refinery in Catlettsburg, Ky., we are testing algae oils to determine their suitability as a transportation fuel.
   we are exploring the use of municipal solid 
waste as a potential source of ethanol or cellulosic diesel, and we are working with  two Midwest-based companies to evaluate  the possibilities.
   in collaboration with an ohio-based company, 
we are evaluating the potential for pyrolysis technology to contribute meaningfully to our alternative fuels slate. Pyrolysis is a process by which biomass or other substances are heated in the absence of oxygen to produce fuels.solar  power
The 5,100 panels will be a combination of first- and second-generation solar technology, and all power generated by the array will be donated to the city.in an effort to gather information about the technology, 
operations and potential utility of solar power to MpC 
operations, we signed an agreement with the city of Findlay, 
Ohio, in 2011 to install a 1-megawatt capacity solar array at the city’s Water p ollution Control Center.
employees conduct product testing 
at the Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery lab.left: MPC engineers discuss the design of an MPC solar array in findlay, ohio. below: The array under construction.18   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
These habitat sites are certified as either  Wildlife at Work  or 
Corporate Lands for Learning  sites, and in some cases both. The  
Wildlife at Work  program provides a structure for cooperative 
efforts between management, employees and community 
members to create, conserve and restore wildlife habitats on 
corporate lands. Corporate Lands for Learning  is a certification 
program that gives us a framework for opening our habitats to 
members of the community for educational purposes.Wildlife habitat Council  certified sites
MPC aCTivel Y PRoMo Tes enviRonMenT al sTewaRdsHiP 
bY ManaGinG CeRTified wildlife HabiT aT CounCil siTes 
in ManY oPeRa Tional aReas.
Garyville, la., refinery property
 Acres managed for wildlife: 450
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 2001
Savage Branch Wildlife Reserve, Catlettsburg, Ky.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 360
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 1994, and 
 Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 1999
Big Spring, Ky.  
   This site is unique in that the land is not owned by MPC, although 
MPC has a right of way for an underground pipeline through the 
property. The property, including the right of way, is managed for wildlife habitat cooperatively between MPC and the landowner.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 203
 
Wildlife at Work  certified since 2001
Martinsville Tank farm, Martinsville, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 151
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 1999, and  
 Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2008
Palestine Neil Pit, Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 80
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 2006, and  
 Corporate Lands for Learning certified since 2008MPC’s neil Pit habitat near Robinson, ill.
MpC volunteers – often in collaboration with other local 
community organizations – actively manage these 17 sites, 
which include more than 1,400 acres. MpC employees devote 
their time to removing invasive plant species, planting 
native species, building nest boxes for native birds and 
bats, monitoring wildlife, educating schoolchildren on the 
importance of the habitats and much more.
wildlife habitat on the Garyville, la., refinery property.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     19
 lincoln Trail College and Palestine High School Nature Habitat, Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 50
  Wildlife at Work  certified since 2010. MPC also makes the property 
available to students and local citizens for various learning and 
activity opportunities.
Speedway Corporate Office Complex, Enon, Ohio
 Acres managed for wildlife: 42
  Wildlife at Work  certified since 1999
Washington Park, Robinson, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 31
  Wildlife at Work and Corporate Lands for Learning  certified 
since 2005. Local schools use the habitat for various educational programs, and signage along the nature trail provides students 
and other community members information about butterflies, local trees and trail safety.
Kuttawa Asphalt Terminal, Kuttawa, Ky.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 20
  Wildlife at Work  certified since 2004
Huntington light Product Terminal, Huntington, Ind.
 Acres managed for wildlife 8
   Wildlife at Work  certified since 2011Cane Run Asphalt Terminal, louisville, Ky.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 5
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 1999
Mt. Vernon Asphalt Terminal, Mt. Vernon, Ind.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 5
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 2009
St. Elmo Asphalt Terminal, St. Elmo, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 4
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 2011
Hutsonville School Nature Habitat, Hutsonville, Ill.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 3
  Wildlife at Work  since 2008, and Corporate Lands for Learning  
certified since 2009. Various Hutsonville School District educational 
programs take advantage of the habitat.
former Old Dutch Refinery, Muskegon, Mich.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 1
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 2011
Nashville Asphalt Terminal, Nashville, Tenn.
 Acres managed for wildlife: 1
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 2007
findlay Office Complex, findlay, Ohio
 Acres managed for wildlife: <1 
 Wildlife at Work  certified since 2000
The butterfly Garden at MPC’s 
headquarters office complex in findlay, ohio.
lincoln Trail College Habitat in Robinson, ill.
left to right: wildlife scenes from MPC habitats in Robinson, ill.; Catlettsburg, Ky.; Garyville, la.; and Robinson, ill.20   MpC 2011 Citizenship ReportOUR peOpLe
THe 24,000 eMPlo Yees of MPC aRe THe HeaRT and soul 
of ouR suCCess. 
0510152025
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Percent minorities (excluding Speedway)
Percent minorities (Speedway)7.2 7.48.39.08.220.219.618.6
16.117.7
01020304050607080
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Percent women (excluding Speedway)
Percent women (Speedway)19.6
16.2 17.0 18.221.162.6 62.0 61.9 62.163.6
Why it matters
During more than a century of operation, we have seen how 
different life experiences enrich the workplace with varied perspectives, novel problem-solving strategies and unique approaches to meeting customer needs. We believe a corporate culture of diversity and inclusion makes us a stronger employer and a stronger competitor.
How we improve
MpC’s commitment to diversity and inclusion is driven by the highest levels of management. it is led by the executive Diversity Officers’ Committee, which is charged with championing the policies and programs that continue to advance MpC’s inclusive work environment. We also have a Diversity Office based at MpC’s headquarters in Findlay, Ohio, and an additional office at speedway’s headquarters in enon, Ohio. Diversity t eams are active 
at each major MpC location.Whether they’re applying to work at a convenience 
store, at the corporate headquarters, at a refinery or on a marine vessel, candidates undergo a rigorous evaluation process before they’re hired. Once they become a part of our company, we provide them the opportunity to contribute at their highest potential, and to have their efforts recognized and appreciated throughout their careers with us.
One of our strengths – and one of the factors we 
consider a corporate value – is our commitment to diversity and inclusion. Part of MPC’s focus on diversity and inclusion is to ensure that all employees are aware of the benefits inherent in an environment of inclusion and respect. We provide ongoing opportunities for training and education – some required and some voluntary – through workshops, online training and seminars.
Toward our goal of creating an environment 
where all employees can maximize their talents and contributions, we actively seek to nurture and recruit the best candidates from diverse backgrounds to ensure that we continue to reap the benefits of inclusion. Our recruiting strategy includes partnerships with minority-focused educational and professional organizations and institutions, and also a commitment to ensure that our definition of diversity extends beyond surface details. We believe that a truly diverse workforce includes not just those differences that are visible and external, but also the diversity of thought, ideas and opinions that promote creativity and capitalize on differing points of view.We have world-class assets – refineries, terminals, pipelines, 
barges, trucks, convenience stores and much more – but our 
dedication to recruiting and retaining the best people  
is what enables us to make the most of those assets. 
MINORITIES IN THE WORKfORCE
WOMEN IN THE WORKfORCE
left: a Marathon Pipe line strategy conference. Right: MPC recruiters.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     21
CORpORA te GOVeRnAnCe and 
inteGRitY
MPC’s CoMMiTMenT T o business eTHiCs and inTeGRiTY is 
evidenT in ouR CoRPoRa Te GoveRnanCe fRaMewoRK,  
wHiCH PRoMo Tes aCCounT abiliTY and PRovides  
TRansP aRenCY T o invesT oRs, eMPlo Yees, neiGHboRs  
and o THeR inTeResTed sT aKeHoldeRs.
In addition to promoting accountability through 
our Corporate Governance Principles and the Code of Business Conduct, we also adhere to an ethic of transparency, providing a significant amount of information to the public through our Proxy Statement, Annual Report and other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, which are available on our website and via regular mail upon request. These documents provide details on proposals before the board, executive and director compensation, and  in-depth descriptions and discussions of MPC’s assets, subsidiaries, affiliations with other companies, earnings, expenses and many of the  risks inherent in our business.
Our board of directors is guided by our Corporate Governance Principles, which we post on our website and make available to anyone interested. The principles cover areas such as the roles and responsibilities of the board, qualifications for prospective members and how they are to be elected, what constitutes a conflict of interest, how board members are compensated and other facets of sound governance.
Just as the MPC board of directors is governed by a 
clear set of principles, MPC employees and officers are held to high standards of business conduct. The company’s Code of Business Conduct is required reading and the subject of regular training for all salaried employees, except at Speedway, where it is required for all store managers and non-store employees. MPC’s Business Integrity and Compliance office is charged with implementing the Code of Business Conduct through training, communication and administration of an Integrity Helpline, which provides employees, business partners and other stakeholders an anonymous means of reporting suspected violations of the Code.
MPC board of directors Chairman Thomas J. usher.22   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND 
COMPlIANCE CASES*
* Includes allegations, inquiries and other contacts entered into MPC’s Business 
Compliance and Integrity case management system. Because several functions 
prior to the spinoff of MPC on June 30, 201 1, were shared by Marathon Oil 
Corporation’s upstream and downstream segments, these numbers are approximate to account for the vagaries associated with clearly designating  some employees as belonging to the downstream segment (which became  
MPC after the spinoff in mid-201 1) or the upstream segment (which remained  
Marathon Oil Corporation).
Why it matters
An important prerequisite for an ethical business 
culture is widespread awareness of our Code of Business Conduct. Over the past few years, MpC has increased awareness of business integrity issues among employees through communications and training. As a result, the number of reports received and entered into the Business integrity and Compliance case management system has increased. Over the reporting years, allegations have decreased as a percentage of the total reports, while the percentage of inquiries has increased. these numbers indicate that employees are proactively contacting Business integrity and Compliance to ensure their actions are consistent with the Code of Business Conduct to avoid placing themselves, or the company, at risk.
How we improve
MpC’s Code of Business Conduct is the subject of mandatory training for all Marathon p etroleum 
employees and for speedway store managers and all non-store employees. in addition to familiarizing employees with specific restrictions and courses of action, the training provides realistic scenarios illustrating various aspects of the Code of Business Conduct. An important principle of the Code of Business Conduct, and a valuable message included in all mandatory training, is an employee’s right and obligation to report unethical or illegal behavior with complete anonymity and without fear of reprisal. During 2010 and 2011, approximately 8,500 MpC employees completed the ethics training.INDEPENDENT BOARD MEMBERS
 2011: 90 percent
Why it matters
During 2011, MpC’s board of directors consisted of  nine independent members, as defined by our Corporate Governance principles, and our president and chief executive officer. the board is charged with affirmatively determining whether a director is independent by taking into consideration his or her relationship with MpC, which could include commercial, industrial, banking, consulting, legal, charitable, familial or other relationships. We value having a majority of independent board members in order to ensure that decisions are made in the best interests of the corporation as a whole, and of its shareholders.
How we improve
We are committed to ensuring that those who have a stake in MpC are informed about the company’s board of directors, and will continue to report the proportion of independent board members as it is presented in this publication. 050100150200250300
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007NA NA260275300
MPC officers and members of the 
board of directors address and meet with shareholders.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     23
Investors
After only one full quarter of operating as an 
independent company, our board of directors increased the quarterly dividend we pay to shareholders by 25 percent, intentionally establishing MpC as a company focused on sharing our success with those who invest in our future.
similarly, MpC’s board also authorized a share buy-
back of up to $2 billion, which not only returns that amount of capital to shareholders, but also increases the value of remaining shares.
Capital expenditures
Refining and marketing are capital-intensive business activities, and as such, MpC’s operations generate an enormous amount of economic activity. Construction of new facilities and upgrading existing plants require skilled workers and large purchases of materials and services; our 2011 capital expenditures amounted to more than $1.3 billion, and our total for the five years ended Dec. 31, 2011, is almost $9.7 billion.eCOnOMiC  iMPaCT
as MPC suCCeeds, THe PRosPeRiTY we CRea Te sPReads 
widel Y THRouGHouT THe eConoMY , PosiTivel Y iMP aCTinG 
ouR ManY sHaReHoldeRs, business P aRTneRs, eMPlo Yees 
and neiGHboRs.
Payroll and procurement
Although our capital expenditures are significant, they are dwarfed by the amount of money MpC injects into the economy in order to keep its operations running smoothly and efficiently every day. For example, our investment in recruiting and retaining top-notch employees includes competitive compensation: our payroll was more than $1.1 billion in 2011. Our five-year total for payroll expenditures amounts to $5.4 billion through year-end 2011.
in addition to our investment in people, MpC’s 
operations require purchases of thousands of goods and services on a daily basis. From the crude oil and other feedstocks that we process into fuels, to office furniture and computers, to electricity and communications services, our procurement expenditures amounted to more than $75 billion in 2011. Our five-year total adds up to more than $300 billion spent with thousands of businesses.
Taxes
At the same time, our operations generate significant tax revenue for federal, state and local governments. income taxes on MpC’s 2011 earnings amounted to more than $1.3 billion for these levels of government, and the fuels we sold generated another $5.1 billion in consumer excise taxes, which we are required to collect from customers and remit to the federal and state governments. MpC also pays other taxes and fees to federal, state and local government entities.
a Marathon sign is installed at a newly branded station 
in Kentucky.24   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
DIVIDENDS PAID
Second Half 2011: $160 million
Why it matters
paying dividends is one of the primary ways we 
return capital to our shareholders, and therefore is a 
factor that investors weigh when deciding whether to purchase MpC stock. We regard stockholders as investors in our future, and as such, we carefully consider how to share our success with them.
How we improve
MpC is committed to returning capital to shareholders in a way that balances our need for liquidity and our desire to share our financial success with shareholders. After only one full quarter of operating as an independent company, MpC’s board of directors increased the company’s dividend by 25 percent. the dividend, as well as other methods of returning capital to shareholders, will be regularly evaluated by the board to optimize its balance.
COMPANY OWNERSHIP
MPC is owned by its shareholders, which include a broad range of investors. MPC shareholders are individuals as well as large and small institutions such as mutual funds, pension funds, banks, insurance companies, endowment funds and others. Directors and executive officers of MPC, on a combined basis, own less than one percent of MPC stock.*
Why it matters
We conduct our business for the benefit of all those who own MpC, and we believe that our many stakeholder groups should be informed about our ownership.
How we improve
We are committed to transparency and will continue to report on our ownership, including the level of ownership by MpC directors and executive officers.
*  information regarding the ownership of MpC stock by our directors and 
executive officers may be found under the heading “security Ownership 
of Directors and executive Officers” in our proxy statement for the 2012 
Annual Meeting of shareholders, as filed with the securities and exchange Commission.05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2011 2010 2009 2008 20071,6402,954
2,579
1,1661,312CAPITAl ExPENDITURES
Millions of Dollars
Why it matters
MpC’s capital expenditures represent major investments 
in our ability to remain competitive, and also represent large injections of capital into communities where these investments are taking place. these typically take the form of workers hired, materials procured, services contracted and more.
How we improve
Our capital expenditures fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including how many strategic investments we are making in our existing assets and whether we are acquiring additional assets, such as the convenience stores we purchased in 2011 to integrate into our seven-state speedway retail network. We are committed to ensuring that shareholders, employees and neighbors of our many facilities are aware of our capital expenditures by continuing to report these numbers as they are presented in this publication.
above: Construction on the detroit Heavy oil upgrade Project. 
below: MPC officers and members of the board of directors after the company’s bell-ringing at the new York stock exchange.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     25
PAYROll*
Millions of Dollars
*Federal Wage Base reported on employees’ W-2 for the years indicated.
Why it matters
MpC is committed to recruiting and retaining the best 
workers available, and offers a compensation package that includes competitive pay as a primary component. Our payroll amount also represents a significant investment in the communities where our employees live and work, given the businesses they patronize for the goods and services of their daily lives.
How we improve
We continually evaluate our compensation relative to our competitors and the industries from which we draw our people. TOTAl ExPENDITURES*
Billions of Dollars
*Includes capital expenditure items and payroll. 
Why it matters
From crude oil to valves, and from advertising to employee benefits, MpC spends billions of dollars each month to keep the business operating effectively. We report this amount because we believe our stakeholders – shareholders, customers, neighbors and employees – should have an idea of the financial resources required to run our business. We also believe it’s important to illustrate that when MpC is successful and thriving, it results in a significant multiplier effect in the broader economy.
How we improve
MpC works to minimize its expenses responsibly within the framework of its operational requirements. however, the refining and marketing business typically requires significant expenditures on an ongoing basis to remain competitive in terms of safety, technology, security, energy efficiency, operational expertise and many other categories.01020304050607080
2011 2010 2009 2008 200753.666.4
47.662.876.3
02004006008001,0001,200
2011 2010 2009 2008 20071,0321,0641,115 1,119 1,106
left: The Garyville, la., refinery. below: a speedway store in Columbus, ohio.26   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
PROCUREMENT SPENDING WITH MWBEs*
Millions of Dollars
* Includes discretionary and non-discretionary spending with minority- 
and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs). MWBE spending 
amounts are included in the Total Expenditures amounts (also reported 
in this section), so these amounts are a subset of, and not in addition to, the Total Expenditures.
Why it matters
MpC is committed to building a diverse base of 
suppliers that reflect the communities to which we belong. this not only strengthens the communities where our employees live and work, but also allows us to benefit from the business advantages that come from a broader base of competitive suppliers – the innovative solutions and new perspectives that emerge from varied backgrounds. t oward achieving this goal, 
we measure the amount of procurement spending with minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBes) as one indicator of our supplier diversity.
How we improve
A supplier diversity manager in MpC’s Global procurement organization oversees the company’s commitment to ensuring a diverse base of suppliers. in addition to a network of internal supplier diversity advocates within procurement and various other organizations throughout the company, we maintain a web-based portal for MWBes to register as potential 
suppliers. this connects them to an online tool that we use to solicit bids from registered suppliers. We work with specialized agencies – such as the national Minority supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business enterprise national Council and the U.s. small Business Administration – to certify businesses as MWBes.03006009001,2001,500
2011 2010 2009 2008 20072366701,164
4001,330
0123456
2011 2010 2009 2008 20075.2 5.14.95.2 5.1INCOME TAx ExPENSES 
Millions of Dollars
Why it matters
When MpC prospers, the federal and state 
governments, and the towns, cities, counties and parishes where MpC facilities operate, benefit from revenues for their priorities. 
How we improve
MpC is committed to ensuring transparency in the amount of its income tax expenses, as presented in this publication.
CONSUMER ExCISE TAxES REMITTED 
Billions of Dollars
Why it matters
MpC is required by law to collect state and federal excise taxes on fuels we sell to consumers, and remit these taxes to the relevant government entities. We report this amount because it represents a significant portion of the price consumers pay for their fuel; as of January 2012, state and federal excise taxes averaged about $0.49 per gallon of gasoline, according to the American p etroleum institute.
How we improve
We are committed to ensuring transparency in the amount of excise tax we collect from consumers and remit to the federal and state governments, as presented in this publication.050100150200250300350400
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007NA NA372
179258
left: a worker at everbrite, an Mwbe that manufactures most Marathon 
brand signage. Right: an everbrite employee receives an MPC supplier award.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     27
ADVOCACY
At the same time, most lawmakers and many 
regulators are not experts on our complex business, and often are unaware of the negative effects that even well-intentioned legislation or rules can have on  
the millions of people who rely every day on the  fuels we produce.
Particularly in recent years, we have seen legislative 
and regulatory proposals introduced that threaten to adversely affect MPC and the industry as a whole. MPC advocates for its own corporate interests and for those of the industry, with three areas of focus: maintaining a strong refining and marketing industry in our nation, continuing to meet the energy needs of consumers at competitive prices, and protecting the value of our shareholders’ investments. For the same reasons, MPC contributes campaign funds, where allowed, to candidates who have expressed policy positions that are consistent with our industry’s and our company’s needs, regardless of their political affiliation.
Similarly, the MPC Employees  
Political Action Committee (MPAC) provides eligible employees the opportunity to pool their resources to support candidates that support the company and industry in which they work. MPAC is governed and managed by a board of directors representing a cross-section of MPC employees.Industry leadership
As part of our efforts to protect shareholders’ 
interests and efficiently provide our customers with the products they need, MpC actively participates in coalitions, trade associations and other organizations that advocate for issues critical to our success. Dozens of MpC professionals and executives participate in federal and state organizations. Our participation in these organizations enables us to pool our expertise with that of others facing similar challenges. some of these groups are:
 
 American p etroleum institute
   American Fuel & p etrochemical 
Manufacturers
  American Chemistry Council
   national Association of Convenience 
stores
   siGMA (formerly the society of independent Gasoline Marketers of America)
   petroleum Marketers Association of 
America
  Association of Oil pipe Lines
  independent Liquid t ransport Association
  national Association of Manufacturers
  U.s. and state chambers of commerce
  state petroleum associations
MpC also contributes its expertise to governmental 
and non-governmental entities involved in setting standards and recommended practices for the refining, marketing and pipeline industries in the areas of fire protection, pipeline safety, security and many others.MPC’s business – the refining, transPortation 
and Marketing of fuels – is heavily regulated by 
federal, state and loCal governMent bodies.
As a result, what happens in Washington, D.C., and the 
legislatures of the states where we do business, has the 
potential to significantly affect our ability to meet market 
needs for reliable, affordable fuels. 
u.s. House speaker John 
boehner (right) with MPC President and Ceo Gary 
Heminger at an MPC 
Congressional reception in washington, d.C.28   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
MPC employees’ generosity is also the basis 
for the company’s matching programs. For example, the company provides a cash donation to qualified charitable organizations for which an employee volunteers at least 24 hours during a calendar year. The company also will match employee donations to educational institutions and the United Way during its campaigns.
In addition, MPC gives generously to art, 
cultural and educational institutions, civic and community causes, health and human services and environmental efforts. Some of the beneficiaries are in the communities where MPC operates – such as Habitat for Humanity of Hancock County, Ohio, or the East St. John Parish Elementary School in Louisiana – while others are organizations that serve the nation as a whole – like the American Heart Association or Boy Scouts of America.
U
nited Way: in order 
to leverage MpC 
employees’ generosity, the company matches part of their contributions to the United Way in all of the company’s major operational areas. each year’s matching donation is awarded during the first quarter of the following calendar year, so MpC’s 2011 contributions to the various United Way organizations matched donations made or pledged during 2010.
the 2011 MpC match amounted to almost $679,000. 
When added to the employees’ donations of about $1.1 million, United Way agencies in nine major operating areas received almost $1.8 million to benefit their programs.COMMUnitY involveMenT
MPC’s 24,000 eMPlo Yees CaRe abouT THeiR fRiends, 
neiGHboRs, Co-woRKeRs and THe CoMMuniTies wHeRe THeY 
live and woRK, and THe CoMP anY RefleCTs THeiR values.
That’s why MPC has partnered with United Way corporate-
wide in an effort to maximize the positive impacts its 
employees can have on their communities.Speedway and Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals: As an integral part of MpC, speedway’s commitment to the hundreds of communities in which it does business is a powerful force for good. since 1991, speedway has used its network of stores to benefit Children’s Miracle network hospitals (CMnh) in its marketing region by partnering with its millions of customers. speedway has been able to collect over $45 million for CMnh since the partnership began. in 2011 alone, speedway raised a record $6.1 million.
All of the money collected for CMnh by speedway’s 
stores in a given area goes directly to the children’s hospital supporting that community. speedway also makes an employee payroll deduction program available for CMnh donations and holds an annual corporate Miracle Golf t ournament, bringing together 
speedway’s many vendors to raise funds for CMnh. speedway also provides all administrative support so that every penny donated by the customers goes to Children’s Miracle network hospitals.
Recognition for Speedway’s efforts to help 
CMNH: 
   Riley hospital for Children will name 
its new pediatric burn unit – the only one in indiana – in speedway’s honor to 
recognize the company for its support over 
the years.
   in 2011, the Beaumont Children’s hospital in Royal Oak, Mich., named the waiting area for its neonatal intensive Care Unit 
after speedway in recognition of its 
donations over the years.
   the Dayton Children’s hospital in Dayton, Ohio; Kosair Children’s hospital in Louisville, Ky.; and University of Kentucky 
Children’s hospital in Lexington, Ky., each 
purchased pediatric mobile intensive care units in 2011 with funds that speedway collected and donated over the past few years. the vehicles proudly display the speedway logo as they help children in  
the community.
MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     29
logistics outreach: employees of MpC’s 
administrative and logistical assets also are involved in their communities. Our Marine t ransportation 
organization, for example, is active in inland waterway cleanups, educational efforts at community schools and emergency response training for local first responders. its employees volunteer their time and financial resources to benefit families in need  through food banks, toy collections, school supply drives and more. 
As part of its educational outreach to inform 
communities about national safe Digging Month each year, our pipeline subsidiary, Marathon pipe Line LLC (MpL), has developed a turnkey educational package for schools, including a poster contest, DVD presentations, an informational flier for kids to take home and “Call Before You Dig” t -shirts for each 
student. MpL employees also participate in community schools’ science fairs and science classes, explaining and demonstrating various aspects of our industry and its role in their lives.REfINERIES
They serve as volunteers for dozens of community organizations, donating their time, effort and financial resources to make the places they live happier, healthier and more enriching. In addition, MPC refineries have established Community Advisory Panels (CAPs), consisting of community leaders, neighbors and refinery personnel who meet regularly to discuss issues of mutual importance.
louisiana Refining Division
Located on 3,500 acres at Garyville, La., MpC’s Louisiana Refining Division (LRD) was completed in 1976, and had an operating capacity of 490,000 bpcd  at year-end 2011. With 800 employees and 600 contract workers, LRD provides active and  continuing support for community-betterment  and quality-of-life initiatives.
Ezekiel Jackson Day: Food, gifts, games and fun 
are a few highlights of an annual community event sponsored by LRD and st. John the Baptist p arish at 
Garyville’s ezekiel Jackson p ark. seventy LRD  
employees hosted the 2011 event, which drew about 1,000 area residents.each of MpC’s six refineries is staffed by hundreds 
of employees and contractors who are integral to 
their communities. 
louisiana first lady supriya Jindal addresses second graders at the 
Garyville/Mt. airy Math and science Magnet school, where MPC donated interactive whiteboards.Top: louisiana first lady supriya Jindal watches a second grader 
use an MPC-donated interactive 
whiteboard. bottom: a Marathon Pipe line safe digging presentation at liberty-benton elementary school, Hancock County, ohio.30   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
Interactive whiteboards awarded: in partnership  
with the supriya Jindal Foundation for Louisiana’s Children, LRD awarded 10 interactive whiteboard systems to Laplace elementary school. the package also included a laptop, whiteboard speaker and interactive response systems.
fourth Annual xCITE Program: t welve young women 
about to enter their freshman or sophomore years 
of high school got an opportunity to gain firsthand knowledge of college life and engineering careers through 2011’s Fourth Annual exploration Camp inspiring t omorrow’s engineers (XCite). the one-week 
residential program is funded by LRD and organized by the LsU Office for Diversity programs.
San francisco Plantation: Gracing LRD property just 
a short distance from the plant’s processing facilities is a fully restored antebellum mansion known as the san Francisco plantation. Built around 1850, Marathon Oil Company restored the house in the 1970s after purchasing the LRD property, which included the mansion and its grounds. More than 600 students from 11 area schools participated in LRD’s 2011 “stepping Back in time” program, which encompassed a tour of the house and cabins and a range of demonstrations.
Bringing Science to life: t en years ago, LRD adopted 
east st. John elementary school through the p artners 
in education program. since that time, employees 
have been bringing scientific concepts to life in the classroom. in 2011, LRD employees demonstrated scientific concepts at science stations, including how to build Alka seltzer
® rockets and electrical circuits; 
observe the effects of ultraviolet light; and make glow-in-the-dark slime.Safe and efficient operations
   LRD is the only U.s. petroleum refiner  admitted to the environmental protection Agency’s (ep A) national environmental 
performance t rack program.
   One of the few (less than 100) U.s.  facilities granted simultaneous membership  in Occupational safety and health Administration (OshA) and ep A elite  
programs. the plant has been an OshA Voluntary protection program star site since 1994, and has been named an ep A eneRGY 
stAR facility six times, most recently in 2011.
   the only refinery to be accepted into the ep A 
Voluntary early Reduction program for Air toxics under the Clean Air Act
   Received 14 Governor’s environmental Leadership Awards since 1996
   emergency response drills with local 
emergency responders
Community:  LRD and its people support civic, 
education-related and other community-betterment initiatives, including:
  st. John the Baptist p arish United Way
   Big Brothers Big sisters school-based 
mentoring program
   p artner in education with east st. John 
elementary, Garyville/Mt. Airy Math and science Magnet school and east st. John  high school
   scholarship/internship programs with  
the Louisiana t echnical College River  
parishes Campus
   A backpack drive, donating 180 to area schools in 2011
The historic san francisco Plantation, on the Garyville refinery property. Top: wildlife habitat on the Garyville 
refinery property. bottom: an employee 
at the Garyville refinery.MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     31
Catlettsburg  Refining, LLC
Located in northeastern Kentucky near the 
confluence of the Big Sandy and Ohio rivers, MPC’s Catlettsburg, Ky., refinery became part of MPC in 1998. Built in 1924, the plant now has a 233,000 bpcd capacity. Its 800 full-time and 700 contract employees support numerous community-betterment initiatives aimed at improving quality of life for all.
Ohio River Sweep: For more than two decades, 
refinery employees and family members have annually gathered on the banks of the Ohio River to participate in a longstanding tradition – the Ohio River Valley Water sanitation Commission (ORsAnCO) Ohio River sweep. During the 2011 sweep, participating refinery employees and family members cleared a section of riverbank near the Catlettsburg refinery, collecting about 30 bags of refuse.
Savage Branch Wildlife Reserve: every spring and 
fall, Catlettsburg-area students get an opportunity to study wildlife firsthand at an Outdoor Classroom taught by the employee volunteers who maintain the refinery’s savage Branch Wildlife Reserve. in 2011, more than 200 students in kindergarten through sixth grade took part in the program, located on 320 acres near the plant.
Pack-a-Backpack: Over the past decade, the refinery 
and employees have sent almost 1,500 area children off to school with fully stocked backpacks, new clothes and shoes through the p ack-a-Backpack program. 
in 2011, 137 children benefitted from the program. Refinery management funds the backpacks, and employees either donate cash or purchase items.Enriching the community:  Catlettsburg 
refining employees serve on the boards of 50 area organizations. Just a few include:
   Leadership t ri-state, a non-profit,  
community-education program
  several area chambers of commerce
  p aramount Arts Center
  summer Motion, a five-day family festival
   Winter Wonderland of Lights Festival,  
a five-week holiday event
Safe and efficient operations
   An inaugural Master Level member of the Kentucky Department for environmental protection’s KY eXCeL program
   Received environmental performance awards from the American Fuel & p etrochemical 
Manufacturers and the national safety Council
left: a Hager elementary school second-grader peers into a nest box at 
the savage branch wildlife Reserve. Middle: the Catlettsburg refinery control room. Right: an MPC technician with second-graders from Hager 
elementary school.
32   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
Illinois Refining Division
MPC’s Illinois Refining Division (IRD) covers about 
900 acres in Robinson, Ill., a rural town of about 7,000 residents in the southeastern part of the state. Built more than a century ago, IRD was bought by MPC’s predecessor, The Ohio Oil Company, in 1924. About 700 employees and 300 contractors currently staff the refinery, which has a 206,000 bpcd operating capacity.
Wings Over Wetlands: iRD is the 2011 Wings 
Over Wetlands Award recipient – joining only four other U.s. and Canadian companies to achieve this prestigious honor. iRD teamed up with a local college and a high school to create a nature area on a 50-acre site shared by both schools. A wildlife team comprised of refinery volunteers, students, parents and faculty from both schools, worked together to create the Lincoln t rail College and p alestine high school nature 
habitat, and then they upped the ante by undertaking a wetlands restoration and management project on the site aimed at providing habitats for waterfowl and other migratory birds.
Teaming up for emergency response: in 2011, iRD 
teamed up with local law enforcement and the illinois Law enforcement Alarm system’s regional Critical incident Response t eam to practice responding to two 
scenarios involving armed individuals. Both simulated situations were resolved successfully.Safe and efficient operations:  iRD has received 
numerous awards and recognitions:
   Occupational safety and health Administration 
(OshA) Voluntary protection program (Vpp) star since 1999
	   Recipient of the 2009 OshA Vpp Outreach Award
  earned the 2008 OshA Contractor Vpp Award
  Won the 2008 OshA Best practice Award
   Winner of American Fuel & p etrochemical 
Manufacturers safety awards
   Achieved environmental protection Agency’s (ep A) 
Waste Wise Certification in 2008
   Behavioral safety Accreditation from the Cambridge Center for Behavioral studies since 2005
Continuing community involvement: throughout 
the year, iRD volunteers further support the surrounding community through involvement in projects and programs:
  United Way of Crawford County
   Robinson, Oblong, p alestine and hutsonville 
chambers of commerce
  Leadership Crawford County
  Community household hazardous Waste Day
   provides mutual aid to local emergency responders
below left: Children at a Robinson-area elementary school react to an anti-
bullying presentation sponsored by the refinery. Right: an employee reads Giraffes Can’t Dance to area first-graders.
below: local law enforcement participate in an emergency-response drill at the Robinson refinery. Top left and right: employees at the Robinson refinery.
MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     33
Community involvement: MRD employees create, 
support and participate in numerous community-
enhancement initiatives, including:
   earth Day observances at three area schools 
in 2011, discussing environmental issues and 
distributing tree seedlings
   Gleaners Food Bank – employees and contractors working on the Detroit heavy Oil Upgrade project (DhOUp) set a goal of contributing 15,000 food and personal care items to Gleaners in 2011 and ended up donating 59,000 items
   Mutual aid and training with the Michigan Occupational safety and health Administration and local emergency responders
   Rouge River Rescue Days and neighborhood cleanup campaigns
  southwest Detroit United WayMichigan  Refining Division
MPC’s Michigan Refining Division (MRD), covering about 250 acres, has been a fixture in southwest Detroit since it was built in 1930. MPC’s predecessor, The Ohio Oil Company, purchased  the plant in 1959. With a 106,000 bpcd capacity,  the plant employs about 500 permanent and  160 contract workers. It is currently undergoing  an upgrade and expansion, scheduled for completion by year-end 2012.
Property Purchase Program: in november 2011, MRD 
announced a groundbreaking initiative to purchase an entire residential neighborhood adjacent to the refinery and convert the properties to a green space. MpC initiated the program in response to requests from some of its neighbors near the refinery fence line who wished to relocate. As a result, MpC announced purchase offers and relocation assistance to the entire Oakwood heights residential community, comprised of about 500 residential and vacant properties surrounded by large industrial complexes. the program is expected to be complete by the end of 2013.
Process Technology Scholarship Program: in 2011, 
MRD presented eight scholarships to Detroit-area residents, enabling recipients to pursue training in the process t echnology (pteC) program at henry Ford 
Community College at no cost to the recipients. 2011 marked the third year of a 10-year commitment by MRD to provide the scholarships to help generate training opportunities for Detroit residents.Safe and efficient operations:  MRD has received 
several awards, recognitions and distinctions:
   eneRGY st AR partner and recipient of five 
eneRGY st AR facility awards from the U.s. 
environmental protection Agency
   2010 energy efficiency Award from the 
American Chemistry Council
   American Fuel & petrochemical Manufacturers 
Distinguished safety Award for 2011. Only three facilities in the country were recognized with this award.
   2011 Accreditation in Behavioral safety Management from the Cambridge Center for Behavioral studies
   2010 prestigious star designation from the Michigan Occupational safety and health Administration (MiOshA) Voluntary protection program 
   2010 thoroughbred Chemical safety Award from norfolk southern
   Community Builder Award from southwest Detroit environmental Vision
   the first refining facility in the world to 
receive Responsible Care® 14001 certification for its health, environmental, safety and security systems
left: detroit’s oakwood Heights neighborhood seen from the detroit 
refinery’s coker. Right: The refinery’s coker seen from oakwood Heights. bottom: some of the tens of thousands of food and personal care items 
collected by MPC employees and contractors working on dHouP.  The 
collections were donated to Gleaners food bank in detroit. 34   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
Texas  Refining Division
MPC’s Texas Refining Division (TRD), in Texas City, 
Texas, was built in 1931 and purchased by MPC’s predecessor, The Ohio Oil Company, in 1962. TRD has an 80,000 bpcd operating capacity and is staffed by 280 employees and 195 contract workers.
Promoting children’s health: Games, prizes, treats 
and fire trucks made tRD exhibits a hit with children of all ages at the 2011 Children’s health and safety Fair at the t exas City Mall of the Mainland. this is 
the ninth year the refinery and its employees have participated in the annual event.
Earth Day Trash Bash: More than two dozen tRD 
employees and contractors congregated at the t exas 
City Dike for the 2011 earth Day t rash Bash. the 
cleanup project is held annually across t exas to help 
preserve watersheds, prevent pollution and raise environmental awareness. Volunteers collected 20 garbage bags of refuse from the dike.
Senior Share Holiday Gala: One of the tRD’s most 
anticipated yearly volunteer initiatives involves a celebration of the refinery’s senior friends and neighbors at the annual senior share holiday Gala, sponsored by the senior share program of Galveston County. tRD was a platinum sponsor for the 2011 event and provided 100 small gifts to further brighten the gala.
A trail to education: in 2011, tRD donated funds and 
volunteer labor to help give area youngsters a head start in the learning process while having fun. through the United Way of Galveston County Mainland, tRD supported construction of a Born Learning t rail in 
texas City’s Rainbow p ark. tRD funded signage and 
provided volunteer labor for the project.Commitment to community: tRD and its employees 
support a wide range of community-betterment projects and programs, financially and through volunteer contributions of time, talent and skills:
  t exas City/La Marque Chamber of Commerce
  Junior Achievement of the Mainland 
   t exas City independent school District 
Foundation for the Future
   La Marque independent school District 
education Foundation & Gateways program
  Galveston County 1984 Opera house
  Galveston County Food p antry
Safe and efficient operations
   tRD has been named an environmental 
protection Agency eneRGY st AR facility three 
times, most recently in 2011.
   t exas Chemical Council “excellence in Caring for 
texas Award” for demonstrating commitment 
in community awareness, emergency response, pollution prevention and security
below: dock facility that serves the 
Texas City, Texas, refinery. Right, a barge offloading at the dock.
MpC 2011 Citizenship Report     35
Safe and efficient operations:  Over the past 
decade, the ORD has been recognized for operating 
safely and efficiently:
   American Fuel & petrochemical 
Manufacturers: Five awards for safety 
Achievement
   stark County safety Council: Four-time 
recipient of the special Award for Workplace safety 
   U.s. environmental protection Agency: named eneRGY st AR Facility for six consecutive years
   American Chemistry Council: three-time recipient of the energy efficiency Award
A helpful neighbor:  ORD supports numerous other 
projects and programs in the community… activities that help friends and neighbors from all walks of life. some of these include:
   Leadership stark County: Develops community 
leaders through training and education
   United Way of Greater stark County: ORD helped the local chapter exceed its 2011 fundraising goal, helping to support its 40 member agencies
   emergency response: ORD provides mutual aid 
for fire and other emergency responders within the community and drills with local responders to enhance response effortsOhio Refining Division
MPC’s Ohio Refining Division (ORD) occupies 180 acres on the outskirts of Canton, in northeastern Ohio. With a current processing capacity of 78,000 bpcd, it was built in 1931 and has been part of MPC’s refining system since 1998. ORD’s approximately 360 employees and 250 contract workers are valued neighbors, long supporting community-betterment initiatives financially and  as volunteers.
Helping students: As a means of sparking curiosity for 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics at an early age, ORD adopted Deuber elementary school in 2004. Refinery volunteers have since worked with the children in various ways, providing presentations, mentoring and other education-enrichment activities, such as an annual science Day. About 250 students participated in the 2011 science Day, which featured demonstrations aimed at capturing the interest of kindergarten through sixth-grade students. 2011 drives conducted by ORD volunteers also generated 12 boxes of school supplies and several hundred dollars for additional purchases, as well as more than 50 sets of hats, gloves and scarves for students.
Community cleanup: ORD employees annually gather 
on a stark County, Ohio, creek bank for the nimishillen LeAp (Litter elimination, Awareness and prevention). ORD has sponsored the event since its 2002 inception. During the 2011 nimishillen LeAp , ORD volunteers 
collected about 10 cubic yards of refuse – from plastic bags and bottles to bicycles and shopping carts.
below: an aerial view of the Canton refinery. Middle: a technician at the 
Canton refinery’s lab. Right: The Canton refinery’s control room.
36   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
On this page:   MpC employees 
in Findlay, Ohio, donate their time to build a habitat for humanity house.
On back cover:   Life on the forest floor at MpC’s savage Branch Wildlife Reserve in Catlettsburg, Ky.
 A tree frog perches 
on a branch at the 450-acre wildlife habitat on MpC’s Garyville, La., refinery property.DISCLOSURES REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
this citizenship report includes forward-looking statements. You 
can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as 
“anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” 
“intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “target,” “could,” 
“may,” “should,” “would” or other similar expressions that convey 
the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. We have based 
our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, 
estimates and projections about our industry and our company. 
We caution that these statements are not guarantees of future 
performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they 
involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot 
predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-
looking statements on assumptions about future events that 
may prove to be inaccurate. While our management considers 
these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject 
to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and 
other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are 
difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. 
Accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the 
future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. in accordance with “safe harbor” 
provisions of the private securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, 
we have included in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 
2011, cautionary language identifying important factors, though 
not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes 
to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking 
statements. the aforementioned Form 10-K is available on our 
website, http://www.marathonpetroleum.com under the “investor 
Center” tab, or can be requested by contacting: public Affairs, 
539 s. Main st., Room 312-M, Findlay Oh 45840.
On this page:   MpC employees 
in Findlay, Ohio, donate their time to build a habitat for humanity house.
On back cover:   Life on the forest floor at MpC’s savage Branch Wildlife Reserve in Catlettsburg, Ky.
38   MpC 2011 Citizenship Report
®
Marathon 
Petroleum Corporation
MARATHON PETROLEUM CORPORATION 
539 SOUTH MAIN STREETFINDLAY, OH 45840
About Marathon Petroleum Corporation
MpC is the nation’s fifth-largest refiner, with a crude oil capacity of approximately 1.2 million barrels per calendar day in its six-refinery 
system. Marathon brand gasoline is sold through more than 5,000 independently owned retail outlets across 18 states. speedway LLC, an MpC subsidiary, owns and operates the nation’s fourth-largest convenience store chain, with approximately 1,460 convenience stores in seven states. MpC also owns, leases or has ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of pipeline. MpC’s fully integrated system provides operational flexibility to move crude oil, feedstocks and petroleum-related products efficiently through the company’ s 
distribution network in the Midwest, southeast and Gulf Coast regions. For additional information about the company, please visit our website at http://www.marathonpetroleum.com.
RM47424C12
