2021 SOCIAL IMPACT  
& SUSTAINABILITY REPORTINVESTING IN OUR2MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGAt MGM Resorts, our success relies upon our ability to 
pursue and achieve the objectives of a diverse coalition of 
stakeholders. Our employees, customers, communities and 
shareholders all bring with them individualized interests, 
some competing and some complementary, but all sharing 
their origin in a desire for progress and collective gain. The 
corporate strategy we pursue is an amalgamation of these 
human and people focused interests – a grand coalition 
among our many parts on the best way to move forward and 
invest in a brighter future. 
Over the last two years, the economy rapidly evolved in 
ways that no one could have predicted. Chief among the 
many disruptions we now face are significant changes to the 
labor market and an upending of the global supply chain. 
In response we’ve been nimble, finding new and innovative 
ways to hire, deploy and retain talent and to source the wide 
array of products needed to maintain our properties and to 
continue offering a high standard of guest service.
This same period of disruption has created an opportunity for 
us to reassess the needs of our stakeholders and, based on this 
refined understanding, reinvent who we are as a company and 
where our collective purpose lies. We strive to be the world’s 
premier gaming entertainment company and seek to achieve 
that through a five-fold strategy focused on customer centricity, 
product innovation, global leadership, financial stewardship 
and, most pertinently for this letter, leadership on the world’s 
most pressing issues – be they environmental, social, or a 
combination of the two.  For the last of these strategic pillars, this period of heightened 
reflection has resulted in a renewed commitment to and, in 
some cases, even an expansion upon our Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) goals. We developed our framework 
for these goals in 2018, in alignment with the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Some significant 
examples include ensuring that by 2025 we:
• Foster diversity and inclusion by spending at least 10% of 
our annual, domestic, biddable procurement dollars with 
diverse suppliers.
• Invest in our communities by donating 5 million meals 
through our Feeding Forward program.
• Protect the planet by reducing carbon emissions per square 
foot by 45% against a 2007 baseline.
We are already making great strides towards these and our 
other ESG goals. In fact, by bringing the MGM Resorts Mega 
Solar Array online last June, we made significant progress 
against the Protecting the Planet goals listed above. We have 
also submitted two additional goals for review by the Science-
Based Targets Initiative (SBTi):
• To reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 
by 50% by 2030.
• To source 100% renewable electricity in the United States 
and 80% globally by 2030.Furthermore, in addition to our goals related to diverse supplier 
spend, we recently developed a diversity cash investment 
strategy and have completed deposits in regional minority 
banks and minority depository institutions.
More details about these and other goals, as well as our 
progress against them, can be found in the body of this report 
and on mgmresorts.com/ESG. This document tells the story of 
how MGM Resorts remains focused on embracing humanity 
and protecting the planet – efforts that truly matter to 
achieving the objectives of our stakeholders, to the health and 
longevity of our communities and environment, and, ultimately, 
to the success and profitability of our company. 
We hope you enjoy the contents of this document and that it 
clearly demonstrates our sincere and unwavering commitment 
to our ESG principles.A Letter From  
Bill Hornbuckle and 
Rose McKinney-James
Bill Hornbuckle
CEO & PRESIDENTRose McKinney- James 
CHAIR, CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS
3MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESG
Jyoti Chopra
CHIEF PEOPLE, INCLUSION AND 
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER
For MGM Resorts, 2021 was a year of recovery and reinvention. We spent our days confronting 
a distorted labor market and supply chain landscape while rethinking and reshaping the way we 
do business along the way. 
For our employees, the story is one of perseverance and overcoming obstacles. Our guest-
facing staff found ways to creatively “say yes” to our customers during a slow but steady ramp 
up to normal operations. Our corporate employees and leaders worked behind the scenes 
to maintain and improve upon the framework of support that underpins our commitment to 
excellent guest service. Collectively, their tireless efforts carried us through a transformative 
year and made us a stronger, more resilient company poised for growth and achievement in the 
years to come.  The executive leadership team is enormously grateful to all our employees for 
their exceptional contributions.
Over the course of the past year, we committed ourselves to listening to and learning from our 
employees to better understand our culture and organizational identity. Through this work, we 
discovered and distilled a common language that unites us across properties, regions and roles. 
Our past and ongoing success is a product of our deep commitment to the customers we serve 
and the colleagues alongside whom we work. Who we are can be summed up in our cultural 
values, where we desire to:
• Captivate our audience  through WOW! experiences. 
• Inspire excellence  in one another by pursuing high standards. 
• Champion inclusion  for all people, groups, and identities. 
• Win together  by collaborating in all things and celebrating our shared success.MGM Resorts is a company diversely comprised of wonderful, hard-working creative people 
all striving to achieve our collective aims. We have a long history of focusing on what matters 
to our stakeholders, including the establishment, pursuit and achievement of goals that enrich 
our communities, safeguard our planet and leave behind a better world for all. We remain as 
committed as ever to these principles and to further elevating our aims and accomplishments in 
this space.
I hope this report provides you with valuable insight into how and why we’ve established our 
global leadership goals and where we stand in achieving them. We are, as always, committed to 
transparency around our Social Impact & Sustainability policies as well as providing disclosures 
in directional alignment with prevailing third-party ESG frameworks.
Please note that this year’s document is an Executive Summary. Supplementary reports with 
more thorough details and specific data can be found on the company’s social impact and 
sustainability section on mgmresorts.com/ESG.A Letter From  
Jyoti Chopra
The Park MGM Pool Operations Team was named MGM Resorts’ SHOW Service Excellence Award winner for the second 
quarter of 2021.  The team was selected for its work in driving excellent guest service, promoting engagement, improving 
processes and fostering a culture of recognition.4MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGOur strategic framework for Social Impact & Sustainability clarifies our strategic pillars and priorities and shows how we support specific United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
MARKETPLACE LEADERSHIP & EMINENCE
INDUSTRY AND CORPORATE  
LEADERSHIPRELATIONSHIPS WITH  
CENTERS OF INFLUENCEBRAND REPUTATION AND COMPETITIVE 
DIFFERENTIATIONESG RATINGS & RANKINGSPEOPLE CULTURESUPPLIERS & 
CUSTOMERSWORKFORCE  
DEVELOPMENTEDUCATIONFOOD  
SECURITYWATER ENERGY MATERIALSPLATFORM
SOCIAL IMPACT  
& SUSTAINABILITY 
CENTER OF 
EXCELLENCE
STRATEGIC  
PILLARS
STRATEGIC  
PRIORITIES
OUTCOMESSUPPORTING 
UNITED 
NATIONS 
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
GOALS
FOCUSED ON WHAT MATTERS: EMBRACING HUMANITY & PROTECTING THE PLANET
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & 
INCLUSION
FOSTERING DIVERSITY, 
EQUITY & INCLUSIONINVESTING IN OUR  
COMMUNITIESPROTECTING  
THE PLANETPHILANTHROPY & COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENTENVIRONMENTAL  
SUSTAINABILITYStrategic Framework5MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
Statements in this Social Impact & Sustainability Report that are not 
historical facts are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and/or 
uncertainties, including those described in the MGM Resorts International 
(“MGM Resorts”) public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The company has based forward-looking statements on management’s 
current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples 
of these statements include, but are not limited to, the company’s 
expectations regarding the company’s Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) initiatives and the company’s ability to achieve its ESG 
goals. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and 
uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results 
to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements 
include effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and economic and market 
conditions in the markets in which the company operates, and competition 
in the markets in which the company operates, and competition with other 
destination travel locations throughout the United States and the world, the 
design, timing and costs of expansion projects, risks relating to international 
operations, permits, licenses, financings, approvals and other contingencies 
in connection with growth in new or existing jurisdictions and additional risks 
and uncertainties described in the company’s Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and 
Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). 
In providing forward- looking statements, the company is not undertaking 
any duty or obligation to update these statements publicly as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. If the 
company updates one or more forward-looking statements, no inference 
should be drawn that it will make additional updates with respect to those 
other forward-looking statements. 
EXTRA-FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
This Social Impact & Sustainability Report includes certain extra-financial 
data and information that is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting 
from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining 
such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement 
techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of 
different measurement techniques may also vary.REPORTING SCOPE  
Unless noted the program descriptions and data in this report represents 
our primary market of the USA. Some of our metrics, including most 
environmental metrics, are consolidated globally. Where that is the case,  
they are indicated as such. We intend to increase the global consolidation 
of ESG metrics as systems and capabilities allow. Unless indicated, data is 
provided for calendar year 2021 (January 1 - December 31, 2021).
COMMITMENT TO TRANSPARENCY  
We are committed to transparently informing our stakeholders on our Social 
Impact & Sustainability polices, goals, programs, and performance. We are 
also committed to increasing the level of assurance of ESG performance data. 
This report provides a summary of progress against our 2025 goals, and a 
subset of our broader ESG performance metrics. On the ESG disclosures 
page of our ESG website (available at mgmresorts.com/ESG) we transparently 
disclosed a much more robust set of metrics, detailed performance against 
goals, and additional metrics. On the same web page we also provide 
disclosures directionally aligned with prevailing third party ESG frameworks 
including: CDP (formerly Climate Disclosure Project), GRI (Global Reporting 
Initiative), SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) and the TCFD 
(Taskforce on Climate Related Financial Disclosures).
GOVERNANCE  
Our CEO and President as well as our Board of Directors’ CSR & Sustainability 
Committee are responsible for governing our environmental and social 
responsibility policies and programs. These are supported by our 
governance-related polices including our company’s Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics, and Conflict of Interest Policy. 
Additional resources on our governance can be accessed at  
investors.mgmresorts.com.
6MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGSocial Impact & Sustainability Goals  
to achieve by year end 2025
* 2007 baseline, globalFOSTERING DIVERSITY  
& INCLUSIONALL SOCIAL IMPACT & 
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
ADDITIONAL 2030 
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALSINVESTING IN OUR  
COMMUNITIESPROTECTING  
THE PLANET*
Ensure all employees have 
equal access to leadership 
opportunities
Women in management 
(global)
Racial diversity in 
management (U.S.)Train 100% of employees in 
management on Social Impact 
& Sustainability policies and 
goals
Reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2 
carbon emissions by 50% by 
2030 (2019 baseline, global)Source 100% renewable 
electricity by 2030 (U.S.)Source 100% cage-free eggs  
(U.S. currently, global in future)Status
 Achieved
 On track
 Enhancing efforts
Expand support of nonprofit 
workforce development and 
education programs to 40% of 
Corporate cash donationsReduce carbon emissions per 
square foot by 45% 
Spend with diverse suppliers at 
least 10% of domestic biddable 
procurement (U.S.)Award 600 post-secondary 
scholarships to children of 
employees (U.S.)Reduce energy per square foot 
by 25%
Expand Supplier Diversity 
Mentorship Program to achieve a 
milestone of 150 graduates (U.S.)Surpass 1.12 million cumulative 
volunteer hours through the 
Employee Volunteer Program (U.S.)Reduce water per square foot 
by 33%
Exceed $120 million in cumulative 
employee donations through the 
MGM Foundation (U.S.)Reduce materials disposed  
per square foot by 60%
Achieve 75% participation in 
domestic employee donations 
to the MGM Foundation (U.S.)
Donate 5 million meals through our 
Feeding Forward program (U.S.)
FOSTERING DIVERSITY,  
EQUITY & INCLUSIONMGM RESORTS INTERNATIONALNATIONAL DIVERSITY RELATIONS
MGM Resorts partners with over 100 organizations and advocacy groups to empower diversity segments including African American, Asian American and Pacific Islander , Native American, Latino/Hispanic, LGBTQ+, Military/Veterans, Persons with Disabilities and Women. These 
relationships help us create an inclusive workforce, identify diverse talent, provide leadership development opportunities and demonstrate our commitment to our communities. 
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
We are committed to supporting minority-owned, women-owned and 
socio-diverse businesses to strengthen our pipeline of goods and 
services.  Our Supplier Diversity Mentorship Program elevates the 
professional development of our vendors enabling them to improve 
their operational efficiencies which contributes to a positive economic 
impact in our communities.
GLOBAL SALES
MGM Resorts is proud to welcome groups from our diversity partners. 
Forty organizations held events, meetings and conventions at our 
properties in 2021.
COURAGEOUS CONVERSATIONS  
This open forum encourages dialogue between leadership and diverse 
cohorts of employees to help shine a light on how the company can 
improve on our efforts to foster diversity, equity and inclusion within 
the company and across our communities.
EMPLOYEE NETWORK GROUPS 
For over ten years, these groups have helped connect, engage, inspire 
and develop our employees. We have 12 affinities and 16 chapters 
across our U.S. locations.
MENTORSHIP PROGRAM 
All MGM employees can benefit from a 6-month program to advance 
their skills, network with colleagues and navigate their careers. 
Participants not only receive guidance from their mentor but also 
have access to resources and learning modules to enhance their 
professional development.
LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT
MGM Resorts is committed to a multi-year education strategy to 
train 100% of employees in management on our Social Impact & 
Sustainability practices, with a deeper dive in our DE&I initiatives.
FOSTERING DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
We know the importance of respecting each other’s differences. We endeavor to embrace and leverage those differences to achieve best-in-class experiences 
and cultivate stronger ties with our guests, employees, neighbors and partners. We are committed to taking strong and principled stands on issues of equality 
and aim to better unify our world.
9MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGFostering Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: 2021 Highlights 
MGM Resorts is committed to taking strong and principled stands on issues of equality and aims to better unify our world. 
Suggestions from our employees have led to the creation of initiatives that provide professional growth and development as 
well as a project that impacts Southern Nevada’s economic development. Collaboration with our employees and business 
partners supports our value of diversity and inclusion by building trust, transparency and understanding.
COURAGEOUS CONVERSATIONS
As the national conversation around social justice emerged,  
MGM Resorts launched a new initiative entitled: “Focused on 
What Matters: Courageous Conversations. ”  This open forum 
between leadership and diverse cohorts of employees helps 
shine a light on how the company can improve on our efforts to 
foster diversity, equity and inclusion internally and across our 
communities. 
Following the very first cohort of more than 30 African 
American employees in 2020, MGM Resorts committed to 
adding additional cohorts of employees representing various 
demographics, with the intention of moving in a direction 
that is most impactful to employees and the community while 
continuing on the path to positive change in 2021. 
Since making this commitment, we’ve conducted sessions with 
five cohorts of employees, including women, African American, 
Latino/Hispanic, Asian American and Pacific Islander and 
LGBTQ+. Together with MGM Resorts CEO and President, Bill 
Hornbuckle, and MGM Resorts Board Committee Chair, Rose 
McKinney-James, the employees were encouraged to share 
candid views on the state of the country and company, ask 
questions and make suggestions. Working groups were then 
created to gather key takeaways and make progress in areas 
including human resources, benefits, internal programming, 
upward mobility and community outreach.
Mentorship Program
When analyzing discussions from each cohort, we discovered a 
common underlying takeaway: employees expressing interest in 
increased opportunities for growth and leadership. As a result, 
we launched an employee-wide mentorship program, designed 
to help employees progress their careers through structured, 
self-directed learning accessible to anyone with a desire for professional and personal growth. The six-month program pairs 
a mentee with a colleague at least one career-level above them, 
and together they work to develop the employee’s knowledge, 
skills and abilities. The first year of the program included 346 
employees representing different genders and backgrounds. 
Moving forward, the program will be offered every six months 
with employees expected to meet with their mentor for at least 
one hour each month. 
100 Plan
From the African American cohort arose an interest in creating 
partnerships with external organizations to proactively attract 
African American talent to MGM Resorts. With this, the 100 
Plan was born. The proposed vision had two parts: 1) Strategic 
alignment with historically Black colleges and universities 
for recruitment purposes, and 2) Direct financial support to 
communities where we operate for economic development. 
Addressing the first part of this vision, we partnered with the 
Thurgood Marshall College Fund, which provides scholarships, 
capacity building and programmatic support to students across 
historically Black colleges and universities.
In response to the plan’s second component, MGM Resorts 
granted $500,000 to the Nevada Community Foundation to 
restore and reconnect the historic west side of Las Vegas,  
a predominantly Black neighborhood near downtown where 
households earn less than half the citywide median income 
and where residents have felt the effects of disinvestment 
for decades. Goals for investment in the Historic Westside 
neighborhood focus on reconnecting community, creating and 
celebrating opportunity and housing stability. 
As part of these ongoing efforts to reconnect the community, the 
City of Las Vegas and Freight Farms Greenhouse is preparing a 
site for the spring 2022 arrival of two MGM-branded containers that will house a garden in the Historic Westside neighborhood. 
Moving forward, departments including food and beverage, 
design and development, supplier diversity, environmental 
sustainability and human resources will collaborate to ensure 
the success of the 100 Plan. 
The Courageous Conversations initiative will continue to grow 
into 2022.  We will focus on expanding partnerships within 
the community, identifying areas to create more inclusive 
benefit structures, providing cohorts with event and workshop 
opportunities and supporting those in need during times of 
hardship. 
OPTION 1ON
1
10 72461” x 95.5” CMYK21-CSR-7702-010 Freight Farming Facility Container Wrap r2
HISTORIC WESTSIDE 
URBAN FARM
INVESTING IN OUR 
COMMUNITIESMGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL11MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESG
INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES
As a member of the communities in which we operate, we believe it is our responsibility to contribute to the social and economic progress of where we live.  
We aim to sustain and build on the best of a community, advancing workforce opportunities, education and food security in all our regions. We are passionately 
committed to philanthropy, volunteerism and community engagement.
CHARITABLE GIVING  
& PRIORITIES
Company Charitable Giving
MGM Resorts regards community engagement as a 
fundamental part of our business philosophy. Each year, 
we make contributions to nonprofits that reflect aspects 
of our community life in the regions where our employees 
live and work.
Workforce Development
To further strengthen the economic livelihood, capacity 
and resiliency of our communities, we support 
employment and vocational training programs for young 
adolescents and adults.
Education
MGM Resorts prioritizes providing access to quality 
education. We support programs ranging from STEM 
education for underserved students to scholarships for 
minorities and children of MGM Resorts employees.
Hunger Relief
In addition to providing grants focused on feeding people 
within our communities, MGM Resorts combats food 
waste and food insecurity by collecting and preserving 
untouched food from our resorts and providing it to those 
in need. We have donated more than 3 million meals 
since 2016.
MGM RESORTS FOUNDATION
The MGM Resorts Foundation is a nonprofit organization 
created to engage our employees in addressing the 
needs of the communities where we operate.
Community Grant Fund
The Community Grant Fund supports programs that 
benefit our communities via grants to local nonprofits. 
Funding decisions are made by Community Grant 
Councils, committees of employees who represent their 
respective regions. Through this fund, families and 
individuals receive assistance with food, housing, health 
and wellness services, education or employment.
Employee Emergency Grants
MGM Resorts provides employees and their immediate 
families with short-term assistance during unexpected 
hardships and emergencies. Grants are used to cover 
hardship expenses such as food and clothing assistance, 
temporary housing, rent, mortgages, and medical bills.
Matching Gifts
MGM Resorts launched the Matching Gifts Program 
in June 2021 in an effort to encourage and promote 
employee giving through the MGM Resorts Foundation. 
One-time employee donations to the Community Grant 
Fund of up to $10,000 per year are eligible to be matched 
by the company.
VOLUNTEERING
Commitment to Volunteering
We have a very active employee volunteering program 
through which our employees have volunteered nearly a 
million hours of time.
VolunteerREWARDS
Our VolunteerREWARDS Program allows employees 
to earn a donation to their nonprofit of choice for their 
community service efforts. For every 20 volunteer hours, 
employees are eligible for a grant up to $1,500 per year.
12MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGInvesting in Our Communities: 2021 Highlights 
As a company, we’re commited to investing in the local communites where we opperate. We are passionately 
committed to active engagement through volunteerism, community and civic engagement and philanthropic 
opportunities — from global commitments to meeting local area needs. MGM Resorts is focused on supporting 
causes and organizations that provide people with the resources needed to survive and thrive.  
Finding a Path for Amari 
When the pandemic shuttered school districts around the 
country, educators and parents were forced to develop 
innovative solutions for keeping children engaged in learning. 
With virtual education quickly becoming the new normal, 
students with school-issued laptops learned by watching their 
teachers through a computer screen. But what happened to 
blind students who didn’t have the tools to access this new 
mode of education? Amari, a 12th grader in the Clark County School District, has 
been blind since birth and struggled with distance learning 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. In August of 2020, Amari 
began attending the Nevada Blind Children’s Foundation, an 
organization supported by MGM Resorts and the MGM Resorts 
Foundation, that is committed to providing expanded core 
curriculum, extracurricular activities, social opportunities and 
transitional skills to children who are visually impaired. The 
organization has three primary goals: increasing high school 
graduation rates, increasing employment for young, blind 
adults and inspiring students to reach their full potential and 
live as contributing members in the community.
With immediate access to the expanded core curriculum 
classes, Amari learned to not only use the assistive technology 
needed to complete his assignments, but also thrived in other 
blind-specific classes such as independent living, orientation 
and mobility, socialization and employment training. The 
program offers additional options to children just like Amari, 
including lessons in cooking, pottery, musical instruments and 
how to catch the bus.  
“The whole reason that we exist and that we are here in this 
12,000 square-foot learning center is all because of MGM 
Resorts, ” says Emily Smith, Chief Executive Officer of the 
Nevada Blind Children’s Foundation. “I’m so grateful for what 
we’ve done already, where we are right now and the foundation 
that MGM Resorts has helped us to create. It truly sets us up 
for a huge, successful future. ” 
Lack of advocacy and support resulted in a struggle for Amari 
and so many other visually impaired children. With the help 
of the Nevada Blind Children’s Foundation, Amari received 
resources designed to educate and empower, allowing him  
to embark on his own personal journey towards reaching his  
full potential.  
 Wraparound Teaching Program Makes 
High Schoolers Our Business Partners 
High school students are helping MGM National Harbor 
identify ways to better connect with front-line employees.  
MGM Resorts partnered with Junior Achievement of 
Greater Washington on the organization’s 3DE program, a 
transformative re-engineering of the comprehensive high 
school experience to better reflect the real world and prepare 
students for life beyond the classroom walls. Through this 
program, which received funding from MGM National Harbor, 
students have the opportunity to apply academic concepts 
to real-world applications. They are exposed to a breadth of 
different industries and professions and use critical thinking to 
develop skills for success.
Over a five-week period, more than 100 students from Potomac 
High School in Prince George’s County, Maryland and more 
than 200 students from Ballou High School in Washington, DC 
worked through a case study to help MGM National Harbor 
determine a solution to improve employee communications. 
The ninth graders were divided into groups and matched with 
business coaches from MGM National Harbor’s executive 
team. During the last week the student group presented their 
recommendations to the property management.
“It was wonderful and inspiring to see the creative ideas 
presented by the students. We are strong supporters of this 
program and plan to continue to work with Junior Achievement 
to provide students insight into the world of hospitality, ” said 
Danielle White, MGM Resorts Vice President of Community 
Engagement, Social Impact & Sustainability.
13MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESG
Investing in Our Communities: 2021 Highlights 
Be the Change You Want to See 
MGM Resorts Internal Audit Manager Marsha Butler has 
a simple but impactful philosophy on giving back: be the 
change you want to see in the world. And she has some 
sound advice for her colleagues. 
“If there are issues or causes you are personally impacted or 
moved by, find a way to get involved,” Marsha said. “There 
are hundreds, if not thousands of organizations that could 
use our help. Find an organization that calls to you and give 
it a shot!”
In 2011, Marsha began her volunteer journey with SafeNest. 
She learned about the organization, which provides services 
to people affected by domestic violence, while attending 
a volunteer fair hosted by MGM Resorts. Now, after a 
decade of service at SafeNet and a host of other nonprofit 
organizations, Marsha has earned a reputation as a tireless volunteer and passionate advocate for 
at-risk children.
She was honored to participate in SafeNest’s Camp Hope, a free, week-long summer camp 
experience for children who are victims of domestic abuse. The program’s specialized curriculum 
is designed to provide children with skills they need to break the cycle of generational violence, 
all while spending time outdoors at a traditional summer camp adventure in Utah. Marsha 
underwent intensive training and even took her vacation to coincide with the camp. “I love kids 
and the chance to make a difference in someone’s life,” she said. Relentlessly dedicated and 
always present, she has become a role model and makes a lifelong positive impact on the growth 
and development of the children in the program.
Even during the pandemic, when help was needed more than ever but most people stayed home, 
Marsha ramped up her efforts, continuing her work at SafeNest and volunteering to tutor children 
working through distance learning. 
In addition to her unwavering commitment to SafeNest, Marsha volunteers with her Internal Audit 
department colleagues, and the team has participated in a variety of group community service 
projects at Ronald McDonald House, Blind Center, Catholic Charities and Junior Achievement. 
With an unequivocal passion for volunteerism and more than 300 volunteer hours logged 
between 2017 and 2020, Marsha placed in the top three for the 2021 Governor’s Points of Light 
Awards. This noteworthy recognition, which celebrates the extraordinary volunteer efforts of 
Nevadans, is the highest volunteer honor bestowed by Nevada volunteers and the state. Marsha 
continues to seek out opportunities to help and lead by example to inspire those around her, 
always adhering to her own sage advice to be the change she wants to see in the world. Employees Mobilize to Fight Food Insecurity 
According to a 2021 annual report by Feeding America, Nevada is ranked eighth among states 
with the highest overall food insecurity rates. The Silver State has an alarming rate of 15.2%.  
In Clark County, one in every seven residents is considered food insecure–a number stemming 
primarily from poverty and unemployment. 
Local nonprofit organizations play a vital role in making a difference in the lives of the county’s 
most vulnerable families. In Southern Nevada, The Just One Project inspires people to give 
back by mobilizing volunteers to help build stronger, healthier communities. In 2021, 66 MGM 
Resorts employees contributed 209 volunteer hours to the organization, with employees 
packing and distributing food for drive-thru food banks to benefit Southern Nevada’s food 
insecure population. 
“The Just One Project makes an enormous impact in fighting food insecurity throughout our 
community,” said Katherine Ragia, community engagement specialist at MGM Resorts. “Our 
volunteers feel good about the work they do because they have direct contact with The Just 
One Project clients. They have a tangible effect on the lives of clients who benefit from the 
organization’s critical programs.”
Contributions from MGM Resorts extend beyond volunteer hours. The MGM Resorts 
Foundation also issued an $80,000 grant to help fund The Just One Project’s Food For All 
program, which includes the distribution of fresh groceries to food insecure communities, 
a community market, senior grocery assistance, senior commodities and the delivery of 
groceries to homebound clients. Additionally, MGM Resorts supported The Just One Project 
through corporate giving in 2021, contributing funds for workforce development programming 
and food for seniors and families. 
PROTECTING  
THE PLANETMGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL15MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESG
CLIMATE
Resort-Level Climate Risk Assessment
In 2021, we undertook a detailed climate risk and opportunity assessment 
to identify and assess the climate-related risks and opportunities facing 
our company. Additionally, we assessed resort-level physical climate risks, 
gaining knowledge for property-specific risk mitigation planning.
Solar Electricity
At the end of 2021, MGM had approximately 110MW of installed solar 
capacity. Our bold action to decarbonize our electricity supply is helping us 
enable strong progress on our interim and long-term climate goals.
ENERGY
LED Lighting
We have installed over 1.4 million Light Emitting Diodes (LED) in one of 
America’s largest lighting retrofit projects.
Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning (HVAC) Efficiency
We have invested tens of millions of dollars in HVAC efficiency projects 
including multiple central plant upgrades and over 1,000 variable speed 
drives on fans, pumps and motors to ensure less energy is needed to move 
air and liquids around our buildings.
WATER
Water Efficient Equipment & Appliances
We prioritize water-efficient equipment and appliances including automatic 
faucets for sinks, low-flow bathroom fixtures and high performance 
commercial dishwashers.
Water Efficient Landscaping
In Las Vegas we converted over 200,000 square feet of real grass to artificial 
turf or desert-friendly landscape to help reduce our consumptive water use 
(water we don’t send back to the source).
DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT
Certified Buildings
Nearly 90% of MGM Resorts’ portfolio (by square feet) is certified to one 
or more of the following environmental certifications: LEED (majority LEED 
Gold), Green Globes, Green Key, China Green Building, ISO 140001 or ISO 
50001.
Stay Well™ Rooms And Meetings
We offer guests an enhanced stay by investing in guest and meeting room 
features aligned with Stay Well™ standards. Example amenities in Stay Well™ 
rooms include air purification, energizing and specialized lighting and 
shower infusers.
MATERIALS & WASTE
Environmentally Preferable Purchasing
We recognize that the materials we choose and products we buy drive 
much of our lifecycle environmental impact. These choices also affect our 
ability to manage waste, since some materials are more durable, recyclable 
or reusable than others. We have concentrated buying power in some of 
our markets and use that power to advance environmentally preferable 
purchasing in many categories.
Materials Diversion
In one of the hospitality industry’s most comprehensive materials diversion 
programs, we capture and divert over 30 materials from landfills. This 
includes common materials such as glass, metal and plastics as well as 
nontraditional items such as hangers, towels and oysters.
Food Waste Diversion & Reduction
As a core aspect of our overall material diversion program, we also have 
a highly respected food waste diversion program. We work on source 
reduction to avoid waste being generated from the start, and also send 
tens of thousands of tons of food scraps to animals, comingled food and 
compostable disposables to compost, and grease to biofuel. 
SUSTAINABLE EVENTS
Environmentally Sustainable Venues
All of our large event venues have unique environmental attributes, including 
Mandalay Bay Conference Center – our flagship venue that has America’s 
largest contiguous rooftop solar array.
Food Donations
Events sometimes result in unserved food. Where possible in our large 
convention properties, we aim to safely donate quality unserved food to 
people in our communities. Across our resorts, we donate three major food 
types to charities: perishable prepared food, perishable unprepared and  
non-perishable food and beverages from minibar/warehouse food.
Sustainable Events Engagement
Las Vegas is a global hub for meetings and conventions and sports and 
entertainment. We are very focused on helping event planners understand 
and implement more socially and environmentally sustainable practices. 
Our program is encapsulated in a user-friendly deck of 52 sustainable event 
ideas, that we regularly use with clients.
PROTECTING THE PLANET
We believe a greener business is a better business and environmental leadership is critical to 21st century corporate leadership. We preserve the environment 
by reducing water, energy and waste, while increasingly purchasing environmentally preferable materials. We are committed to renewable electricity and being 
a global leader in the fight against climate change.16MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGProtecting the Planet: 2021 Highlights
While 2021 was a year of recovery from the tumultuous impact of COVID-19 and related business closures, we 
nonetheless made significant progress on our environmental sustainability initiatives. Our stated environmental 
priorities are energy, water and materials & waste, but we consider climate to be an overarching issue that covers 
all of these areas, and one that we address through implementation actions in each area, not just energy alone.
1 Scope one emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources such as natural gas used in onsite boilers, or diesel for vehicles. Scope two emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy.
2 Scope three emissions are indirect emissions for value chains, including from purchased goods and services, waste from operations, business travel, employee commuting, etc.MGM Resorts Mega Solar Array
In June 2021 we launched the 100MW MGM Resorts Mega 
Solar Array. With over 336,000 panels arranged across 640 
acres, this is the hospitality industry’s largest directly sourced 
renewable electricity project worldwide. In 2021, clean energy 
from the project helped provide up to 90% of MGM Resorts’ 
Las Vegas daytime power needs on specific days. Overall in 
2021 this project as well as clean electricity from the Nevada 
grid helped us source 24% renewable electricity in our primary 
market of Las Vegas. To provide a sense of scale, MGM 
manages over 65 million square feet of buildings across 13 
properties and more than 36,000 rooms in Las Vegas alone, so 
this regions power demand is very substantial. Going forward, 
based on this array and other local efforts, we expect our 
overall renewable electricity percentage in Las Vegas will grow 
to nearly 30% by the end of 2022, and increase significantly in 
subsequent years in support of our new climate goals.Climate Goals & Science-based 
Targets Status
Our mega solar array project represented a milestone in 
MGM Resorts’ long-term climate strategy and is significantly 
helping us accelerate progress towards the climate goals 
we announced in 2018: to reduce our scope one and two1 
greenhouse gas emissions by 45% per square foot by 2025 
and 50% by 2030 respectively (2007 baseline). When we 
opened the project we moved beyond these original intensity-
based climate goals, and announced two new, more ambitious 
goals that we developed informed by guidance from the 
Science-based Targets Initiative (SBTi). These publicly 
announced goals have been submitted for consideration by  
the Initiative.
• Reduce absolute scope one and two Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) emissions 50% by 2030 (2019 base year)
• Source 100% renewable electricity in US and 80% 
globally by 2030
In 2021 we also completed our most detailed and 
comprehensive inventory of scope three2 value chain 
emissions, and we submitted this inventory and a proposed 
2030 reduction target for review by the SBTi.Climate Risk Assessment
In line with the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Climate Disclosure (TCFD), in 2021, we 
engaged an expert independent third party to conduct 
a detailed climate risk and opportunity assessment for 
transition and physical risks across our global portfolio. This 
assessment included a detailed review of MGM’s potential 
exposure to seven types of physical risks of climate change 
(water stress, flood, heatwave, coldwave, hurricane, wildfire, 
and sea-level rise) across three different modelled climate 
change scenarios.
Under all three scenarios, the assessment found that 
overall, MGM Resorts faces moderate physical risk from 
climate change, primarily driven by exposure to water stress, 
wildfire and sea level rise at specific properties. This climate 
risk assessment is a key input to a separate report we are 
publishing in directional alignment with the guidelines of the 
Taskforce for Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
17MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGProtecting the Planet: 2021 Highlights
Consumptive Water Use
One of the findings of our climate risk assessment was that MGM Resorts is exposed to water 
stress in our primary market of Las Vegas. This is because the U.S. Southwest is facing a 
sustained drought and our main water basin of Lake Mead is under pressure from multiple 
sources, but primarily from outside Nevada. To do our part to help mitigate this risk within our 
region, we have implemented extensive water efficiency and conservation efforts over the last 
10 years. In fact, by 2019 had already achieved our 2025 water goal to reduce water per square 
foot by 30% from a 2007 base year, helping avoid the use of over 5 billion gallons in the process. 
We have now reset that goal to 33% by 2025, from the same base year.
While we will continue efforts to reduce water use overall, an interesting and under-appreciated 
aspect of water management in Southern Nevada is that practically all the water used inside 
buildings, including inside all our properties, is recycled and returned back to its source, Lake 
Mead. As such, the more valuable water conservation efforts relate to water use outdoors 
since that use is “consumptive.” To reduce consumptive use to date, our focus has been on 
converting real grass to drought tolerant landscaping and have nearly completed that effort with 
over 200,000 feet converted so far.
In 2021, we engaged independent water experts to conduct detailed analysis on consumptive 
water use drivers and through a combination of actual data and modeled estimates, determined 
that cooling towers were another major driver of consumptive use. As such, we plan to increase 
installation of sub-meters across cooling towers, and have started to install more modern and 
water-efficient cooling towers in multiple locations. We also expect to announce a consumptive 
water use reduction goal for Las Vegas cooling towers, once we have metered data and a more 
accurate baseline data for this important subset of our consumptive water footprint.Oyster Shell Recycling
Oysters are natural filters of the sea and can also act as natural buffers against sea level 
rise and storm surge events. However, over the years, overfishing and improper treatment of 
waterways have been detrimental to oyster populations across the U.S. This has diminished 
their ability to clean water or buffer against the impacts of climate change.
To contribute to oyster regeneration, in 2017 the culinary and food and beverage teams at MGM 
National Harbor started to collect oyster shells for restoration projects in the Chesapeake Bay. 
In subsequent years the program was expanded to our Las Vegas resorts, and we have now been 
collecting oyster shells at multiple properties for many years.
In 2021, as an evolution of this program, we established a partnership with The Nature 
Conservancy in Mississippi, and shipped approximately 45,000 pounds of dry shells from Las 
Vegas to the Southern State. Our MGM Resorts shells are playing a vital role in The Nature 
Conservancy’s feasibility study for oyster habitats in the Gulf Coast, and we expect this may 
help establish the state’s first oyster restoration project. We support the rehabilitation and 
rewilding of this vulnerable ecosystem because we are committed to supporting projects that 
deliver multiple environmental benefits. And, since our Beau Rivage Casino & Resort is based in 
this region, we seek to support the communities in which we operate.
18MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESGGENERAL
BetMGM Named Casino Operator of the Year at EGR  
North America Awards 2022
Named Outstanding Travel Marketing from Hospitality Sales 
& Marketing Association International 2020 
National Council on Problem Gambling’s (NCPG) Public 
Awareness Award
Fortune 500 List – Fortune Magazine
Emporis Skyscraper Award recognition for MGM Cotai  
in Macau 
One of the 2019 Best Places to Work in Las Vegas by Zippia
INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES 
SportsTravel Award for Employee Emergency Grant Fund 
Efforts 
2020 Nevada Governor’s Points of Light Awards for Corporate 
and Business Volunteer Program of the Year (won first place 
in the Gold category)
Beau Rivage Resort Business Volunteer of the Year –  
City of Biloxi
50 Most Community Minded Companies in the  
US by The Civic 50FOSTERING DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
One of DiversityInc’s Top Regional Companies 2021
Named One of the Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 
(10th consecutive year) by the Human Rights Campaign
Awarded recognition on the Military Times’ Best for Vets: 
Employers 2021 list
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council Top Supplier 
Diversity Program 2021
One of America’s Best Employers for Diversity — Forbes 
One of America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business 
Enterprises (7th consecutive year) — Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council 
One of DiversityInc’s Top Regional Companies  
(15th consecutive year) and Supplier Diversity Lists
Diversity Best Practices’ Inclusion Index 2020
One of the Top 50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work for in 
the U.S. by LATINA Style, Inc. 
2020 “Responsibility” H.E.R.O.E.S. by the Western Regional 
Minority Supplier Development Council 
US Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce as a  
Top 35 Corporation 
Ranked #1 on Top 8 Regionals Company List for Diversity – 
DiversityInc 2019
Best for Vets Employer for 2019 – Military Times
Leading Disability Employer by the National Organization on 
Disability (NOD)
2019 Women’s Forum Corporate Champion [recognition for 
having 30% or greater female representation on our board of 
directors]
2019 America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business 
Enterprises – Women’s Business Enterprise National CouncilPROTECTING THE PLANET
2020 Boston Society for Architecture (BSA) Design Awards – 
Sustainable Design Award for MGM Head Start  
Child & Family Center 
Bellagio Hotel and Casino Las Vegas winner of the 2019 
Food Recovery Challenge Hospitality Award – United States 
Environmental Protection Agency 
Recognized for Making Significant Investments in Clean 
Energy by the Solar Energy Industries Association’s Solar 
Means Business Report 
LEED Gold for Neighborhood Development:  
MGM Springfield Overall Site 
LEED Platinum for New Construction:  
MGM Springfield Resort 
LEED Platinum for Commercial Interior:  
MGM Springfield Armory 
LEED Gold for Commercial Interior:  
MGM Springfield Chapel 
LEED Platinum for New Construction:  
MGM Daycare/Child-Family Center
Food Recovery Challenge Award: Bellagio Hotel & Casino – 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
World Procurement Congress and Awards Shortlist: Oyster 
shell recycling process & collaboration (CSR category) – 
Procurement LeadersRecent Awards & Recognition
19MGM Resorts International / mgmresorts.com/ESG100 Black Men of America, Inc.  
American Council of the Blind  
American Indian Scholarship Fund  
Asia Society  
Asian American Business Development Center (AABDC)  
Asian Community Development Council (ACDC)  
Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional Studies  
Congressional Black Caucus Institute  
Congressional Hispanic Caucus  
Disability:IN  
Diversity Best Practices  
DiversityInc  
Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce of Southern Nevada  
Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)  
Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility (HACR)  
Human Rights Campaign (HRC)  
International Gay and Lesbian Travel Association (IGLTA)  
Las Vegas Asian Chamber of Commerce (ACC)  
Las Vegas India Chamber of Commerce  
Las Vegas Urban Chamber of Commerce  
Latin Chamber of Commerce Nevada Inc.  
League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC)  
National ACE (National Asian/Pacific Islander American Chamber of Commerce and 
Entrepreneurship)  
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)  
National Association of Minority Contractors (NAMC)  
National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC)  
National Black MBA Association (NBMBAA)  National Coalition of Black Meeting Professionals  
National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC)  
National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC)  
National Urban League  
Native American Journalist Association (NAJA)  
Nevada Partners  
Organization of Chinese Americans (OCA)  
Out & Equal Workplace Advocates  
Prospanica  
SER National  
SNAPI (Southern Nevada Association of Pride, Inc.)  
The Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Committee of Las Vegas  
The Executive Leadership Council  
The Gay and Lesbian Community Center of Southern Nevada  
The National Center for American Indian Enterprise Development (NCAIED)  
Thurgood Marshall College Fund  
Tourism Diversity Matters  
U.S. Black Chambers, Inc.  
Unidos US   
United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce  
United States Veterans Initiative (U.S. VETS)  
United Service Organizations, Inc. (USO)  
US Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce (USPAACC)  
Veteran Action Group  
Western Regional Minority Supplier Development Council (WRMSDC)  
Women’s Business Enterprise Council – West (WBEC – West)  
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC)  
Women’s Chamber of Commerce Las VegasDiversity & Inclusion Partners*
*This list is intended to reflect a summary and may not include all of the groups and organizations we partner with.For more information on Social Impact and Sustainability at MGM Resorts International please visit our website
mgmresorts.com/ESG