SOCIAL IMPACT  
& SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT2019
EMBRACING HUMANITY  
& PROTECTING  
THE PLANETFOCUSED ON  
WHAT MATTERS Now more than ever, we at MGM Resorts  
are driven by a fundamental commitment to 
make a positive and lasting impact on our  
world. We actively work to benefit our 
communities and our neighbors, believing  
that our efforts in social impact and 
sustainability ensure the continued resiliency 
and relevancy of our business. 2019 was a year of transition for our business. We changed our 
operating model and became more efficient and effective. Amidst 
that change, we were undaunted in pursuing our 2025 social 
impact and sustainability goals. 
We celebrated significant progress, including:
• Establishing a mentorship program for women,  
providing more opportunities for advancement;
• Providing free higher education to employees through  
the College Opportunity Program;
• Donating 1.5 million meals through our marquee  
program, Feeding Forward;
• Reducing water usage more than 29% per square foot1; and
• Earning LEED Platinum certification for MGM Springfield,  
the highest rating ever achieved by a gaming resort.
Our 2019 Social Impact and Sustainability report captures how 
MGM Resorts lives its commitment to make meaningful change 
in society. It also serves as a new annual baseline, from which 
we will grow our ambitions, expand our impact and address new 
challenges as they arise. As our stakeholders demand more 
action, it is vital we are positioned to enhance our contributions 
and drive a strategy that solves pressing issues, creates value  
and ensures the longevity of our Company.        
1. From 2007 baselinesOur industry, like many others, faces a future shaped by climate 
change, uneven economic prosperity and unequal access to 
opportunities— issues that demand greater Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) leadership from corporations 
like ours. The forces impacting the landscape that we operate 
in will continue to change, and we look beyond the horizon to 
proactively shape the future. Our focus on ESG, particularly the 
social impact and sustainability initiatives detailed in this report, 
are the tangible representation of our resolve to build a more 
equitable and just society and to protect and preserve a healthy 
planet.
We take bold action to do business sustainably—mitigating  
our environmental impact and striving to set the standard  
for our industry. We also aim to positively impact society, 
leveraging our business’s scale and scope to create  
opportunities for underrepresented communities and lasting 
change where we live, work and play. We call our collective  
action Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and 
Protecting the Planet, which we introduced in 2019.  
Focused on What Matters articulates our purpose and clearly 
establishes measurable goals that serve as our roadmap to 
making an enduring impact for our communities and our planet. 
The platform has created new momentum for our work, motivated 
our teams internally and enhanced awareness of commitments 
among our stakeholders. Our renewed drive is enriched through 
increasing engagement by our stakeholders, who are pushing 
businesses to do more and transparently report progress.Rose McKinney-James   
CHAIR, CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE,  
BOARD OF DIRECTORSBill Hornbuckle  
ACTING CEO & PRESIDENTWhile this report focuses on 
accomplishments from 2019, we 
must acknowledge the tragedy of 
the COVID-19 global pandemic and 
the events that have occurred in the 
months leading up to its publication. 
The impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic has dramatically 
altered life for many, including 
our employees, guests and those 
in communities across the United 
States and around the world, who 
have been impacted in profound 
ways. In addition to the enormous 
gratitude we owe to front line 
response workers and healthcare 
professionals everywhere, we wish 
to thank our own loyal employees 
and guests for their commitment  
to MGM Resorts.  
We are moved by the myriad of 
ways employees and partners have 
given back to our communities 
– through food donations, 
volunteerism and support of the 
Employee Emergency Grant Fund.
We know that there will be a time 
when we are together again – safe, 
healthy and entertaining our guests. JUNE 2020
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  2
2019Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives are growing more 
urgent each day, fueled by tailwinds of global crises, social activism, a surge in 
ESG ratings and ranking frameworks and unprecedented levels of institutional 
shareholder advocacy. At the same time, an overlay of compelling new data 
and science are bringing clarity to pressing, unmet needs in our communities 
and elevating the threats confronting our environment and humanity.  
This is one reason why ESG has experienced rapid growth with stakeholders, who 
are holding corporations accountable and demanding that businesses play a greater 
role in society. In fact, many boards are expanding the corporation’s function 
beyond maximizing shareholder returns to include purpose, culture and people. This 
trajectory accelerated in 2019 when the Business Roundtable redefined the role of 
the corporation as one that serves all of its stakeholders—customers, employees, 
suppliers, communities and shareholders—making ESG more vital than ever.  
Throughout our history, MGM Resorts has operated responsibly and has long been 
intrinsically driven to make an impact in our communities and on our world. The work 
we have been doing for decades has created a foundation that allows us to seize this 
moment of awareness, further establishing our long-standing leadership and forging 
meaningful public-private partnerships to accelerate impactful change. 
Importantly, our success is enabled by strong governance. Our leadership— 
at the highest levels—is engaged in ESG, reducing risk, creating value, driving 
accountability and ensuring a balanced relationship between investing for  
societal impact and generating business results. 
Our customers are choosing to do business with companies who share their 
fundamental values. Aligned to the ethos of hospitality and entertainment, we 
embrace diversity by welcoming everyone and proudly celebrating the cultural  history, heritage and traditions of our guests and employees. Our commitment is visible 
both inside our Company, where we build an inclusive culture that creates opportunities 
for everyone, including underrepresented populations, and in all of our communities, 
where we join our neighbors at events like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. commemorations, 
PRIDE celebrations and Veterans Day parades. 
We have now instituted integrated tracking and public reporting across our ESG 
initiatives, guided by the dual goals of increasing our impact and demonstrating our 
value to our stakeholders. The outcome of this work is found in the appendix of this 
report. It is transparent and easy to understand. We’re also examining each part of  
our portfolio to ensure that we’re delivering the strongest outcomes from our efforts.  
As one example, we’ve refined our philanthropic approach—ensuring deeper  
alignment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In 2020, 
we will maximize the impact of our engagements by driving focus toward three 
philanthropic priorities: eliminating hunger, advancing quality education and  
creating good-paying jobs and economic growth. 
Our track record demonstrates our long-held belief that a thriving society and a  
healthy environment are the bedrock of a successful business. Propelled by the 
expertise and commitment of our entire team at MGM Resorts, we will create  
shared value and blaze a trail for others to follow.
Jyoti Chopra 
 CHIEF PEOPLE, INCLUSION  
 & SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  3
2019OUR IMPACT
The initiatives detailed in this report support 10 primary SDGs 
that focus on eliminating poverty and hunger, advancing 
education, achieving equality and doing business sustainably, 
among others. Our social impact and sustainability strategies  
are informed and inspired by the SDGs where we can— 
and do—make the strongest impact. FOCUSED ON  
WHAT MATTERS:  
EMBRACING  
HUMANITY  
& PROTECTING  
THE PLANET
OUR COMMITMENT
In 2019, we introduced Focused on What Matters: Embracing 
Humanity and Protecting the Planet—MGM Resorts’ commitment 
to making an impact in society for the benefit of our employees, 
shareholders and communities. Guided by our values of integrity, 
teamwork, inclusion and excellence, Focused on What Matters is 
an expression of what we stand for and who we are. 
LAS VEGAS Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  4
2019REPORTING SCOPE & GOVERNANCE 
Each year, we transparently inform our stakeholders of activities and progress 
toward our goals to demonstrate our impact and enable stakeholders to follow 
and support our work. 
Unless noted otherwise, data in this report represents our global Company for 
fiscal year 2019 (January 1—December 31, 2019). It also is tracked against 
key milestones to show progress and is validated by external partners, such as 
Applied Analysis.2
Our Acting CEO and President and Board of Directors’ CSR Committee are 
responsible for our policies, priorities and performance, which are supported by 
governance-related polices including our Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy and Conflict of Interest 
Policy. Additional resources on our governance can be accessed at  
investors.mgmresorts.com.trends and assess the risks and 
opportunities they present to our 
business. We proactively address 
them through our social impact and 
sustainability strategies. 
Focused on What Matters: Embracing 
Humanity and Protecting the Planet 
defines our strategies across four 
areas: Fostering Diversity and Inclusion, 
Investing in Community, Caring for One 
Another and Protecting the Planet. 
It articulates our ambitions through 
concrete goals that we intend to 
achieve by 2025 and beyond.  
We are showing our momentum by tracking progress toward our 
goals throughout the report using these visuals: 
We are creating processes  
and programs necessary to  
achieve this goal.
We have reached key 
milestones toward this goal, 
and it will be achieved in or 
before 2025.We are redoubling our 
commitment to this goal by 
improving our approach. 
We have accomplished or 
surpassed this goal.Focused on What Matters asserts our 
belief that corporations have a unique 
responsibility to positively address 
society’s greatest challenges. That 
belief has driven us year over year to 
take action and engage on pressing 
issues, such as stimulating economic 
growth, promoting equality, supporting 
sustainability and helping our 
neighbors. We are incredibly proud of 
our track record of making investments 
that have often set a new standard for 
our industry, benefiting employees, 
shareholders and our communities.  
Our longstanding leadership has 
prepared us to anticipate new FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
Statements in this Social Impact and Sustainability Report that are not historical 
facts are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and involve risks and/or uncertainties, 
including those described in the MGM Resorts International (“MGM Resorts”) 
public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company has 
based forward-looking statements on management’s current expectations and 
assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, 
but are not limited to, the Company’s expectations regarding the Company’s 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives and the Company’s 
ability to achieve its ESG goals. These forward-looking statements involve a 
number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking 
statements include effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and economic and market 
conditions in the markets in which the Company operates, and competition 
in the markets in which the Company operates, and competition with other 
destination travel locations throughout the United States and the world, the 
design, timing and costs of expansion projects, risks relating to international 
operations, permits, licenses, financings, approvals and other contingencies 
in connection with growth in new or existing jurisdictions and additional risks 
and uncertainties described in the Company’s Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 
8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports). In providing forward-
looking statements, the Company is not undertaking any duty or obligation to 
update these statements publicly as a result of new information, future events 
or otherwise, except as required by law. If the Company updates one or more 
forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that it will make 
additional updates with respect to those other forward-looking statements.
PLANNING
ON TRACK ACHIEVED
ENHANCING EFFORTS
2. http://www.appliedanalysis.com/
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
This Social Impact and Sustainability Report includes certain non-financial 
data and information which is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting 
from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining 
such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques 
can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different 
measurement techniques may also vary.CONTENTSFostering Diversity & Inclusion
Investing in Community
Caring for One Another 
Protecting the Planet
MGM in China
Performance Metrics
Regional Impact    
Awards & Partners   06
11
15
21
25
28
36
37ON TRACKON TRACK ON TRACK PLANNING
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  6
2019
Ensure that all employees—including 
women, the LGBTQ+ community, 
people from diverse and ethnic 
backgrounds and people with 
disabilities—have equal access to 
leadership opportunities throughout 
MGM Resorts and that our policies 
of inclusion are embedded into our 
culture Spend at least 10% of our 
domestic biddable procurement 
with diverse suppliersExpand our Supplier Diversity 
Mentorship Program to  
achieve 50 graduatesTrain 100% of management 
employees on social impact 
policies and goals2025 GOAL PROGRESSFOSTERING 
DIVERSITY & 
INCLUSIONWe strive to create welcoming 
environments for everyone, 
especially our employees, guests 
and neighbors, and we excel when 
we reflect the communities we serve. 
The best innovation comes from 
collaboration among diverse people 
and ideas—giving businesses an 
edge in today’s marketplace.  With an increasingly diverse 
customer base, our business 
depends on an inclusive 
culture where each of us is 
valued and respected for our 
unique contributions.
FOSTERING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  7
2019Strongly committed to achieving gender 
equality, a group of women senior 
executives are exploring and establishing 
programs to support the growth and 
development of women at MGM Resorts. 
The MGM Women in Hospitality group 
reviews and evaluates policies and 
programs and, importantly, recommends 
and implements enhancements to create 
additional opportunities for women. The group was instrumental in designing 
and establishing the Women’s Mentorship 
Program, a six-month program that will 
provide one-on-one mentoring to women 
in leadership roles. Focused on learning 
and development, participants will receive 
individually tailored leadership plans and be 
invited to attend the Women’s Leadership 
and Empowerment Conference, the annual 
signature event sponsored by MGM Resorts that supports and inspires women’s 
personal and professional development. 
The Women’s Mentorship Program was 
scheduled to begin in 2020 prior to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. It is now expected  
to launch in 2021. THE MGM WOMEN IN 
HOSPITALITY GROUP 
 
PICTURED LEFT TO RIGHT:  
Debra DeShong, Senior Vice President 
Global Corporate Communications  
& Industry Affairs; 
Yonata Rubin, Vice President Talent 
Development and Management; 
Laura Lee, Senior Vice President 
Human Resources; 
Ashley Eddy, Senior Vice President  
and Legal Counsel;
Jyoti Chopra, Chief People, Inclusion 
and Sustainability Officer;
Ann Hoff, Chief Marketing Officer; and
Alyson Bettelman, Senior Executive 
Associate
ADVANCING WOMEN LEADERSFOSTERING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  8We are extremely grateful to the men  
and women who make personal sacrifices  
to serve our nation in the Armed Services.  
At MGM Resorts, we’re proud to have  
many veterans in our ranks, sharing the 
skills they gained through their service  
with all of us and our guests. 
To mark Veterans Day, we recognized our 
more than 2,000 employee veterans with a 
special pin, and approximately 150 of them 
were honored at a pinning ceremony at 
The Mirage, where our Chairman and CEO 
presented the pins to employees. Nearly 
600 employee veterans were celebrated at 
local events across our regional properties. 
Many of our veterans proudly wear their 
pins, which has enabled meaningful 
conversations on their experiences with 
colleagues and guests alike. For the ninth year, we showed service 
members the best of Las Vegas as part of 
Salute to the Troops. In partnership with 
American Airlines and The United Service 
Organizations (USO), 80 active-duty service 
members who traveled from Washington, 
D.C. and Southern California were treated to 
some of Las Vegas’ most iconic experiences. 
The “Wall of Gratitude” was a highlight for 
the troops and our MGM Resorts 
community. Hundreds of MGM Resorts 
employees lined the hallways of The Mirage 
to show their appreciation to the troops by 
extending a warm welcome to Las Vegas. 
On behalf of our nation’s wounded, ill and injured troops and their 
caregivers, I can tell you that MGM Resorts and American Airlines’ 
continuing generosity and support mean a great deal to those who 
have sacrificed so much for our freedom.”
ELAINE ROGERS
PRESIDENT & CEO OF USO-METROTHANKING OUR  
VETERANS AND TROOPSEMPLOYEE NETWORK GROUPS  
BY THE NUMBERS  
PICTURED ABOVE: MGM Resorts employees at 
the Las Vegas PRIDE Night ParadeFOSTERING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
2019
We once again were a sponsor of the Las 
Vegas PRIDE Night Parade. 2019’s parade 
commemorated the 50th anniversary of the 
Stonewall Riots, which are widely credited 
with starting the modern movement for 
LGBTQ+ equality. Our employees and their 
friends and families joined the parade to 
increase visibility and acceptance of the 
LGBTQ+ community. Beyond Las Vegas, our 
MGM Resorts community celebrated PRIDE 
in Detroit, Memphis and Northampton.MGM Resorts intentionally recruits and 
hires veterans to join our team because we 
value their unique perspectives and skills. 
In 2019, we hired 76 veterans into our 
Las Vegas ranks from one job fair alone, 
aided by successful partnerships with local 
military operations and the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce’s Hiring Our Heroes corporate 
fellowship program, among others. 
Many of them come together to build 
community through our Veterans Employee 
Network Group, which has chapters  
in Las Vegas and Detroit.
HONORING A LEGACY OF JUSTICE
For several consecutive years, MGM Resorts 
has sponsored the annual Dr.  
Martin Luther King, Jr. parade in downtown 
Las Vegas and joined our community in 
honoring Dr. King’s legacy. In 2019, 175 of 
our employees and their friends and families 
marched to remember the impact he made 
and recommit ourselves to the unfinished 
work of advancing racial justice and 
equality. This work has grown even more 
urgent following widespread demonstrations 
and civil unrest in early June of 2020 as this 
report was being finalized.  4,175 
MEMBERS  
23
EMPLOYEE NETWORK  
GROUPS  
6 
LOCATIONS  
HIRING VETERANS CELEBRATING PRIDEFOSTERING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  10
2019
We use our purchasing power to advance 
opportunity for diverse businesses in 
the communities where we operate. We 
have required diversity participation in 
all construction bids since 2000, and 
we’ve required diversity participation in all 
biddable commodity purchases of more 
than $3,000 since 2003. 
In 2019, MGM Resorts spent more than 
$178 million with certified, diverse-owned 
enterprises, $75 million of which was 
awarded to women-owned businesses.3 
This led the Women’s Business Enterprise 
National Council (WBENC) to recognize 
MGM Resorts as one of America’s Top 
Corporations for Women’s Business 
Enterprises—an honor we are proud to have 
earned for seven consecutive years. 
We also help certified diverse businesses 
build capacity and enhance operational 
effectiveness by sharing our team’s deep 
expertise through our Supplier Diversity 
Mentorship Program. Since 2016, the 
program has provided one-on-one 
support from MGM Resorts executives 
and employees to help diverse-owned businesses gain critical business knowledge 
in key areas such as marketing, human 
resources and logistics.
The program began in Las Vegas and is 
expanding to reach all the communities 
where we operate. Most recently, the 
program was established at MGM National 
Harbor and MGM Springfield, and a new 
region will be added each year. 
Cristina Tufts—owner of Harbor Wines 
based in National Harbor, Maryland—is the 
program’s first graduate from MGM National 
Harbor. Raised in Moldova, Cristina started 
her business to bring the wine of her home 
region to the Washington, D.C. area. As part 
of her mentorship, she worked closely with 
MGM National Harbor’s Food and Beverage 
team, including the property’s head Sommelier, Mark Warren. She credits  
his knowledge in helping her to build a 
smartly curated, successful portfolio of 
wines. She also learned effective ways  
to use social media and critical human 
resources functions, including conducting 
interviews and creating offer packages. 
Harbor Wines revenue has grown 336% 
since 2017, and over a dozen of her wines 
are sold at a variety of food and beverage 
locations at the resort. Since graduating  
the mentorship program, she’s expanded 
her business by purchasing a warehouse 
and hiring three employees, who bring 
important skills in sales and bookkeeping. 
In her words, “The numbers speak for 
themselves. My revenue more than  
doubled between 2017 and 2019. ”
MGM Resorts gave me the necessary tools to be 
better at my job. Empowered with knowledge and 
confidence, I am stronger against obstacles.” 
CRISTINA TUFTS  
OWNER OF HARBOR WINESLEVERAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN FOR EQUALITY
3. Excluding diverse design & construction spendON TRACK
ON TRACK
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  11
2019
INVESTING IN  
COMMUNITYMGM Resorts is an engine 
for job creation, workforce 
development and prosperity in 
many communities. In 2019 in 
the United States, we generated 
nearly $22 billion in economic 
impact and employed 70,000 
people, paying $3.5 billion in 
wages and contributing more  
than $3.1 billion in local,  
state and federal taxes.4 
Expand our support of nonprofit workforce 
development and education programs from  
25% to 40% of our annual Company givingAward 600 post-secondary scholarships to 
children of employees52025 GOAL PROGRESSBeyond our direct economic 
impact, we expanded individual 
economic potential and advanced 
economic security through 
investments in programs that 
empower job seekers, train the 
workforce and support higher 
education—including helping our 
MGM Resorts community afford 
college through tuition assistance, 
scholarships for employees’ 
children, free online education 
and student loan repayment. 
4. Applied Analysis, MGM Resorts Economic Impact Analysis  5. Since 2019
INVESTING IN COMMUNITY
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  12
2019CREATING ECONOMIC  
OPPORTUNITIES 
From Mississippi to Macau, we partner  
with communities to create job and economic 
opportunities for local residents. To deliver on 
this commitment, we develop new solutions  
to help people overcome common challenges 
to entering and succeeding in the workforce. 
For example, our team at Gold Strike 
Casino Resort in Tunica, Mississippi, has 
partnered with the Clarksdale WIN Center—a 
community service center for job seekers— 
to host job fairs in nearby Clarksdale. The job 
fairs remove common barriers from the hiring 
process. Candidates can apply, interview 
and receive a job offer all in one place on a 
single day—solving access issues to needed 
resources like computers. 
Dozens of local residents have been  
hired through job fairs at the Clarksdale WIN 
Center, including Chiqunita Clemons, who is 
profiled in this section. This success opens 
pathways to good-paying jobs and addresses 
a key business challenge by hiring for Gold 
Strike’s housekeeping department and 
other hard-to-recruit positions. INVESTING IN FUTURE GENERATIONS: 
Scholarships for Children of Employees
In 2019, MGM Resorts provided $900,000 for 100 scholarships to children of 
our employees. The program will award 600 scholarships by the end of 2025. The 
scholarship recipients attend more than 30 colleges across the country, and 80% are 
pursuing a four-year degree. Of that group, 56% are first-generation college students, 
and 75% attend a college that is ranked among the best in the country. 
Students and their parents say the scholarships are life changing. Glenda Ordonez, 
a customer relations supervisor at MGM Grand in Las Vegas, is grateful to MGM 
Resorts for making a difference in her son Gabriel’s future. Gabriel is currently a 
freshman at the University of California Los Angeles. Glenda describes the program 
as “amazing” and helping her son “achieve his dreams of becoming a doctor. ” Gabriel 
appreciates MGM Resorts’ support, saying “money should not get in the way of 
people pursuing and achieving their dreams. Attending UCLA requires substantial 
investment, and this scholarship covers a good portion of my tuition. ” PICTURED RIGHT: Alba Jessica Montejano Salazar  
Minibar Attendant, BellagioINVESTING IN COMMUNITY
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  13
2019SUPPORTING EDUCATION FOR ALL: 
College Opportunity Program
2019 was the first year of our ground-breaking 
MGM Resorts College Opportunity Program. 
The program enables any MGM Resorts 
employee in the U.S. to pursue a college 
education—for free—online through Nevada’s 
institutions of higher education. The program is 
the first of its kind for a Fortune 500 company. 
More than 250 employees seized the 
opportunity to advance their education in 
the program’s first semester. Alba Jessica 
Montejano Salazar, an employee at the 
Bellagio, is in her second semester at 
University of Nevada, Las Vegas, working 
towards a degree in Communications Studies. 
She says that she wouldn’t be in school without 
the program: “I knew I was going to go back 
to school eventually, but without the MGM 
College Opportunity Program it would’ve 
taken me another year or two to save up 
enough money. And even then, I felt like if I 
started, it would be just a matter of time before 
something came up financially that would  
stop me from going to school again. This 
program took the burden off my shoulders, 
 and I appreciate this program so much— 
there are no words. ”The program delivers business value by 
equipping our employees with new knowledge, 
expertise and skills. Dr. Cecilia Maldonado, 
Associate Vice Provost of Workforce 
Development at the University of Nevada,  
Las Vegas, emphasizes that “Corporations  
see the value in education and having 
educated employees who can move  
the company forward. ”This program is only one aspect of our 
commitment to helping our workforce afford 
education. We also provided nearly $1.2 
million in tuition assistance for more than 575 
employees in 2019, and starting in 2020 we 
will help our employees reduce student loan 
debt by contributing up to $12,000 toward 
eligible loans through our new Student Loan 
Debt Assistance Program. INVESTING IN COMMUNITY
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  14
2019
CHIQUNITA CLEMONS: FROM JOB 
SEEKER TO STANDOUT EMPLOYEE
After taking the job, Chiqunita quickly 
became a trusted member of the Gold 
Strike housekeeping staff—a historically 
difficult role for recruitment and retention. 
Her supervisor says that “if I had 20 
employees like Chiqunita, this department 
would always run like clockwork. ”
Chiqunita appreciates the opportunities, 
benefits and sense of community at  
MGM Resorts. “When I came aboard,  
I met friendly people and got the  
training I needed,” she said.  
 When Gold Strike Casino Resort  
partnered with the Clarksdale WIN Center 
to hold job fairs, we opened both a new 
pipeline of talent and new opportunities  
for local Mississippi residents like  
Chiqunita Clemons—now a standout 
employee at Gold Strike.
Chiqunita says the job fair was key to her 
success, as it made the hiring process fast 
and convenient. She was able to interview 
and receive an offer on the same day, and 
then begin working later that week. 
 REMOVING BARRIERS  
TO EMPLOYMENT
As one of largest employers in the Tunica 
area, Gold Strike Casino Resort draws its 
workforce from around the region. Long 
distances can make it challenging for 
employees to reliably and reasonably 
commute to and from work. 
In response, Gold Strike partnered with 
Delta Area Rural Transit System (DARTS) 
to run a bus service between Clarksdale, 
Mississippi, and the resort. The Company 
subsidizes bus fares, cutting the employee’s 
cost in half. We’ve also added one more 
trip every day, giving our employees more 
convenient travel times and reducing the 
amount of time they have to spend waiting. 
Gold Strike is a great place to work and 
provides great benefits for me and my family.  
I would recommend the job to everyone.” 
CHIQUNITA CLEMONSON TRACK
ON TRACKENHANCING EFFORTSON TRACK
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  15
2019
CARING  
FOR ONE  
ANOTHERPhilanthropy and volunteerism  
are part of our DNA and core to 
our culture. We generously give 
our time, talents and resources  
to tangibly show our gratitude  
to the communities that have  
warmly welcomed us. 
Surpass 1 million cumulative 
volunteer hours through the 
Employee Volunteer Program6Exceed $100 million in cumulative 
employee community support 
donations through the MGM Resorts 
Foundation7Achieve 75% domestic employee 
donations to the MGM Resorts 
FoundationDonate 5 million meals through our 
Feeding Forward program82025 GOAL PROGRESSOur community-building efforts 
instill a sense of pride in our 
workforce—often spurring action 
among our employees—either in 
direct contributions to our MGM 
Resorts Foundation or through 
volunteer engagements with 
local  organizations. 
6. Based on 2012 program start  7. Based on 2002 program start  8. Based on 2016 program start  
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  16
2019Unserved event food from MGM Resorts is donated to  
Three Square, a food bank serving Southern Nevada.2019 CORPORATE GIVING HIGHLIGHTS  CARING FOR ONE ANOTHER
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  17
2019CORPORATE GIVING9
MGM Resorts donated $24.5 million in 2019 
to organizations in the communities where 
we live and work around the world.
In 2020, we are further focusing for impact 
through alignment with SDGs to eliminate 
hunger, advance quality education and 
support good-paying jobs and economic 
growth. 2019 included notable contributions 
toward the United Nations goals. 
We donated more than $680,000 to address 
food insecurity. More than $600,000 of that 
was made to Three Square, a food bank serving Southern Nevada. The grant funded 
direct meals through programs like Three 
Square’s Summer BackPack for Kids as  
well as operational support. 
We directed over $2.8 million to enhance 
education by expanding access and 
improving quality. As one example, we 
donated $90,000 to the Nevada Blind 
Children’s Foundation (NBCF) to build 
its first preschool for blind and visually 
impaired children. NBCF aims to drastically 
reduce disparities in high school graduation 
rates for blind and visually impaired people by intervening through early 
childhood education.
We provided over $14,000 to The Children’s 
Center of Wayne County in Detroit to help 
young adults who are aging out of the foster 
care system—an event that for many leads  
to instant homelessness. The grant 
specifically supports the Young Adult 
Self-Sufficiency program, which provides 
resources—including education and 
housing—putting young people on the  
path to successful, independent living.
9. Comprehensive of cash and in-kind donations in the United States and Macau$24.5 M  
TOTAL CORPORATE GIVING  $19.6 M   
TOTAL U.S. CORPORATE GIVING  $2.8 M  
DONATED TO EDUCATION  
of our dedicated employees serve on 
Community Grant Councils to review and 
select recipients of Foundation grants.
Clifford Anderson, Chef Concierge 
at Mandalay Bay, has served on the 
Community Grant Council for Las Vegas 
for four years. He describes participating 
as “one of the proudest parts of his life. ” 
Clifford believes that MGM Resorts is 
building a stronger community. He said, 
“knowing that the donations stay right  
here in the Las Vegas area, I am confident 
that we’re making a difference in the  
future of our community. ”
LENDING A  
HELPING HAND
We believe in the power of committed 
individuals to make lasting change in our 
communities. In 2019, 6,090 members of 
our MGM Resorts workforce volunteered 
more than 70,500 hours to help our 
neighbors in the United States.
Each year, we recognize the volunteers 
across our Company who inspire us 
through their spirit of service and incredible 
generosity. Hiroshi (Hiro) Kajiyama is one of CARING FOR ONE ANOTHER
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  18
2019Our employees gave generously to  
the MGM Resorts Foundation, which is  
primarily funded by donations from our 
workforce. Employees at every level of  
our organization donate, and contributions 
range from a few dollars each pay period  
to large, one-time donations. 
Collectively, our reach is impressive. 
In 2019, the MGM Resorts Foundation 
distributed almost $5 million  
to local organizations. 
One grant went to the Community Care 
Network in Ocean Springs, Mississippi.  
The funding provided housing for 26  
women and children at Sue’s Home, an 
organization that breaks the cycle of 
homelessness. In addition to housing,  
the organization provided counseling to  
help those overcoming abuse and  
addiction, among other challenges.  
While at Sue’s Home, women also  
receive job training, helping them to 
increase earning potential and open  
doors to stable and sustainable housing. 
Guided by the fundamental idea that  
people living in our communities best 
understand local needs, more than 50  our most committed employee volunteers, 
giving more than 614 hours of his time  
to others last year. 
A carpenter by trade, Hiro cannot get 
enough of building and creating spaces. 
Outside of work, he serves as the Las Vegas 
Chapter Director of Special Spaces, a 
national organization that creates dream 
bedrooms for children facing  
life-threatening illnesses.
His work is a bright spot for children and 
their families, bringing joy during the most 
challenging times. Special Spaces came to 
his Carpenters Union meeting asking for 
help to create a room for a four-year-old  
girl with cancer, and Hiro volunteered. MGM RESORTS FOUNDATION CARING FOR ONE ANOTHER
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  19
2019
Remembering this first dream room,  
Hiro said, “We were told that she loved  
The Little Mermaid, so we decided to 
create a mermaid-inspired room. ” When 
the family returned home after a special 
day at MGM Resorts, Hiro said, “the 
parents were crying, overwhelmed with 
joy. ” Today, the girl is thriving, and Hiro 
remains in contact with the family. 
Mandalay Bay Vice President of Facilities 
Joseph Glazier said, “I’m just glad he’s  
part of this team. He volunteers probably 
more than anybody I know. He’s out  
there to make a difference. ” 
For Hawaiians, ohana means family. It’s 
so important to me, and I think about my 
ohana as my community, as everybody, 
really. It’s the reason we are here every 
day to work… to help each other… to 
help our kids and our families.”
HIROSHI (HIRO) KAJIYAMA
CARPENTER, MANDALAY BAY Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  20
2019orphanage. That cookbook started his love 
of cooking and inspired his commitment 
to making a difference. Determined to turn 
food waste at MGM Resorts into meals for 
those facing food insecurity, he said, “It  
matters that we find a way to help people.  
I believe in human kindness and was 
raised to care for people. ” 
ENDING HUMAN  
TRAFFICKING
In 2019, MGM Resorts strengthened its 
commitment to ending human trafficking  
by signing onto ECPAT-USA’s Code of 
Conduct for the Protection of Children  
from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and 
Tourism. Joining the pact adds MGM 
Resorts’ voice to the important global coalition aimed at stopping the exploitation 
of children and human trafficking.
MGM Resorts is an active member of the 
Southern Nevada Human Trafficking Task 
Force, a collaboration among government, 
law enforcement, business and community 
leaders. We also work with resort leaders 
to bring awareness to human trafficking 
through the Nevada Resort Association’s 
Anti-Human Trafficking Committee. 
Additionally, our Company has educated 
and trained approximately 450 employees to 
identify signs of trafficking and empowered 
them to report suspected cases. 
The UN Guiding Principles Reporting 
Framework recommends that we focus 
our human rights reporting on our salient 
human rights issues, which are the “human 
rights at risk of the most severe negative 
impact through the company’s activities and 
business relationships. ” We believe that our 
salient human rights issues are labor rights, 
forced labor and human trafficking risks 
in our own operations and/or in our supply 
chain. Our commitment to address salient 
human rights issues is highlighted by our 
Human Trafficking Policy and Human Rights 
Policy.Feeding Forward—the innovative  
food donation program founded in 
2016—has passed a major milestone— 
rescuing more than 1 million meals  
from our resorts.
The initiative addresses the major 
environmental concern of food waste and 
the societal challenge of food insecurity 
by rescuing unused and unserved food 
from multiple points along MGM Resorts 
food and beverage operations, including 
warehouses, minibars and event meals. 
Unserved hot food is quickly flash frozen 
to safely extend how long the meal can 
be stored. In addition, we have directly 
funded more than 500,000 meals 
through our partnership with Three 
Square Food Bank, including the  
Summer BackPack for Kids program.
The ground-breaking donation system 
began at ARIA Resort Las Vegas and  
now includes nine MGM Resorts on  
the Las Vegas Strip. ARIA Resort and 
Casino’s Executive Chef Carlos Guia 
was a driving force in the creation of 
this program. When he was 12 years 
old in Venezuela, his mother created 
a cookbook that benefited a local CARING FOR ONE ANOTHER
DONATING MEALS  
TO THOSE IN NEEDON TRACK ENHANCING EFFORTS ON TRACK ON TRACK
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  21
2019
PROTECTING  
THE PLANETWe are a recognized leader in 
environmental sustainability, 
particularly in climate leadership. 
Our commitment to operating 
sustainably guides every aspect 
of our business from sustainable 
design and construction 
to responsible operations, 
including energy, water and 
materials  management. 
We put these principles into 
practice when we built MGM 
Springfield, and it became the 
Reduce carbon emissions  
per square foot by 45%Reduce energy per  
square foot by 25%Reduce water per  
square foot by 30%Achieve 60% materials 
diversion rate2025 GOAL PROGRESS10first resort in the gaming industry 
to receive LEED Platinum 
certification. It features a ~1.13 
megawatt solar canopy that 
reduces our carbon footprint. In 
2020, we will break ground on 
our 100 megawatt solar array 
in Southern Nevada. When fully 
operational in 2021, it will provide 
up to 90% of the daytime power 
for our Las Vegas  properties.
10. Protecting the Planet goals are based on 2007 baselines
PICTURED LEFT: MGM Resorts sustainable events 
feature 100% compostable packaging for mealsPROTECTING THE PLANET
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  22
2019PIONEERING  
SUSTAINABLE EVENTS
We are leading the hospitality industry and 
the private sector in the emerging area 
of sustainable events. As the host of vast 
numbers of events every year, we are well 
positioned to make a significant impact in 
this field, particularly as meeting planners 
are striving to make more deliberate choices 
that drive societal and environmental 
benefits from their events. In the past two 
years, we have worked with more than 
70 companies to help them bring their 
sustainability commitment to their meetings 
and trade shows. In 2019, nearly $100 
million in revenue was generated by events 
with a formal sustainable plan or report, and 
the business is rapidly growing. 
We have made it easy for clients to make 
more sustainable choices, including in 
venue and space, décor and signage, food 
and beverage and outreach and education. 
Our program enables a business to tailor its 
event to match its values. For example, a 
company might choose a LEED-certified 
hotel, go carbon-neutral, use digital 
or recyclable signage, opt for organic 
produce—or all of the above. We design PROTECTING THE PLANET
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  23
2019
formal sustainable event plans for clients 
and execute them by collaborating among 
convention services, catering, culinary, 
sustainability, facilities and other teams. 
Our leadership on sustainable events 
has attracted the world’s most respected 
businesses and served as a model for  
the industry. Globally recognized  
brands have worked with us to  
develop their sustainable events. 
Our Vice President of Corporate 
Sustainability, Yalmaz Siddiqui, spoke at 
the UN Climate Change Conference on 
the growing potential of this area. And the 
Events Industry Council invited us to join 
as a founding partner of the new Centre 
for Sustainable Events. MGM Resorts plays 
a leading role within the Centre, and our 
approach to sustainable event planning is 
part of a core training module to credential 
meeting planners with a Sustainable  
Events Professional Certificate. CREATING SUBARU’S  
ZERO-WASTE EVENT
In 2019, we worked closely with Subaru  
to achieve a first for both companies: a  
zero-waste conference with a nearly  
100% materials diversion rate. 
Subaru first approached us because they 
wanted to extend their factories’ zero-waste 
commitment to their National Business 
Conference at Mandalay Bay. While the EPA 
defines a zero-waste event as one with a 90% 
materials diversion rate, Subaru had a greater 
ambition. They asked us to get their event  
as close to 100% as possible.
We rose to the challenge. Beginning a full year 
before the conference, we worked closely with 
Subaru’s event team to develop a plan for how 
to recycle, donate or reuse nearly every single 
item and material involved in the event— 
from the carpet the attendees walked on  
to the lanyards they wore. The result was a comprehensive plan 
that set a new bar for zero-waste events. 
There were no trash cans and instead, we 
had designated staff to manage multiple 
separate flows for all types of materials  
from food scraps to compostable materials 
to donations to snack wrappers. We 
partnered with TerraCycle—an innovative 
recycling and reuse business—to address 
items that are difficult to recycle, such as 
lanyards and container tops. The event’s 
carpet was specifically chosen and cut  
so it could be reused. We even donated  
an entire barn from the expo floor to a  
high school in rural Nevada. 
Because of this advanced planning and  
on-site coordination, the event achieved  
an impressive 99.7% materials diversion 
rate. The Subaru team was thrilled, and 
other businesses are already asking if  
they can bring a similar approach to  
their events at our properties.90%  
MATERIALS  
DIVERTED
  
US EPA STANDARD FOR 
ZERO-WASTE EVENT  
MATERIALS  
DIVERTED
  
ACHIEVED BY MGM  
RESORTS AND SUBARU99.7%PROTECTING THE PLANET
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  24DIVERTING MATERIALS  
AND WASTE
In 2019, we achieved a historic milestone: 
500,000 metric tons of materials diverted 
from landfills through recycling, donations, 
compost or other destinations since 2007.11 
In 2019, we achieved a 44.1% diversion rate, 
far surpassing the hospitality industry average. 
We have also doubled our materials diversion 
rate per square foot over the same timeframe.
This milestone builds on over a decade of 
careful investments, deliberate decisions 
and committed efforts. We built full-service 
material recovery facilities on all of our 
Las Vegas properties, where staff separate 
compostable materials, recyclables and food 
waste from the landfill stream. Grease is 
turned into biofuels. Furniture and linens are 
donated to charity, and unserved food that we 
can safely rescue goes to feed the hungry. 
This is just the beginning. We are moving 
towards a cutting-edge circular economy 
model that considers all parts of the supply 
chain. For example, we buy a portion of  
our oysters and recycle oyster shells through  
a Maryland company that is restoring  
the Chesapeake Bay’s oyster reefs, and  we buy our landscaping fertilizer from  
the company that turns our coffee grounds 
and coffee cups into compost.  
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
We are one of North America’s largest 
independent restaurant operators, and we 
use our scale to make positive impacts across 
the entire supply chain. MGM Resorts has 
committed to completely transition to cage-
free eggs and exclusively source responsibly 
raised chicken by 2030, as certified by the 
Global Animal Partnership, an organization 
that assesses animal health and productivity, 
living environments and overall well-being.
11. Excluding Construction & Demolition Materials from new construction projects, 
which represents an additional 342,000 metric tons of materials diverted.MATERIALS DIVERSION  
HIGHLIGHTS
500,000 
METRIC TONS OF MATERIALS  
DIVERTED SINCE 2007
 
44.1%  
MATERIALS DIVERSION RATE IN 201953,000  
METRIC TONS OF MATERIALS  
DIVERTED IN 2019
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  25
2019
Our operations in Macau extend our commitment to social impact and 
sustainability around the globe. In China, we continuously strive for a 
greater positive impact for our people, communities and environment. 
In 2019, we won widespread recognition 
for our social impact and sustainability 
efforts in Macau, including five awards for 
corporate social responsibility, nine awards 
for sustainability and 21 awards for human 
resources. Standouts include the Outstanding 
Corporate Social Responsibility Award from 
the Mirror Post of Hong Kong, the Asia Pacific 
Innovation Award from the International 
Facility Management Association and the 
Asia Best Workplace Award 2019 from AIA 
China, the School of Public Health of Peking 
University and HRoot. 
In Macau, we are advancing towards a 
comprehensive vision for sustainability at 
both MGM MACAU and MGM COTAI. From 
2013 to 2019, MGM MACAU reduced total 
waste by 19%, total carbon emissions by 
18%, total energy use by 19% and total water 
use by 15%. We are also working to improve 
water and energy conservation, waste 
management and carbon emissions at MGM 
COTAI. We strive for continual improvement 
by adding effective Environmental and 
Energy Management Systems, which 
are certified to ISO14001:2015 and 
ISO50001:2018 standards. MGM IN CHINA
FOSTERING DIVERSITY  
AND INCLUSION
We promote diversity and inclusion through programs, 
partnerships and events in Macau. For example, we 
worked with the Macau Government Tourism Office 
and the Macau Deaf Association to co-organize the 
first e-learning program on sign language in Macau. 
Designed for those who work in the tourism industry, 
the program teaches basic sign language to help 
employees serve those with disabilities. 
INVESTING IN COMMUNITY
We support education, training and workforce 
development for employees and communities in 
China. Overall, we provided more than 814,000 hours 
of training to our employees in Macau in 2019 – an 
average of 74 hours for each team member. 
We are also committed to higher education. For 15 
years, we have sponsored the University of Macau’s 
study abroad program that brings students to Las 
Vegas to learn about careers in hospitality and gaming. 
In 2019, 35 students in the Faculty of Business 
Administration participated in the program and 
learned about resort operations firsthand. CARING FOR ONE ANOTHER
MGM MACAU and MGM COTAI are making a difference 
for their communities and local residents. Our employees 
dedicated more than 23,000 hours to volunteering in 2019 
– twice the 2018 total – with 113 community events that 
benefited over 6,000 people.
In particular, we launched the “Spring Clean for Love” 
event, which brought together 180 employee volunteers to 
help more than 230 local seniors clean and decorate their 
homes ahead of the Chinese New Year. To spread warmth 
across Macau during winter, 450 employees knitted 
2,500 scarves that were donated as part of “Weaving for 
Warmth,” and for the past 10 years, we have held an annual 
volunteering event that connects hundreds of seniors with 
one-on-one health consultations from medical practitioners 
at the Chinese Medicine Association of Macau.  
PROTECTING THE PLANET
We are focused on continuously reducing our 
environmental impact. For example, we are the first 
company in Macau to use ORCA, an innovative technology 
that turns food waste into an organic waste liquid, 
enabling MGM MACAU to divert nearly 400 tons of food 
waste from landfills each year. MGM COTAI also turns food 
waste into nutrient-rich compost, which we use to help 
grow the more than 100,000 plants at our properties.
MGM Resorts volunteers knit scarves as part of Weaving for Warmth.APPENDIX
2019 Performance Metrics  ON TRACK
ON TRACK ON TRACKON TRACK
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  28
2019
Goal Progress: Fostering Diversity & Inclusion 
U.S. DATA (UNLESS INDICATED)
†Tier 1 Diverse Supplier Spend is spend with certified diverse suppliers including minority, women, veteran, disabled and LGBTQ+ owned suppliers. Tier 1 biddable spend is non sole-source procurement (excluding design &  
construction) that diverse suppliers are eligible to bid on.  ††We are tracking progress toward this goal by comparing the percentage of women and diverse people in leadership positions with their proportion in our total workforce. DIVERSE SUPPLIER MENTORSHIP  
PROGRAM GRADUATESTIER I DIVERSE SUPPLIER SPEND†
LEADERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES:  
RACIAL AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY††LEADERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES: 
WOMEN (GLOBAL)††
2017
2017
2018
2018
WORKFORCE WORKFORCEWORKFORCE WORKFORCE
LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIPLEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP2019
2019
2025 GOAL: 
10% OF BIDDABLE 
SPEND
2025 GOAL: 
50 GRADUATES2025 GOAL: 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
2025 GOAL: 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY2019
20199.1%
12
2018
2018
9.4%
8
9.5%
4
40.4%
44.8%41.0%
47.8%
50.4%
69.0%50.3%
67.8% Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  29
2019Fostering Diversity & Inclusion: Additional Metrics
124% 834 373 71-15%
-21%N/A
-68%72%
22.8%-
$224,448,26484%
29.0%78%
$691,663,45165%
22.1%77%
$750,839,0346%
-74%1%
-2%51%
$51,245,4914,175
$178,196,95848%
$200,387,3414,114
$182,772,42152%
$165,697,7131,802
$157,823,0521. Trend vs. prior year refers to relative change, not absolute change.
2. Includes LEAD and Jumpstart development programs. LEAD 
began in late 2017 and Jumpstart began in 2019.  
 
3. Examples of Employee Network Groups (ENGs) include African 
American, Veterans, Women’s, Young Professionals, LGBTQ+ etc.  
 
4. Employee survey not performed in 2019.  
 
5. Tier 1 Biddable spend is non sole-source procurement (excluding 
design & construction) that diverse suppliers are eligible to bid on. 
 
6. Tier 1 Diverse Supplier Spend is spend with certified diverse 
suppliers including minority, women, veteran, disabled and LGBTQ+ 
owned suppliers.  
 
7. No major new developments constructed in 2019.  
 
8. Decline 2018 - 2019 based on reduction in overall construction 
spend. 
 
9. Decline based on reduction in overall construction spend and 
reduced availability of diverse suppliers in certain categories. -25%
15%
2%10,463
23
$1,971,413,35013,913
20
$1,936,170,21314,225
17
$1,652,631,579METRIC (U.S. ONLY, UNLESS INDICATED) 2018 2017 2019TREND VS 
PRIOR YEAR NOTES
Total number of employees in voluntary development programs 2Racially/ethnically diverse new hires, % 1
Positive perception rating on diversity & inclusion culture in annual 
employee survey 4 
Design & construction spend 7
Diverse design & construction spend 8Women new hires, % (global) 1
Diverse design & construction spend, % 9Number of Employee Network Group members
Tier 1 Diverse Supplier spend (excluding design & construction spend) 6New hires (global)
Number of Employee Network Groups 3
Tier 1 Biddable Spend (excluding design & construction spend) 5TALENT MANAGEMENT
DIVERSE & INCLUSIVE WORKPLACE CULTURE
SUPPLIER DIVERSITYON TRACK ON TRACK
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  30
2019
Goal Progress: Investing in Community 
U.S. DATA
SUPPORT FOR WORKFORCE  
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMSSCHOLARSHIPS TO CHILDREN 
OF EMPLOYEES
2017
2025 GOAL: 
40% OF TOTAL  
CORPORATE GIVING2025 GOAL: 
600 AWARDED 
2019 2019 2018 26%
100
LAUNCH
2018
15%
12%
Money should not get in the way of people pursuing and achieving 
their dreams. Attending UCLA requires substantial investment, and 
this scholarship covers a good portion of my tuition.”
GABRIEL PE MANUEL ORDONEZ
MGM RESORTS SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENT Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  31
2019Investing in Community: Additional Metrics
37%
4%-1%
9%577
5.6 / 780,475
$5.0 B421
5.4 / 781,570
$4.6 B395
-76,869
$4.4 B66%
-65%$1,180,558
6,235$21.9 B$709,474
17,884$20.9 B$601,184
278$20.7 B1. Program began in 2019.
2. Operational Cost of Good Sold (COGS). Excludes spend from 
Borgata and Empire properties. 
 
3. MGM Resorts Economic Impact as calculated by Applied 
Analysis. 
 
4. Includes the total directly spent by MGM Resorts and the direct 
wage impact of off-site spending by MGM Resorts guests in the 
surrounding community, as calculated by Applied Analysis.
5. GameSense is a responsible gaming program that helps players 
make smart choices when they visit a casino.
6. Began tracking guest perception in 2018.N/A
-14%2%252
527,376$2,681,762,393N/A
616,367$2,618,525,815N/A
14,695$2,057,683,309METRIC (U.S. ONLY, UNLESS INDICATED) 2018 2017 2019TREND VS 
PRIOR YEAR NOTES
Employees participating in tuition reimbursement programs, # 
(Partially or fully funded)
Guests’ perceived adequacy of GameSense responsible gaming 
approach, rating 5, 6Total workforce (global)
Wages supported, $ 4Employee higher education tuition reimbursed by MGM  
(Partially or fully funded), $
Guests provided instructive interactions on GameSense responsible 
gaming program, # 5Total U.S. economic output 3Employee higher education enrollments fully funded by MGM 1
Guests introduced to GameSense responsible gaming program, # 5Spend with vendors, $ 2WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
RESPONSIBLE GAMINGCOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTON TRACKON TRACK
ON TRACKENHANCING EFFORTS
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  32
2019
CUMULATIVE EMPLOYEE GIVING  
TO MGM RESORTS FOUNDATIONPERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES 
GIVING TO FOUNDATION†Goal Progress: Caring For One Another  
U.S. DATA
CUMULATIVE MEALS DONATED 
TO CHARITY††CUMULATIVE EMPLOYEE  
VOLUNTEER HOURS
2017
2017
2017
2025 GOAL: 
75.0% PARTICIPATION
2025 GOAL: 
$100M DONATED2025 GOAL: 
5M MEALS DONATED2025 GOAL: 
1M HOURS VOLUNTEERED
2019
2019 2019201934%
$83M965K
2018
2018
2018
2017
2018
71%
$78M
1.5M
894K
68%
$74M
923K
539K
770K
† Reduction driven partly by company restructuring in 2019.  †† Includes meals rescued from properties and funded through philanthropy. Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  33
2019Caring for One Another: Additional Metrics
-12%
76%5%
67%$6,230,220
$4,824,777$1,782,830
465,692$7,082,629
$2,747,160$1,700,686
279,338$3,785,988
$2,509,491$1,869,548
208,7171. Reduction driven partly due to company restructuring in 2019. 
2. Up to and including 2019, the MGM Resorts Foundation is 
funded primarily by MGM employee contributions. Disbursements 
to approved non-profits are made through direct employee 
designations (employees chose charities to allocate their giving 
to) or through Foundation Grants that are awarded by employee 
committees. 
3. Increase in company cash giving driven by new grants and 
new programs including post secondary scholarships to children 
of MGM employees. Includes cash giving by MGM China, using 
currency conversion as of December 31 per year. 
4. In-kind giving includes donations by MGM Resorts other than 
cash that may include comps, rooms, meals, show tickets, obsolete 
items, labor, property-specific events, marketing donations, one-off 
events and conventions. Reduction of in-kind giving driven partly 
due to company restructuring in 2019.  Includes in-kind giving 
by MGM China, converted to dollar equivalent, using currency 
conversion as of December 31 per year.
5. Comprehensively covers all types of giving to non profit 
organizations by the MGM Resorts Foundation and the company 
itself. 
6. Includes meals funded by MGM Resorts philanthropic efforts 
as well as non-perishable, perishable prepared and perishable 
unprepared food & beverages rescued from MGM Resorts 
locations. Weight rescued converted to meals using USDA 
guideline of 1.2 pounds per meal.-30%
19%
33%7%
7%6%
58%7%
-3%93,573
$13,372,553
140,000$19,602,772
$24,484,272$4,881,499
605,692$3,098,669
$19,659,495134,493
$11,248,961
104,909$18,331,590
$22,926,400$4,594,810
384,247$2,894,124
$20,179,240124,029
$12,224,906
97,210$16,010,894
$20,010,396$3,999,502
305,927$2,129,954
$17,500,905METRIC (GLOBAL ONLY, UNLESS INDICATED) 2018 2017 2019TREND VS 
PRIOR YEAR NOTES
Company in-kind giving, $ equivalent 4   
Total MGM China Company giving (cash and in-kind),  
$ and $ equivalentFoundation Employee Direct Designations (U.S. only), $  
Meals rescued (U.S. only) Employee volunteer hours 1
Company cash giving, $ 3 
Meals funded (U.S. only)Total company cash and in-kind giving, $ equivalent 
Total Global Company giving (cash and in-kind)  
& Foundation giving, $ and $ equivalent 5Total disbursements by MGM Resorts Foundation (U.S. only), $ 2 
Total meals donated (U.S. only) 6Foundation Community Grants (U.S. only), $
Total MGM USA Company giving (cash and in-kind)  
& Foundation giving, $ and $ equivalentVOLUNTEERISM
COMPANY GIVING
FOOD DONATIONSMGM RESORTS FOUNDATION GIVING
TOTAL GIVINGON TRACK ON TRACK
ON TRACK ENHANCING EFFORTS
 Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  34
2019
ENERGY USAGE 
kilowatt hours per square footCARBON EMISSIONS 
pounds per square foot (scope 1 and 2)Goal Progress: Protecting the Planet 
GLOBAL DATA
MATERIALS DIVERSIONWATER USAGE 
gallon per square foot
2017
2007
2007
2007
2017
2017
30.2 LBS/SF 
BASELINE
30.9 KWH/SF 
BASELINE
10%  
BASELINE75.6 GAL/SF 
BASELINE
16.6 LBS/SF
23.2 KWH/SF52.9 GAL/SF2025 GOAL: 
45.0% REDUCTION
2025 GOAL: 
25.0% REDUCTION2025 GOAL: 
60.0% DIVERSION RATE2025 GOAL: 
30.0% REDUCTION
2019
2019 20192019 
22.2
26.153.6
2018
2018
2018
2017
2018
20.0
25.8
44.1%
57.1
21.3
25.9
45.8%
38.5%
55.926.7%  
REDUCTION 
ACHIEVED
15.4%  
REDUCTION 
ACHIEVED29.1%  
REDUCTION 
ACHIEVED Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  35Protecting the Planet: Additional Metrics
1%
13%
9%
-8%N/A-7%91.4%
278,835
1,494,263
52,796-16.5%90.9%
246,153
1,371,403
57,1481,16217.7%91.1%
251,214
1,389,767
46,1622,36417.5%1. Only includes buildings owned or operated for the full year 
reporting period, except Circus Circus Las Vegas which was divested 
very late in 2019 (for which building area has been pro-rated). ARIA 
Convention Center was expanded in 2018. MGM Cotai and MGM 
Springfield were opened in 2018, but square footage and operational 
metrics are reflected in 2019 data. MGM Grand Convention Center and 
Park MGM were expanded in 2019. 
 
2. Includes the following new construction certifications: LEED for 
New Construction, LEED for Commercial Interiors, Green Globes for 
New Construction and China Green Building (Macau). Also includes 
the following operations certifications: Green Globes for Existing 
Buildings, Green Key, Green Key Meetings, ISO14001 and ISO50001. 
 
3. Increase partially driven by property additions including MGM Cotai 
and MGM Springfield along with expansions at Park MGM and MGM 
Grand Las Vegas, totaling 6.5 million square feet. 
 
4. Includes both grid-purchased and MGM self-generated solar 
electricity from Mandalay Bay and T-Mobile Arena. 
 
5. Addition of 1.13 MW solar array at MGM Springfield at the end of 
2019.
 
6. Includes LEED for New Construction, LEED for Commercial 
Interiors, Green Globes for New Construction and China Green 
Building (Macau).
 
7.  New development C&D materials in 2017 and 2018 associated 
with MGM Springfield. 2019 C&D material diversion from property 
expansions (Park MGM and MGM Grand Las Vegas) captured in 
operational materials to landfill and diversion metrics.  
8. Reduction in materials diverted from landfill driven both from 
source reduction efforts and mid-year change in primary vendor for 
food waste management. 
 
9. Includes food to charity, pig farms, compost and yellow grease and 
brown grease to biofuel.  
 
10. Includes both utility-provided water and well water.
11. Growth based on proactive work by MGM with major clients. 
Includes revenue from client meetings, trade shows, conventions 
where a formal Sustainable Event Plan or quantitative Sustainable 
Event report developed.
12. Includes Green Globes for Existing Buildings, Green Key, Green 
Key Meetings, ISO14001, ISO50001. Some buildings have multiple 
certifications.
 
 
 7%
19%
8%
-1%
1%
204%
3%56%13%21%
7%
5%N/A96,227,434
968,429
2,516,149
66,823
5,162,613
$95,545,638
34149.6MW689,594
1,021,886
25,276-89,853,887
815,764
2,322,008
67,719
5,130,591
$31,474,419
3398.5MW569,612
950,605
23,97878%89,749,887
865,970
2,323,344
73,686
5,013,222
$26,003,106
3388.4MW614,756
937,563
20,97197%METRIC (GLOBAL UNLESS INDICATED) 2018 2017 2019TREND VS 
PRIOR YEAR NOTES
Buildings certified to third party environmental standards (new 
construction or operations), % of square feet 2
Scope 1 carbon emissions, metric tons CO2 equivalent 3
Energy from electricity, MWh 3
Materials diverted from landfill / incineration, metric tons 8New developments Construction & Demolition (C&D) materials 
diverted from landfills, metric tons (U.S. only) 7Renewable electricity as share of purchased electricity, % 4Buildings owned or operated, square feet 1
Total carbon emissions, scope 1 & 2, metric tons CO2 equivalent 3
Total energy use, MWh (electricity & natural gas) 3
Total materials to landfill / incineration, metric tons
Total water use, kGal 3, 10
Revenue from client events with sustainable events plans/reports 11
Environmental certifications for existing operations 12 Environmental certifications for new developments 6Installed base of renewable electricity, MW 5Scope 2 carbon emissions, metric tons CO2 equivalent 3
Energy from natural gas, MWh 3
Food materials diverted from landfill / incineration, metric tons 3, 9New developments C&D materials diversion rate (U.S. only) 7PORTFOLIO & ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS
CLIMATE LEADERSHIP
RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: ENERGY
RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: MATERIALS & WASTE
RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: WATER
RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: EVENTS
RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS: CERTIFICATIONSSUSTAINABLE DESIGN & CONSTRUCTION Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  36
2019BEAU RIVAGE, MISSISSIPPI
339 employees volunteered 5,511 hours
$173,586 raised by the employees for the Grant 
Fund
GOLD STRIKE, MISSISSIPPI
227 employees volunteered 1,755 hours
$60,000 raised by the employees for the  
Grant Fund 
COMBINED MISSISSIPPI IMPACT
$344,771 given in charitable contributions
$125,995,050 paid in taxes to the State  
of Mississippi
MGM GRAND DETROIT, MICHIGAN
339 employees volunteered 2,598 hours
$52,881,733 paid to Detroit-based business
$7,424,829 paid to Minority Business 
Enterprises
$2,545,097 paid to Women Business 
Enterprises 
52% of employees are  
Detroit residents
72.3% of employees are  
racially or ethnically diverse
54% of leaders are  
racially or ethnically diverse
53.8% of employees are womenMGM NATIONAL HARBOR, MARYLAND
More than 400 employees volunteered 5,130 
hours
$1 million plus given in charitable  
contributions
25% of operations spend was with Prince 
George’s County businesses
46% of employees are Prince George’s County 
residents and/or veterans
BORGATA, NEW JERSEY
249 employees volunteered 5,293 hours
$149,676 given in charitable commitments
$77,962,566 paid in gaming taxes to the State 
of New Jersey
MGM NORTHFIELD PARK, OHIO
47% of employees are women
Over $99M paid in taxes
MGM SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
$39,540,650 paid in city tax contributions 
$88,531,426 paid in state tax contributions 
$490,497 given in charitable contributions
40% of employees are  
Western Massachusetts residents
45% of employees are women
37% of leaders are womenEMPIRE CITY CASINO, NEW YORK
$3.7 billion paid in taxes generated for New York 
State education system since opening
$25 million generated on average monthly  
for education
41% of employees are  
women
66% of employees are  
racially or ethnically diverse
37% of employees are  
Yonkers residents
27.4% of employees are  
Bronx residents
7.4% of employees are  
Mount Vernon residentsRegional Impact Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  37
2019GENERAL
America’s Best Large Employers (18 out of 500) 
– Forbes 
Public Awareness Award – National Council on 
Problem Gambling
Emporis Skyscraper Award, MGM COTAI in 
Macau
2019 Best Places to Work in Las Vegas – ZippiaFOSTERING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality –  
Human Rights Campaign 
Eagle Leadership Award: Brian Sandoval –  
Latino Leaders Network
America’s Best Employers for Diversity – Forbes
Ranked #1 on Top 8 Regionals Company List for 
Diversity – DiversityInc
2019 America’s Top Corporations for Women’s 
Business Enterprises – Women’s Business  
Enterprise National Council
Best for Vets Employer for 2019 – Military Times 
Leading Disability Employer – National  
Organization on Disability 
Million Dollar Club – U.S. Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce 
2019 Women’s Forum Corporate Champion CARING FOR ONE ANOTHER
Beau Rivage Resort Business Volunteer of the 
Year – City of Biloxi 
One of the 50 Most Community Minded  
Companies in the US – The Civic 50 (Points of 
Light)
PROTECTING THE PLANET
Food Recovery Challenge Award: Bellagio Hotel & 
Casino – Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
World Procurement Congress and Awards  
Shortlist: Oyster shell recycling process &  
collaboration – Procurement Leaders Awards & Recognitions Focused on What Matters: Embracing Humanity and Protecting the Planet   |  38
2019100 Black Men of America, Inc.
100 Black Men of Las Vegas, Inc.
American Indian College Fund
ASCEND National Association of Asian MBAs
Asian & Pacific Islander American Scholars (APIAS)
Asian American Group (AAG) Las Vegas
Asian American Journalists Association (AAJA)
Asian Community Development Council (ACDC)
Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional Studies
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation
Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute
Cultural Diversity Foundation
Disability:IN
Diversity Best Practices (Bonnier Working Mother Media)
Dress for Success of Southern Nevada (DFSSN)
Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce of Nevada
Hannah Brown Community Development Corporation
Henderson Chamber of Commerce of NV
Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility (HACR)
Hispanic Scholarship Fund
Human Rights Campaign Las Vegas
Human Rights Campaign National
International Gay & Lesbian Travel Association Foundation 
Inc. (IGLTA)
International Gay and Lesbian Travel Association (IGLTA)
Las Vegas Asian Chamber of Commerce (ACC)
Las Vegas Clark County Urban League (LVUL)Las Vegas Urban Chamber of Commerce
Latin Chamber of Commerce Community  
Foundation
Latin Chamber of Commerce Nevada Inc. (LCC)
League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC)
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
(NAACP)
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
(NAACP) - Las Vegas
National Association of Black Journalists
National Association of Hispanic Journalists
National Association of Minority Contractors (NAMC)
National Association of Minority Contractors  
(NAMC) - Nevada
National Association of Women Business Owners  
(NAWBO) - Las Vegas
National Association of Women in Construction  
(NAWIC) - Las Vegas Chapter #74
National Black MBA Association, Inc. (NBMBAA)
National Coalition of 100 Black Women - Las Vegas Chapter
National Coalition of Black Meeting Planners
National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce
National Lesbian & Gay Journalists Association
National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC)
National Society of Minorities in Hospitality
National Urban League
Native American Journalists Association
Organization of Chinese Americans (OCA)
Organization of Chinese Americans (OCA) - Las VegasOut & Equal Workplace Advocates
Prospanica (formerly known as National Society  
of Hispanic MBAs)
Rainbow Dreams Educational Foundation
SER National
Southern Nevada Association of Pride Inc.  
(SNAPI)
The Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Committee of Las Vegas
The Gay and Lesbian Community Center of  
Southern Nevada
The Links, Incorporated - Las Vegas Chapter
The National Center for American Indian Enterprise  
Development (NCAIED)
U.S. Black Chambers, Inc.
Unidos US (formerly NCLR)
United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
United States Veterans Initiative (U.S. VETS)
US Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce (USPAACC)
USO Inc.
USO Las Vegas
Veterans Action Group
Western Regional Minority
Supplier Development Council (WRMSDC)
Women’s Business Enterprise Council – West (WBEC – West)
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC)
Women’s Chamber of Commerce of NevadaDiversity & Inclusion Partners