ENVIRONMENT
ESG Report  | 2021
ESG Report 2021 2To achieve our mission of being Alaska’s most trusted 
financial institution, we are committed to doing what 
is right for our customers, employees, communities, 
and shareholders. 
Throughout the pandemic we have been proud to be 
able to provide additional support to those in need. 
We supported our local communities with contributions 
and financial donations and our employees through CDC-approved health 
and safety measures and providing flexibility where needed. We made 
improvements in our own operations and provided loan repayment 
accommodations to customers. 
At Northrim, we focus on serving the needs of Alaska and our neighbors.  
We are committed to responsible resource development and supporting the 
businesses of our Alaskan economy which brings positive energy to all of  
our communities.
I am pleased to share with you our first environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) report that highlights our hard work and achievements. We have 
built a strong foundation in these areas and look forward to continually 
enhancing these practices. We invite you to read more in the report below. 
JOE SCHIERHORN
Chairman, President & CEOAt Northrim, we are a strong, independent, local bank 
with community and customer service at our core .LETTER FROM CEO
ENVIRONMENT
ESG Report 2021 32020 Small Business Administration 
Alaska Lender of the Year Award
Northrim was recognized as Alaska’s 
small business lender of the year by the 
Small Business Administration (SBA) for 
the fiscal year 2020. Northrim achieved 
the overall highest number of SBA loan 
approvals for Alaskan small businesses. 
Paycheck Protection Program 
(PPP) Loans 
Northrim funded the most PPP loans for 
Alaskan small businesses, both in number 
and in dollar amount. PPP loans are 
SBA-backed loans that helped businesses 
keep their workforce employed during 
the COVID-19 crisis. Northrim is proud to 
have been able to support Alaskan small 
businesses and their employees during 
these times. Affordable Housing
Northrim was presented with the Charles L. 
Edson Tax Credit Excellence Award by the 
Affordable Housing Tax Credit Coalition. 
This annual award recognizes outstanding 
affordable housing developments and orga -
nizations that have demonstrated especially 
impactful use of the Low-Income Housing 
Tax Credits.Commercial Property Assessed 
Clean Energy (C-PACE) Financing
C-PACE financing creates energy 
efficiencies and energy jobs, supports 
local governments in meeting efficiency 
and clean energy standards, drives private 
sector investment into local communities 
and overall lowers the cost of energy in 
Alaska by providing long-term low-cost 
financing. Northrim Bank is engaged in 
the AK C-PACE program and Northrim 
Bank helped develop the C-PACE program 
for Alaska and its communities. Renewable Energy 
Financing Group
As part of our 2022 strategic plan, 
Northrim Bank has approved the creation 
of a Renewable Energy Financing Group. 
Northrim has always been committed to 
responsible resource development with 
Alaska businesses.
ESG 2021 HIGHLIGHTS
ENVIRONMENT
ESG Report 2021 4Paper Reduction  
Internally, Northrim has operated at a primarily paperless level for several  
years. Externally, in 2020, we implemented customer-facing software that 
allows for completely paperless deposit and loan account openings, as   
well as completely paperless closings for new or modified loans, and   
we continue to use these paperless platforms.
Office Efficiency Improvements
Northrim has improved our facilities efficiency by deploying a large array   
of solutions including:
Upgraded HVAC control systems . These systems provide the ability 
to program and control equipment based on building occupancy 
and exterior temperatures to decrease energy consumption.
Installed new high-efficiency water heaters that provide up to   
99% thermal efficiency by modulating fuel supply and demand.
Lighting fixture upgrades to LED . LED lighting has an extended 
lifespan, reduced energy consumption, and lower ongoing 
maintenance requirements.  
These energy efficient technologies have been implemented at both our 
owned and leased facilities when we build new branches, update existing 
branches, and renovate our corporate office facilities. In 2021, a number of 
energy efficient upgrades were realized at several Northrim Bank locations: 
a new branch building in Fairbanks, two remodeled Anchorage branches, 
and installation of exterior LED lighting at four branch locations including 
the Northrim Bank corporate office building. As new branches are built 
or remodeled, branch footprints are right-sized, which reduces energy 
consumption and occupancy expense.  Another efficiency across the Bank has been the Statewide Transport/Courier 
Cost Reduction initiative implemented in 2016. This multi-phase project 
spanning over five years recognizes a decreasing need for the physical 
transport of transaction items and supplies. The initiative focused on reducing 
regularly scheduled expenses while maintaining compliance, customer 
service, and transaction item workflow.
Financing the Clean Energy Transition
Northrim recognizes the risks created by climate change and we are 
working to be part of the solution. To accelerate the transition to clean 
energy, we have been actively engaged with the C-PACE program in Alaska 
to drive energy improvements in local communities and create energy jobs. 
Additionally, this year we approved the creation of a renewable energy financing 
group as part of our 2022 strategic plan to increase investments. By financing 
energy improvements and renewable energy in Alaska, we are doing our 
part in accelerating the clean energy transition while building a greener, 
stronger community. 
ESG Report 2021 5We also emphasize inclusion through our hiring and compensation practices. 
As an Equal Opportunity Employer, we consider a pool of diverse candidates 
for open positions and internal advancement opportunities and treat all our 
applicants with the same high level of respect regardless  of their gender, 
ethnicity, religion, national origin, age, marital status, political affiliation,    
sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or protected veteran status.  
We do not ask potential candidates about their current or previous 
compensation during the hiring process, and we incorporate equal and fair 
pay reviews into every employment compensation decision to address issues 
related to pay discrimination. Our annual Affirmative Action Plan continues to 
focus our DEI efforts on increasing the number of veterans and persons with 
disabilities in our workforce .
Employee Diversity Identification by Category
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
At Northrim, we value all of our 451 employees . We strive to ensure a 
respectful, diverse, and inclusive environment and experience for all our 
employees. We support and cultivate an open and respectful environment 
where everyone can actively contribute, have equal access to opportunities 
and resources, be themselves, and realize their potential. This is reflected in 
our policies, which encourage individual values, strengths, and protections to 
provide gender diversity and equality in the workplace and reinforced through 
our annual anti-harassment training. We believe that through these efforts,    
our relations with our employees are highly satisfactory.
SOCIAL
          Women  Men  Racial Minority  Disability  Veteran
Full-Time 
Equivalent
Executive 
and Senior 
Management
Board of 
Directors 70.6%  29.4%   32.5%  3.9%  1.5%
 48.3%  51.7%   3.4%  3.4%  3.4%
 16.7%  83.3%   16.7%   8.3%  8.3%
ESG Report 2021 6
SOCIAL
Workplace Flexibility and Paid Time Off
COVID-19 acted as a catalyst for expanding workplace flexibility options at 
Northrim. We have increased employees working remotely from less than 8% 
before the pandemic to 50% working remotely and in a hybrid capacity as of 
December 31, 2021. 
We also offer our employees other flexible work options, such as variable work 
hours, condensed work weeks and part-time hours. There have been no material 
impacts on our operations due to these alternative working arrangements and 
we are pleased to provide our employees with more flexibility to accommodate 
their needs. In addition, Northrim provides for a strong work/life balance, 
including generous paid time off and paid parental leave.  
Training
At Northrim, we believe that well-trained and highly motivated employees are 
better able to understand and fulfill customer needs and preferences, which 
are key to providing our “Superior Customer First Service”. Our current 
company-wide employee training program focuses on Northrim’s culture, 
Superior Customer First Service, general sales skills, and various technical areas 
related to job function. We focus on virtual learning to encourage and support 
remote and on-demand learning, reducing our need to commute or travel to 
in-person learning events. We also ensure that our employees complete all 
necessary consumer compliance trainings. Employees are required to read the 
Employee Handbook, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as our 
Information Technology policies annually.We continue to enhance our employee 
training and are expanding to include a management training academy, training 
webinars, and a development program for commercial lenders and analysts 
in 2022. 
Employee Health and Wellness
We understand the importance of prioritizing our employees’ health. We offer 
a comprehensive benefits plan for our employees that includes medical, dental, 
vision and prescription drug insurance, preventive healthcare benefits, and 
employee assistance programs for mental health, among others. Additionally, 
we assist our employees with setting up ergonomic offices upon request, such 
as through providing a standing desk, to promote employee health and wellness. 
We also have developed a robust Wellness Program that includes a platform 
that allows employees to link a fitness device and track their steps, participate 
in company sponsored wellness 
competitions, share healthy recipes, 
complete personal health assessments 
and more. The company sponsors wellness 
events such as 5K walks/runs, as well   
as team sporting events to encourage 
wellness and team building. Additionally,  
the company provides annual State of 
Alaska Park parking passes to all 
employees to encourage them to get 
outside, be healthy and explore nature.
 
Throughout the pandemic, we have 
continued to follow all CDC-approved 
COVID-19 safety measures to ensure the 
safety and wellness of our employees, 
customers and vendors. We provide 
employees paid time off to receive their 
COVID-19 vaccinations and recover from 
vaccination side effects that prevent them 
from working. ESG Report 2021 7
SOCIAL
Volunteering and Employee Giving
We actively support employees taking part in a variety of community 
activities, and we provide community volunteer opportunities during work 
hours. Employees are encouraged to serve in leadership roles with nonprofit 
organizations and to share their expertise in the community. We continued to 
take extra precautions and safety measures this year during our volunteering 
efforts and our employees continued to give generously of their time. 
In 2021, Northrim employees volunteered over 1,340 hours  in their  
local communities and 1,100 hours  in 2020. Some of the areas where our employees have supported their community   
can be found below:
• Teach Children to Save . Teams of employees help students learn the 
importance of saving for the future through the American Bankers 
Association (ABA) Teach Children to Save program.
• School-Business Partnership . Employees work closely with neighborhood 
schools to encourage students to become engaged in their community 
and school.
• Financial Literacy Classes . Our financial literacy classes at local nonprofits 
provide an underserved community with critical lessons in establishing 
credit, saving, and budgeting.
• Paint the Town . Employees volunteer to paint the home of an individual or 
family through the popular annual NeighborWorks’ Paint the Town event.
• United Way . Since the Bank was founded, Northrim and our employees 
have contributed over $1 million to support United Way. In 2021, 
employees participated in the annual United Way Campaign and pledged 
$152,845 in support of local communities throughout Alaska and in 
Washington State. This total includes direct donations from employees 
and Northrim’s 50% match for employee gifts to United Way.
• Encouraging Entrepreneurs . We encourage the entrepreneurial spirit by
 participating in the Business Plan Competition and Alaska Business Week.
Since the Bank was founded, Northrim and our employees have 
contributed over $1 million to support United Way.
 
Community Reinvestment Act (CRA)
We are committed to serving the needs of our entire community, including 
small businesses and low- and moderate-income areas. This is reflected in our 
most recent rating completed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
(FDIC) in December 2020, where we received a Satisfactory CRA rating.
Low Income Housing
Affordable housing continues to be a critical need throughout Alaska, which 
was only exacerbated by the economic impacts of the pandemic. In 2021, 
Northrim was awarded the Charles L. Edson Tax Credit Excellence Award by 
the Affordable Housing Tax Credit Coalition for our involvement in the Coronado 
Park II/Qintali View project – a project that provides safe and quality affordable 
housing to residents of Eagle River, Alaska – alongside our project partners, 
including Cook Inlet Housing Authority, R4 Capital, The Rasmuson Foundation 
and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines.
In 2020, we were also recognized as an eligible lender in the Tribal Housing 
Activities Loan Guarantee program, making Northrim just the second 
financial institution in Alaska to offer these loans. Housing in Alaska’s remote 
communities is challenging to construct and make affordable to homebuyers. 
With this program, we have the opportunity to help many residents throughout 
the state achieve the dream of homeownership.
SBA Loan Program
Small businesses are at the heart of our community and Northrim is committed 
to serving the needs of Alaska. Access to capital is critical for the recovery and 
growth of many small businesses, especially during challenging times such as 
this past year. During FY2020, Northrim approved 17 SBA loans totaling over 
$4 million and was recognized as Alaska’s SBA lender of the year.  Community Giving
As a local, community bank, Northrim takes its commitments to Alaska   
very seriously and we pride ourselves in taking an active role in building   
the communities we serve. Improving the economic vitality and quality  
of life where we do business is in the best interest of our customers,   
our employees, our company, and our industry. We are committed to   
sharing our time, talents, and other resources to meet community needs.
ESG Report 2021 8
SOCIAL
 Community and economic 
development
Health and wellness programs that 
support healthy communities Higher education through the State of 
Alaska Education Tax Credit Program Programs to strengthen                         
low-income familiesWe focus our giving so we can make 
meaningful contributions, measure the results 
of our contributions, and work more closely 
with the organizations we support. 
Our focus areas include:NORTHRIM  
GIVINGESG Report 2021 9In 2021, Northrim Bank contributed to organizations throughout Alaska. Some of these organizations include:
United Way
Northrim provides a 50% employee match 
for our United Way fundraiser. In 2021,  
our employee match totaled $50,948. 
Camp Fire Alaska
Camp Fire Alaska is a youth development 
organization that provides Alaskan youth 
with the opportunity to find their spark, lift 
their voice, and discover who they are. 
Skinny Raven Event Series Sponsorship
Northrim Bank is the newest gold sponsor 
of the Skinny Raven Event Series which 
includes nine annual events that provide 
a unique, fun, and first-class experience 
for runners and walkers of all levels and 
abilities. We are proud to sponsor this 
series as it aligns with the Bank’s health 
and wellness initiatives.Iditarod Sponsorship
Northrim Bank joined the Iditarod’s 
sponsorship family as a Lead Dog sponsor 
in 2017. This long-term partnership offers 
Northrim Bank broader outreach and 
engagement in communities statewide 
as the Iditarod race trail passes through 
communities across Alaska. Higher Education Giving
Northrim makes annual contributions to the 
University of Alaska and supports higher 
education as the backbone of a strong 
community. We believe that it is important to 
have a strong system for higher education that 
is accessible to many throughout Alaska. By 
continuing our longstanding support of the 
University of Alaska and its programs, Northrim 
remains an advocate for higher education 
throughout Alaska.
Cook Inlet Soccer Club
Northrim has partnered with the Cook Inlet Soccer 
Club, the largest club soccer program in Alaska. 
Partnerships such as these are part of the Bank’s 
ongoing efforts to support Alaskans and Alaska 
communities in a variety of ways to encourage 
strong, healthy and active communities. The Bank’s 
contribution to CISC will allow the club to make a 
record amount of financial aid available to youth 
players. Northrim representatives will donate time 
to lead periodic financial literacy seminars to help 
CISC families prepare for their financial futures.
Alaska Native Heritage Center
In 2021, Northrim Bank contributed to the 
Alaska Native Heritage Center’s mission bundles 
at the Ivory Level to support mission-driven 
programming that promotes work between 
generations and continued education through 
Alaska Native Cultural workshops.
COMMUNITYGOVERNANCE
ESG Report 2021 10Compliance and Code of Conduct
We are deeply committed to complying with all laws and regulations while 
operating and maintaining a high standard of business and personal ethics.  
We do so by ensuring we operate with integrity, abiding by all applicable state 
and local laws, and completing annual compliance trainings. 
The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics addresses the professional, honest and 
ethical conduct required of each employee and director. It provides guidance on 
topics including conflicts of interest, disclosure process, compliance with laws, 
rules and regulations (including securities trading), corporate opportunities, 
confidentiality, fair dealing, protection and proper use of Company assets, 
and the importance of reporting of any suspected illegal or unethical behavior 
through a variety of methods, including a confidential hotline, and whistleblower 
protections. Every executive, manager, officer, and employee is expected to 
comply with Northrim’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.Management
We are committed to promoting sound environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) practices and effective leadership through strong Board leadership and 
management oversight of Northrim’s processes. Broadly speaking, our senior 
management team develops our ESG strategic direction and oversees its 
execution. The Board is charged with providing guidance, insight and oversight 
to the strategy, initiatives, and management’s performance. This is done 
primarily through the Governance and Nominating Committee, who reviews  
and reassesses management’s ESG framework and initiatives. However, the 
Audit and Compensation Committees have ESG related responsibilities as well.     
The Audit Committee oversees external communications, and the 
Compensation Committee oversees human resource management matters  
that intersect with ESG. Both committees conduct their ESG responsibilities  
in conjunction with the Governance and Nominating Committee.   
Marketing
It is our practice to design and offer loan products, advertisements and 
marketing pieces that are clear, easy for individuals and businesses to 
understand and do not discriminate on a prohibited basis. It is also our  
practice to be transparent, clear, and conspicuous, and state information   
with equal prominence and close proximity when required. All advertising 
complies with the regulatory requirements to include Equal Credit Opportunity 
Act, UDAAP , Unfair, Deceptive, Abusive Acts or Practices; Truth in Lending 
Act and the Fair Housing Act. Our Compliance Department ensures that all 
regulatory and disclosure requirements have been met.
APPENDIX
ESG Report 2021 11For More Information
Use the links below to find out more about  
the topics below.
Mission, Vision & Values
Officers & Directors
Committee Charting
Management
Code of Conduct 
Community Reinvestment Act Disclosures
Employee Benefits
CRA Rating
2020 Small Business Administration
  Alaska Lender of the Year Award
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND OTHER IMPORTANT LEGAL INFORMATION
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, 
which are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements are, in effect, management’s attempt to predict future events, and thus 
are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect 
management’s views only as of the date hereof. When used herein, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” and “intend” and 
words or phrases of similar meaning are intended to help identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that management’s 
expectations as reflected in forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure readers that those expectations will prove to be 
correct as forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially and 
adversely from our expectations as indicated in the forward-looking statements. Many of these risks, as well as other risks that may have a 
material adverse impact on our operations and business, are identified in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-
looking statements contained herein are made only as of the date of this report, and Northrim does not undertake any obligation to release 
revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or conditions after the date of this report.ESG Report | 2021