SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2014Nufarm’s vision 
is to be a world leader in innovative crop protection and seed technology solutions.
This report, prepared by Nufarm Limited, provides information 
relating to our sustainability practices and performance for the 2013 calendar year. It reports on a range of sustainability parameters and activities including health, safety, environment, our people, practices and community relations.
The health and safety data includes 
permanent and casual employees as well as contractors with data collected 
from Nufarm manufacturing sites, 
offices and regional service centres. As yet, it does not include data from eight offices in Asia and South America. 
Targets set by the Nufarm board have 
been included.Environmental data is provided by our manufacturing plants and summarised for this report.
Our financial performance and 
detail about corporate governance are provided in our annual and half 
yearly reports which are also available 
on our website: nufarm.com01  About us – overview of operations
04 Managing director’s message
06 Governance
08 Innovation11 Engaging our stakeholders
12  Environmental management 
and performance
18 Health and safety
20 Our people
22 Community engagement
24 ProcurementCONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT
NUFARM LIMITED ABN 37 091 323 312ABOUT US – OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Crop protection
Nufarm is a manufacturer, distributor 
and marketer of crop protection chemicals. These products help farmers 
protect their crops against weeds, 
pests and disease and assist them to improve farm yields. We are the eighth largest crop protection company in the 
world, with a clear leadership position 
in Australia and substantial operations in North and South America, Europe, New Zealand and Asia.
The company holds more than 
2,000 product registrations, and markets products in more than 100 countries around the world. Seed technologies
Nufarm has diversified into the seeds market via its wholly owned subsidiary Nuseed and has a growing 
presence in the seed treatment 
segment.
Nuseed is focused on enhancing 
food and feed value through seed 
technology and has developed proprietary canola, sunflower and sorghum products that are marketed in over 30 countries.
Our seed treatment goal is to bring 
innovation and differentiation to the market via formulations, mixtures, 
partnerships and new technologies.Strategic alliances
The company has strategic alliances 
with a number of major agricultural and chemical companies. These 
alliances involve joint marketing 
rights to particular products, research and development collaborations and manufacturing joint ventures.Nufarm Limited is a crop protection and seed technologies business. It is listed on the 
Australian Stock Exchange. We employ more than 3,400 people, across all continents, in more than 25 countries.
Global headquarters
Regional headquartersCrop protection productionSeeds productionSales countriesOur locations
The global head office is located in Laverton in Victoria, Australia which is also the site of our largest manufacturing plant. 
Including Australia, Nufarm has manufacturing facilities in 16 countries across the world.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 01ABOUT US – OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED
This is demonstrated by our 
commitment to programs such as Responsible Care
®, an initiative of 
the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), which is supported 
and managed by regional chemical 
associations.
The program aims to improve the 
health, safety and environmental 
(HS&E) performance of supporting companies and increase community involvement and awareness of the industry. It supports product 
stewardship, employee management, 
business and supply chain partners, and external stakeholders. Responsible Care
 allows the industry to demonstrate 
continuous HS&E improvement to the community, customers and government 
which view commitment to the 
program as an important component of maintaining a licence to operate.
In Australia, Nufarm is a founding 
member and signatory to Responsible Care
 and the Sustainability Leadership 
Framework through the Plastics and Chemical Industry Association (PACIA). 
While the Framework is specific to our 
Australian operations, we believe its overarching direction is applicable to all aspects of our business. We are also 
a signatory to Responsible Care
 in a 
number of other countries, including 
Brazil, Colombia, Indonesia and the 
United Kingdom.Mission, values and vision
At Nufarm our mission, vision and 
core values shape everything we do.
Our mission is to grow a better 
tomorrow.
Our vision is to be a world leader in 
innovative crop protection and seed technology solutions.
Our core values are:
• Responsibility: We are accountable 
for our decisions and our actions. We recognise that trust is at the 
foundation of relationships and 
that acting ethically, safely and responsibly creates that trust.
• Agility: We are resourceful and adaptable in meeting the needs of our customers and our organisation.
• Respect: We respect others – colleagues, customers and stakeholders – and our environment. 
We care for all of our resources.
• Empowerment: We are an innovative, 
entrepreneurial organisation where individuals and teams can do 
what is best for the customer, the 
organisation and our stakeholders.
Strategic direction
Nufarm is implementing a strategic growth plan with a strong focus on innovation and discipline. We are 
seeking to enhance the value of our 
core chemistry positions, while growing faster into higher value product and market segments that are more 
defendable.Our regional strategies focus on 
supporting clearly defined product and market segments. This is done via both new and existing product offerings that 
are developed to suit local conditions.
In 2013, the company implemented 
a number of business improvement 
programs aimed at achieving 
efficiencies in many areas of the business. These included the introduction of Integrated Business Planning (IBP) across our major 
regional operations.
Economic impact
Our financial results are released 
annually and reflect the period 1 August to 31 July. We also release 
our half yearly results for the period 
1 August to 31 January. These reports can be found on our website.
Our impact on, and contribution to, the 
economy is more significant than our financial performance. Our contribution in Australia and internationally includes both direct and indirect employment, 
support of farming practices to improve 
efficiency and productivity, the support of local suppliers, capital investment programs, payment of taxes and 
contribution to local communities.
Sustainability at Nufarm
Nufarm works in an industry where 
sustainability principles are entrenched. As a company engaged in the 
development, production and supply 
of inputs to agriculture, we see sustainability as an overarching business principle that generates 
value by delivering solutions and 
providing environmental benefits.
02 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014NUFARM WORKS IN AN INDUSTRY 
WHERE SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES ARE ENTRENCHED. 
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 03MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
Agriculture relies on sustainable production systems and – as 
a key supplier of necessary inputs into agricultural production – Nufarm strives to ensure our operations and products meet appropriate sustainability objectives and standards.
This report outlines Nufarm’s 
performance across a range of sustainability parameters and 
outlines initiatives we are taking 
to improve that performance.
It is pleasing to report improved 
outcomes in 2013 on important safety 
and environmental measurements, but we believe we can do better. The company is making a significant investment, both in terms of capital 
and resources, to achieve further 
improvements and we have restated our commitment to work towards a zero target for safety-related incidents 
in our workplaces.
Nufarm’s growth strategy is built 
on the two pillars of innovation and discipline. Both of these principles 
have a strong enabling role in helping 
us to meet our sustainability objectives.
We are actively encouraging innovative 
thinking across all areas of our 
business. While the outcomes of this process are often most noticeable in the form of new products, we have also successfully applied innovative thinking to achieve safer working environments; 
reductions in emissions and waste; and 
more sustainable operations generally.
Increased discipline is also vital to 
ensure we have the right processes and 
structures in place and that we are measuring and managing our business in a way that allows us to be accountable for our performance.
Nufarm operates in many markets and 
in many communities around the world. Our success is tied to a commitment to 
generate value on a sustainable basis.
Doug Rathbone AM
Managing director Nufarm Limited‘This report outlines 
Nufarm’s performance 
across a range of 
sustainability 
parameters and 
outlines initiatives we 
are taking to improve 
that performance.’
04 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014WE ARE ACTIVELY ENCOURAGING 
INNOVATIVE THINKING ACROSS ALL AREAS OF OUR BUSINESS.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 05Code of conduct
Nufarm seeks to conduct its business 
in a manner which recognises and adheres to all relevant laws and 
regulations and meets high standards 
with respect to honesty and integrity. We require all Nufarm directors, employees, contractors and consultants 
to be familiar with and uphold the 
company’s code of conduct in all business dealings. While a number of specific and detailed policies have been implemented, the 
Nufarm code of conduct broadly 
encompasses the following values:
• respect for the law and company policies;
• respect for others;
• integrity;
• diligence;
• personal use of property;
• health and safety; and
• diversity.Board of directors
Nufarm’s board of directors has overall responsibility for corporate governance.
The board charter clearly 
defines individual and collective responsibilities, including its mandate 
to oversee the company’s operations 
and ensure Nufarm operates in the best interest of all shareholders and with proper regard to the interest of all stakeholders. Board members are 
selected based on their experience 
and skills to ensure the board properly discharges its responsibilities.
The board reviews its composition 
and terms of reference annually. It also evaluates the performance and determines remuneration of the managing director and senior 
executives.All members of the board are non-executive directors, except 
Doug Rathbone who also holds the position of managing director and chief executive. 
Board committees
The board is supported by four 
committees; the audit and risk committee, the nomination and governance committee, the human 
resources committee, and the health, 
safety and environment committee.
Conflict of interest
Board members must identify any 
conflict of interest they may have in dealing with the company’s affairs and then refrain from participating in any 
discussion or voting on these matters. 
Directors and senior executives must disclose any related party transaction in writing.Nufarm is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has a range of 
policies and procedures in place to support this aim. Details of board committees and their terms of reference, and other corporate policies and protocols can be found in the governance section of our website. Nufarm is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) and we comply with the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations.GOVERNANCE
Donald McGauchie AO
Chairman Joined 2003Doug Rathbone AMManaging directorJoined 1987Anne BrennanJoined 2011Gordon DaviesJoined 2011
06 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Nufarm’s group executive, operations, 
Elbert Prado, is a member of the PACIA board. We also have representatives 
on the PACIA regulatory council, and 
economics and trade council. Nufarm is a member of Responsible Care, a global, voluntary initiative developed 
by the chemical industry that operates 
in 52 countries. Signatory chemical companies commit to improve their performance in environmental protection, occupational safety and 
health protection, plant safety, product 
stewardship, logistics and stakeholder engagement.
The Sustainable Agriculture Initiative 
(SAI) platform is an initiative aimed at contributing to the development of sustainable agriculture. The Australian Chapter is affiliated with the Global 
SAI Platform, which was founded 
10 years ago in Europe as the main food industry initiative supporting the development of sustainable agriculture 
worldwide. As an SAI Platform member, 
Nufarm shares a common vision to enhance agricultural sustainability and impart those benefits along the full supply chain, for the benefit 
of Australian communities.
We also participate in chemical industry 
associations in a number of countries 
and other associations such as CropLife.Nufarm operates in many countries and does so in accordance with the social 
and cultural beliefs of each country.
We are politically impartial except 
where the board believes it is necessary 
to comment due to any perceived 
major impact on the company, its business or any of its stakeholders.
We require directors, senior executives 
and all employees to adopt standards of business conduct that are ethical and in compliance with all legislation.
Other policies
Where there are no legislative 
requirements with which to comply, we develop policy statements to 
support the code of conduct and 
ensure appropriate standards are met. These policies include the communications policy, diversity 
policy, security trading policy and 
continuous disclosure protocol.
Risk management
The board is committed to identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing its material business risks.
Nufarm’s risk management policies 
and procedures are designed to enable effective and appropriate management of material risks. Each year the 
board undertakes a comprehensive 
review of the material risks faced by the company. In so doing, it considers the interests of all relevant 
stakeholders.
The company recognises a number 
of operational risks related to its crop protection business including:
• climate conditions and seasonality;
• regulatory, freedom to operate, product registration, product use and business sustainability;
• relationships with key suppliers and customers; and
• licences and operating permits for manufacturing facilities.
Memberships
Nufarm is a member of the Plastics and Chemicals Industry Association (PACIA), a national body representing Australia’s 
chemical industry. Its members include 
chemical manufacturers, importers and distributors, logistics and supply chain partners, raw material suppliers, 
plastics fabricators and compounders, 
chemicals and plastics recyclers and industry service providers.
Frank Ford
Joined 2012Dr Bruce GoodfellowJoined 1991Peter MarginJoined 2011Toshikazu TakasakiJoined 2012
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 07INNOVATION
Innovation is a key theme of Nufarm’s corporate strategy and 
is reflective of the evolution of our business. Our strategy talks about ‘being innovative in everything we do’.These facilities provide a step change 
in our research capabilities with state-of 
-the-art molecular research and trait 
advancement capabilities. Dedicated communication channels between the 
two locations allow for fast and 
efficient data transfer to maximise our ability to use different analysis 
techniques, share results and access 
expertise. This connection of the two sites ensures that the most 
appropriate equipment can be used 
and knowledgeable assessment and analysis can be completed, regardless 
of the sample location.
The goal of the Innovation Centres 
is to support product development 
and breeding programs, ensuring a strong pipeline of elite hybrid 
seeds that improve yields and deliver 
significant downstream value to farmers, processors and consumers.
Further developments are planned for 
the Davis facility to develop a purpose-
built facility to better meet the current 
and future needs of Nuseed’s business.
Long-chain omega-3 canola
The research collaboration between Nuseed, the Commonwealth Scientific 
& Industrial Research Organisation 
(CSIRO) and the Australian Grains Research & Development Corporation 
(GRDC) continues its work to develop 
a genetically modified canola to provide a sustainable, renewable and 
reliable source of high-quality DHA 
omega-3 oil for human consumption.
Long-chain omega-3 fatty acids are 
necessary for human health and have traditionally been obtained by eating 
wild fish. With increasing demand on 
global ocean fish supplies, access to high-quality long-chain omega-3 is 
under pressure.
Land plant-based production via 
canola is a sustainable, renewable 
and therefore long term solution to the growing demand for long-chain 
omega-3 oils. Every hectare of 
long-chain omega-3 canola is expected to produce an amount 
of oil equivalent to that produced 
by 10,000 one-kilogram fish.
In 2013, progress was made towards 
initiating small-scale field trials under strictly controlled conditions that 
comply with regulatory requirements. We develop, manufacture and market 
innovative and differentiated crop 
protection products in every key 
market around the world. While we do not discover new chemical molecules, 
we invest in the development of new 
mixtures and formulations; improved delivery systems; innovative packaging; 
and other improvements that add value 
for our customers.
Our efforts typically involve developing 
safer, healthier and more efficient formulations and applications. This may 
be finding ways to reduce the quantity 
of active ingredient in a product through using an alternative solvent or 
introducing slow release technology.
In other instances we may look at 
increasing the concentration of an 
active ingredient in order to reduce volume. This has positive impacts on 
the supply chain with less warehousing 
space needed and reduced transport deliveries which in turn reduces 
greenhouse emissions.
Product innovation may also focus 
on improving the health and safety 
benefits of products. This was the driver of our unique Sorbie technology 
which is used to manufacture a blank water dispersible granule, which is 
then infused with a liquid active 
ingredient to form a solid emulsifiable 
concentrate. There are a number of benefits of this granular technology, 
but most importantly, it means that 
the product is easier to control and disperse and therefore less hazardous 
for operators.
Nuseed Innovation Centres
Nuseed, a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Nufarm, is a global seed company 
focused on improving food and feed 
value through enhancing the value of three crop types – canola, sorghum 
and sunflower – by developing seeds 
with improved performance and higher downstream value. Nuseed’s research 
and innovation efforts are focused on 
creating better food, feed and fuel solutions around the world.
As part of ensuring speed and 
efficiency in our development 
processes, Nuseed opened its 
first Innovation Centre at Horsham, Australia in October 2013. A second 
Innovation Centre was also opened 
in Davis, United States during the reporting period.
At Nufarm, we define innovation as being different, better, faster, right.
Our approach to innovation means thinking about and doing things in a 
different way; taking an alternate approach to solving problems and 
challenging our thinking.
We are always looking for a better way to deliver our products and services.  
It is one thing to be different, but we also need to be better in the way we  
do things.
And because we work in a competitive industry where other companies are 
also thinking about how to improve their businesses, we need to be faster. 
Finding ways to overcome obstacles and shorten time frames gives us the 
opportunity to capture the value of what we do as soon as possible.
Finally – and very importantly – we think innovation is about doing it right.  
We don’t want to compromise the quality of our efforts. Attention to detail, 
appropriate checks and consultation are all important in making sure that  
when we set out to be innovative, we always get it right.
These clear innovation goals are relevant for all our teams, wherever we work 
and whatever we do.
08 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014WEEDit equipment can be used in full 
sunlight through to complete darkness 
and does not require recalibration for 
changes in light intensity or soil type and colour. Machines are carefully 
designed to maintain optimal height 
above the ground to ensure the camera stays in focus to optimise weed 
detection and nozzle angle efficiency.The collaboration anticipates being 
ready for commercial production in 2018.
Chemical team collaboration
In September 2013, Nufarm took the opportunity to assemble more than  
50 of our chemistry team members 
to address four critical business objectives:
1.  Ensure that our formulations 
are zero-defect.
2. Improve our speed to market.
3.  Improve our performance when taking a formulation from the lab 
into manufacturing production.
4.  Improve the way we approach product innovation.
This week-long event was the first time the group had been brought together 
in this way to address business 
development and improvement.
Cross-regional teams reviewed 
regional approaches to formulation development, analytical standards and 
transfer-to-manufacturing, with the 
aim of developing standardised global approaches for use across the business. Working groups with representatives 
from each region have been established 
to progress the conference’s initial  
ideas through to implementation. It is 
anticipated that most of the detailed 
design and trial work will be completed within a year of the conference.
WEEDit weed targeting
Croplands, our spray equipment business in Australia, launched its 
WEEDit machinery range in 2013.
Designed to help combat summer 
weeds and retain soil moisture in 
low rainfall cropping areas, WEEDit uses near infrared cameras to detect 
and spray individual weeds and not 
bare ground.
Depending on machine configuration, 
it can be used for summer weed control or in-fallow, as well as single 
pass pre-emergent and knockdown 
spray applications. Farmers use less chemical, increase cost effectiveness, 
make fewer passes and therefore have 
the ability to minimise soil compaction. This high return on investment supports 
the use of more expensive chemicals 
and mixtures to help combat weed resistance, that were previously not 
economical.
The Chicago Heights team in the  
Unites States initiated the use of 
personal protective equipment  
(PPE) vending machines. Previously, to help manage cost and supply, 
supervisors were dispensing PPE 
from locked cabinets. This was a 
poor use of supervisor time and 
inconvenient for operators, raising 
concerns about being able to access the correct equipment when needed.  
An interdepartmental team sourced a vendor to supply and stock 
vending machines, which staff  
can access at any time using  
their security access cards.
Nufarm has continued to dedicate 
resources towards stewardship aimed at improving drift 
management techniques. Platforms 
such as the Spraywise
® suite of 
educational programs; CottonMap 
cotton field awareness initiative 
developed in conjunction with 
industry in Australia; and Croplands’ 
nozzle selection and adjuvant 
information encourage safe  
crop protection application.
Croplands’ WEEDit weed targeting spray rig.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 09OUR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 
PROVIDE IMPORTANT FEEDBACK ON HOW WE CAN IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR BUSINESS.
10 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Nufarm operates its businesses with the involvement, support and interaction of a range 
of stakeholders. These include our employees, customers, suppliers, the local communities in which we operate, government regulators, and shareholders. We seek to ensure that these stakeholders are properly informed and we place a high priority on responding to feedback, questions or concerns.
While the majority of these interactions 
are conducted at a business and/or regional and country level, and are 
managed by the business units 
concerned, our code of conduct provides an overarching set of values in respect of how we deal with our 
own people and with people and 
organisations outside of the company. All of our business units are required to adhere to the principles outlined in the code of conduct. This code is 
supported by a number of specific 
corporate policies which also govern the company as a whole.
This report includes details and 
examples of how Nufarm engages important stakeholders including our own people and the communities in which our operations are based. 
Further information is available in 
the Our People and Community Engagement sections of this report.
Our customers and suppliers provide 
important feedback on how we can improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our business.We regularly communicate with the end users of our products to ensure we are meeting their needs and 
expectations by developing and 
bringing to market innovative crop protection and seed products, and supporting those products with a 
professional service and information 
and training on how to use Nufarm products safely.
We operate in a highly regulated 
industry and maintain regular contact 
and communication with a range of government authorities, both directly and via various industry associations 
to which we belong. We have a strong 
commitment to comply with all government standards, licences and other requirements in relation to both the operation of our manufacturing 
facilities and the registration and use 
of our products.
Nufarm is committed to timely, open 
and effective communications with 
its shareholders and the general investment community.We have adopted a shareholder communications policy aimed at:
• ensuring that shareholders and the financial markets are provided with full and timely information about 
our activities;
• complying with continuous disclosure 
obligations contained in applicable Listing Rules and the Corporations 
Act in Australia as well as industry 
guidelines such as the Australasian Investor Relations Associations’ Best Practice Guidelines for 
Communication between Listed 
Entities and the Investment Community;
• ensuring equality of access to briefings, presentations and meetings for shareholders, analysts and media; and
• encouraging attendance and voting at shareholder meetings.
Management remains accessible to shareholders, analysts, fund managers and others with a potential interest in the company.
‘Nufarm is committed to timely, open and effective communications 
with its shareholders and the general investment community.’
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 11ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE
At Nufarm we are committed to managing environmental impacts at all our sites. As detailed 
in our health, safety and environmental policy, one key focus is on protecting the environment. The policy sets out key requirements for all sites regarding regulatory compliance, monitoring of effluent and emissions, recording and reporting of environmental incidents, audit and waste management and contamination management.
Complaints
As part of our compliance program we 
keep a record of all complaints, most 
of which relate to odour or noise. As some materials we handle are odorous, especially insecticides, we aim to 
ensure the areas where these materials 
are handled or used are well ventilated and any extracted air is treated to remove odorous components. In 2013 there were six complaints 
which, following investigation, 
indicated Nufarm as the likely source. Of these complaints, two were from Botlek in the Netherlands, with one each for Kwinana and Laverton in Australia, Linz in Austria, and Wyke 
in the United Kingdom.
Energy and greenhouse gas
Total greenhouse emissions decreased 
in 2013 compared with the previous year, due to changes in production volumes and product mix at various 
sites. Emissions per tonne of 
production remained consistent.
Across our sites, most of the fuel 
used comprised natural gas which 
is consumed across a variety of 
processes such as:
• heating at Calgary, Chicago and Gennevilliers;
• co-generation at Gaillon and Wyke;
• heating boilers at Kwinana and Laverton; and
• running granules production at Otahuhu and Welshpool.
Fuel is also consumed as diesel and liquid petroleum gas (LPG) for mobile plant at most sites.All of our sites have environmental management systems in place, in varying degrees of complexity and 
development. Some of the sites 
have formalised ISO14001 accredited systems, but most do not. The management systems and performance against them are checked annually 
during detailed audits carried out by 
the group HSE manager to ensure consistent application of Nufarm requirements across the business. 
The systems may vary across the 
Nufarm group mainly due to the vast differences in the complexity of operations. Nufarm policy requires sites to meet local environmental 
regulations and/or Nufarm standards, 
whichever is more stringent.
In 2013 our environmental expenditure 
was A$7.1 million.
The following sections detail our 2013 
environmental performance across our key manufacturing sites according to 
five key impact areas:
• compliance and complaints;
• energy and greenhouse gas;
• air emissions;
• water; and
• waste.
We have included key issues from some sites to provide context and 
improved understanding.Compliance and complaints
Each country in which we operate has different regulatory requirements and we establish site-specific 
environmental management systems 
to ensure our compliance. 
For example, our site at Wyke in  
the United Kingdom operates a fully 
integrated Health, Safety, Environmental and Quality Management System that  
is registered to BS EN ISO14001:2004 and BS EN ISO 9001:2008 Standards. 
Our site in France is also ISO 14001 
certified and the Botlek site holds ISO accreditation as well (OHSAS 18001).  
In New Zealand the site processes meet 
the strict standards of our Location  
Test Certificate, which is a requirement  
of the NZ Environmental Resource 
Management Agency (ERMA).
Compliance testing
Nufarm undertakes environmental 
compliance testing and reporting at almost all sites. Where there are 
standards against which to measure 
compliance, we measure emissions from air, water and effluents sent offsite for treatment (e.g. sewage) 
which includes discharge from 
scrubbers and (in some cases) fugitive emissions.
In 2013, 98.9 per cent of our tests 
were compliant.
‘Each country in which we operate has different 
regulatory requirements and we establish 
site-specific environmental management 
systems to ensure our compliance.’
12 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Figure 1: Compliance testing
Number of tests Tests in compliance05,00010,00015,00020,00025,000
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Figure 2: Global complaints
2009Number of compliants
Accepted Not Nufarm Unidentified source
2010 2011 2012 2013048121620
TotalWe continue to focus on reducing 
energy use across all our sites. Compared with many chemical 
companies, we are a relatively 
moderate energy user. Energy use is impacted by production volume and the product mix.
The majority of greenhouse gas is 
generated from electricity and gas used in the production process. Some sites also emit CO
2 directly 
from chemical processes are included in the data reflected in Figure 3.
While CO
2 emissions for most sites 
remained generally consistent, there 
were some reductions at Laverton, 
Wyke and Botlek sites following 
concerted efforts by these teams.
The major greenhouse emitter is our 
Laverton manufacturing plant, followed 
by Wyke which generates a little over half the emissions of Laverton.
Chlorine production at Laverton is 
the most energy intensive process 
onsite. Preliminary work assessing potential cost and energy savings of re-engineering efficiencies has 
been undertaken, with further 
assessment and review to continue over the coming year across this and other sites.
The Laverton site decreased their 
electricity (6.8 per cent) and gas (3.7 per cent) volumes. Completion of the boiler control room upgrade 
contributed to this reduction and is 
expected to yield further savings in 2014 as optimisation continues. Site-wide energy-saving practices also contributed, included a lighting trial 
to assess LED, induction and 
fluorescence illumination.
Our Malaysian and Indonesian 
teams also looked at energy savings 
in areas such as replacing lighting at the Malaysian site with energy saving bulbs.‘We continue to focus on reducing energy 
use across all our sites. Compared with 
many chemical companies, we are a relatively 
moderate energy user. Energy use is impacted 
by production volume and the product mix.’
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 13Wyke’s results were lower than those 
recorded in 2012 although the site continued to experience higher 
production levels and product 
mix changes compared with their traditional activity levels. Production volumes at Wyke have more than 
doubled in the past five years; overall 
energy use and greenhouse emissions have remained at consistent levels.
This has been achieved through a 
number of initiatives including a focus 
on managing steam implemented in 2012, whereby changing the operating conditions on one of the distillation 
columns created a steam saving of 
32.5 tonnes per week.
Air emissions
Air emissions result from our processes. We work to minimise emissions and their impact. Emissions vary depending on 
production volumes and the product mix.
Some emissions such as carbon 
monoxide (CO), sulphur oxides 
(SOx) and particulates are calculated 
from energy use, based on published emissions factors. This also applies to nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions at all sites with one exception. In Wyke in the 
United Kingdom, nitration reactions are 
carried out and there is some recovery of NOx. The site also has continuous NOx measurements on its stacks.
CO, NOx and SOx are mostly 
calculated from factors published for various combustion processes. Our Wyke operation carries out direct 
measurements. The continued high 
levels in CO for 2013, although down on the previous year, was due to a faulty burner in the co-generation plant 
(CHP) which was fixed part way through 
the reporting period. Variations in NOx over the years are due to the difficulty in accurate measurements of discharge concentrations on the same CHP plant. 
The major decrease in VOC in 2010 
was due to cessation of synthesis processes in Gaillon at the end of 2009. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 
CONTINUED
Figure 3: CO 2 emissions from energy use and processes
2009CO 2 emissions ’000 tonnes
Electricity equivalent From fuel Purchased steam From processes
2010 2011 2012 2013020406080120
100
Total
Figure 4: CO 2 emissions per tonne of productionTonne CO 2 emissions per tonne production
2010 2011 2012 20130.210.220.230.240.26
0.250.28
0.27
2009 Figure 5: Major CO 2 emitters by site
2009CO 2 emitted (’000) tonne 
2010 2011 2012 201301020304060
50
LavertonWyke Botlek Linz Chicago Calgary Gaillon Rest of
Nufarm
14 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014Water
Water is used in most of our production 
processes. The amount of water used and waste water generated is directly 
impacted by production volumes and 
the product mix. We aim to reduce the amount of water we use and also the amount of waste water created.
To ensure mains water supply is 
conserved many of our sites collect rain water run-off, treat it if necessary, and use it to irrigate our gardens.
For example, the Laverton site 
constructed a system, to harvest stormwater from a large section of 
the site housing returnable containers. 
Under the guidance of the local water board, other stormwater harvesting options are being explored including the use of a tributary which runs 
through the site. Volume calculations 
and determination of fit-for-purpose uses have been undertaken which will 
enable alternate water sources to be 
used within operations rather than discharging to trade waste.
Our sites in the United States also 
redesigned their water recycling systems to add another 114,000 litres for the storage of recovered and recycled water and rainwater. The 
captured water is used in a number of 
ways including product manufacturing.
Activities also took place at other 
sites across 2013, including projects 
at Laverton, in Australia, to introduce a stormwater harvesting system, as well as implement a solvent extraction plant. These increased the efficiency 
of potable water use at the site.
Many other sites have ongoing 
activities or are investigating ways to recycle, harvest and better utilise water in our systems and processes.
Waste
We have programs at each site to minimise waste generation. Where possible we aim to recycle or re-use 
waste.
Total waste decreased slightly in 2013 
compared with 2012. While most waste 
streams were largely consistent with the previous year, there was again slightly higher salt waste because of continued increased production of 
phenoxy herbicides.
Salty effluent is produced as a direct 
consequence of our chlorination 
processes. This salty effluent contains 
organic material and cannot be discharged directly to the environment. The effluent is mostly treated in 
sewerage plants to biologically 
remove the organics before the salt is released into natural water bodies. The waste discharged to deep well is almost entirely salt.
The amount of salt discharged to 
deep well in Kwinana has decreased from 288 tonnes in 2012 to 118 in 2013 
due to the cessation of trifluralin 
manufacture during 2013. This volume should now decrease to almost zero.
Other wastes include inorganics, clean 
solids, organics, chlorinated, drums, 
regulated solids and agricultural. The majority of waste goes to sewage treatment followed by recycling, energy 
recovery, landfill, surface water, deep 
well and industrial treatment.Figure 6: Water use per tonne production
Water use MLWater use (ML) and production (’000 tonne)
Water use tonne/tonne production 
Production tonne Water use tonne/tonne production01002003004005001,000
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
600700800900
20092010 2011 2012 2013Table 1: Air emisions (kg)
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
CO  13,150  10,362  12,636  53,825 39,367 
Freon  105  300  202  140  600 
Herbicides  435  510  513  719  637 
Inorganics  140  54  67  60  64 
NOx  142,032  100,213  150,010  176,251  126,443 
Particulates  2,087  1,828  1,651  1,502  599 
Phenolics  631  12.4  5.9  27.0  8.2 
SOx  1,724  1,395  1,101  930  741 
VOC  117,923  25,211  22,466  28,323  25,365 
Total 278,227  139,885  188,652  261,777  193,824
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 15The United States business made 
significant reduction to the carbon footprint by switching from 
truck-only to intermodal (truck  
and rail) shipping on several of  
their major routes, utilising rail’s far 
greater efficiency over longer hauls.ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 
CONTINUED
At many of our sites a waste management system captures the nature and quantity of waste produced 
onsite and tracks it through to recycling 
or disposal. Waste generated per tonne of production has remained consistent.
We continue to work towards further 
reducing waste generation from manufacturing processes. Disposal of packaging such as empty raw material containers (drums and bags) 
can contribute huge volumes to land 
fill. Each site makes every effort to clean waste packaging and find recycling opportunities.
For example, our Laverton site in 
Australia now triple rinse glyphosate bulk bags in process so they are able to be recycled rather than directed to 
landfill. The active materials are rinsed 
directly into the formulation vessel rather than using other disposal avenues. The site plans to extend this 
process to other bulk bag products.
Our Asian teams also implemented a 
recycling program, working with the local environment agencies, whereby 
approximately 140,000 kg of metal 
drums used for raw materials and 12,000 kg of packaging waste was recycled. The Indonesian team also 
recycled 10,500 kg of metal drums 
in 2013.
Every attempt is made to reduce 
waste by recycling plastic, cardboard 
and wood wherever possible. Wastes 
requiring disposal consist of empty packaging from raw materials received, used filters, debris, and safety 
equipment from the formulation 
and packaging operations.Figure 7: Waste per tonne production (excluding salt)kg waste per tonne production
2010 2011 2012 20133032343640
3850
42444648
2009
Figure 8: Waste management destination
2009Waste (’000) tonnes
2010 2011 2012 2013010
520
15253040
35
Industrial
treatmentSewage
treatmentRecycling Landfill Energy
recoverySurface
watersDeep
wellAquifier
Figure 9: Total waste by category
2009Waste (’000) tonnes
2010 2011 2012 2013010
52015253040
35
Inoraganics
Clean
solidsOrganics Chlorinated Drums Regulated
solidsAgricultural Salt
16 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014WE CONTINUE TO WORK TOWARDS 
FURTHER REDUCING WASTE GENERATION FROM MANUFACTURING PROCESSES. 
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 17HEALTH AND SAFETY
We place a high priority on safeguarding the health and safety of our employees. Our health, 
safety and environment (HS&E) policy is a public statement of Nufarm’s commitment to HS&E, and is a statement of the standards expected of Nufarm’s employees.
were extremely severe; one resulting 
in the death of an Indonesian colleague in a traffic accident, and the lengthy 
continuing recovery of a Linz team 
member who accidentally opened a valve containing corrosive material which sprayed onto his face and 
into his lungs.The causes of the other injuries 
in 2013 were a foreign object in someone’s eye, two strains due to 
lifting objects and three slips or trips.
All of these injuries were preventable.A number of Nufarm plants operate 
under strict regulations including 
Seveso II in Europe and Major Hazard Facilities in Australia. Such sites need to prepare a safety case which provides 
evidence that the site’s systems and 
procedures are adequate for safe operation. The safety case is regularly reviewed by authorities and requires a new and full review and submission 
every five years.
Early in 2013 we issued new global 
Corporate Guiding Principles to 
promote alignment of best practice 
and implement common operating principles. The Principles operate within a continuous improvement framework as part of a structured 
and systematic approach to Process 
Safety Management (PSM) across our manufacturing base.
Overall, our 2013 health and 
safety performance improved on our 2012 results.
The Nufarm board sets target limits 
for lost time injuries (LTI), medical 
treatment injuries (MTI) and severity, requiring 15 per cent improvement year on year. In 2013 we failed to meet 
these targets. Efforts are continuing 
to improve safe working conditions and ensure our health, safety and environment policy and procedures are followed at all times.
Lost time injuries
Nufarm defines lost time injuries as those that result in loss of working time of at least one full shift. We 
operate from the premise that all 
lost time injuries are preventable.
Nufarm’s overall LTIFR in 2013 was 
1.16, which is higher than our target 
of <1, but an improvement compared to 2.24 in 2012. The eight lost time injuries suffered in 2013 were spread over eight separate sites. This was an 
improvement on the 15 LTIs recorded 
in 2012, although two of the injuries Figure 10: Nufarm global MTIFR and LTIFR
Injury frequency rate
2010 2011 2012 201301235
46
2009MTIFR actual LTIFR actual LTIFR target limit MTIFR target limit
Table 2: Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Australia 2.15 1.32 4.95 4.19 2.29
Europe 2.63 3.46 2.48 3.62 1.04
North America 0 0 3.27 1.51 0
NZ & Croplands 3.60 0 0 3.20 0
South East Asia 0 0.99 0 0 1.57
South America 0.82 0.95 5.69 0 0.76
Global 1.64 1.68 3.08 2.24 1.16
Target <1.89 <1.60 <1.36 <1.16 <1.00
Table 3: Medical treatment injury frequency rate (MTIFR)
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Australia 7.18 5.29 8.48 7.68 3.81
Europe 3.51 4.94 3.47 4.14 2.07
North America 1.55 1.48 4.90 1.51 1.36
NZ & Croplands 3.60 0 15.75 3.20 6.40
South East Asia 0 0.99 0.92 0 1.57
South America 0.82 0.95 5.69 0 0.76
Global 3.13 3.20 5.23 3.14 2.18
Target <3.77 <3.21 <2.72 <2.31 <2.00
18 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014In 2013, 33 locations worked for 
the entire year without any injury sufficiently severe to require an 
absence from work of one or more 
days. Safety awards are presented to sites that have achieved 200,000 hours free of lost time injury, with small sites 
achieving an award if they have worked 
for five years without serious injury.
A number of our manufacturing sites 
have operated for five years or more 
without a lost time injury, including 
Botlek in the Netherlands, Calgary in Canada and Lytton in Australia.
Medical treatment injuries
Medical treatment injuries include all injuries that result in loss of time as well as those that require treatment 
by a qualified medical practitioner 
(excluding those that are of a diagnostic or precautionary nature only). Those injuries that could be 
treated by a person trained in first 
aid or a qualified nurse are not considered medical treatment injuries.
In 2013 there were 15 medical 
treatment injuries, seven of which 
did not involve loss of working days.
Severity
Severity is a measure of the seriousness of the injuries that resulted in loss of working days (severity rate = days 
lost per thousand hours worked). 
Our global performance improved in 2013, with a fall in severity to 0.018 from 0.028 in 2012. Many HSE initiatives were 
undertaken across the regions 
during 2013, including:
•  The appointment of a European 
HSE manager in August to 
facilitate and support activities 
across all local sites.
•  Botlek in The Netherlands commenced a project with an 
external consultant to understand 
and improve the resilience of 
shifts operating the plant, especially under emergency situations. This work will continue 
into 2014. 
•  Wyke also participated in an 
industry project to better 
understand its safety culture  
with the support of a local 
occupational psychology academic and the Institute of Occupational Safety & Health. 
The work assessed the 
effectiveness of training in promoting a positive safety culture and identified actions  
that deliver improvement in 
occupational safety performance. 
•  Significant modifications to the 
chlorine unloading and storage facilities were implemented  
at Linz, Austria, during a shutdown in October. This is part implementation of the agreed Principles as part of the PSM initiatives.
•  The Alsip site in the United States initiated a weather warning system to give extra notice in 
severe weather. The system 
provided extra notice when used to ensure more time to safely shut equipment down and minimise damage during a power 
outage, maximising the safety of 
teams. The system has since also been implemented at the Chicago Heights location. 
•  Brazil’s internal TopQesh 
awareness reporting system 
achieved more than 10,000 
observations, reinforcing the 
value of a safety culture and  
focus on pre-emptive safety, 
environmental, health and quality 
activities. The team also initiated 
a Mutual Action Plan, aimed at 
disseminating a safety culture and preventive action training in partnership with the community and neighbouring companies.The Canadian business runs an annual 
competition aimed at raising internal awareness and fostering new attitudes and behaviours toward safety, whereby staff submit a safety slogan which is then used throughout the year.
Botlek site initiated tepid temperature 
safety showers to ensure that someone using it for the mandated time is not unnecessarily exposed to cold water in winter temperatures.Table 4: Severity rate
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Australia 0.014 0.006 0.021 0.029 0.012
Europe 0.033 0.032 0.116 0.073 0.054
North America 0 0 0.072 0.003 0
NZ & Croplands 0.011 0 0 0.013 0
South East Asia 0 0.005 0 0 0.004
South America 0.007 0.002 0.028 0 0.001
Global 0.016 0.012 0.052 0.028 0.018
Target <0.022 <0.019 <0.016 <0.014 <0.012
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 19OUR PEOPLE
Nufarm’s manufacturing and marketing operations are based in Australia, New Zealand, Asia, 
Europe and the Americas. We therefore employ many people, all of whom make a vital contribution to the company’s reputation for quality products, innovation and best practice marketing and technical support.
Purdue University covering market 
analysis, segmentation, planning and prioritisation of resources.
And our Latin American teams are 
using a number of specific modules such as Sinergia (sales, marketing 
and R&D), which are supported 
through individual and team coaching.
The diverse approaches and programs 
used around the globe recognise 
that the needs of different regions 
vary according to the requirements of that business.
Innovation
Innovation is one of Nufarm’s key areas of strategic capability. The Nufarm Thinking Differently initiative 
introduces people around the globe to 
a range of creative thinking processes which bring discipline to the innovative process and help us prioritise and 
implement innovative ideas.
Employee engagement
Every two years, Nufarm administers 
a global survey of employees across the business. The most recent survey 
was conducted in September 2012. 
The results indicated strong engagement and a higher level  
of job satisfaction than in a similar 
survey undertaken two years earlier.
In response to the survey outcomes, 
a number of initiatives were implemented in 2013 to take better 
advantage of the organisation’s 
diverse global knowledge.
For example, in Europe dedicated 
crop teams were established to 
direct product portfolios for specific major market segments and take accountability for new product launch processes, including creating and 
communicating product launch 
packages.At Nufarm, our approach to people management is focused on attracting and protecting our most important assets – people – and building our 
reputation as a global employer.
We coordinate strategic human 
resources and organisational 
development at a global level, but 
day-to-day operations are managed at the regional level. This means that people report through to the human resources heads of the respective 
regional businesses allowing 
the function to stay in touch with the needs of the business.
In 2013 we had 2,950 permanent 
employees. We also engage employees on a casual or temporary basis mainly in the manufacturing areas.Focus on diversity
As a global company, Nufarm recruits people from around the world. We believe that our employees from 
many different cultures, linguistic 
and national backgrounds provide us with valuable knowledge for understanding and operating profitably 
in complex international markets.
In 2013, we continued to build a 
deeper understanding of our diversity profile in order to ensure our employee 
value proposition appeals to a diverse 
range of candidates, including gender, culture and experience, to attract them to our industry and company while 
maintaining inclusion for all employees.
Development
A sustainable competitive advantage 
requires that we continue to maintain 
and improve our capability across 
the company.
During 2013, development of 
leadership capability has been a 
key priority. Tailored programs and activities were implemented across different parts of the organisation.
For example, the NuLead education 
program was launched in the ANZ region. The course consists of a number of learning modules to 
support the ongoing development 
of our leaders at all business levels.
Our learning strategy in Asia is 
focused on increasing capability, such 
as making Nufarm Indonesia a learning organisation through training and a mentoring and coaching program.
North America’s Nufarm University 
provides ongoing training in the technology platforms which support day-to-day operations in the business.
The Nuseed leadership group 
participated in an intensive Marketing 
Excellence program delivered by 30%28%
9%8%
8%17%Figure 11: Nufarm employee
representation – geography  
Seeds Group
North
AmericaSouth
East AsiaEurope
South
AmericaANZ
Nufarm is a global company with 
operations based around the world and this is reﬂected in the geographic 
location of our employees.
20 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014The global chemistry conference, 
mentioned previously, was held to bring all of our chemistry talent 
together. The conference focused on 
three themes: connecting, consistency and collaboration. As a result of the conference, seven global teams were 
put in place. All are working to align 
our processes, systems and culture to fundamentally change the way Nufarm approaches formulation development and ensure that we 
continue to improve.
Another area of focus as a result of 
feedback from the last global survey 
was around reward and recognition. 
In response, Nufarm has established two global Awards: innovation and sales. In November 2013, 20 of our top-performing employees, 
representing all Nufarm regions, 
were welcomed to the Laverton head office to receive their Awards and take part in a variety of events. 
The Award recipients spotlight 
outstanding performance in these two key business capability areas.‘We believe that our 
employees from many 
different cultures, 
linguistic and national 
backgrounds provide 
us with valuable 
knowledge for 
understanding and 
operating profitably 
in complex 
international 
markets.’23%Figure 12: Nufarm employee
representation – gender
Female
77%Male
Women are represented at all levels 
and in all functions within Nufarm including operations, scientific, 
sales and administration.Nufarm global sales and 
innovation award winners recognised at head office. 
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 21COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
The key aim of Nufarm’s community engagement is to develop 
proactive local relationships. Europe
Many of our European sites support 
their local communities in a wide variety of ways.
Wyke in the United Kingdom were 
very active in the local community and industry initiatives. These included 
partnering with local chemical 
manufacturing companies to implement a Process Manufacturing Advanced Apprenticeship program with a local college to address the need for 
appropriately skilled employees and 
provide opportunities to local students.
The United Kingdom team also 
participated in a collaboration between 
government, employers and educational institutions to promote and motivate school students to consider a career in Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics disciplines. Nufarm staff 
acted as ambassadors working in local schools, colleges and universities to 
provide insight into potential careers 
and opportunities.
Donations were also made towards 
the provision of science-based learning 
resources and sports equipment for students of local primary schools.
Colombia
The Responsible Care program 
recognised our Colombian operations for achieving 98 per cent compliance  
in all their activities. The local team are members of their regional committee, where they work towards collectively improving environmental, health  
and safety practices. This included conducing consultations with government representatives, chemical company leadership and community members regarding a new chemical transportation program.
This regional engagement is consistent 
with the activities we have traditionally undertaken in our more developed markets, and believe are critical in 
our developing market regions.We do not have a company-wide 
community engagement policy or strategy but prefer our local sites to 
develop and implement their own 
approach, making sure the people important to our industry and operations are engaged, participating and supported.
Our commitment to community 
support is further demonstrated by our membership of Responsible Care, 
supporting its aims to improve the 
health, safety and environmental performance of supporting companies and increase community involvement and awareness of the industry. 
It includes a Community Right 
to Know Code of Practice.
Following is a snapshot of some 
community engagement activities from 
across Nufarm’s global operations.Australia
The Australian team’s commitment to community engagement involved their ongoing education and stewardship 
programs, tours, manufacturing site 
visits and community group and business partnerships.
The region continued their ‘Cropping 
for the Community’ sponsorship program, whereby Nufarm donates a portion of product sales purchased through local participating 
agribusinesses to nominated local 
schools and sporting clubs. The program has steadily grown since its introduction four years ago and 
is dependent on the support and 
partnership of local resellers to participate in the program.
The sponsorship program donated 
approximately $22,000 in 2013 to 
various local schools and sporting organisations.
‘Our commitment to community support is further demonstrated by our 
membership of Responsible Care, an initiative of the International Council 
of Chemical Associations (ICCA).’Our United States team provides Chicago 
High School for Agricultural Sciences students with hands-on experiences.
22 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014United States
The United States team continued their 
ongoing involvement in community support activities including Project 
Evergreen which this year included 
replanting grove trees at the 9/11 Memorial on Liberty Island following a major storm, as well as participation in 
Renewal and Remembrance to beautify 
Arlington National Cemetery.
In partnership with the Chicago High 
School for Agricultural Sciences the 
Nufarm team worked with students to develop a pollinator and bird landscaped preserve on the site 
grounds at the Alsip office, offering 
students experience with different crops, landscape design and project management activities. In addition, teacher training, job shadowing and 
scholarship assistance was provided 
to members of the school.Brazil
The Brazilian team conducted its ‘Nufarm Supportive Christmas’ campaign to raise funds for local 
charities near the Maracanaú-Ceará 
plant. A total of six institutions benefited, with 1,800 kg of foodstuffs, 300 personal hygiene kits, 1,185 items 
of clothing and 94 toys collected. The 
initiative encouraged both supportive spirit and teamwork.
Also, as part of its partnership with 
Enactus not-for-profit organisation, the local team launched the first Nufarm Awareness and Ethics in 
Agribusiness Award.
The students, working in groups, 
designed and implemented strategic projects aimed at broadening the 
awareness and understanding 
of responsibility in the use of agrochemicals by small farmers in Ceará, encouraging the formation 
of local agents of change to create a 
positive influence on agribusiness, and to demystify the use of agrochemicals and their impact on the environment.The students received support from 
Nufarm volunteers, known as a 
business advisory board, to guide teams and provide them with tools necessary for their work.
Five groups were selected to make a 
submission, with the Instituto Federal do Ceará (IFCE) Maracanaú taking first place.
The Brazil team also worked in 
partnership with the municipality’s environmental agency to provide lectures and visits to local public 
schools and universities to talk about 
environmental awareness, as well as activities such as tree planting and garbage collection awareness.
They also donated 40 per cent of the 
total clean solid wastes generated via production processes to a local charity, which then recycles and processes the 
waste for a dollar return. The charity 
then uses these funds to purchase educational materials, toys and foodstuffs.Australia’s Cropping for the Community 
sponsorship program supports schools and other community groups.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 23PROCUREMENT
Nufarm recognises the enhanced business value of a robust approach to procurement. We have 
developed a draft policy document and implemented a new procurement structure that aligns business requirements and best practices.
The role of procurement is to help 
improve operational efficiencies, decrease overall costs and enhance 
Nufarm’s ability to react quickly to 
unexpected changes in supply or demand. Nufarm’s procurement approach aims to achieve value 
for money on a whole-of-life basis, 
whilst minimising damage to the environment. It focuses on generating benefits to Nufarm, as well as local communities and economies.
Nufarm’s approach is based on class-
leading processes, operational discipline and stakeholder engagement. It is 
designed to deliver competitive 
advantage through building procurement capability and forging strong relationships with stakeholders. We proactively engage with end users 
where procurement decisions have  
the potential to impact on the safety  
of employees, assets, suppliers, 
contractors, customers and visitors.The global procurement policy documents a set of foundation principles, consisting of:
• health, safety and the environment;
• sustainability;
• corporate governance;
• continuous improvement;
• capability development;
• stakeholder relationship management;
• risk management;
• value for money; and
• quality.The objective of this policy is to ensure that all procurement activities carried 
out by Nufarm:
• provide best possible value through 
proactive engagement of internal customers and suppliers;
• are conducted in a fair, objective and transparent manner;
• are compliant with Nufarm’s corporate policies;
• are compliant with national and international law; and
• encompass the short- and long-term objectives of the business.
The procurement function assists Nufarm in its sustainability and corporate social responsibility objectives by integrating these 
principles into the procurement 
of all goods and services.
‘The role of procurement is to help improve operational efficiencies, decrease 
overall costs and enhance Nufarm’s ability to react quickly to unexpected 
changes in supply or demand.’
24 | NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014NUFARM’S APPROACH IS BASED 
ON CLASS-LEADING PROCESSES, OPERATIONAL DISCIPLINE AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014  | 25103-105 Pipe Road 
Laverton North Victoria 3026 AustraliaTelephone + 61 3 9282 1000 
Facsimile + 61 3 9282 1007
nufarm.com