2020 
Sustainability 
Review “Our contribution to a 
more sustainable future 
is a source of pride  
for our employees. 
While we know there  
is more work to do,  
we are taking positive 
steps that will build  
a more resilient 
business to create  
value for all of our 
stakeholder groups.” A message from our Chief Executive Officer 
Nufarm has been creating new solutions  
to respond to farmers’ changing needs  
for more than 100 years and yet there  
has perhaps never been a more exciting 
time to be part of the agricultural industry. 
Farmers around the world are being called 
on to produce more food with less resource 
and are increasingly at the forefront of  
global efforts to reduce the impact of 
humanity on our precious ecosystems.
The products and solutions Nufarm  
provide play an important role in helping 
farmers feed more people while using 
natural resources such as land and water 
more efficiently. In 2020 we have broadened 
our approach to sustainability to more 
explicitly recognise the role we play in 
contributing to improving the sustainability  
of modern agriculture. One of our most 
significant achievements this year has been 
the commercialisation of our proprietary 
Nuseed Omega-3 Canola oil and carinata 
crop. These plant-based solutions are 
helping address global challenges,  
with our omega-3 canola oil reducing 
pressure on wild-fish stock and our  
carinata crop providing a new, best-in-class 
feedstock for biofuel production to help 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In this report we reflect on our  
achievements in 2020 and the priorities 
driving our efforts to improve our impact  
on the world around us. The content in  
this report is intended to complement our 
additional disclosure against the Global 
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability 
reporting standard, which you can find  
here www.nufarm.com/gri-reporting .  
This provides further detail on our approach 
to key sustainability issues and analysis  
of our performance for the year.
We appreciate your interest and I look 
forward to updating you on our progress. 
Greg Hunt  
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer 
2Our businessEngaging with  
our stakeholders
Health, safety 
and wellbeing Supporting 
sustainable 
agriculture1.
4.2. 3.We’re pleased to present our environment, social  
and governance (ESG) reporting for 2020 in this new 
format. Our ambition in providing this Review is to  
make it easier to understand our key sustainability 
issues and provide an overview of our progress in 2020. 
The content in this report is intended to complement  
our additional disclosure against the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting standard  
www.nufarm.com/gri-reporting
Reducing our 
environmental 
footprintEmpowering 
our peopleConducting  
our business  
with integrity5. 6. 7.Contents
Information in this report relates to Nufarm and its wholly owned subsidiaries for the 
year ending 31 July 2020, which we refer to as “2020”.
During the year we commissioned a new formulation plant in Greenville, Mississippi  
and data for this facility is included in the report for the first time. On 1 April 2020,  
we completed the sale of our crop protection and seed treatment operations in Brazil, 
Argentina, Colombia and Chile and the impact of these operations has been excluded 
from that date. 
3Our mission
to “grow a better tomorrow” reflects  
our ambition for our customers, our 
people, communities and financial 
stakeholders. 
Our business1.
4Crop protection 
We develop, manufacture and sell crop protection  
solutions including herbicides, insecticides and fungicides  
that help growers protect their crops against weeds,  
pests and disease. We operate primarily in the off-patent  
market, providing customers with long-standing foundational  
products and unique formulations. We focus our business  
on five core crops in key agricultural regions in Europe,  
North America and Asia Pacific. Seed Technologies 
Seed Technologies combines our seed treatment portfolio 
and the Nuseed business. Our seed treatment products 
provide protection and treatment for damage caused by insects, 
fungus and disease, while Nuseed focuses on developing 
plant-based solutions that deliver unique output traits providing 
specific customer and consumer benefits. Nuseed distributes 
high yielding sunflower, sorghum and canola seed to 
customers in more than 30 countries and in 2020 Nuseed 
added a new oilseed crop, carinata, to the portfolio.
AsiaSeed TechnologiesANZNorth AmericaEurope 34%
32%
13%
11%
10%
Seed TechnologiesFungicidesGlyphosatePhenoxiesOther Herbicides 24%
23%
11%
11%
11%
Other*Insecticides 10%
10%Underlying EBITDA from continuing operations by region
Gross margin by product type
* Other includes Croplands equipment, adjuvants, plant growth 
regulators and industrial products.Our business
Nufarm is a leading developer and  
manufacturer of crop protection solutions  
and seed technologies. 
5Cairo
Egypt
Channel 
partnerships
Supply chain 
excellencePortfolio 
solutions
Customer 
experience
People  Values   Culture   Process
Cereals Corn Pasture, turf and 
ornamentalsSoybean Trees, nuts, vines 
and vegetablesOur strategy and operating model 
Our purpose is to create long term 
shareholder value by helping farmers  
get more from their land through the 
provision of crop protection solutions  
and seed technologies. We focus our portfolio on five core  
crops that build on our strengths and  
add depth rather than breadth to the 
solutions we provide. The portfolio is 
diversified across key geographies and product type to mitigate the  
impact of seasonality on our  
earnings and returns. Our operating model puts the  
customer at the heart of all we do
Our customers are primarily channel 
partners who distribute our products directly 
to growers. We work with them and with 
growers to understand their challenges and 
develop solutions to address their needs. 
Our product portfolio is focused primarily  
on the off-patent market. We combine our 
own in-house development expertise with 
leading industry players and research organisations to provide innovative, 
differentiated and value-added products  
and formulations to farmers. 
We operate a global manufacturing and 
supply chain network that provides us with 
the benefits of global scale while delivering 
a competitive and responsive, local service 
to customers wherever they are located. 
6We are accountable for our decisions 
and our actions. We recognise that  
trust is at the foundation of relationships 
and that acting ethically, safely and 
responsibly creates that trust.
We are resourceful and adaptable in 
meeting the needs of our customers  
and our organisation.
We respect others – colleagues, 
customers and stakeholders – and  
our environment. We care for all  
of our resources.
We are an innovative, entrepreneurial 
organisation where individuals and teams 
can do what is best for the customer,  
the organisation and our stakeholders.R
Responsibility
A
Agility
R
Respect
E
EmpowermentThe way we work
Our strategy is underpinned by the talent of our people,  
our values, culture and processes that ensure we are  
fair and ethical in how we conduct our business. 
Our values 
7Engaging with 
our stakeholders2.
82.  Engaging with  
our stakeholders
We engage with  
our stakeholders to 
identify emerging  
issues that are relevant 
to how we create  
long term value.
“Expanding our 
engagement is  
providing new insights  
and confirmation of  
the priorities of key 
stakeholder groups.”
Gordon Davis, Chairman of the  
Risk and Compliance Committee
9 Protecting the health, safety  
and wellbeing of our people  
and communities Reducing our  
environmental footprint Supporting sustainable  
agriculture Empowering our people  
to reach full potential Conducting our  
business with integrityThis year we updated our materiality 
study to identify the sustainability 
issues most relevant to delivering 
on our strategy and those that 
matter most to our stakeholders. 
For the first time the materiality study 
includes feedback from external parties and 
this has helped us to better understand the 
priorities of some of our key external 
stakeholder groups. 
The feedback we received from internal 
decision makers, employees, customers, 
and financiers relates to each of our five 
sustainability objectives:
1. Protecting the health, safety and 
wellbeing of our people and communities.
2. Supporting sustainable agriculture.
3. Reducing our environmental footprint.
4. Empowering our people to reach  
their full potential.
5. Conducting our business with integrity.
The results of the study validated “Product 
regulatory compliance” as the most important 
and influential issue identified by our 
stakeholders, followed closely by “Worker 
occupational safety, health and wellbeing”. 
Three of the top five issues related to 
Supporting Sustainable Agriculture, with 
“Hazardous and toxic materials management” 
rounding out the top five priorities.
The feedback and findings from this year’s study 
is helping shape and validate our sustainability 
priorities and reporting for 2021 and we will 
seek to further expand our external participation 
in the materiality study in coming years.Materiality assessment
103.
Supporting 
sustainable 
agriculture
11“Climate change and a 
growing population add 
urgency to the need for 
innovation. Agricultural 
and ocean environments 
are under intense pressure 
to feed our planet without 
starving it of resources. 
Improving yields and  
new plant-based solutions 
are important elements  
in improving nutrition, 
supporting the environment 
and the getting the most 
from every acre.” 
Brent Zacharias,  
Group Executive NuseedWith the world’s population increasing in size and prosperity,  
farmers around the world are being called on to produce more food  
while reducing the impact of agriculture on our precious ecosystems.  
Our products provide solutions that help farmers grow more food  
while using fewer natural resources, including land and water.3.  Supporting sustainable agriculture
12Protecting the world’s wild-fish stocks
Estimates indicate that over 80% of  
people worldwide aren’t getting enough 
omega-3 through the food they eat. 
Omega-3 fatty acids are considered an 
essential nutrient for eye, brain, heart,  
and cardiovascular health. The human  
body cannot make these critical nutrients,  
so we must consume them in the foods  
we eat. As awareness of the health  
benefits of omega-3 oils increases  
and populations with higher disposable 
incomes grow, demand for long-chain 
omega-3 oil is steadily increasing.
Healthy omega-3 oils typically originate  
in ocean microalgae. Fish consume the 
microalgae and until now, fish oil has  been the primary source of omega-3 
nutrients. With limited supply options – 
primarily wild-caught fish – current levels  
of production are not sustainable and  
there is increasing concern to protect  
wild fish stocks from overfishing.
One alternative helping take pressure  
off our oceans is factories that grow  
micro-algae and convert it to omega-3 oil. 
However, it takes lots of water and energy  
to produce these algal oils, making it an 
expensive and resource intensive solution. 
Nuseed takes a new approach by applying 
biotechnology to deliver the benefits of 
microalgae through canola, creating a  
rich source of land-based omega-3. As a well-known global crop, canola is 
familiar to many farmers in key growing 
regions such as Australia, Canada and  
the USA. With Nuseed’s omega-3 canola 
able to be grown on just a fraction of  
the world’s existing, converted canola 
farmland, this breakthrough product will 
relieve pressure on wild fish stocks and 
deliver many nutritional, environmental  
and economic benefits. 
In September 2020, Nuseed announced  
first commercial sales of omega-3 canola  
oil to a major global salmon producer  
and confirmed our plan to double oil  
production in 2021.Unlocking plant  
potential 
The strategy and commitment 
of our Seed Technology 
business, Nuseed, to provide 
world-changing solutions 
through the power of plants 
means creating crops that 
positively impact global 
environmental issues and 
provide new economic 
opportunities for farming 
communities. We call this our 
Value BEYOND YIELD® strategy.
10,000 fish
1 hectare of  
this canola  
has the potential  
to provide the  
omega-3 oil  
yield from  
10,000 1kg fish .1 ha =
Omega-3 Canola Oil 
produces 94.5% less  
CO2 than catching the 
nutritional equivalent  
of wild fish.=What Nuseed’s oil will deliver
13Replacing petroleum diesel with renewable fuels
The sustainability benefits of Carinata 
include both carbon sequestration and 
carbon reduction.  Carinata oil is certified by 
the Roundtable of Sustainable Biomaterials 
(RSB) for the European Renewable Energy 
Directive (RED) standard and provides a 
best in class, greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reduction when used to replace petroleum diesel.  International airlines have 
already proven the drop-in, purpose-built 
benefits of using Carinata as a feedstock  
for biofuel to reduce greenhouse gases. 
After an 18 month pilot program in 
Argentina, Nuseed is now focused on 
increasing production of Carinata as a rotational cover crop in major soybean 
growing regions, initially in South America. 
With an expectation of increased volumes, 
Nuseed entered into a multi-year offtake 
agreement with a leading European 
biodiesel producer in 2020 and sustainable 
agriculture practice incentives will be a 
priority for improved GHG reductions. 
An aggressive crop that will outcompete 
many weeds, Carinata’s abundant biomass 
takes carbon from the air and sinks it in  
the soil where it helps improve soil health Carinata’s extensive root system, low 
canopy temperature and thick, waxy  
leaves increase tolerance to heat and 
drought. Its taproot can reach three  
feet deep to reach unused nutrientsGrowing carinata as a cover crop on 
underutilized land improves conservation  
of nitrogen and water, helps reduce soil 
erosion and improves soil healthThe combination of carinata being  
grown between crop rotations and the  
co-production of high protein meal for 
animal feed makes it a biofuel feedstock  
that contributes to food production and 
doesn’t require additional farmland.Our newest crop, Nuseed Carinata, is  
grown as a cover crop to produce non-food  
oil feedstock for renewable fuel production.  
A co-product of crushing Carinata to extract  
the oil is a high protein, non-GMO meal  
for animal feed – a valuable by-product  
generated without using additional farmland.
14Built-in benefits to help 
the environment
Nuseed’s omega-3 and carinata renewable 
fuel programs are creating impressive 
sustainable solutions to global problems, 
however, these aren’t the only ecological 
benefits of Nuseed’s crop portfolio. Sunflower
• Nuseed sunflower hybrids have 
many of the characteristics of their 
wild relatives, such as drought 
tolerance and a deep root system 
that mines for nutrients.
• The majority of sunflowers are 
produced in a reduced-tillage 
system which prevents erosion, 
leaving the stalks standing and 
fields undisturbed over winter 
which also provides an excellent 
food source for wildlife.Canola
• New technologies allow farmers  
to target pests that damage 
seedlings, while allowing  
beneficial insects to flourish.
• Direct seeding canola preserves 
soil organic matter content and 
moisture while reducing erosion.
• Canola also makes an excellent 
habitat for bees.Sorghum
• Requiring one third less water  
with comparable energy and  
nutrition, sorghum is both a more 
sustainable and economical corn  
feed ration replacement.
• Among other drought-tolerant 
features, sorghum has a smaller leaf 
to root ratio than other crops, and 
extensive root system, as well as a 
heavy wax layer on leaves/stems.• Sorghum is also a sustainable 
bioethanol crop because of its  
water-use efficiency and ability  
to adapt to semi-arid regions  
where soil salinity is too high  
for most food crops.
• It also has the potential to become  
a tool in land reclamation due to  
its hardiness and ability to improve 
the soil.
15Providing farmers with tools to protect crops  
and improve yields and resource efficiency
Our crop protection products provide 
farmers with important tools to help improve 
resource efficiency, reduce soil erosion  
and conserve moisture for plant growth.  
By improving crop yields, we also help  
to limit the amount of new land required  
for agricultural use as demand for food 
production increases. We support integrated 
pest management practices that combine 
cultural, biological and chemical methods 
and we are committed to promoting 
practices that encourage responsible,  
safe and efficient use of our products. 
Safety first 
Product safety has always been a  
critical priority for farmers and there is an 
increasing community interest in the safety 
of products used in agricultural supply 
chains. Our approach to product safety  
and stewardship goes beyond ensuring  
our products comply with regulatory 
requirements. Our primary focus in  
product safety is on ensuring our  
products are safe for farmers to use  
and safe for our food supply chain.Product testing
Crop protection products are amongst  
the most regulated products in the  
world. Before any of our products are 
manufactured or sold they are assessed  
and registered by regulators based on 
extensive reviews of scientific studies  
and data.
These studies test for safety for people, 
wildlife and the environment. Regulators 
consider both published and unpublished 
scientific studies and only approve a  
product if testing shows it does not pose 
unacceptable risks. Once a product has 
been registered for use, regulators have  
the right to reconsider the approval or 
registration at any time. Products require 
re-registration after a set period of years,  
or when new research or evidence  
becomes available. Promoting safe and responsible  
use of our products 
We provide Technical Notes with all  
of our crop protection products to equip 
farmers and applicators with information  
on safe handling and how to get the  
best performance from our products.  
Our labelling and Safety Data Sheets  
also provide details of emergency  
response processes and practices. 
We supplement this information with  
hands-on workshops to help train farmers 
about the responsible and safe use of our 
products. These workshops reiterate good 
spraying practices, nozzle selection and 
provide an opportunity for farmers to  
ask questions of technical experts.
Industry collaboration to reduce spills  
and improve farmer safety 
In 2020, we joined forces with other 
agricultural organisations to introduce  
a standardised, closed transfer system 
(CTS) technology for crop protection 
packaging in Europe.  The pre-fitted screw cap and coupler 
improves speed and ease of handling  
to reduce the risk of spills. Nufarm is 
looking forward to helping to roll out 
trials of this innovation in 2021.
16Improving 
environmental 
outcomes and farm 
incomes by reducing 
application rates 
We develop products and spray 
technologies to help reduce chemical 
application rates. We do this through a 
range of strategies, including products  
with increased concentration and improved 
product compatibility that allows for  
fewer sprays. This not only helps reduce 
chemical application rates, it also helps 
reduce water and fuel usage. 
Precision spraying technologies also  
allow farmers to target areas that need  
more management and reduce application 
rates on areas that need less. In 2020, 
Nufarm subsidiary, Croplands, launched  
our new precision spraying technology  
to more effectively target weeds and  
reduce product application rates.  
The new WEED-IT optical spot sprayer  
uses advanced sensors to detect  
chlorophyll in the leaves of actively  
growing weeds in fallow paddocks.  
The sprayer design allows farmers to  
spot-spray while also applying a blanket 
spray. This gives the option of using  
different herbicides at different rates  
to deliver excellent weed control and 
optimise crop protection application.Sandy Nixon with his new WEED-IT 
Quadro 4000 on his farm in NSW, 
Australia. Sandy says cutting down 
the amount of spray the family uses  
is good for the soil, the environment, 
and the back pocket, “I used just  
25 litres of chemical spot-spraying, 
compared to 1,000 litres if I had 
sprayed it all.”Integrating 
sustainability into 
product development
The majority of our current crop protection 
portfolio is based on chemical solutions  
with a proven track record of efficacy  
and safety. In developing new products,  
we seek to create products that are more 
environmentally sustainable than their 
predecessors, less resource intensive and 
have a stronger safety profile. The following 
objectives guide our development team  
in the design of new products: 
• Improve farmer efficiency and 
effectiveness by addressing resistance 
and maximising the value of other crop 
inputs such as fertiliser, water, seeds  
and fuel.
• Improve product safety through  
reduced toxicity and the use of solvents 
and adjuvants with the most optimal 
ecological and efficiency profile.
• Reduce environmental impact through 
more effective formulations that require 
lower chemical application rates,  
have lower residue and less impact  
on non-target organisms.
• Develop formulations that allow for 
improved manufacturing processes  
and better transport efficiency.
• Improve the safety and environmental 
impact of product packaging.Investing in biological 
and alternative crop 
protection solutions 
We are increasingly complementing our 
chemical portfolio with biological products 
and alternative solutions that can be used 
alongside, or as alternatives to, our chemical 
portfolio. In 2020 we launched Trunemco –  
a biochemical and microbial seed treatment 
to reduce crop losses caused by nematodes 
in soybean, cotton and corn crops. 
Trunemco works differently to traditional 
chemistries. It is a biological treatment 
applied to the seed prior to planting to  
prime the plant’s own physiology, stimulating 
natural defence systems which protect 
against damage caused by soil nematodes. 
Trunemco also contains micro-organisms  
to produce healthier root systems and 
support stronger seedlings to help improve 
crop yield. The combination of Trunemco’s 
effectiveness in increasing yields and  
its low toxicity profile make it an ideal 
candidate as an alternate solution to seed 
treatments for farmers. So far, we have 
launched this product in the United States 
and we are currently exploring options  
for use in other global markets.Reducing waste 
We take ownership for our  
product through to the end of its  
life. When customers return product, 
we seek to rework it into new 
product as much as our strict quality 
standards and regulatory controls 
allow. We also partner with local 
service providers and non-profit 
organisations to collect empty,  
used product containers for reuse  
or recycling. These include, 
drumMUSTER in Australia, the  
Ag Container Recycling Council 
(ACRC) in the United States and 
PAMIRA’s agricultural packaging 
recovery system in Germany. 
Together with rationalising our 
product range to reduce obsolete 
stock, these mechanisms help  
us reduce the impact our products 
have on landfill space and on  
non-renewable resources.
17Addressing 
emerging  
resistance issues 
Pest resistance is an ongoing  
threat to global food security and a 
key driver of the need for integrated 
pest management. We participate  
in CropLife’s local and regional 
resistance committees, IRAC,  
FRAC and HRAC (insecticide, 
fungicide and herbicide resistance 
action committees). In recent years 
we have also worked with research 
institutions to better understand the 
mechanism and biochemistry of 2, 
4-D and auxin resistance in a range 
of weed species. We use this 
knowledge to develop further product 
and stewardship programs to help 
limit future resistance issues in the 
phenoxy auxin herbicide group. 
In addition to these research  
efforts, we work with local industry 
bodies that provide farmers with 
education and practical weed  
control strategies to address weed 
resistance. These include WeedSmart 
in Australia, CATS (CombAt 
Troublesome weedS) in the United 
States and R-Evolution in Europe. Ethical sourcing
We know our social and environmental 
impact extends beyond our own 
operations and sites, and we seek  
to ensure our suppliers can meet  
the same standards we aspire to 
ourselves. Our Supplier Code of 
Conducts guides our selection of 
suppliers and the ongoing evaluation  
of supplier relationships. It sets clear 
expectations of our suppliers including 
business conduct, environmental 
performance, human rights, child  
and forced labour and employee  
health and safety.We assess our suppliers’ CSR scores 
against global benchmark data from  
the independent firm, EcoVadis. In 2020 
we expanded the number of suppliers 
assessed through this program from  
117 in 2019 to 136 in 2020, representing 
48% of our supplier expenditure. 
Our suppliers have a lot to be proud of. 
In 2020, the suppliers assessed scored 
an average of 14% higher than the  
global sector benchmark, with nearly 
two-thirds of our suppliers surpassing  
the minimum target score of 45,  
a far greater proportion than the  
global chemical sector average.
Nufarm 
SuppliersEcoVadis 
Global 
Chemical 
Sector
Average score 51.8 45.6
Proportion scoring over 45 66% 37%
Proportion of suppliers reassessed 68%
Score improvement in reassessed suppliers 2.2
184.
Health, safety  
and wellbeing
19“Our five-year safety trend shows 
a step-change improvement 
that reflects the developing 
maturity of our business and 
safety systems. Part of that 
maturity is recognising that we 
must remain chronically uneasy 
about safety – it only takes one 
small lapse for something to  
go wrong, and you can NEVER 
be fully comfortable about your 
safety. This eternal vigilance  
sits atop a solid foundation of 
risk management – systems, 
processes, audits, programs 
and training.”
Gerard Kennedy,  
Global Sustainability Manager Our most important priority is to ensure  
that every colleague goes home safely  
every day. We work toward this by  
embedding systems and processes that  
identify risks, actively reduce those risks,  
and foster a culture where people’s  
health and safety is front of  
mind in everything we do.4.  Health, safety and wellbeing
20012345
Nufarm Global SIFR Rolling 12 months Nufarm Global LTIFR rolling 12 monthsJan 16
Jul 16
Jan 17
Jul 17
Jan 18
Jul 18
Jan 19
Jul 19
Jan 20
Jul 20Building on our safety performance 
Our approach to safety is centred on  
strong accountable leadership, growing our 
safety culture and empowering our people to 
always act safely. It is underpinned by robust 
and effective safety management systems. 
Our safety management system (SMS) is 
comprised of our corporate health, safety 
and environment (HSE) policy, standard, 
procedures and site-specific procedures. 
The SMS outlines how we identify risks, 
then apply and assure controls. It empowers 
our people to stop work if they feel it’s 
unsafe and seeks to embed a positive 
culture of reporting safety risks. 
Our process safety management (PSM) 
program sets the foundation for safety at  
our manufacturing sites. Launched in 2017,  
it provides a systematic and best practice 
approach to identify and control hazards  
at manufacturing sites where a loss of 
containment could impact employees,  
the environment and/or local communities. 
The program addresses critical risk  
control factors such as facility design  
and construction, hazard identification, 
assessment and control, operations process 
safety, hazardous materials management, 
asset integrity and reliability, management  
of change, competence and training and 
emergency planning and response. Compliance with PSM requirements is 
audited by our corporate teams and by 
regulators in the relevant jurisdiction. 
In 2020 we continued our progress in 
closing out action items in the four-year  
plan developed during the PSM gap  
audit in 2017 with 97% of actions now 
completed (2019: 83%). 
Best ever safety performance in 2020 
In 2020 we achieved our best-ever  
safety performance. This was driven  
by strong, visible safety leadership that 
started with the Board of Directors  
and cascaded to leaders across the 
business. The commitment of every  
single employee and a deliberate  
increase in safety communications was 
also key to keeping safety top-of-mind  
and improving our performance.Several sites reached important safety 
milestones in 2020. Our Chicago Heights 
site in the United States reached eight 
years lost time injury free and our 
Raymond Road site in Australia reached 
seven years without a lost time injury.  
Year on year, since August 2019  
to July 2020, the Lost Time Injury  
Frequency Rate (LTIFR) reduced by 77%. 
The important and tangible implication of 
these injury statistics is that more people 
are going home safely from work every day.Nufarm Global Serious Injury Frequency Rate and Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate – rolling 12 month averages (per million hours worked)
21Setting the tone from the top
The Nufarm Risk and Compliance 
Committee plays an important role  
in fostering a strong HSE culture.  
The Committee’s oversight of material  
HSE issues, progress of implementation  
of HSE programs and performance 
outcomes helps to preserve safety  
as our number one priority. During the year members of the Committee 
visited manufacturing sites around the world 
to gauge progress and reinforce the priority 
of safety with local staff. The Committee 
Chair also wrote to staff to recognise the 
progress made in embedding the PSM 
program and the improvement in the number 
of people going home safely every day.
Training 
All employees and contractors undertake 
occupational health and safety induction 
training when they join Nufarm. Further training 
is tailored with individual plans and training 
records maintained in our training systems. 
Training is based on needs assessments 
and competency-based training approaches 
relating to the hazards each employee  
may encounter while performing their job. 
This year we provided more than 54,000 
hours of safety training for our own people 
and non-Nufarm employees.Global safety stand-down 
Keeping safety front-of-mind is critical  
to ensuring everyone goes home safely. 
On December 6, 2019 Nufarm people 
across the globe participated in a co-
ordinated stop work activity. Safety is just 
as important at home and on holidays  
as it is at work and teams and employees 
from every element of our business used 
this time to focus on what going home 
safely means to each of them.  From Greenville to Gaillon employees  
all over the world stopped work to  
join with their colleagues in discussions, 
workshops, safety shares and to commit  
to pledges. A wide range of work and  
non-work safety issues were explored,  
and localised action plans were  
developed to follow up on new 
opportunities to ensure we keep  
ourselves and our colleagues safe. 
“I can’t believe how lucky I am to be  
working for a company that actually  
stops work across the globe to prove  
to me that my safety is important!” Driver safety 
The most significant non-manufacturing 
hazard for our employees involves driving  
on public roads, often in rural environments. 
We manage this risk with active and passive 
safety features for all company business 
vehicles and our driver safety procedure 
which incorporates requirements for fatigue 
management, restricts mobile phone  
usage and ensures fitness to drive. All frequent drivers must undertake  
hands on defensive driver training, 
supplementing this with online training via 
the Alert Driving program. This program is  
a personalised, interactive, behaviour-based 
defensive driving training program. We have 
also made this program available to our 
broader employee base to help make them 
safer on the road. This year we provided 
online driver training for over 500 frequent 
drivers across the business.
22Pandemic response 
The health and safety of our people was  
the key priority for our business response  
to the COVID-19 pandemic. With many  
of our employees required to work on-site  
in roles that are critical to maintaining 
essential supplies for global food chains,  
the introduction of a range of physical  
safety measures to protect these  
employees was the focus of the initial  
phase of our pandemic planning. 
The response from teams across our 
logistics and manufacturing operations  
was swift. New protocols and ways  
of working to meet the needs of our  
people and the requirements of relevant 
government and health authorities  
ensured that manufacturing sites  
continued to operate, and our  
customers were supplied with  
critical inputs for agricultural  
production with minimal disruption.
A large contingent of our workforce was  
also required to adapt to working from  
home for prolonged periods. It soon  
became evident that additional mental 
health resources could help support  
these people and keep our teams together. 
A range of programs were rolled out  
across the business including the  
“Check on a mate” campaign launched by 
our CEO, flexible work schemes designed  
to accommodate changes in family  
care-giving needs, training of mental  
health first aiders, access to virtual 
workshops on coping through COVID-19 
and reminders of the availability of  
existing employee assistance programs. A snapshot of activities at our manufacturing 
sites as they adopted new COVID-19 protocols 
• The number of employees on-site  
is restricted to necessary employees, 
body temperature screening is 
introduced, and workforce planning  
is adapted to reduce the likelihood  
and impact of a potential outbreak.
• New physical barriers, disinfection 
routines and work protocols to enforce 
social distancing requirements help 
protect employees from infection  
while on-site.
• Occupational health professionals  
are engaged to provide advice and 
education for employees.• In-house manufacture of  
disinfectants is commenced to  
ensure plentiful supply and reduce  
the impact of increased demand  
on local communities.
• Rigorous return to work protocols  
are enacted and employee “hotlines” 
staffed by occupational health 
professionals ensure rapid and virtual 
access to pandemic-related health 
advice people are going home safely 
from work every day.A number of our sites quickly transitioned to producing 
hand sanitiser during 2020. Making us self-sufficient and 
limiting our reliance on supplies from the community.
235.
Reducing our 
environmental 
footprint 
24“We are a responsible 
operator and work to 
reduce our resource 
consumption and 
minimise adverse 
environmental  
impacts through  
robust environmental 
management systems 
and a risk-based  
approach that helps us 
to continuously improve 
our performance.”
Elbert Prado, Group Executive 
Manufacturing & Supply ChainWhile crop protection products help farmers improve efficiency  
and the impact of food production on our environment, manufacturing  
our products also has an impact on the environment. It’s important  
to us that we reduce our consumption of precious resources and  
minimise our impact on the world around us. 5.  Reducing our 
environmental footprint
252016 2017 2018 2019 202075,66173,71172,20372,83074,096
20,252 20,729 20,39321,18317,509
Scope 1 – Direct Scope 2 – Energy IndirectStrengthening our 
environmental systems 
Manufacturing our products uses energy, 
water, fuel and chemicals. It results in 
greenhouse gas and air emissions and 
produces waste and effluent. Three years 
ago we launched a program to strengthen 
our environmental management systems  
to improve our impact on the environment. 
The program included a detailed 
environmental analysis that identified more 
than 1,000 actions we could take to close 
the gap between our performance at that 
time and the standard we aspire to. 
By the end of 2019 65% of those actions 
had been completed and our goal for  
2020 was to achieve 90% completion. 
Despite the restrictions imposed by the 
outbreak of COVID-19 causing a number  
of delays, we’ve been able to complete  
88% of the total actions identified.  
We also completed corporate environmental 
audits at five of our key manufacturing  
sites in 2020 before COVID-19 restrictions 
and changes to our on-site operating 
priorities limited our activities to essential 
requirements and personnel only. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions
This year we reduced our Scope 1 
GHG emissions by approximately  
17% with improvements at our 
manufacturing site at Wyke in  
the United Kingdom driving the 
improvement. This site operates  
a significant refrigeration system and 
while using a refrigerant with very  
low ozone depleting potential, it had  
a very high global warming potential.  Last year we started a program to 
improve the reliability, maintenance  
and monitoring of refrigerant gas levels  
and this year we replaced the gas  
with an alternative with a significantly 
lower global warming potential.  
Overall we reduced our scope 1  
and 2 greenhouse emissions by  
2.5 percent when compared with  
last year.Greenhouse gas emissions (Tonne CO 2e)
262016 2017 2018 2019 20200200,000400,000600,000800,0001,000,0001,200,000
–0.20.30.81.31.82.32.8
2.43
2.22 2.252.712.79
1,035,519 996,389 1,083,479 1,071,539 1,074,883
Total Energy Consumption (GJ)
Energy Intensity 3 (GJ/tonne or M3 of production)2017 2018 2019 2020 23,905  26,842  25,936  25,386 Reducing waste 
In 2020 our site in Linz, Austria 
implemented a process to recover 
Hydrogen Chloride (HCl) from a waste 
water stream. So far, the project has 
diverted approximately 200 tonnes of  
HCl from effluent. In 2021 we expect  
to recover as much as 1,800 tonnes  
of HCl and save 1,200 tonnes of sodium 
hydroxide which would have been  
required to neutralise the HCl in our  
waste water treatment plant. At Wyke in the UK our team is piloting  
a biological waste water treatment plant  
to treat synthesis waste water on-site.  
The plant uses a membrane bio reactor  
and UV treatment technology initially  
trialled in partnership with Cranfield 
University. The early results are promising 
and the project is expected to progress 
through the design and planning approval 
phase over the coming year. Once fully 
operational, the treatment plant would significantly improve the quality of the 
discharged water, allowing the now  
non-hazardous waste water to be 
discharged to the domestic sewer.  
With around 200ML of waste water 
currently being transported to a third-party 
waste water treatment facility in a 
neighbouring county, there’s significant 
potential to remove tankers from local 
roads, reducing energy usage and  
scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Improving energy efficiency 
Our energy profile varies year to year 
depending on our product mix. The products 
we synthesise from raw materials are much 
more energy intensive than the products  
we formulate from active ingredients 
procured from other suppliers. 
During 2020 we undertook third-party 
energy audits at each of our European 
manufacturing sites, which represent  
over 50% of our total energy footprint.  
These audits have been used to establish 
internal energy reduction targets along  
with a program of energy efficiency projects 
to be implemented over the next few years. In Australia our Pipe Road manufacturing 
site installed a condensate recovery system 
which is expected to reduce the site’s  
energy usage. Commissioning of the system 
was delayed due to COVID-19 restrictions, 
however it will be brought online as  
soon as practicable and will also deliver 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, 
water and effluent. 
Total Waste (tonne) Energy Consumption
27Empowering 
our people 6.
28“We believe we are 
stronger as a business 
when our plans  
and operations reflect 
the thinking of all  
our people, drawing  
on a broad range of 
cultures, backgrounds 
and experiences.”
John Holding, Group Executive, 
People and Performance 
Our people and culture play an important role in  
delivering on our strategy and meeting community 
expectations. We aim to provide an inclusive and diverse 
work environment where individuals are valued for their 
diversity and empowered to reach their full potential.6.  Empowering our people
29625 Employees26%
74%ANZ
584 Employees20%
80%Asia
1,013 Employees26%
74%Europe
81 Employees17%
83%Latin
America
399 Employees31%
69%North
America
Females Males
625 Employees26%
74%ANZ
584 Employees20%
80%Asia
1,013 Employees26%
74%Europe
81 Employees17%
83%Latin
America
399 Employees31%
69%North
America
Females Males625 Employees26%
74%ANZ
584 Employees20%
80%Asia
1,013 Employees26%
74%Europe
81 Employees17%
83%Latin
America
399 Employees31%
69%North
America
Females MalesCreating strength through inclusion and diversity 
We know that diverse workforces  
contribute to better engagement with 
customers and communities and create  
high performing cultures that deliver 
sustainable growth for stakeholders. 
Inclusion and diversity at Nufarm is  
about living our values of Responsibility, 
Agility, Respect and Empowerment. 
Last year we launched our Inclusion and 
Diversity strategy to set diversity targets  
and create a safe and inclusive workplace 
that embraces and leverages the power  
of our diverse workforce.  In 2020 our focus has centred on 
reinforcing employee understanding and 
capability around diversity and inclusion, 
working to minimise potential bias and 
increasing gender equality within our 
internal pipeline.
Female representation in our workforce  
has increased from 24% to 25% however  
we still have a way to go before we reach 
our target of at least 30%. We’re working 
toward this with initiatives that include 
reviewing how we recruit and promote  
from within our own talent pool.  In 2020 we promoted more female  
internal candidates to senior management 
roles than males and 31% of all new  
hires were female. 
The rollout of our unconscious bias 
awareness training, “Cultivate”, and an 
increase in communication activities to 
encourage teams to start conversations 
about inclusion have been welcomed by  
our colleagues. Cultivate has been rolled  
out across North America and Australia  
and adapted to a virtual format, ready  
for deployment to other regions in 2021.
A snapshot of our 
workforce by region 
and gender 
Our workforce includes 2,702 full-time 
employees as of 31 July 2020.  
Our people originate from 63 different 
countries, speak 37 different languages 
and at least 15 different cultural 
backgrounds are represented in our 
executive and senior management team.
30Nov 2015  
Production Chemist 
Learning from the shop 
floor working with highly 
experienced operatorsDeveloping our people 
Our customers’ changing needs inspire us to stay agile and continually develop  
the skills and knowledge of our employees. We encourage employees to “own  
your own growth” and support them with a program, “Grow, Plan, Succeed”, that  
aligns their priorities and career development goals with customers’ needs and  
our business objectives.
Jan 2013  
Student Chemist 
Joined Nufarm  
for 12 Weeks Work 
ExperienceMay 2014  
Synthesis Technician  
Worked Part Time while 
I finished my studiesApr 2017  
Production Engineer   
Working with various 
departments and  
gaining insight of wider  
business operationsSep 2018 to Present  
Process Engineer  
Currently on secondment as  
Process Safety Engineer
Sep 2013  
Laboratory Technician  
A New Phase of 
Professional  
Life BeginsOur employee value proposition 
In 2020 we challenged ourselves to better define the value we provide for employees  
and explore what is unique about being part. of the Nufarm family. The outcome was  
our new employee value proposition – unearth the possibilities  – which supports how we 
attract, retain and develop our people. 
Own your own growth   
We encourage employees to take  
advantage of opportunities where  
together we can all make difference.Come as you are   
We trust and respect one another  
and celebrate our differences. Feel  
empowered to be who you are and  
unlock your potential.
Stay curious   
We want our people to explore new  
ideas, get creative and be heard. Meet Kriti 
Kriti joined Nufarm as a student and in seven 
years she’s grown to be a leader in our team. 
“ Studying Chemistry and Chemical 
Engineering at university, I never imagined 
my career would take me here. The support 
I’ve had at Nufarm to continually grow has 
been incredible. With each new challenge  
I accepted there were always people beside 
me, helping me succeed. So far, I’ve worked 
in the laboratory, in production and now HSE. 
The possibilities are endless.”
31Conducting 
our business 
with integrity7.
32“Ethical behaviour  
builds lasting 
relationships and 
creates long-term 
value. By demonstrating 
our integrity and 
creating a culture  
of compliance and 
accountability we  
also strengthen  
our commitment to 
continually improving 
performance and 
mitigating our risks.”
Fiona Smith, Group General 
Counsel & Company SecretaryOur governance framework, and adherence to 
that framework, are fundamental in demonstrating 
accountability to stakeholders and promoting a culture  
of ethical, lawful and responsible behaviour. 7 .  Conducting our  
business with integrity
33A refreshed and renewed Code of Conduct 
During 2020 we worked on refreshing our 
Code of Conduct and this will be launched  
in our new financial year. The Code outlines 
the behaviours expected of our employees 
and people who work on behalf of Nufarm. 
The scope of the Code includes 
expectations around compliance with 
regulations and that all actions must be 
governed by the highest standards of 
integrity and fairness.  Our actions must be for the benefit of 
customers, employees, investors and  
the company. If a breach of the Code of 
Conduct is suspected, employees and 
contractors can report directly to any  
senior manager, Human Resources,  
Legal or the dedicated Integrity  
Helpline managed by an external,  
third-party provider. Board renewal 
Early in the 2020 financial year Nufarm’s 
Chairman of ten years, Donald McGauchie, 
advised that he would retire from the Board 
and in September 2020 he was succeeded 
as Chairman by John Gillam, who joined the 
Board in July 2020. In May 2020, another 
long-standing director, Anne Brennan, also 
advised of her intention to retire at the 2020 
Annual General Meeting. Both Gordon Davis 
and Peter Margin have been on the Board 
for a period of nine years and have advised 
that while they will stand for re-election at 
the 2020 Annual General Meeting they do 
not intend to serve the full term to allow  
for a period of further board renewal. As part of the ongoing succession  
planning for the Board, the Nomination  
and Governance Committee undertook  
a review of the Board skills matrix in 2020 
which took into consideration the skills and 
experience the Board currently requires but 
also the skills and experience that will be 
required for the Company during its next 
phase of development. The Board also 
introduced a non-executive tenure policy 
that provides for non-executive directors to 
retire after nine years (or twelve years in the 
case of a Chairman who has served in the 
role of Chair for less than six years) from the 
first date of election of shareholders. The 
Board, may in exceptional circumstances, 
exercise discretion to extend the maximum 
term where it considers such an extension is  
in the best interests of the Company.Review of key risks 
and risk management 
framework 
In 2020 the Audit and Risk Committee  
(prior to the board committee restructure) 
oversaw a review of the Risk Management 
Framework that resulted in an updated  
risk appetite statement including tolerance 
metrics within in which management is 
expected to operate. An Executive Risk 
Committee has also been established  
to further strengthen the oversight and 
management of risk. Strengthening our 
governance frameworks
In 2020 the Board of Directors undertook a comprehensive , externally facilitated  
Board Review that focused on Chairman succession , Board succession planning  
and board capabilities, executive succession planning and the governance structure  
of all Board Committees.
Review and redesign of 
governance structures
Nufarm’s Board Committees allow  
Directors to be more actively engaged  
in specialised issues that are of high 
importance to stakeholders and the  
delivery of the company’s strategy.  
As part of the review of the company’s 
governance structures, a number of our 
Board Committees were restructured  
during the year to better reflect the 
company’s needs and the expectations  
of our external stakeholders. 
The responsibilities of the Risk and Audit 
Committee were separated into a separate 
Audit Committee and a new Risk and 
Compliance Committee. The Risk and 
Compliance Committee incorporates the 
Health, Safety and Environment Committee’s 
responsibilities and its scope has been 
expanded to assist the Board in overseeing 
all aspects of risk, both financial and  
non-financial, as well as overseeing 
compliance. The scope of the Human 
Resources Committee responsibilities  
was also expanded to include oversight  
of succession plans for the CEO’s direct 
reports and receiving reports on any 
material breaches of the Code of Conduct.Review and  
expansion of 
governance policies 
All governance policies were reviewed  
in 2020 to ensure they reflect a high 
standard of corporate governance and 
comply with the 4th edition of the ASX 
Corporate Governance Principles and 
Recommendations (ASX Principles). 
Changes to the Continuous Disclosure 
Policy were adopted and a new 
Whistleblower policy was introduced  
and promoted across the company to 
provide a clear and transparent way  
for employees and contractors to report 
unethical, unlawful or irresponsible 
behaviour without fear of intimidation  
or recrimination.
342020 ©Nufarm Limited  
All trade marks are owned by Nufarm or used under license or fair use.Helping farmers get  
more from their land