Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 20211
Sustainability Review 2021Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 20212A message from our Managing Director & CEO
“The world is rightly focussing on the environmental 
demands of our time, especially to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. What is not commonly appreciated is that we need the technologies of modern agriculture to simultaneously be sustainable and feed the world.”By 2050, food output will need to expand by as much as  
50 per cent in some parts of the world to meet the demands of 9.7 billion people wanting more, higher quality and diverse food. At the same time, our food production system will be under increasing pressure from climate change impacts, water scarcity, urbanisation, and soil degradation. 
The importance of increasing productivity on land is clear. 
Not increasing productivity to meet growing food needs will mean we will need to clear more land. The destruction of native vegetation that this entails will only worsen the climate problem.
At Nufarm, we focus our efforts where we can have the 
greatest influence. Central to our sustainability approach is enabling our growers to produce more from less, responding to the global demand for more food, while at the same time providing products that help them adapt to climate change impacts and minimise unintended environmental consequences. 
The products that Nufarm supplies are supportive of and 
consistent with increased sustainability in agriculture and simultaneously help us meet the challenge of feeding the world.
One of the key tools that enhances productivity and 
sustainability at the same time is modern crop protection technology. Without the benefits of modern herbicides, for example, farmers would be faced with much lower yields. 
Another important example of our commitment to 
sustainability is in our seed technologies business. This business facilitates the growing of crops that positively impact global environmental issues and provides new economic opportunities for farming communities.In 2021, we have continued to broaden our approach  to sustainability and more explicitly recognising the  role we play in improving the sustainability of modern agriculture. This 2021 sustainability report details some  of our key areas of focus. 
The content in this report is also complemented by our 
additional disclosure against the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting standard, which will be available in early 2022 at https://nufarm.com/gri-reporting-2021/ . 
This provides additional detailed information on our approach to key sustainability issues and analysis of our performance  for the year.
Thank you for your interest in this important area. I look 
forward to continuing to update you on Nufarm’s progress and welcome feedback and engagement on our approach. 
Greg Hunt  
Managing Director & CEO 
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 20213
Health, safety  
and wellbeing
4
Contents
Our business
Empowering 
our peopleSupporting sustainable  
agriculture
Our year at a glance
Reducing our 
environmental footprintConducting our  business with integrity1 3 2
5 6 7The information in this report relates to 
Nufarm Ltd (ASX:NUF) and its wholly owned subsidiaries for the 12 month period ending 30 September 2021, which we refer to as “2021”. Due to a change in our financial reporting year in 2020, years prior to 2021 are the 12 month period ending 31 July. 
This report has been internally verified in 
accordance with Nufarm’s Statement on  
verifying unaudited periodic corporate reports .
For further information, please contact, Nufarm Ltd, 103-105 Pipe Rd,  Laverton North, VIC 3026, Australia. Phone +61 3 9282 1000Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 202141.Our year at a glance 2.Our business 3. Supporting 
sustainable agriculture4.Health, safety and  
wellbeing5.Reducing our 
environmental footprint6.Empowering 
our people7.Conducting our 
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
4
Our year at a glance1Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 202151. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
5Our business Our sustainability performance Our sustainability targetsOur purpose, to help our customers grow a better tomorrow, reflects our ambition to deliver a more sustainable future that benefits our 
customers, communities and the environment, with products that support sustainable agriculture. This year we advanced our sustainability ambitions with the adoption of sustainability targets to lower our environmental impact and to increase gender diversity in our workplaces. 
Crop protection and seed 
products sold in almost  
100 countries.0.91 Lost time injury frequency rate1, 
up from 0.61  last year.
12 crop protection  
manufacturing sites.Friend of the Sea  certification  
for Aquaterra® and Nutriterra®.
2,678  employees.Supplier corporate social responsibility assessments completed for 64% of spend on materials. 
Up 16%  since last year.$3.22 million  revenue.>29.5%  of our crop protection 
products are fully or partially sustainable, or enable  sustainable agriculture.30%  reduction in scope  
1 and 2 greenhouse gas  emissions by 2030
2
20%  reduction in hazardous 
waste by 20252 
25%  reduction in volatile  
organic compound emissions  to air by 2025
2
ISO14001  certification at all 
manufacturing sites by 20253 
No less than 35%  of either  
gender by 20255 seed research and 
development facilities and  
3 seed innovation centres.85,637 tonne of scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions.  
Down  6% since last year.
Over 100 years’ experience  
in crop protection.26%  women, up 1%  since last year.
1. Rolling 12 month average, per million hours worked. 2. Measured from our 2020 baseline from our manufacturing sites. 3. Crop protection manufacturing sites, excluding our small formulation site in Egypt.Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 202161. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
6
Our business2Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 202171. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
7
Crop protection
We develop, manufacture and sell crop protection solutions 
including herbicides, insecticides and fungicides that help growers protect crops against weeds, pests and disease.  We operate primarily in the off-patent market, providing customers with long-standing foundational products and unique formulations. Our business is focused on five core crops across key geographies. Our key crops are cereals; corn; soybean; pasture, turf and ornamentals; and trees, nuts, vines and vegetables (TNVV).Seed Technologies combines our seed treatment portfolio and the Nuseed business. Our seed treatment products provide protection and treatment for damage caused by insects, fungus and disease. Nuseed develops unique  plant output traits with specific customer and consumer benefits. We call this our VALUE BEYOND YIELD
® strategy.  
Nuseed distributes high yielding sunflower, sorghum  
and canola seed, with sales in more than 30 countries. We exist to help our customers grow 
a better tomorrow 
FY21 Revenue*
APAC 28%
Europe 27%
North America 37%
Seed Technologies Global 8%
Seed TechnologiesOur purpose and ambition 
Nufarm is a global crop protection and seed technology company that has been helping growers fight disease, weeds and pests for more 
than 100 years. We do this by developing and manufacturing crop protection solutions and VALUE BEYOND YIELD® seed technologies.
Our purpose is to help our customers grow a better tomorrow. Our ambition is to grow our relevance by delivering more sustainable  solutions over more acres every year.
* Excluding non-operating corporateNufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 202181. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
8Our strategy and operating model
Our crop protection strategy focuses on five core crops (corn; soybean; cereals; pasture, turf and ornamentals; trees, nuts, vines and vegetables)  
in three key regions (North America, Europe and Asia Pacific). 
Our scale and global distribution footprint make us an attractive partner for major manufacturers and research organisations. By collaborating with 
these industry participants, we are able to offer our customers high-quality products at competitive prices and a growing range of new, differentiated products to meet more of their needs across the crop lifecycle.
We believe our product and geographic diversity, along with our long-term customer relationships, help protect our business from adverse seasonal  
or commercial pressures in any one market, while also providing a range of expansion opportunities in major cropping markets around the world.
In March this year we ceased 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) synthesis at our site in Linz, Austria and 
also ceased all production at one of our North Laverton sites in Australia at the end of September 2021. Our operating model puts the customer at the centre of our 
business and decision making and provides a foundation for sustainable future growth. 
Manufacturing facilities
Regional HQSeed Innovation centreSeed R&D
Procurement HubSacramento
CaliforniaUSAShanghaiChina
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Curitiba
BrazilMerak
Indonesia
Horsham
Australia
KwinanaAustralia
MelbourneAustraliaAlsip and Chicago HeightsUSAWyke UK Dusseldorf Germany Cairo Egypt
Linz AustriaAtar SerbiaGaillon France
Laverton(2 sites)  AustraliaVenado Tuerto
ArgentinaGreenvilleMississippi USAVega
USASaskatoonCanada
BreckenridgeUSA
Cereals
 Corn
 Pasture, turf  
and ornamentals
Soybean
 Trees, nuts, vines 
and vegetablesOur Operating Model puts the customer at the centre
Customer
Experience
Commercial Excellence
Relevant Portfolio Reliable SupplyCustomer 
ExperienceChannel 
partnerships and
Quality products 
at competitive 
costsRelevant portfolio 
with technical 
supportcommercial excellence
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 202191. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  
our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
9Advancing our sustainability ambition 
This year marks a significant step in our journey to deliver  
a more sustainable future for our customers, communities 
and the environment.
To demonstrate our commitment to sustainable agricultural 
and production processes, we adopted the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) this year. These 
goals recognise the global partnership between nations  
to end poverty, deprivation and inequality, improve health 
and economic growth while taking urgent action to preserve 
our natural environment and address climate change. 
We matched our ambition to advance the SDGs to our 
strengths and scale; selecting the goals we believe we can 
influence and are most relevant to our stakeholders. Central 
to our mission to “grow a better tomorrow” is enabling efficient 
agricultural food production while protecting the natural 
environment and human health, across our products’ life cycle. 
We contribute to SDG 2: Zero Hunger and SDG 15: Life  
on the Land , with crop protection products that help growers 
get more from less; growing more food to feed an increasing 
population, while limiting land clearing for agricultural use. 
We have a portfolio of sustainable and partially sustainable 
products and an increasing presence in the biological crop 
protection market in Europe through our newly launched 
brand; NuBio. Our sustainability enabling crop protection 
products support conservation agriculture practices and  
we continue to develop new and innovative ways to reduce 
the unintended impacts of crop protection products.Our carbon sequestering source of aviation biofuel, Nuseed 
Carinata goes to the heart of finding solutions to address 
climate change and contribute to SDG 13: Climate Action .  
We have taken this SDG further this year through establishing 
a Climate Change Policy and a carbon target; committing to 
a 30 per cent reduction in our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions from our manufacturing sites by 2030. We 
recognise Climate Change presents risks and opportunities 
to our business and have become a supporter of the Task 
Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) this 
year. We increased our transparency in reporting climate 
related risks and intend to align our reporting with the TCFD 
framework next year.
Contributing to the aspirations of SDG: 12 Responsible 
Consumption and Production  we set additional environmental 
targets this year, to reduce our hazardous waste by 20 per 
cent, our volatile organic air emissions by 25 per cent and 
certify all manufacturing sites to ISO14001, all to be achieved 
by 2025. We have a core competency in manufacturing and 
central to everything we do is the commitment for everyone 
to go home safely. Our two sites in North Laverton, Australia 
were both issued with 5-year unconditional Major Hazard 
Facility licences by the government regulator this year, the 
highest level of authorisation to operate available. 
We continue to expand our products Aquaterra® and 
Nutriterra®, the world’s first plant-based source of long-chain 
omega-3 fatty acids. Both products were certified as a Friend 
of the Sea this year, recognising their contribution to SDG 14:  
Life below water  by taking pressure off our valuable marine resources. The Friends of the Sea label is the aquaculture 
industry’s most trusted identifier of responsible seafood and 
omega-3 production. Nuseed Nutritional became a signatory 
to the United Nations Global Compact this year, adopting 
additional SDG’s, 3. Good Health and Wellbeing 9. Industry, 
Innovation and infrastructure and 17. Partnerships for the Goals, 
reflecting the breadth of capability and ambition Nuseed 
Nutritional has to deliver sustainable, plant-based solutions.
A review of our Board Charter and Committee structure  
this year has formalised the Board’s Risk and Compliance 
Committee’s role in overseeing Environment Social and 
Governance matters. The Board Committee continues  
to be supported by an Executive Risk, Health, Safety and 
Environment Committee.
We value a diverse and inclusive workplace that is free from 
discrimination and encourage our people to come as they 
are. We strive for a high performing culture where our 
diversity strengthens our ability to service customers and 
contribute to our communities. We believe that diversity fuels 
innovative thinking, decision making and contributes to the 
richness of Nufarm. To further this belief, we have established 
a new gender diversity target this year of no less than 35 per 
cent of any gender by 2025.
We passionately believe our people and products can help 
deliver solutions to some of the sustainability challenges  
the world faces. We will continue to seek more ways we can 
advance the SDG’s as we embed them into our strategies 
and approach to doing business. 
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021101. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
10Materiality
Our material sustainability issues are those that are most impactful on our business strategies and influence the decisions  
of our key stakeholders. Our goal is to be completely transparent in reporting our management approach and performance  of our material sustainability issues. 
We seek to continually improve our materiality study each year through expanding its breadth and depth, gaining a better 
understanding of the sustainability priorities and transparency needs of our important stakeholders, while keeping abreast  of the changing sustainability landscape. Last year we extended our materiality study to some of our key external stakeholders for the first time; directly engaging with our customers and financiers to add their perspective to that of our people and senior leadership team. 
Our materiality study has shown us that our key stakeholders are strongly aligned with our senior leadership on the importance 
of sustainability topics such as product regulatory compliance and worker occupational health and safety.
This year we sought the input of some of our investors and learnt that they agree on the importance of worker health and safety 
and robust process safety management systems, along with strong governance processes. They also identified managing environmental risk and compliance and upholding international human rights standards, as material issues to them.
Through engaging our stakeholders on sustainability matters, we also learnt that they want greater transparency on other 
sustainability topics that are material to them, such as how we look after grower health and safety and how we are adapting  our products to respond to the sustainability challenges faced by the agricultural industry. We appreciate this insight and have worked to respond in this report and also in our GRI Content and Index which will be available in early 2022.
Our material sustainability topics
Supporting sustainable  
agriculture
Product regulatory compliance
Responsible product useGrower health and safetyProduct and process innovation that 
responds to sustainability challenges
Climate change adaptation Limiting biodiversity loss and 
environmental degradation
Sustainable supply chain managementDeveloping products with a lower 
environmental footprintHealth, safety and wellbeing 
Worker occupational safety, health  
and wellbeing
Process safety managementOccupational health and safety 
management systems
Community safety, health and wellbeing
Reducing our environmental 
footprint
Hazardous and toxic materials 
management
Pollution preventionEnvironmental management systemsWaste managementClimate change actionSustainable procurementEmpowering our people 
Attraction, retention and development  
of talent
Employee engagementHuman and labour rights
Conducting our business  
with integrity
Governance, ethics, anti-corruption  
and anti-briberyCompliance and regulatory environmentCustomer relationsEmerging sustainable risk identificationTransparencySustainability management and reporting
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021111. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
11Our RARE values
Our actions are anchored by our RARE values. Our employees are encouraged to unearth the possibilities everyday.  
We aim to provide an inclusive work environment where individuals are valued for their diversity and empowered to reach their full potential. This is a reference to our high performing culture and also reflects the three principles of our employee value proposition – own your growth, stay curious and come as you are.
Responding to Covid-19 challenges 
It has been more than a year since the Covid-19 global 
pandemic began and we are proud to be an essential service, operating through the pandemic to provide valuable inputs  to the agricultural industry. 
Being a global organisation has introduced its own unique 
challenges as Covid-19 status and restrictions continually change country to country. Each region has its own Covid-19 Response Team who regularly assesses the local situation and adapts our Covid-19 safe work practices to keep our people safe at all times.
With working from home being the new normal for many of 
our people, we deployed remote working policies to provide more flexible work arrangements and as protracted lockdowns continue in some regions, we have provided mental health support to our lockdown fatigued people.
Our customers are at the centre of everything we do; taking 
care of our customers and growers is just as important to us as taking care of each other. Labour shortages due to border restriction and delays in getting equipment and inputs are just two of the ways that Covid-19 has put more uncertainty and stress on the farming community.
In the face of global logistics and freight challenges our 
people have demonstrated their commitment to our customers. Everything that could be done has been done  to ensure we continued to supply our customers with the critical products they need to keep agriculture going.We are guided by our RARE Values
R
ResponsibilityA
AgilityR
RespectE
Empowerment“During the challenges faced by Covid-19,  
everyone stepped up and achieved new things. I’ve been beyond proud of how we’ve pulled together as a team,” 
Peter O’Keeffe, Regional General Manager of ANZ
We are accountable 
for our decisions  and our actions.  We recognise that trust  
is at the foundation  of relationships and that acting ethically, safely, and responsibly creates that trust.We are resourceful and adaptable in meeting the needs  of our customers  and our organisation.We respect others – colleagues, customers, and stakeholders – and our environment. We care for all  
of our resources.We are an innovative, entrepreneurial organisation where individuals and teams can do what is best  for the customer,  the organisation,  and our stakeholders.
COVID RARE awards
To recognise and reward our peoples efforts during Covid-19 we established the COVID RARE Awards.  These Awards gave recognition to
 t
he people and  
teams who have gone above and beyond  t
hrough the 
challenges of Covid-19 while still maintaining our health and safety standards.
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021121. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
12
Supporting 
sustainable agriculture3Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021131. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
13Crop protection helps growers get more from their land
We develop, manufacture and distribute crop protection 
solutions. These are the most significant segments of our business and we have a strong belief that they contribute  to sustainable agriculture.
Crop protection is an essential part of modern agriculture; 
protecting crops from the time the seed is first planted through to harvesting. Pests, weeds and diseases threaten the quality and productivity of any food crop. 
The Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations 
(FAO) predicts that food production will need to expand by  as much as 50 per cent in some regions by 2050; to meet  the demand from our growing population for more, higher quality and diverse food. The need for highly productive  food crops has never been more important but it is set against a backdrop of a food production system under pressure from climate change impacts, water scarcity, urbanisation and soil degradation.
Growers are on the front line of the sustainability challenges 
that face agriculture and the benefits of crop protection products go beyond contributing to food security. The traditional approach to broadacre cropping was to till the soil one or more times to remove weeds prior to planting new seeds. Crop protection products enable seed to be planted directly into previously untilled soil. No-till farming is recognised globally as an important conservation agriculture practice with the FAO estimating  it reduces on farm fuel emissions by up to 60 per cent, supports soil carbon sequestering and improved soil moisture retention during drought. These benefits increase crop productivity while helping growers reduce their impacts on climate change. 
Over 23 per cent of our product portfolio comprises crop 
protection products that enable sustainable farming practices, such as Glyphosate, which is one of Nufarm’s important molecules. While Glyphosate has been the subject of controversy in recent years, all major regulatory authorities around the world, including the FAO, have found Glyphosate to be safe when used in accordance with the label instructions.
We have assessed a further 63 per cent of our portfolio  
as neutrally sustainable as they do not enable additional sustainable agricultural benefits. Importantly they still help to deliver highly productive crops and ensure food security. Central to our sustainability approach is enabling our  growers to produce more from less; more, better quality  food from less land helps feed the world while preserving  our natural environment.
Crop protection helps growers combat  
climate change.
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021141. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
14Making crop protection safe from the ground up
Crop protection is one of the most highly regulated industries 
in the world and we take the responsibility of developing and 
selling crop protection products very seriously. 
A new crop protection product is many years in the making,  
it begins with the development of the active ingredient (active); 
a process that uses cutting edge chemistry to design new 
molecules that specifically target current or emerging crop pest, weed or disease issues or provide further improvement 
over existing solutions.
Nufarm partners with the developers of new actives, 
formulating these into crop protection products that the farmer can apply to their seeds, fields, or crops. 
We undertake rigorous and extensive testing and field trials  
to ensure the product is effective and safe for people and  
the environment, when used properly. This process can also take several years as we test, wait for results and test again.
We apply standard scientific test methods and follow the 
pesticide guidelines set by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Food and 
Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) as well as 
local regulatory requirements. The outcome of this work informs a very comprehensive, scientific product data package, which 
we submit to an independent regulator for assessment.
Each new product is evaluated by the regulator in the country 
where it is to be sold. If the regulator approves the product,  it becomes registered to sell it in that country. Across their  
life, crop protection products continue to undergo periodic, 
independent review and reassessment and also as new scientific information becomes available.
Our commitment to this process is absolute; it is our promise 
to our customers that for every product we develop and sell, 
the proposed use patterns, label claims, directions for use, packaging and technical literature accurately reflect the 
outcome of scientific tests and assessments and comply  
with all conditions of registration. Labelled for safe use
All crop protection products are fully labelled and all labels 
must meet strict regulatory requirements and be approved  
by the local regulatory authority.
Our labels contain important information such as how to use 
and dispose of the product without causing harm to people 
or the environment. We provide technical notes to support 
the label, these advise the farmer on the approved crops and correct usage rates and how to get the best performance out 
of our products. 
We produce detailed safety data sheets (SDS) for each 
product that contain detailed emergency response information. We further support the safe use of our products with 24 hour 
emergency helplines in the jurisdictions we operate.
It can take up to six years to bring a new  
crop protection product to market.Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021151. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
15Harnessing nature to protect crops
Our sustainable crop protection products provide growers  
an alternative to synthetic chemistry. We classify products  in this category as having lower or no human health and environmental impacts. 
Over 6.5 per cent of our business is made up of
 p
artially  
or fully sustainable  p
roducts and it’s growing. In the coming 
year we will direct approximately 20 per cent of our research 
and development budget to crop protection products that are partially or fully sustainable
 o
r sustainability enabling. 
This year we launched our brand NuBio in Europe, championed by a team dedicated to advancing biological crop protection. Nufarm has 20 years’ experience in biological crop protection and NuBio brings together our European biological product portfolio to make it easier for growers  to find the right biological solution using our digital platform.
From now on, biological insecticides, fungicides and 
bio-stimulants as well as environmentally friendly spraying programmes will carry the registered NuBio label. This means that growers can easily identify effective biological solutions at a glance. 
We entered into an important collaboration with the Dutch 
breeding company Limgroup this year. The collaboration brings together our NuBio products with Limgroup’s expertise in strawberry breeding and together we will work to increase the adoption of biological solutions on improved varieties  of strawberries with the goal of producing fruit with a longer shelf-life and low chemical residues. 
While Europe is a leading market for our sustainable crop 
protection products, we also sell a range of these products  in our Asia Pacific and North American regions. We often partner with biotechnology firms, bringing our crop protection expertise to the partnership when commercialising and distributing these biological active substances.
We see exciting opportunities for combining traditional  
crop protection products with biologicals in innovative mixes that have the efficacy of a chemical solution with lower chemical rates. 
“Our stated ambition is to grow our relevance for our 
customers by delivering more sustainable solutions over more acres every year. ” 
Gordon Davis – Chair of the Board Risk & Compliance CommitteeDeveloping products for more sustainable outcomes
At Nufarm one of our core strengths is developing formulations 
that use active ingredients in new and innovative ways.  
This capability allows us to create products that deliver more sustainable outcomes for growers.
When designing new formulations, we aim to maximise 
efficacy while minimising potential risk to grower health  and safety. One of the ways we do this is through using granulated products that reduce grower exposure risk during handling, such as our Kaiso Sorbie technology, a product  we sell throughout Europe.
The nature of our active ingredients often necessitates the 
use of a solvent delivery system, but we use plant based “green” solvents where we can, again designing the product for better safety and environmental outcomes.We have deep formulations development expertise and using it, we create products that can be mixed and sprayed together. Increasing the efficacy with lower application rates means  a better crop outcome from less chemical and fuel. Our coformulation technologies, like Kyleo and Panther Pro deliver growers costs savings and improved environmental outcomes.
And finally, we work to create products with a higher  
active concentration which reduces packaging and transportation impacts. 
This year we developed sustainability risk assessment 
methodology for our crop protection products. In the coming year, we will roll this out across our organisation for new product evaluations and we will also progressively assess  our existing product portfolio to inform future product strategy.
Our new Dropzone® technology has been the culmination of seven years development that began in 2014. The 2,4-D 
product has been specifically formulated to be low odour and non-volatile, however, its spray properties are what really  set it apart. 
The formulation has been crafted to reduce fine droplets when sprayed, reducing the risk of spray drift. The formulation 
has also been designed to reduce excessively large spray droplets. The result is a product that delivers an optimum droplet size when sprayed, maximising efficacy while minimising unintended impacts on off-target species. By minimising the risk of spray drift, growers are able to increase the productivity of their land.
We will be launching this technology in Australia next year under the brand Amicide Dropzone 500 and plan to expand  
the product into other regions in the future.Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021161. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
16Product stewardship in crop protection
Through collaborating within our industry, we ensure the safe 
supply, use and disposal of our products.
Our customers are distributors of agricultural products and 
our consumers are the growers who apply our products to their fields and crops. We are committed to the stewardship of our products from the time they leave our facilities to the end of their life.
We sell our products in almost 100 countries, so we tailor our 
product stewardship approach to local conditions; partnering to form industry groups or working within established frameworks. Supporting products across their life cycle  is a practice that has been entrenched in the crop protection industry for many years.
We work within established industry frameworks to support 
the training of growers in the safe use of our products. In Australia, we are a part of Agsafe, a crop protection product stewardship group which provides training in safe handling  of chemicals. To address unique product challenges in certain locations, we also develop targeted product stewardship programs such as those in the UK that support growers in the appropriate use of crop protection products for sustainable water-stewardship outcomes.
We take responsibility for our product packaging at the end 
of its life and participate in crop protection container collection programs such as those run by drumMUSTER in Australia, AG Container Recycling Council (ACRC) in the US, Packmittel-Rücknahme Agrar (PAMIRA) in Germany and COVADA-Adivalor in France, just to name a few. These organisations provide regional drop-off locations for growers to return their empty containers where they are collected, cleaned and recycled. 
Over the years, agricultural container collection programs 
have successfully diverted millions of containers from landfill.
From time to time, distributors and growers have unwanted 
crop protection products. To ensure these are safely disposed of, we again work within locally established frameworks  
or partner with organisations such as Agsafe’s ChemClear  
in Australia and Cleanfarms in Canada. Ethical Sourcing
Our product stewardship also extends backwards in our 
supply chain to the suppliers of our raw materials. Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct  sets our expectation of our 
suppliers on business conduct, environmental performance, human rights, child and forced labour and employee health and safety.
We use EcoVadis, a global leader in supplier corporate  
social responsibility (CSR), to independently assess the performance of our suppliers. EcoVadis scores companies on environmental, labour & human rights, ethics and sustainable procurement themes.
We are progressively assessing our suppliers in higher risk 
countries, such as China and India. In addition, we have a targeted audit program for lower performing suppliers where we establish mutually agreed continuous improvement plans. 
This year our assessed suppliers have again outperformed 
EcoVadis’ benchmark of 43.5 out of 100 across > 75,000 suppliers globally with an average score of 55; a 6 per cent increase on last year. EcoVadis considers suppliers with  a score over 45 to be engaged in major CSR topics and therefore the CSR risks are limited.
We also expanded the number of suppliers included  
in our program, with 64 per cent of our total direct spending  
on materials included in this program. 
Using social networking to stay connected with our growers
Correct use of crop protection products in pastures maximises grass yield  
for stock food while protecting stock from poisonous plants and weeds. Our Grassmanship program in Ireland educates growers in the appropriate use  of herbicides as a part of a broader integrated pest management program. 
We actively promote and educate growers in best practice use of our products 
through partnering with Ireland’s largest agricultural advisory group, Teagasc, Agriculture and Food Development Authority, at their on farm events. 
This year, due to Covid-19 restrictions, we have had to adapt our approach, 
trading face to face visits on rolling green farms for virtual events and social networking. We look forward to getting back to working directly with our growers again next year.
Suppliers in our CSR assessment program
Measured as a percentage of total direct spend in Australian dollars010203040506070
2021 2020 2019 2018 201723%37%49% 48%64%Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021171. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
17A new face in Ag-tech
Last year we announced our investment in CROP.ZONE,  
a German-based agtech company that has developed a 
hybrid-electric weed control solution, NUCROP™. NUCROP™ 
provides an alternative and complementary solution to chemical based weed control by using a conductive liquid 
and electrical voltage to control weeds and desiccate crops. 
This year we strengthened our relationship by converting  
our investment to an equity holding and are working with 
CROP.ZONE to expand the range of applications and 
countries where the technology is available. NUCROP is now available to growers and contractors in Germany, France, Belgium and the Netherlands through  
our NUCROP early adopters program. This year, we have 
focused on potato desiccation, but next year will expand  a trial to other uses and countries.
This technology is recognised as a game changer in the 
potato industry, taking out two awards recently at Potato Europe’s Innovation Awards.
With NUCROP, Nufarm and CROP.ZONE offer a safe  
and reliable crop protection alternative, helping to make 
agriculture more sustainable. 
Partnering for safer on farm solutions
In 2020 we joined Project EasyConnect, an industry group of like minded crop protection companies in 
Europe. Project EasyConnect set out to develop and 
pilot a Closed Transfer System (CST), making it easier and safer for growers to handle our products.
EasyConnect combines an innovative lid and 
sophisticated coupler allowing contactless and efficient 
transfer of crop protection products to a spray tank, rinsing the container on completion. The EasyConnect 
coupler is now available in select European countries for 
piloting. The lids are at the final stages of development and will be introduced on some of our products in 2022.
As a member of the European Crop Protection Industry 
Association, we share that organisation’s commitments to making agriculture more resilient and sustainable, 
including making CTS technologies available to  
100 per cent of European growers and operators by 2030. 
The current pilot program will be progressively expanded 
to more countries and products to meet this goal.
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021181. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
18Delivering new plant-based solutions for end-use customers starts with excellent seed, service,  
and new opportunities for growers
Nuseed, Nufarm’s wholly owned seed business, develops plant 
input traits with agronomic benefits that ensure we deliver top 
seed and service in all regions. Through our development of plant output traits, we provide growers with new opportunities 
to produce sustainable plant-based solutions, with specific 
consumer benefits, for Nuseed’s end-use customers. Across the globe we are developing new value and market opportunities 
along with the Nuseed Value Chains to supply them.
With the world’s population increasing in size and prosperity, 
growers around the world are being called on to produce 
more food while reducing the impact of agriculture on our 
precious ecosystems. Our products provide solutions that help growers grow more food while using fewer natural 
resources, including land and water.Starting with top service and high yielding canola, carinata, sorghum, and sunflower seed for growers, Nuseed delivers 
VALUE BEYOND YIELD
® by developing important new 
plant-based solutions for consumers. 
These solutions include our Nuseed Carinata program with 
Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB) certified best 
in class carbon reductions, and our Omega-3 Canola program providing the first sustainable, land-based source of 
essential long-chain fatty acids.
Nuseed Carinata and Nuseed Omega-3 Canola are creating 
impressive sustainable solutions to global problems, 
however, these are not the only ecological benefits of 
Nuseed’s crop portfolio.
Sunflower 
• Nuseed sunflower hybrids have many of the characteristics 
of their wild relatives, such as drought tolerance and a deep 
root system that mines for nutrients. 
• The majority of sunflowers are produced in a reduced-tillage 
system which prevents erosion, leaving the stalks standing 
and fields undisturbed over winter which also provides an 
excellent food source for wildlife.Canola 
• New technologies allow growers to target pests that damage seedlings, while allowing beneficial insects to flourish. 
• Direct seeding canola preserves soil organic matter  content and moisture while reducing erosion. 
• Canola also makes an excellent habitat for bees.Sorghum 
• Requiring one third less water with comparable energy  and nutrition, sorghum is both a more sustainable and 
economical corn feed ration replacement. 
• Among other drought-tolerant features, sorghum has a 
smaller leaf to root ratio than other crops, and extensive root 
system, as well as a heavy wax layer on leaves/stems. 
• Sorghum can often grow where soil salinity is too high  
for most food crops. 
• It also has the potential to become a tool in land reclamation due to its hardiness and ability to improve the soil.“The agriculture industry has been built from  
a commodity and yield mindset. At Nuseed  
we believe there is an exceptional opportunity  
to meet new global challenges.”
Brent Zacharias, Nuseed Global Group Executive
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021191. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
19Nuseed Carinata
Nuseed Carinata is an independently certified, scalable  
and sustainable non-food oilseed cover crop used in the production of low-carbon fuel. After the crop is harvested  the oil is extracted and the co-product is used as a source  of traceable non-GMO plant protein.
Nuseed Carinata addresses many sustainability challenges.  
It reduces emissions by replacing fossil fuels, removes atmospheric carbon, and restores soil carbon as it grows and improves soil health. Grown between main crops, Nuseed Carinata generates extra income for growers from existing farmland and rewards certified sustainable farming practices. Aviation and other, difficult to decarbonize transport  sectors, are looking for sustainably scalable fuel innovations  
to substantially reduce their carbon emissions.
Nuseed Carinata is independently certified by the Roundtable 
on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB) and is listed by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)  as having 
similar greenhouse gas (GHG) savings as top performing feedstocks, primarily waste and used cooking oil.
Nuseed Carinata, enabling a sustainable future 
for the aviation industry
In September 2021, the US White House launched  
a Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) Grand Challenge, targeting 3 billion gallons of SAF production by 2030 and 35 billion gallons by 2050 to reach net-zero targets. The aviation industry has set its own target of carbon neutral growth from 2020 and a 50 per cent reduction  in emissions by 2050. 
Nuseed Carinata can play an important role in helping 
the aviation industry in achieving these targets. International airlines, including Qantas and United Airlines, have already proven the drop-in, purpose-built benefits of using Nuseed Carinata as a feedstock for biofuel to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021201. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
20Nuseed Omega-3 Canola helps protect our marine environments
Estimates indicate over 80 per cent of people worldwide  
are not getting enough omega-3 through the food they  eat. Wild fish stocks, the current major source, are already under intense pressure to supply the rapidly growing  global demand. Nuseed Omega-3 Canola was developed  to provide aquafeed and human nutrition markets with  a land-based source.
Nuseed Omega-3 Canola is the culmination of 10 years  
work that began from a collaboration between Nuseed,  the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) and the Grains Research and Development Corporation (GRDC). Together we were  able to add microalgae genes to canola, providing  a pathway to produce important omega-3 fatty acids  from a plant-based crop.
We grow our Nuseed Omega-3 Canola in the United States 
and process it into our proprietary oil ingredients, Aquaterra
® 
for aquafeed and Nutriterra® for human nutrition markets. 
Both products are more than just alternative sources of omega-3; they are uniquely rich in omega-3 fatty acids, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), vital for good nutrition.
Our Nuseed Omega-3 Canola is raised on sunshine and rain, 
making production much less resource-intensive than algal oil. By growing Omega-3 Canola, less greenhouse gasses  are released than when harvesting marine resources by boat and our Excellence Through Stewardship (ETS) certification ensures the highest standards of traceability and responsible biotechnology stewardship from soil to oil. Nuseed Nutritional is a signatory member of the  United  
Na
tions Global Compact , supporting the ten principles of  
the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Nuseed Nutritional is committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations.
Both Aquaterra
® and Nutriterra® are making positive social, 
environmental and economic impacts; contributing to these 
goals through advanced plant genetics that preserve ocean resources, rebuild soil, improve farmer livelihoods, and nourish people.
Canola provides habitats 
for more than 2,000 beneficial insects, including honeybees
1-2 hectares of Nuseed 
Omega-3 Canola produces as much DHA  as 10,000kg of fish
Nuseed Omega-3 Canola 
is a new contract crop in Montana that improves soil and increases crop biodiversity
First plant-based omega 3 source  
of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021211. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
21Nuseed Omega-3 Canola for healthy habitats
Nutriterra® Total Omega-3 is the world’s first sustainable 
plant-based source of total omega-3, available in a  
dietary supplement. 
This ground-breaking plant technology produces readily 
absorbable, omega-3 fatty acids docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and alpha-linolenic  
acid (ALA). Clinical trials have shown that omega-3 reduces 
the risk of all-cause mortality, total cardiovascular events,  and cognitive deterioration associated with aging.
Nutriterra
® offers a much-needed alternative to marine 
omega-3, bridging the gap between growing consumer 
demand and finite ocean resources. 
During 2021, Nuseed completed a human clinical trial, 
confirming the safety and efficacy of Nutriterra® as a novel 
plant-based source of total omega-3 nutrition. In August 2021, 
the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
acknowledged Nuseed Omega-3 as a New Dietary  Ingredient (NDI). 
Many new ingredients enter the dietary supplement market 
each year without an FDA review. While the process is 
time-consuming and rigorous, this acknowledgment provides confidence in our commitment to safety and quality. This is 
especially important for Nutriterra
®, as consumers gain more 
comfort with ingredients derived from biotechnology. 
Nutriterra® Omega-3 is produced under the highest 
standards of traceability and responsible biotechnology 
stewardship. The verification process requires a detailed 
chain of custody records throughout the entire production, and the finished product is traceable from soil to oil. Aquaterra
®
An innovation in feed technology, Aquaterra® Advanced 
Omega-3 aquaculture supplement offers a unique fatty  
acid profile that improves fish health and nourishes people 
with a dietary source of the omega-3.
In addition, the inclusion of Aquaterra® in aquaculture feed 
formulations decreases the amount of wild fish needed  
to feed farmed fish, reducing the dependence on precious 
marine resources. 
Aquaterra® supports sustainable industry growth as it takes 
pressure off our oceans but, because it is grown as a 
rotational crop, no additional land clearing is required.
Friend of the Sea
This year marks a new milestone for Aquaterra®  
and Nutriterra®. The world’s first plant-based source  
of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids were each certified as a Friend of the Sea. 
Friend of the Sea is a global certification standard 
established by the World Sustainability Organisation  for products and services that respect and protect  
the marine environment. The label is the aquaculture 
industry’s most trusted identifier of responsible seafood and omega-3 production, awarding sustainable practices 
in Fishers, Aquaculture, Fishmeal and Omega-3.
World Sustainability Organisation also administers  
the Friend of the Earth
® certification for sustainable 
production of crops with respect to safeguarding  
the ecosystem, protection of wild fauna and flora, 
protection of soil and water resources, prohibition  
of the use of dangerous substances, responsible waste 
and energy management, social responsibility of the 
whole chain and legal compliance. Aquaterra® and 
Nutriterra® were measured against these standards  
to earn the Premium Plant-based designation from 
Friend of the Sea.
Learn more in our Aquaterra® and Nutriterra® whitepapers.Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021221. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
22
Health, safety
and wellbeing4Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021231. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
23Everyone goes home safely
Everyone goes home safely remains the priority 
ambition of Nufarm’s Board, management and 
employees. Our strong safety culture starts with 
strong senior leadership. Oversight of our safety strategy and performance sits with our Board Risk 
and Compliance Committee and we have an 
Executive Risk and Health, Safety and Environment Committee which provides additional governance 
and supports the Board Committee.
This year both leadership committees led by example, 
participating in Process Safety Management training 
that focused on the key role of leadership in ongoing 
safe and effective operation of Major Hazard Facilities.
We engage and train our people, furnishing them 
with the tools and knowledge they need to keep themselves and their colleagues safe at all times. Over the year we have provided our people and 
contractors with over 35,000 hours of safety training.
We want our people to feel empowered and 
committed about safety; empowered to know how to 
do their job safely and being able to call out anything 
they think is unsafe without repercussion and committed to putting safety first always; before everything they 
do and regardless of whether it is at work or home.
We regularly check-in with our people through our 
company-wide employee survey, Nufarm Voice. This year eighty-seven percent of our people consistently 
rated our safety climate as positive. This is a very 
encouraging result and good indicator of our maturing safety culture.
Making time for mental health 
The health and safety of our people is the number one priority at Nufarm. 
To us, safety is all encompassing. It means the physical, emotional  
and mental safety of our people. The last 18 months living and working 
through the Covid-19 pandemic has presented challenges that many have not had to face before.
In our efforts to holistically support our people through these challenges 
and provide them with the support and tools they need, we held 
Nufarm’s first global Mental Health Awareness week in early October.
We often do not recognise that mental health is just as important as 
physical health, and this week-long campaign was a way to increase 
awareness and ensure that our people took the time they needed  
to focus on their own mental health. Our employees across all of our locations around the world were able to attend mental health and 
wellbeing webinars, listen to podcasts and guest speakers, participate  
in guided discussion groups, exercise and relaxation classes. 
More than a dozen webinars and panel discussions were held around the 
world on topics such as movement, mental health, nutrition, resilience, 
and mindfulness. This extensive week-long schedule enabled most of 
our people to attend at least one session of their choosing. Many opting to attend two or more with some sessions even being replayed in the 
weeks that followed due to demand. We also held a global safety stand 
down during the week, where all employees across our business stopped work for up to an hour to develop self-care plans, have wellness 
discussions or participate in mindfulness activities.
Our CEO and leadership team each recorded personal messages  about 
the importance of mental health and this endorsement, along with a 
daily email message, helped to demonstrate to our people that Nufarm 
is genuinely committed to their health, safety and wellbeing.
We continue to provide our people with ongoing emotional and mental 
health support through confidential employee assistance providers  
at each of our locations as well as a dedicated intranet site with access 
to further reading and resources. We want to ensure that our people know they are supported and where to go for help if they need it.
This week-long campaign was fully embraced right across the  
business and successfully demonstrated a united, One Nufarm 
approach. Work has already commenced on our 2022 campaign.Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021241. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
24The journey towards zero injuries is never a straight line
Last year we achieved our best-ever safety performance, 
however this year we saw some deterioration in our company-wide safety performance. We measure our safety performance with our Serious Injury Frequency Rate (SIFR), Nufarm’s headline safety key performance indicator. This comprises both Lost Time Injuries and Medical Treatment Injuries per million hours worked, and includes both employees and contractors.
We are encouraged by what our people are achieving and the 
maturing safety culture, which has seen our people remain focused on injury prevention during a time where Covid-19 has caused significant disruption to their normal daily routines. 
We continue to prioritise the health and safety of our people 
while ensuring we deploy Covid-19 safe work practices in line with government directives and business best practice. Our employees are understandably fatigued by the Covid-19 induced changing working conditions and community restrictions. We are very conscious that such distractions can increase the risk of incidents and work hard to continually reinforce safe work practices in this challenging environment.
We have directed our efforts into adopting best practice  
virus transmission prevention protocols to ensure our people remained safe and healthy while they kept Nufarm operating, whether it was working on our manufacturing sites, in the field, or from their homes. We are committed to putting safety at the front of everything we do, and this is especially important during such unprecedented times.
Against this backdrop, several of our manufacturing sites have 
again delivered on our aspirations of Everyone Goes Home Safely through reaching new injury free milestones. Our sites Alsip in North America, Port Klang in Malaysia, Merak in Indonesia and one of our North Laverton sites in Australia,  all achieved this goal under challenging operating conditions. Unfortunately, other sites which had previously achieved significant injury free milestones, have had injuries this year. While there have been a number of contributing factors, despite our best efforts, we believe that Covid-19 fatigue has contributed to the increase in the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR).This is not how we hoped to end the year. Recognising that this is a challenging time for many of our people, we have held discussions with staff across our business focusing  on the impacts Covid-19 may be having on individuals and teams and steps and resources available to assist in dealing with these. 
Nufarm Global Serious Injury Frequency Rate (SIFR) and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) – 
rolling 12 month averages (per million hours worked)
Nufarm Global LTIFR Rolling 12 months Nufarm Global SIFR Rolling 12 months
Sep-21Jul-21May-21Mar-21Jan-21Nov-20Sep-20Jul-20May-20Mar-20Jan-20Nov-19Sep-19Jul-19May-19Mar-19Jan-19Nov-18Sep-18Jul-18May-18Mar-18Jan-18Nov-17Sep-17Jul-17May-17Mar-17Jan-17Nov-16Sep-16Jul-16May-16Mar-16Jan-160.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.04.5
Our SIFR includes Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) and Medical Treatment Injuries (MTIs).Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021251. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
25Building best practice safety systems
While our safety performance has had a set back this year, 
the journey to zero continues as do our efforts to ensure we 
have robust safety frameworks in place.
Our safety management system (SMS) is comprised of  
our corporate health, safety and environment (HSE) policy, 
standards, procedures along with site-specific procedures. 
The SMS outlines how we identify risks, then apply and assure controls. It empowers our people to stop work  
if they feel it is unsafe and seeks to embed a positive  
culture of reporting safety risks.
Our process safety management (PSM) program sets the 
foundation for safety at our manufacturing sites. Launched  
in 2017, it provides a systematic and best practice approach 
to identify and control hazards at manufacturing sites where a loss of containment could impact employees, the 
environment or local communities.
The program addresses critical risk control factors such  
as facility design and construction, hazard identification, assessment and control, operations process safety, 
hazardous materials management, asset integrity and 
reliability, management of change, competence and  
training and emergency planning and response. 
The safety standards and controls we put in place apply  
to all of employees and contractors equally. When working  on our sites, contractors are our people too.
We carry out corporate audits of our manufacturing sites  
to ensure the required procedures are in place and remain 
effective. While we endeavour to audit each site every two years, travel restrictions due to Covid-19 have made this  
task very challenging this year and we are instead working  
to engage local third party auditors.“We are proud of the significant achievement 
made by our two sites in North Laverton, Australia 
this year. Both were issued with 5-year 
unconditional Major Hazard Facility licences by the government regulator, WorkSafe. This is the highest 
level of authorisation to operate available and it 
reflects the high standard and sustainable deployment of Nufarm’s PSM program and culture 
at these sites.” 
Gerard Kennedy, Global Sustainability ManagerEngaging our people on safety
Engaging our people in developing safety solutions  
is an important part of embedding safe work practices.
At our site in Alsip, North America, our local HSE team 
partnered up with packaging line operators and the 
maintenance engineers to reduce the risk of harm to our operators from moving conveyor lines, motors and chains.
The team applied the Four Disciplines of Execution 
(4DX) model and set themselves a target of a 15 per cent safety risk reduction. Through observation and 
engagement, each potential hazard was identified and 
risk assessed. The highest risks were prioritised and line operators involved in designing the solution and 
through doing so, a high risk work zone was reduced  
to a low risk one.
Using simple processes such as these and engaging 
our people in the solutions helps give them the 
confidence and knowledge to seek our other safety 
improvements in their work area. 
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021261. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
26
Reducing our 
environmental footprint5Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021271. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
27Responding to climate change
As a supplier of essential inputs to the agricultural industry, 
we are well used to weather impacts on the industry. However, 
the challenges the industry is expected to face from climate 
change are more extreme and unpredictable than seen in  the past and require a response from the entire agricultural 
supply chain. 
At Nufarm we believe we can make a positive contribution  
to combat climate change and its impacts through reducing 
carbon emissions from our operations and developing 
products that either help growers reduce their emissions  or adapt to climate change.
This year we established a Board approved Climate  
Change Policy  which sets the framework for our response  
to climate change, and we have also taken steps to meet  
the commitments made in this policy. We set a target of  
a 30 per cent reduction in our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions from our manufacturing sites by 2030 which we intend to deliver from renewable electricity, local solar and 
energy efficiency projects. This will be measured from our 
2020 emissions footprint.
Our Board and Executive team are committed to improving 
our disclosure of climate change impacts and risks and have 
formalised this commitment by becoming a Task Force on 
Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) supporter. Our 2021 Annual Report contains a high-level disclosure of our 
physical and transitional risks as a result of climate change, 
along with our risk management approach. We intend to align our reporting to the TCFD framework next year.
Crop protection has a vital role to play in climate change 
adaptation, supporting no-till conservation farming and the environmental and carbon benefits that ensue from this practice. 
With the planned expansion of our Nuseed Carinata business, 
we will be able to make this best-in-class greenhouse gas reduction solution available to more growers around the world. 
Our Climate Change Policy is overseen by our Board Risk 
and Compliance Committee and progress to deliver  
on these commitments will be disclosed in our annual sustainability reporting.Our carbon target:
A 30 per cent reduction in 
scope 1 and 2 greenhouse  
gas emissions by 2030
Our energy and carbon emissions
We generate greenhouse gas emissions from the use of 
electricity and gas for heating at our manufacturing facilities. 
Our synthesis activities are our most energy intensive, 
occurring at Wyke in the UK, Linz in Austria and North Laverton in Australia. During the year we ceased 
2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) synthesis at our  
site in Linz, which led to a reduction in energy consumption at that site.
We have taken energy efficiency into consideration when 
designing our sites. Our site in Austria uses 100 per cent 
renewable electricity and makes use of waste steam,  
a by-product from neighbouring chemical processes,  
for its heating needs.
Our site in the UK operates a gas fired combined heat  
and power plant (CHP), which is a very efficient means  
of generating both steam and electricity. We completed 
significant upgrades to a compressor and cooling tower  this year, saving 1,800 GJ of energy.
We completed third party energy audits at our sites in 
Chicago this year, identifying some energy efficiency and 
roof top solar improvements which we anticipate will contribute to achieving our emissions reduction target. 
Our scope 1 and 2 emissions fell this year by over 6 per cent 
when compared with 2020. Almost a third of this due to  a footprint reduction that came with the sale of our Latin 
American business in 2020. The balance is mainly attributed 
to lower emission electricity in Australia and also an extended maintenance shut-down at our North Laverton synthesis site. Greenhouse gas emissions (tonne CO2e)
015,00030,00045,00060,00075,00090,000105,000120,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 20160.000.050.100.150.200.250.30
● Scope 1 – direct  ● Scope 2 – energy indirect  
     Greenhouse gas intensity (tonne CO2e/tonne or M3 of production)
Energy consumption (GJ)
020,000040,000060,000080,00001,000,0001,200,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
● Energy consumption       Energy intensity (GJ/tonne or M3 of production)0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021281. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
28Best practice environmental management
We work to positively contribute to our environment through 
ensuring we have rigorous environmental management 
systems in place at our manufacturing sites and proactively 
taking steps to reduce our environmental footprint. 
Our European and Asian sites have best practice ISO14001 
certified environmental management systems in place.  
This year we have reaffirmed our commitment to achieving ISO14001 certification at all* of our manufacturing sites  
by 2025, setting a target to achieve certification at our  
two Australian and three North American sites.
We launched a global project in 2017 to strengthen our 
environmental management systems, implementing over 
1,000 actions across our sites. Covid-19 restrictions on 
non-Nufarm employees has challenged progress in closing out these actions since the pandemic began, however we are 
pleased to be almost complete with only 2 per cent of actions 
remaining (2019: 88 per cent). This work has built a solid foundation on which ISO14001 certification is the next step  
in our continuous environmental improvement journey. 
We take a risk based approach to environmental management, 
identifying our environmental aspects and impacts and implementing control measures proportional to the risks.
To give ourselves assurance in the effectiveness of our 
environmental controls, we conduct internal corporate environmental audits of our manufacturing sites to ensure the 
sites meet our corporate HSE policy, standards and procedures. 
Our sites also have their own internal audit programs to ensure they meet internal and external regulatory requirements.
The key aspects of our manufacturing environmental footprint 
are energy, greenhouse gas emissions, waste, air emissions, 
effluent and water.
Our management systems target: 
ISO14001  certification at all 
manufacturing sites by 2025Waste (tonne)
05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 20170.000.010.020.030.040.050.060.070.08
● Hazardous waste  ● Non-hazardous waste
 Waste intensity (tonne/tonne or M3 of production)
Our Waste
To ensure our product meets our high standards, we have 
strict quality procedures in place for cleaning plant and 
equipment. Much of the waste we generate is wash water 
from these processes. Even at low chemical concentrations, our waste is often classified as hazardous. 
The closure of one of our Australian sites and of 2,4-D 
production at our site in Linz, Austria this year, saw an increase in waste at these locations, however the closure of these  
plants will help us to lower our waste footprint in the future,  
as occurred this year with reduction in our waste footprint flowing on from the sale of our LATAM business in 2020. 
Our site in Linz, Austria developed and piloted a process this 
year to allow the reuse of an Ammonium Sulphate solution;  
a by-product of copper fungicide production. While the material has other uses, due to its low grade, the site has 
been unable to find someone willing to process it. Instead  
we have been forced to dispose of the material. A full-scale process plant will be constructed next year, redirecting nearly 
8,000 tonnes of the material to reuse as a fertiliser input.Our waste target: 
A 20 per cent reduction in 
hazardous waste by 2025
Reducing our waste footprint
This year we committed to a waste target to reduce our 
hazardous waste by 20 per cent by 2025 focusing on 
our site in Chicago, North America where we will develop 
a waste water treatment facility to treat waste generated from cleaning vessels between production campaigns. 
Our ambition is to remove all chemicals from the water, 
allowing it to be reused within our manufacturing 
processes. To ensure the water is chemical free requires the use of leading-edge technology. Despite 
Covid-19 challenges, our team in the US is committed 
to reducing our environmental footprint and have been busy piloting options this year.
We are optimistic we will find a solution that will allow us 
to divert a significant quantity of waste from incineration and contribute to a circular economy through the 
reusing the water in manufacturing.
* Excluding our small formulation site in Egypt.Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021291. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
29Our air emissions target: 
A 25 per cent reduction in 
volatile organic compound 
emissions to air by 2025Water withdrawal and return (ML)
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
● Water withdrawal  ● Surface water return
● Effluent
We use water in our product, to clean our vessels, and for 
steam. The most significant use of water, is single use cooling water at our site in Linz, Austria. Water is taken from the Danube river, passed through cooling systems and returned uncontaminated to the river. With the closure of our 2,4-D synthesis operations at Linz during the year, we have reduced our water withdrawal by 23 per cent as well as our effluent by 4 per cent and returned surface water by almost 26 per cent. We anticipate a further reduction next year,  when the full footprint reduction is realised. 
Only our synthesis sites produce effluent, which is treated  
on site and discharged to third party facilities for further treatment. Our Wyke, UK site is developing a biological treatment plant as an alternative to transporting their waste water to a third party for additional treatment. Air emissions 
We emit combustion and some process emissions to air. 
While we use scrubbers and incinerators to eliminate most process emissions, we can see opportunities to do more.
This year we have set ourselves a target to reduce our volatile 
organic compound (VOC) emissions by 25 per cent by 2025 by targeting our largest emitting site, Linz, in Austria. We commenced a pilot of a potential incineration technology this year and are also investigating other solutions to help us achieve this goal. 
Air emissions (tonne)
● Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)   ● Carbon Monoxide (CO)
● Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)   ● Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
● Other Air Emissions020406080100120
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021301. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
30
Empowering  
our people6Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021311. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
31Our gender target: 
No less than 35 per cent  
of either gender by 2025Creating strength through inclusion and diversity
Nufarm promotes a culture of inclusion, diversity and equity, 
fostering workplaces free from discriminatory activities and practices. We work towards providing an inclusive work environment where individuals are valued for their diversity, can bring their whole self to work and be empowered to reach their full potential. 
We believe that diversity fuels innovative thinking, decision 
making and contributes to the richness of Nufarm. We are stronger when our plans and operations reflect the thinking  of all our people, representing a broad range of backgrounds, cultures, and experience. We strive for a high performing culture where our diversity strengthens our ability to service customers and contribute to our communities.
We strive for a workforce that reflects the diversity of our 
global operations. Our people originate from no less than  63 different countries, speak 37 different languages and  at least 15 different cultural backgrounds are represented  in our executive and senior management team.
We apply our values to each other, in the recruitment and 
compensation of our people, in training and development opportunities and in all our dealings with our business partners. Nufarm takes all reasonable measures to ensure equal opportunities for all employees and that we provide  a work environment free from discrimination, harassment, sexual workplace bullying, victimisation and vilification. 
This year we continued to deliver on our 2018-2021 Inclusion 
and Diversity strategy and focus areas with oversight and leadership from our executive I&D steering committee.  Our goal is to embed inclusion and diversity in the way  we conduct our business, wherever we operate around  the world. Some of our activities this year include:
•
 Re
sponding to Covid-19 challenges with flexible and 
inclusive policies and programs, such as wellness check-ins, 
flexible working arrangements, and employee assistance programs to maintain high levels of employee satisfaction.
•
 Es
tablishing, and in some regions, re-establishing, 
inclusion and diversity councils.
• Foc
using on attracting female talent.• Continuing to educate the business through unconscious b
ias training and mentoring programs.
• Ce
lebrating diversity across the globe with International 
Women’s Day, Black History Month in North America  and European Diversity Week.
Women at Nufarm
We strive to address the barriers to equality, taking actions to 
create an inclusive culture and a level playing field and by doing so, empower our staff to actively progress gender diversity. 
This year, women represented 26 per cent of our workforce, 
an increase from 25 per cent last year, but we want to move faster to address this divide. To further our ambitions, we have committed to a revised gender diversity target of no less than 35 per cent of either gender making up our work force by 2025. 
We’re working toward this with initiatives that include reviewing 
how we attract, recruit and promote women to the organisation or from within our own talent pool. In 2021 56 per cent  of the appointments to executive and senior management positions were women while women made up 30 per cent (2020: 29 per cent) of all new hires.
We will continue to report progress on these programs and 
our gender target through our Corporate Governance Statement, Sustainability Review and GRI Content and Index. 
Asia Pacific
1,168 employees
23% 27%Europe 982 employees
Latin America99 employees
20% 31%North America 428 employees
Women
2,678 full-time equivalent employees as at 30 September, 2021MenA snapshot of our workforceNufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021321. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  
our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
32Unearthing the possibilities at Nufarm
Our customers’ evolving and changing needs inspire us to 
stay agile and continually develop the skills and knowledge 
of our people. 
We encourage employees to “own your own growth” and 
support them with our, “Grow, Plan, Succeed” program, that 
aligns their priorities and career development goals with 
customers’ needs and our business objectives. 
Our employee value proposition 
In 2020 we challenged ourselves to better define the value  
we provide for employees and explore what is unique about 
being part of the Nufarm family. The outcome was our new 
employee value proposition – unearth the possibilities – which 
supports how we attract, retain and develop our people. Sustainability in action – Chicago  
Heights renovation
A renovation project at our Chicago Heights site in North 
America created a much-needed break and meeting 
area at the plant facility. The restoration took place in a 
historic portion of the property, once a carriage factory 
and then later a brewery owned by Al Capone.
Our local project engineering manager led an 
enthusiastic team who went to great lengths to use  
as many reclaimed materials as possible to complete 
the renovation.
The team used three second hand basketball courts  
for the wood flooring, dining booths from the Horseshoe 
Casino, couches and chairs from unused event rental 
stock, light fittings from Sears, reclaimed bricks and 
barn wood, antique King Cole Brewery doors, and 
special touches like transforming the steel ladder that 
was mounted on the building into a side table.
The results of their hard work is a great place for our 
people to work and relax. We hope the new space  
will help attract and retain employees at Chicago 
Heights and also provide an excellent meeting space 
for training, special events and customer visits.
NuLead – Nufarm’s leadership framework
At Nufarm we believe continuous improvement and agility  
are key to meeting the changing needs of both our people 
and our customers. Engaging with people is a fundamental 
requirement of a Nufarm leader – it’s about creating a safe 
environment to contribute ideas, continuously learn, and  
feel empowered to make a difference.
Our NuLead Principles of Create Clarity, Generate Growth, 
Inspire Others and Deliver Results set clear expectations  
of our leaders at Nufarm.
Create Clarity 
Helping others to understand how their role contributes  
to the Nufarm strategy with clear communication and  
a genuine passion for achieving our goals.
Generate Growth
By looking ahead to future possibilities and making  
decisions that move us forward especially when times are 
tough. Be enthusiastic about learning opportunities and 
empower others to own their growth at Nufarm. 
Inspire Others 
Encourage others to be their best and leverage our  
diversity as an asset. Always look for innovative solutions  
to business challenges.
Deliver Results 
By prioritising and being agile in your decision making.  
Put the customer experience at the heart of your business 
choices. Hold yourself and others accountable to achieve 
results both within the business and with our partners. 
Come as you are 
We trust and respect one 
another and celebrate our 
differences. Feel empowered 
to be who you are and unlock 
your potential.
Own your own growth 
We encourage employees  
to take advantage of 
opportunities where together 
we can all make difference.
Stay curious 
We want our people to 
explore new ideas, get 
creative and be heard. Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021331. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  
our people7. Conducting our  
business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
33
Listening to our people
This year we introduced a new  
Employee Survey platform,  
“Nufarm Voice”, this is our continuous  
employee listening strategy. 
Nufarm Voice empowers managers to more effectively 
use anonymous employee feedback to fuel meaningful 
and timely conversations that contribute to positive change.
We run the survey every four months, this continuous 
listening technique uses shorter and more frequent 
surveys, allowing us to fine tune our approach and 
measure the impact in real time. 
While the survey is not compulsory, it is gaining positive 
momentum and we are very encouraged by the level  
of engagement we have had from our people all across 
Nufarm. In our most recent survey we achieved an  
80 per cent participation rate. We have also seen an 
improvement in overall employee satisfaction to 77 out 
of 100. Our goal is to reach 85 and then maintain it.
Nufarm Voice is a tool that allows us to continually listen 
to our people on the things that matter the most to them 
and our managers are empowered to put plans in place 
to respond to the survey results.
Nufarm Voice is helping to “voice” the ideas, experiences 
and knowledge of all our people, to build a better Nufarm.
“The Nufarm Voice survey is an incredible tool for 
leaders to check in with their teams and listen to their 
input, questions and concerns. It is unique to the ag 
industry and enables us to continuously improve 
using our most valuable resource – our people.”
Rico Christensen, Group Executive – Portfolio Solutions
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021341. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
34
Conducting  
our business with integrity7Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021351. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
35Governance framework
Our governance framework, and adherence to that 
framework, are fundamental in demonstrating accountability to stakeholders and promoting a culture of ethical, lawful  and responsible behaviour. 
Nufarm is committed to ensuring that its policies and practices 
reflect a high standard of corporate governance. The Board considers Nufarm’s governance framework and adherence to that framework fundamental in demonstrating that the Directors are accountable to shareholders, are appropriately overseeing the management of risk, and promoting a culture of ethical, lawful and responsible behaviour within Nufarm.
To assist Nufarm’s Board in carrying out its responsibilities, 
the Board is supported by the: 
•
 Aud
it Committee;
• No
mination Committee;
• Huma
n Resources Committee;
• Ris
k and Compliance Committee; and
• In
novation Committee.
During the year, the Board reviewed the Board Charter and 
Committee structure to ensure they remain appropriate for Nufarm. This resulted in the establishment of the Innovation Committee, the formalisation of the Risk and Compliance Committee’s role in overseeing Environment Social and Governance matters and the responsibility of the overall corporate governance practices of the Company being allocated to the Board.
Each of the Committees has a Charter which sets out the 
membership structure, roles and responsibilities and meeting procedures for each. Generally, these Committees review matters on behalf of the Board.
Details on each of the Committee’s key activities are outlined in 
the Corporate Governance Statement on our corporate website.
Board renewal
Board renewal is important to ensure that Nufarm has the 
right mix of tenure, skills, experience, knowledge and diversity to oversee the Group. During the year, Anne Brennan retired from the Board  with Lynne Saint and Dr David Jones being appointed  as independent Non-executive Directors in December 2020  
and June 2021 respectively. In addition, Frank Ford advised  
of his intention to retire from the Board at the conclusion  of the 2021 Annual General Meeting. 
The percentage of female Non-executive Directors is 25 per cent, 
a decrease compared to 29 per cent as at 30 September 2020, however steady compared to the prior full 12 month reporting period ending 31 July 2020. The decrease is due to the addition of a new Non-executive Director in 2021.
At Nufarm, we recognise that new directors bring fresh thinking 
and new ideas which greatly add to existing corporate knowledge and expertise. Full details of our Board and their 
skills can be found in pages 51 to 52 of our 2021 Annual Repor t.
Refreshing our corporate policies
We progressively refresh key elements of our governance 
framework, keeping our corporate policies abreast of current external expectations and requirements. 
This year we reviewed our Human Rights Policy which 
reflects our commitment to protecting human rights in our business and supply chain. This is supported by our Code  of Conduct, which we relaunched early November 2020.  The Code outlines the behaviours expected of our people and people who work on behalf of Nufarm. 
In July 2021, we established a Climate Change Policy, which 
sets the framework for our response to the opportunities and risks that climate change is anticipated to bring to the agricultural industry.
Nufarm is committed to conducting business with high 
ethical standards and in full compliance with the law, including all anti-bribery, anti-corruption and other related laws in all countries which Nufarm operates. Nufarm’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy  was adopted by  
the Board in October 2020 and describes the mandatory requirements for Nufarm group companies, employees, contractors and other relevant parties to ensure that the  risk of corruption and bribery is managed within Nufarm.
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021361. Our year at a glance 2. Our business 3. Supporting  
sustainable agriculture4. Health, safety and  
wellbeing5. Reducing our  
environmental footprint6. Empowering  our people7. Conducting our  business with integrity
Nufarm Limited   |  Sustainability Review 2021
36Our risk management framework
Our Board is responsible for overseeing Nufarm’s risk 
management framework and has delegated responsibility  of the ongoing risk management program, procedures, auditing and adequacy and effectiveness of the enterprise risk management to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Last year we established an Executive Risk, Health, Safety 
and Environment Committee to assist with overseeing, directing and supporting the implementation and operation of the risk management framework and internal compliance and control system across the Company.
During the year, the risk management framework and policies 
and procedures were reviewed and updated to align to the concepts and principles identified in the Australia/New Zealand standard on Risk Management (AS/NZ ISO 31000:2018). 
This framework is used for identifying and assessing 
contemporary and emerging financial and non-financial risk; such as cyber-security, Covid-19 impacts, privacy and data breaches, increased geo-political risk and climate change.
Our 2021 Annual Report identifies relevant sustainability risks 
to our business and our risk management approach. These include: impact on our product strategy from a changing regulatory environment, climate change, weather volatility, loss of key personnel, safety incidents, environmental damage and non- compliance. 
Further information on our risk management framework can 
be found on page 48, and recognised risks on pages 26 to 29, of our 2021 Annual Report.Modern slavery 
We prepare a Modern Slavery Statement under the Australian 
and UK Modern Slavery Acts and take action to identify  and minimise the risk of modern slavery in our supply chain and operations.
Our focus has primarily been on the largest component of 
our procurement spend in countries that are at higher risk  of modern slavery practices. Vendors in these countries are subject to third party corporate social responsibility (CSR) assessments by our partner Ecovadis. These assessments consider a number of human rights factors, including child and forced labour. 
We are also strengthening our internal assessment, training 
and employment policies to minimise the risk of modern slavery within our operations.
Oversight of our modern slavery risks and response lies  
with our Board Risk and Compliance Committee. We have governance frameworks in place through our Human Rights  
Policy , Whistleblower Policy , Global Supplier Code of  
Conduct  and Integrity Helpline .
Further details can be found in our Modern Slavery Statement. We publish this in March, six months after the end of the financial year, our latest statement is our 2020 Modern  
Slavery Statement .
Delivering more 
sustainable solutions over more acres every year
2021 ©Nufarm Limited All trade marks are owned by Nufarm or used under license or fair use.