P AGE TITLE
Intro text
Body text.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2015CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT
01 About us – overview of operations
04 Managing director’s message
06 Governance
08 Innovation
10 Engaging our stakeholders 
12 Environmental stewardship
18 Eliminating incidents
22 Our people
26 Societal contribution
28 Product stewardship
29 Procurement stewardshipThis report, prepared by Nufarm Limited, provides information 
relating to our sustainability practices and performance for the financial year ending 31 July 2015. It reports on a range of parameters and activities including health, safety, environment, our people, practices and community relations.
This year Nufarm has amended the 
sustainability reporting period from a calendar year basis to now report 
performance for our financial year, 
which is consistent with our reporting of other metrics. As we make this transition, we have reported seven 
months of data from 1 January 2014  
to 31 July 2014 in our charts and included significant events that occurred within these periods in  the accompanying commentary. 
The health and safety data includes 
permanent and casual employees as well as contractors, with data collected 
from Nufarm manufacturing sites, offices and regional service centres.  
As yet, it does not include data from eight offices in Asia and South America. 
Targets set by the Nufarm board have 
been included. 
Environmental data is provided by our 
manufacturing plants and summarised 
for this report. 
Our financial performance and detail 
about corporate governance are 
provided in our annual and half yearly 
reports, which are available on our website: nufarm.comNufarm’s vision is to be a world 
leader in innovative crop protection and seed technology solutions.
NUFARM LIMITED ABN 37 091 323 312Global
headquartersRegional
headquartersCrop protection
productionSeeds
productionSales
countriesOur locations
The global head office is located at Laverton in Victoria, Australia, which is also the site of our largest manufacturing plant. 
Including Australia, Nufarm has manufacturing and/or seeds facilities in 14 countries across the world.ABOUT US – OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Nufarm Limited is a crop protection and seed technologies business. It is listed on the  
Australian Stock Exchange. We employ more than 3,300 people across all continents,  in more than 25 countries.
Crop protection 
Nufarm is a manufacturer, distributor 
and marketer of crop protection chemicals. These products help farmers 
protect their crops against weeds, 
pests and disease and assist them to improve farm yields. We are one of the top 10 crop protection companies 
in the world, with a clear leadership 
position in Australia and substantial operations in North and South America, Europe, New Zealand and Asia. 
The company holds more than 
2,000 product registrations and markets products in more than 100 countries around the world. Seed technologies 
Nufarm has diversified into the seeds market via its wholly owned subsidiary Nuseed, and has a growing presence  
in the seed treatment segment. Nuseed  
is focused on enhancing food and feed 
value through seed technology and  has developed proprietary canola, 
sunflower and sorghum products that 
are marketed in over 30 countries.  
Our seed treatment goal is to bring 
innovation and differentiation to the 
market via formulations, mixtures, 
partnerships and new technologies. Strategic alliances 
The company has strategic alliances with a number of major agricultural  and chemical companies. These 
alliances involve joint marketing rights 
to particular products, research and development collaborations, and manufacturing joint ventures. 
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  01Our focus for the first two years of 
this strategy cycle is to improve in the pillars of our people and eliminating 
incidents. We believe that this will 
create a firm foundation for step changes in our other strategic pillars.
Over the course of 2015, we have 
made progress in delivering strategic actions against these two pillars,  which includes:
•  each site establishing a plan to 
identify and reduce its four critical  risk types that could result in fatality 
or serious injury. Typically these are 
legacy risks due to historic equipment and building design standards at older sites, which can be difficult  
to resolve;
•  setting a higher standard for ensuring 
we discover the underlying causes  of incidents and near misses by 
developing a systematic approach 
and methodology that equips staff  to apply root cause analysis to all incidents that trigger defined 
thresholds; 
•  shifting the health, safety and 
environmental (HS&E) audit process to a more risk based approach where  
a deeper dive review of critical  HS&E risks is undertaken;
• focusing attention on finger, hand and arm injuries, which comprise up to 70 per cent of the serious injuries 
experienced across our operating 
sites; and
• developing sustainability key performance indicators for our executive and senior leadership teams. 
The following sustainability strategy activities are planned for 2016:
•  the deployment of life-saving safety 
rules to all employees;
• the rejuvenation of process  safety management across our manufacturing sites;
•  the expansion of front line manager 
and safety management training program;
•  the implementation of an executive 
sustainability leadership development program; and
•  the development of sustainability 
standards for suppliers.Mission, values and vision 
At Nufarm our mission, vision and  core values shape everything we do.
Our mission is to grow a better 
tomorrow.
Our vision is to be a world leader in 
innovative crop protection and seed 
technology solutions. 
Our core values are:
•  Responsibility: We are accountable 
for our decisions and our actions.  We recognise that trust is at the 
foundation of relationships and that 
acting ethically, safely and responsibly creates that trust. 
•  Agility: We are resourceful and 
adaptable in meeting the needs of our customers and our organisation. 
•  Respect: We respect others  
– colleagues, customers and stakeholders – and our environment. 
We care for all of our resources. 
•  Empowerment: We are an innovative, 
entrepreneurial organisation where individuals and teams can do what  
is best for the customer, the 
organisation and our stakeholders.
Strategic direction 
Nufarm is implementing a strategic growth plan with a strong focus on innovation and discipline. We are 
seeking to enhance the value of our 
core chemistry positions, while growing faster into higher value product and market segments that are more 
defendable.
Our regional strategies focus on 
supporting clearly defined product and 
market segments. This is done via both 
new and existing product offerings that are developed to suit local conditions. 
In 2015, the company announced  
that it is pursuing a $100 million cost reduction and continuous improvement program. The program is expected to 
result in significant cost savings and an 
increase on funds employed (ROFE)  to 16 per cent by the end of our  2018 financial year.Economic impact 
Our financial results are released annually and reflect the period  1 August to 31 July. We also release 
our half yearly results for the period  
1 August to 31 January. These reports can be found on our website. 
Our impact on, and contribution to, the 
economy is more significant than our financial performance. Our contribution in Australia and internationally includes both direct and indirect employment, 
support of farming practices to improve 
efficiency and productivity, the support of local suppliers, capital investment programs, payment of taxes and 
contribution to local communities. 
Sustainability at Nufarm
Sustainability underpins our approach 
to doing business and provides 
assurance that we will act responsibly 
while providing value for our stakeholders.
Nufarm works in an industry where 
sustainability principles are entrenched. As a company engaged in the development, production and supply  
of inputs to agriculture, we see 
sustainability as an overarching business principle that generates value by delivering solutions and providing environmental benefits.
In 2015, Nufarm launched a four-year 
company-wide sustainability strategy cycle. By the end of the cycle we 
expect to see a step change in our 
sustainability maturity and impact.
We have identified six strategic  
pillars that will be the focus of our 
sustainability actions, which are:
•  eliminating incidents;
•  environmental stewardship;
•  our people;
•  procurement stewardship;
•  product stewardship; and
•  societal contribution.ABOUT US – OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS continued  
02  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our dedication to sustainability is 
demonstrated by our involvement in programs such as Responsible Care
®, 
an initiative of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), which 
is supported and managed by regional 
chemical associations. 
The program aims to improve the 
HS&E performance of supporting 
companies and increase community involvement and awareness of the industry. It supports product stewardship, employee management, 
business and supply chain partners,  
and external stakeholders. Responsible Care allows the industry to demonstrate continuous HS&E 
improvement to the community, 
customers and government, which  view commitment to the program  as an important component of maintaining a licence to operate. 
In Australia, Nufarm is a founding 
member and signatory to Responsible Care and the Sustainability Leadership 
Framework through the Plastics and 
Chemical Industry Association (PACIA). While the Framework is specific to our Australian operations, we believe its overarching direction is applicable to 
all aspects of our business. We are also 
a signatory to Responsible Care in a number of other countries, including Colombia, Indonesia, Malaysia and 
the United Kingdom.
Our impact on, and contribution to, the economy is more significant 
than our financial performance. Our contribution in Australia and 
internationally includes both direct and indirect employment,  
support of farming practices to improve efficiency and productivity.
 Eliminating Incidents
 Environmental Stewardship
 Our People
 Procurement Stewardship
 Product Stewardship
 Societal Contribution Communities
 Customers
 Government
 Public
 Shareholders
 Staff
 SuppliersSustainability underpins 
our approach to doing 
business and provides 
assurance that we will 
act responsibly while 
providing value for 
our stakeholders.
SUSTAINABILITY AT NUFARMCOMMITMENT
STAKEHOLDERSSTRATEGIC PILLARS
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  03Being sustainable and having effective 
sustainability practices is very important to Nufarm. In 2015 we launched our 
first comprehensive, company-wide 
sustainability strategy aimed at driving our performance in this area to a  new level and establishing a solid 
foundation for future needs. 
The strategy focuses on delivering 
measurable improvements across six important areas over the next 
four years. The progress we have 
made even at this early stage has been strong, driven by the passion and dedication of our people across  
the world. 
We have a significant pipeline of 
deliverables planned for the coming months and years that, through the 
engagement of our people and the leadership provided by our managers 
and front-line supervisors, will help ensure Nufarm’s current and future 
sustainability. 
In the past year, although we achieved 
largely consistent performance in our 
environmental measures, we saw a 
disappointing decline against some  of our important safety measures, which is unacceptable. As our sustainability strategy and related 
activities gather momentum, I am 
confident we will achieve considerable improvements in all key measures.
Extensive investments are being made 
at many of our manufacturing facilities with a focus on creating industry-leading operations in terms of both our sustainability and manufacturing 
performance. We are committed to taking a company-
wide and consistent approach to improving our sustainability performance 
in order to ensure a bright and 
sustainable future for Nufarm, our customers, farmers and the communities in which we operate. 
Greg Hunt
Managing director  
and chief executive officer  Nufarm LimitedThis report covers Nufarm’s performance across a broad range of sustainability metrics and 
includes initiatives and examples of changes we are making within our business to improve  our sustainability.MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
04  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015SUSTAINABILITY 
UNDERPINS OUR APPROACH TO DOING BUSINESS.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  05Board of directors 
Nufarm’s board of directors has overall 
responsibility for corporate governance. 
The board charter clearly defines 
individual and collective responsibilities, including its mandate to oversee the company’s operations and ensure 
Nufarm operates in the best interest  
of all shareholders and with proper regard to the interest of all stakeholders. Board members are selected based  on their experience and skills to ensure 
the board properly discharges its 
responsibilities. 
The board reviews its composition  
and terms of reference annually.  
It also evaluates the performance  and determines remuneration of the managing director and senior executives.All members of the board are  
non-executive directors, except  
Greg Hunt who also holds the  position of managing director  and chief executive officer.
Board committees 
The board is supported by four 
committees: the audit and risk committee, the nomination and governance committee, the human 
resources committee, and the health, 
safety and environment committee. 
Conflict of interest 
Board members must identify any 
conflict of interest they may have in dealing with the company’s affairs and then refrain from participating in any 
discussion or voting on these matters. 
Directors and senior executives must disclose any related party transaction  in writing.Code of conduct 
Nufarm seeks to conduct its business  in a manner that recognises and adheres to all relevant laws and 
regulations and meets high standards 
with respect to honesty and integrity. We require all Nufarm directors, employees, contractors and consultants 
to be familiar with and uphold the 
company’s code of conduct in all business dealings. While a number  of specific and detailed policies have been implemented, the Nufarm code 
of conduct broadly encompasses the 
following values: 
• respect for the law and company policies; 
•  respect for others; 
•  integrity; 
•  diligence; 
•  personal use of property; 
•  health and safety; and
•  diversity.Nufarm is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has a range of 
policies and procedures in place to support this aim. Details of board committees and their terms of reference, along with other corporate policies and protocols, can be found in the governance section of our website. Nufarm is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX)  
and we comply with the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations.GOVERNANCE 
Donald McGauchie AO
Chairman
Joined 2003Greg Hunt
Managing director and 
chief executive officer
Joined 2012Anne Brennan
Joined 2011Gordon Davis
Joined 2011
06  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015a comprehensive review of the 
material risks faced by the company. In so doing, it considers the interests  
of all relevant stakeholders. 
The company recognises a number  
of operational risks related to its 
crop protection business including: 
•  climate conditions and seasonality; 
•  regulatory, freedom to operate, 
product registration, product use  and business sustainability; 
•  relationships with key suppliers  
and customers; and 
•  licences and operating permits  
for manufacturing facilities.
Memberships 
Nufarm is a member of the PACIA, a national body representing Australia’s chemical industry. Its members include 
chemical manufacturers, importers and 
distributors, logistics and supply chain partners, raw material suppliers, plastics fabricators and compounders, chemicals 
and plastics recyclers and industry 
service providers.
Nufarm’s group executive, operations, 
Elbert Prado, is a member of the PACIA 
board. We also have representatives  
on the PACIA regulatory council, and economics and trade council. Nufarm  Nufarm operates in many countries and does so in accordance with the social and cultural beliefs of each country. 
We are politically impartial except 
where the board believes it is necessary to comment due to any perceived major impact on the company, its 
business or any of its stakeholders. 
We require directors, senior executives 
and all employees to adopt standards of business conduct that are ethical  
and in compliance with all legislation. 
Other policies 
Where there are no legislative 
requirements with which to comply,  
we develop policy statements to support the code of conduct and ensure appropriate standards are  
met. These policies include the 
communications policy, diversity  policy, security trading policy and 
continuous disclosure protocol. 
Risk management 
The board is committed to identifying, 
assessing, monitoring and managing  its material business risks. Nufarm’s risk 
management policies and procedures 
are designed to enable effective and appropriate management of material risks. Each year the board undertakes  is a member of Responsible Care, a global, voluntary initiative developed by the chemical industry that operates in 52 countries. Signatory chemical companies commit to improve  
their performance in environmental 
protection, occupational safety and health protection, plant safety, product stewardship, logistics and stakeholder 
engagement. 
The Sustainable Agriculture Initiative 
(SAI) platform is an initiative aimed at contributing to the development of 
sustainable agriculture. The Australian 
Chapter is affiliated with the Global SAI Platform, which was founded 13 years ago in Europe as the main food 
industry initiative supporting the 
development of sustainable agriculture worldwide. As an SAI Platform member, Nufarm shares a common vision to enhance agricultural sustainability 
and impart those benefits along the 
full supply chain, for the benefit of Australian communities. 
We also participate in chemical industry 
associations in a number of countries and other associations such as CropLife.
Frank Ford
Joined 2012Bruce Goodfellow
Joined 1991Peter Margin
Joined 2011Toshikazu Takasaki
Joined 2012
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  07We develop, manufacture and market 
innovative and differentiated crop protection products in every key 
market around the world. While we do 
not discover new chemical molecules, we invest in the development of new mixtures and formulations, improved 
delivery systems, innovative packaging, 
and other improvements that add value for our customers. 
Our efforts typically involve developing 
safer, healthier and more efficient 
formulations and applications. This may be finding ways to reduce the quantity of active ingredient in a product through 
using an alternative solvent or 
introducing slow release technology. 
In other instances we may look at 
increasing the concentration of an 
active ingredient in order to reduce 
volume. This has positive impacts on the supply chain with less warehousing space needed and reduced transport 
deliveries, which in turn reduces 
greenhouse emissions. 
Product innovation may also focus  
on improving the health and safety 
benefits of products. This was the 
driver of our unique Sorbie technology, which is used to manufacture a blank water dispersible granule, which is then 
infused with a liquid active ingredient 
to form a solid emulsifiable concentrate. There are a number of benefits of  this granular technology, but most importantly it means that the product  
is easier to control and disperse and 
therefore less hazardous for operators. 
Nuseed Innovation Centres 
Nuseed, a wholly owned subsidiary  of Nufarm, is a global seed company focused on improving food and feed 
value through enhancing the value of 
three crop types – canola, sorghum and sunflower – by developing seeds with improved performance and higher 
downstream value. Nuseed’s research and innovation efforts are focused  on creating better food, feed and  
fuel solutions around the world. 
As part of ensuring speed and 
efficiency in our development 
processes, Nuseed has Innovation 
Centres at Horsham, Australia, and Davis, United States. These facilities provide a step change in our research 
capabilities with state-of-the-art 
molecular research and trait advancement capabilities. Dedicated communication channels between the two locations allow for fast and efficient 
data transfer to maximise our ability  
to use different analysis techniques, share results and access expertise.  This connection of the two sites 
ensures that the most appropriate 
equipment can be used and knowledgeable assessment  and analysis can be completed, regardless of the sample location. 
The goal of the Innovation Centres  
is to support product development and breeding programs, ensuring a 
strong pipeline of elite hybrid seeds 
that improve yields and deliver significant downstream value to farmers, processors and consumers. 
Long-chain omega-3 canola 
The research collaboration between Nuseed, the Commonwealth Scientific & Industrial Research Organisation 
(CSIRO) and the Australian Grains 
Research & Development Corporation (GRDC) continues its work to develop  a genetically modified canola to 
provide a sustainable, renewable and 
reliable source of high-quality DHA omega-3 oil for human consumption. 
Long-chain omega-3 fatty acids are 
necessary for human health and have 
traditionally been obtained by eating wild fish. With increasing demand on global ocean fish supplies, access to 
high-quality long-chain omega-3 is 
under pressure. Land plant-based production via  canola is a sustainable, renewable  
and therefore long term solution  
to the growing demand for long-chain omega-3 oils. Every hectare of long-chain omega-3 canola is expected to produce an amount of oil equivalent  
to that produced by 10,000 one-
kilogram fish. 
The program continues to advance 
through field trials and is now in the 
pre-registration phase of development. The collaboration anticipates being ready for commercial production  in 2018.Innovation is a key theme of Nufarm’s corporate strategy  
and is reflective of the evolution of our business. Our strategy talks about ‘being innovative in everything we do’.INNOVATION
At Nufarm, we define innovation as 
being different, better, faster, right. 
Our approach to innovation means 
thinking about and doing things in a different way; taking an alternate approach to solving problems and 
challenging our thinking. 
We are always looking for a better 
way to deliver our products and services. It is one thing to be 
different, but we also need to be 
better in the way we do things. 
And because we work in a 
competitive industry where other 
companies are also thinking about how to improve their businesses, we need to be faster. 
Finding ways to overcome 
obstacles and shorten time frames gives us the opportunity to capture the value of what we do as soon  
as possible. 
Finally – and very importantly  
– we think innovation is about doing it right. We don’t want 
to compromise the quality of 
our efforts. Attention to detail, appropriate checks and consultation are all important  
in making sure that when we set 
out to be innovative, we always get it right. 
These clear innovation goals are 
relevant for all our teams, wherever 
we work and whatever we do.
08  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015AT NUFARM, WE DEFINE 
INNOVATION AS BEING DIFFERENT, BETTER, FASTER, RIGHT.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  09While the majority of these interactions 
are conducted at a regional and/or country level and are managed by the 
business units concerned, our code of 
conduct provides an overarching set  of values in respect of how we deal with our staff and with people and 
organisations outside of the company. 
All of our business units are required  to adhere to the principles outlined  in the code of conduct. This code is supported by a number of specific 
corporate policies that also govern  
the company as a whole. 
This report includes details and 
examples of how Nufarm engages 
important stakeholders, including  
our own people and the communities  in which our operations are based. Further information is available  
in the our people and societal 
contribution sections of this report. 
Our customers and suppliers provide 
important feedback on how we can 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our business.We regularly communicate with  the end users of our products to  ensure we are meeting their needs  
and expectations by developing and 
bringing to market innovative crop protection and seed products and supporting those products with a 
professional service and information 
and training on how to use Nufarm products safely. 
We operate in a highly regulated 
industry and maintain regular contact 
and communication with a range of government authorities, both directly and via various industry associations  
to which we belong. We have a strong 
commitment to comply with all government standards, licences and other requirements in relation to both the operation of our manufacturing 
facilities and the registration and  
use of our products. 
Nufarm is committed to timely, 
open and effective communications 
with its shareholders and the general investment community.We have adopted a shareholder communications policy aimed at:
•  ensuring that shareholders and the 
financial markets are provided with full and timely information about  
our activities; 
• complying with continuous disclosure 
obligations contained in applicable Listing Rules and the Corporations 
Act in Australia as well as industry 
guidelines such as the Australasian Investor Relations Associations’ Best Practice Guidelines for Communication 
between Listed Entities and the 
Investment Community; 
• ensuring equality of access to briefings, presentations and meetings for shareholders, analysts and media; and 
•  encouraging attendance and voting 
at shareholder meetings. 
Management remains accessible to shareholders, analysts, fund managers and others with a potential interest in the company.Nufarm operates its businesses with the involvement, support and interaction of a range  
of stakeholders. These include our employees, customers, suppliers, the local communities  in which we operate, government regulators, and shareholders. We seek to ensure that these stakeholders are properly informed and we place a high priority on responding to feedback, questions or concerns.ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS 
We regularly communicate with the end users of our products  
to ensure we are meeting their needs and expectations.
10  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015OUR MISSION IS  
TO GROW A BETTER TOMORROW.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  11At Nufarm we are committed to 
managing environmental impacts at  all our sites. As detailed in our health, 
safety and environmental policy, a key 
focus is protecting the environment. The policy sets out key requirements for all sites regarding regulatory 
compliance, monitoring of effluent  
and emissions, recording and reporting of environmental incidents, audit and waste management, and contamination management.
All of our sites have environmental 
management systems in place in varying degrees of complexity and 
development. Some of the sites  
have formalised ISO14001 accredited systems, but most do not. The management systems and performance against them are checked annually 
during detailed audits carried out by 
the group sustainability manager to ensure consistent application of Nufarm requirements across the business.  
The systems may vary across the 
Nufarm group mainly due to the  vast differences in the complexity  of operations. Nufarm policy requires  sites to meet local environmental 
regulations and/or Nufarm standards, 
whichever is more stringent. 
In 2015 our environmental expenditure 
was $6.8 million. The following sections detail our  
2015 financial year environmental performance across our key 
manufacturing sites according  
to five key impact areas: 
• compliance and complaints; 
• energy and greenhouse gas; 
•  air emissions; 
•  water; and 
•  waste. 
We have included key issues from 
some sites to provide context and 
improved understanding.
Compliance and complaints 
Each country in which we operate has different regulatory requirements and we establish site-specific environmental 
management systems to ensure our 
compliance.
Compliance testing 
Nufarm undertakes environmental 
compliance testing and reporting at 
sites where relevant. Where there are requirements for compliance assurance, we measure emissions from air, water and effluents sent offsite for treatment 
(e.g. sewage), which includes discharge 
from scrubbers and (in some cases) fugitive emissions. 
In 2015, 99.57 per cent of our tests 
were compliant.Complaints
As part of our compliance program 
we keep a record of all complaints, most of which relate to odour or noise. As some materials we handle are 
odorous, especially insecticides, we 
aim to ensure the areas where these materials are handled or used are well ventilated and any extracted 
air is treated to remove odorous 
components.
In the 2015 financial year there were 
two accepted complaints, which, following investigation, indicated Nufarm as the likely source. 
In the seven months from January 2014 
the Laverton, Australia, site incurred  
an increase in complaints. Whilst investigations have concluded that  the site’s odour profile is unchanged, significant improvements have been 
made to points in our processes that 
generate fugitive emissions. This has included installation of effluent tank covers, aluminium covers for internal 
2,4-D bags and installation of a 
scrubber system for the phenol  bulk unloading area.
Energy and greenhouse gas 
Total greenhouse emissions decreased in 2015 compared with 2013. Emissions per tonne of production also reduced. 
Across our sites, most of the fuel  
used comprised natural gas, which  is consumed across a variety of processes such as:
•  heating at Calgary, Chicago  
and Gennevilliers; 
•  co-generation at Gaillon and  
Wyke; and
•  heating boilers at Kwinana  
and Laverton.We are reducing our environmental footprint through 
implementing structured continuous improvement processes across the organisation. The following section details our performance in 2015.ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
We continue to focus on reducing energy use across all our sites. Compared 
with many chemical companies, we are a relatively moderate energy user.
12  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015We continue to focus on reducing 
energy use across all our sites. Compared with many chemical 
companies, we are a relatively 
moderate energy user. Energy use is impacted by production volume and the product mix. 
The majority of greenhouse gas is 
generated from electricity and gas used in the production process. Some sites also emit CO
2 directly from 
chemical processes and are included  in the data reflected in figure 3.
While CO
2 emissions for most sites 
remained generally consistent, there 
were some reductions at Wyke and 
Calgary sites following concerted 
efforts by these teams. 
The major greenhouse emitter is our 
Laverton, Australia, manufacturing 
plant, followed by Wyke, United Kingdom, which generates a little  over half the emissions of Laverton. 
The Laverton Pipe Road site completed 
a boiler upgrade in 2014, resulting in a reduction of carbon output from the boiler operation of 4.9 per cent. 
In addition, a trial of using LED hibay 
lighting at the facility has been successful and is being expanded across the site. Figure 1: Compliance testing
Total tests Percentage of compliance05,00010,00015,00020,00025,000
2011 2012 2013 2014
(7 months*)20159596979899100Number of tests
Percentage of tests in compliance
Figure 2: Global complaints
2011Number of complaints
Accepted Not Nufarm Unidentified source
2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015048121620
Total
* Note: data covers a seven month period due to a change in the reporting period.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  13ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP continued
Air emissions 
Air emissions result from our processes. 
We work to minimise emissions and their impact. Emissions vary depending 
on production volumes and the  
product mix. 
Some emissions such as carbon 
monoxide (CO), sulphur oxides (SOx) 
and particulates are calculated from energy use, based on published emissions factors. This also applies to nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions at all 
sites with one exception. In Wyke in the 
United Kingdom, nitration reactions are carried out and there is some recovery of NOx. The site also has continuous 
NOx measurements on its stacks. 
CO, NOx and SOx are mostly 
calculated from factors published  for various combustion processes.  
Our Wyke operation carries out  
direct measurements. 
Levels of CO and freon emitted 
reported in 2015 were reduced. This  is due to our Botlek, Netherlands, site giving a higher reading of these in the 
period 1 January 2014 to 31 July 2014.Figure 3: CO 2 emissions from energy use and processes
2011CO 2 emissions ’000 tonnes
Electricity equivalent From fuel From processes Purchased steam
2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015040
206080100120
Total
Figure 4: CO 2 emissions per tonne of productionTonne CO 2 emissions per tonne production
2012 2013 2014
(7 months*)20150.210.220.230.240.26
0.250.28
0.27
2011Figure 5: Major CO 2 emitters by siteCO 2 emitted (’000) tonnes 
01020304060
50
Laverton Wyke Botlek Linz Chicago Kwinana Calgary Gaillon Rest of
Nufarm2011 2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015
* Note: data covers a seven month period due to a change in the reporting period.
14  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Water 
Water is used in most of our production 
processes. The amount of water used and waste water generated is directly 
impacted by production volumes and 
the product mix. We aim to reduce  the amount of water we use and also the amount of waste water created.
Our water consumption per tonne of 
production reduced slightly in 2015,  as did our total water consumption.
To ensure mains water supply is 
conserved, many of our sites collect  rain water run-off, treat it if necessary and use it to irrigate our gardens. 
Many of our sites have ongoing 
activities or are investigating ways  to recycle, harvest and better utilise water in our systems and processes.Table 1: Air emissions (kg)
2011 2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015
CO  12,636  53,825  39,367  7,487  10,600 
Freon  202 140  600  100 –
Herbicides  513 719  637  468  359 
Inorganics  67 60  64  37  63 
NOx  150,010 176,251  126,443  87,516  141,547 
Particulates  1,651 1,502  600  433  777 
Phenolics  6 27  8  8  25 
SOx  1,101 930  741  438  794 
VOC  22,466 28,323  25,364  16,080  17,982 
Total  188,652  261,777  193,824  112,568  172,146 
Figure 6: Water use per tonne production
Water use MLWater use (ML) and production (’000 tonne)
Water use tonne/tonne production 
Production tonne Water use tonne/tonne production01002003004005001,000
0.51.01.52.02.53.0
600700800900
20112012 2013 2014
(7 months*)2015
To ensure mains water 
supply is conserved, 
many of our sites collect 
rain water run-off, treat  it if necessary and use  
it to irrigate our gardens.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  15ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP continued
Waste
We have programs at each site to 
minimise waste generation. Where possible we aim to recycle or reuse 
waste. 
Total waste increased slightly in 2015 
financial year compared with the 2013 
calendar year. This can be explained  
by our increase in production volume. 
While most waste volumes were largely consistent with the previous year, there was lower salt waste because of reduced 
production of phenoxy herbicides at 
our Wyke, United Kingdom, site.
Salty effluent is produced as a direct 
consequence of our chlorination 
processes. This salty effluent contains organic material and cannot be discharged directly to the environment. It is mostly treated in sewerage plants 
to biologically remove the organics 
before the salt is released into natural water bodies. The waste discharged  
to deep well is almost entirely salt. 
Other wastes include inorganics, clean 
solids, organics, chlorinated, drums, 
regulated solids and agricultural.  
The majority of waste goes to sewage treatment followed by recycling, energy recovery, landfill, surface water, deep well and industrial treatment.
At our Linz, Austria, site a solvent 
extraction plant removes effluent from waste water prior to being discharged. 
A similar plant is currently being 
completed at the Laverton Pipe Road, Australia, site and is expected to be completed by late 2015. Once complete, the plant will have numerous 
additional benefits such as reducing 
odours emitted and enabling further water reduction activities. The Pipe Road project has received praise from local water and waste partners and local government.
The Pipe Road site also engaged 
a third party to remove two large effluent tanks from the site; these 
have been safely removed.Figure 7: Waste per tonne production (excluding salt)kg waste per tonne production
4243444547
4651
484950
2012 2013 2014
(7 months*)2015 2011
Figure 8: Waste management destination
Waste (’000) tonnes
2011 2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015010
520
15253040
35
Industrial
treatmentSewage
treatmentRecycling Landfill Energy
recoverySurface
watersDeep
wellAquifier
Figure 9: Total waste by category
Waste (’000) tonnes
010
52015253040
35
Inoraganics
Clean
solidsOrganics Chlorinated Drums Regulated
solidsAgricultural Salt
2011 2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015
* Note: data covers a seven month period due to a change in the reporting period.
16  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015At many of our sites a waste 
management system captures the nature and quantity of waste produced 
onsite and tracks it through to recycling 
or disposal. Waste generated per tonne of production has remained consistent. 
We continue to work towards further 
reducing waste generation from manufacturing processes. Disposal  of packaging such as empty raw material containers (drums and bags) 
can contribute huge volumes to  
landfill. Each site makes every effort  to clean waste packaging and find recycling opportunities. 
The Chicago Heights, United States, 
facility expanded its recycling of bulk product bags by partnering with a vendor that safely recycles the 20 tonnes 
of MCPA and dicamba bulk bags the 
site uses each year. This adds to the  45 tonnes of glyphosate bags the facility already recycles annually. The bulk bags 
are recycled for use with non-food 
items including fencing and packaging. 
Through the Laverton Pipe Road site’s 
glyphosate bulk bag washing activities, 
up to 60 tonnes of polypropylene  
is now recycled annually. Prior to implementing this, the bulk bags were sent to landfill. It is planned to expand 
the bag washing activities to other 
formulation vessels at the site.
The Linz, Austria, site has worked with  
a local partner to reduce the carbon 
footprint of its labelling. Previously,  
the facility was unable to recycle its labels due to a silicone coating that forced the labels to be destroyed by 
incineration. By implementing a new 
technology, silicone coatings are now able to be removed. In the 2014 calendar year this enabled 17 tonnes  of silicone-coated release paper 
to be recycled, resulting in a CO
2 
emission reduction of 39 tonnes.Every attempt is made to reduce  
waste by recycling plastic, cardboard and wood wherever possible. Wastes requiring disposal consist of empty 
packaging from raw materials received, 
used filters, debris and safety equipment from the formulation  and packaging operations.
The Alsip, United States, site has 
invested in a compactor device as  it increases recycling of cardboard. Compacting the cardboard prior to  
its collection by a third party reduces 
the frequency of collections required whilst increasing the amount of the material recycled.
Safe decommissioning of sites
In March 2014, Nufarm announced  the rationalisation of manufacturing operations in its Australia and New 
Zealand region. This has resulted in  
the decommissioning and pending sale of the Lytton (Queensland), Otahuhu (New Zealand) and Welshpool (Western 
Australia) manufacturing facilities. A 
comprehensive shut-down process is underway to ensure that we vacate  and sell these facilities in a safe state.
As part of this rationalisation, Nufarm 
sites at Laverton, Victoria (Pipe Road and Raymond Road), are undergoing extensive investment programs to 
increase manufacturing capabilities  
and efficiencies. Technology
Nufarm has partnered with Israeli organisation Phytech to introduce PlantBeat™, a crop monitoring 
technology in Australia and 
New Zealand. 
PlantBeat is a powerful decision support 
tool enabling farmers to focus on 
maximising yields and ensuring they are using resources, including water,  as efficiently as possible.
Designed to provide real-time alerts  
to growers of crops that are under stress, the system tracks numerous factors including plant growth, stem 
contractions, soil moisture levels  
and climatic conditions, particularly useful to growers where crops are under stress. 
Data from plant, soil, and climate 
sensors is fed to the cloud via the cellular network, with algorithm analysis 
fed back to the grower as an easily 
understood traffic light status system, accessible through a mobile device  or computer. Nufarm has an exclusive 
collaboration agreement in place to 
develop the technology in Australia and New Zealand, and has work underway in a variety of crops.
Growers are able to view the status of their crop in real time.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  17ELIMINATING INCIDENTS
At Nufarm, we are fostering a zero 
incident culture supported by the development of processes that identify 
and understand risks and hazards. We 
implement preventative measures and conduct regular reviews to ensure their ongoing effectiveness. The following 
section details our performance in  
the 2015 financial year.
We place a high priority on safeguarding 
the health and safety of our employees. 
Our HS&E policy is a public statement  
of Nufarm’s commitment to HS&E,  and is a statement of the standards expected of our employees.
A number of Nufarm plants operate 
under strict regulations, including Seveso II in Europe and Major Hazard Facilities in Australia. Such sites need  
to prepare a safety case, which provides 
evidence that the site’s systems and procedures are adequate for safe operation. The safety case is regularly 
reviewed by authorities and requires  
a new and full review and submission every five years.
The Nufarm board sets target limits  
for lost time injuries (LTI), medical 
treatment injuries (MTI) and severity, each of these are zero, reflecting our zero harm aspiration.
In the previous period we failed  
to meet these targets. This in part  was driven by a concerted effort  in developing a stronger incident 
reporting culture and correct 
classification of injuries across our operations. Efforts are continuing  to improve safe working conditions  
and ensure our HS&E policy and 
procedures are followed at all times.
Lost time injuries
Nufarm defines lost time injuries as those that result in loss of working  time of at least one full shift. We 
operate from the premise that all  
lost time injuries are preventable.Figure 10: Nufarm global MTIFR and LTIFR
Injury frequency rate
01235
46
LTIFR MTIFR2012 2013 2014
(7 months*)2015 2011
Table 2: Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
2011 2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015
Australia 4.95 4.19 2.29 2.57 0.77
Europe 2.48 3.62 1.04 1.76 1.06
North America 3.27 1.51 0.00 0.00 2.42
NZ and Croplands 0.00 3.20 0.00 5.44 3.11
South East Asia 0.00 0.00 1.57 2.55 0.70
South America 5.69 0.00 0.76 0.00 2.20
Global 3.08 2.24 1.16 1.71 1.40
Table 3: Medical treatment injury frequency rate (MTIFR)
2011 2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015
Australia 8.48 7.68 3.81  2.57 4.60
Europe 3.47 4.14 2.07  2.64 2.12
North America 4.90 1.51 1.36  2.15 6.06
NZ and Croplands 15.75 3.20 6.4  5.44 12.45
South East Asia 0.92 0.00 1.57  2.55 0.70
South America 5.69 0.00 0.76 – 2.20
Global 5.23 3.14 2.18  2.20 3.22
Table 4: Severity rate
2011 2012 2013 2014 (7 months*) 2015
Australia 0.021 0.029 0.012 0.028 0.002
Europe 0.116 0.073 0.054 0.046 0.030
North America 0.072 0.003 0.000 0.000 0.012
NZ and Croplands 0.000 0.013 0.000 0.011 0.006
South East Asia 0.000 0.000 0.004 0.014 0.003
South America 0.028 0.000 0.001 0.000 0.011
Global 0.052 0.028 0.018 0.021 0.013
* Note: data covers a seven month period due to a change in the reporting period.
18  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Nufarm encourages its staff to raise  
all unusual and potentially hazardous incidents through its Unusual Incident 
Report (UIR) database. UIRs include 
product quality issues, environmental concerns, safety breaches, near misses or observed risks. Nufarm investigates 
all reported incidents.
Examples of our progress  
in eliminating incidents
All of our businesses maintain excellent 
relationships with local emergency services. Local responders are 
frequently invited to take part in 
training exercises and meet-and-greet sessions at Nufarm facilities. These sessions provide opportunities for 
emergency procedures to be practised, 
whilst enabling emergency services to become familiar with our operations. Nufarm facilities including Alsip and 
Chicago Heights in the United States, 
Fortaleza in Brazil, Gaillon in France, Merak in Indonesia, Pork Klang in Malaysia and Pipe Road Laverton  
in Australia have implemented the  
5S workplace organisation method. Through staff training and applying  the 5S steps, the facilities are now  safer, cleaner, more reliable and more 
efficient. Our facilities continue to 
invest in this methodology to ensure that standards are maintained.Nufarm’s overall LTIFR in 2015 was 1.4, 
which is higher than our target of zero 
and our 2013 performance. The 10 lost time injuries suffered in the previous period were spread over eight  
separate sites. 
The causes of injuries in the previous 
period were three burns due to chemicals or heat, three fractures,  
one crush, one cut and two strains  
due to lifting objects.
During the reporting period, several 
sites achieved significant milestones  
on the way to our goal of zero harm demonstrating that zero is possible. These included: 
• Botlek (Netherlands) – seven years without a lost time injury;
•  Gaillon (France) – three years without 
a lost time injury;
•  Port Klang (Malaysia) – two years 
without a lost time injury; and
•  Wyke (United Kingdom) – one year 
without a lost time injury.
Medical treatment injuries 
Medical treatment injuries include  all injuries that result in loss of time  as well as those that require treatment 
by a qualified medical practitioner 
(excluding those that are of a diagnostic or precautionary nature only). Those injuries that could be 
treated by a person trained in first aid 
or a qualified nurse are not considered medical treatment injuries.
In 2015 there were 13 medical 
treatment injuries, 10 of these 
occurring at separate sites.
Severity
Severity is a measure of the seriousness of the injuries that resulted in loss of working days (severity rate = days lost 
per thousand hours worked). Our 
global performance improved in 2015, with a fall in severity to 0.013 from 0.018 in 2013.The North American business continues to run an annual competition in which 
employees are encouraged to suggest 
a safety slogan for the business. The competition aims to promote internal attitudes towards safety, with the most 
recent competition receiving over 80 
nominations. The winner was selected for their slogan ‘Zero In On Safety’, which was then posted throughout manufacturing facilities and offices  
in North America. 
In 2015, our North American teams also 
launched a safety calendar featuring a 
series of seasonally relevant safety tips 
and photographs of staff demonstrating best practice. All employees are provided a copy of the calendar.
As part of the Laverton Raymond Road 
site reconfiguration, the process safety management system design has included extensive HAZOP , HAZID  
and control measure design workshops 
completed, exceeding 1,000 man hours of activity.
A emergency evacuation scenario is rehearsed at the Calgary facility.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  19ELIMINATING INCIDENTS continued
The Laverton Pipe Road, Australia,  
site is undergoing a significant operation excellence and performance 
improvement program, with the 
health, safety, environment and quality workstream delivering significant improvements in the safety culture 
and performance of the facility. 
Key focus items have included the development of lock-out tag-out procedures and changes to the way work permits are created for tasks 
performed by both staff and site visitors. The extensive use of vehicles at Nufarm 
facilities means that the safety of operators and pedestrians is paramount. 
Our sites are regularly assessed to 
ensure they are as safe as possible for both workers and visitors. Guard rails to separate people and vehicle operations 
have been installed at the Laverton Pipe 
Road and Kwinana, Australia, facilities.  A redesign of the Chicago Heights, United States, facility has resulted in better sightlines, lighting and reduced 
forklift traffic.
The Wyke, United Kingdom, site has 
implemented a major safety leadership 
program, aimed at improving the site’s 
safety culture. The leadership sessions have a broad curriculum and to date have been delivered to 65 employees. 
In addition, families of Wyke staff are 
actively involved in the site’s safety poster competition aimed at keeping attention on safety. Employees are 
encouraged to discuss workplace  
safety with their children, grandchildren, nieces and nephews and request  that the children draw a picture  about keeping their relative safe.  
The campaign has had great 
participation and all entries have  been added to a collage at the site. Competition winners receive a prize 
and their drawing enlarged and 
professionally printed.  Many of Nufarm’s Indonesian staff  use motorbikes as their primary 
transportation vehicle. In order to 
improve employee safety, nationally certified helmets have been provided to over 200 employees.
A winning entry to the Wyke safety poster competition.Motorcycle helmets provided to employees 
at the Merak site.
The Wyke, United 
Kingdom, site has 
implemented a major 
safety leadership program, aimed at 
improving the site’s 
safety culture.
20  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015WE ARE FOSTERING 
A ZERO INCIDENT CULTURE.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  21mindset, which is reflected in our 
global performance, development, and talent processes and tools. People 
and performance business partners are 
based in all regions operating as part of local management teams, ensuring the function is attuned to local needs 
whilst operating in a globally 
coordinated way. 
Most importantly our leadership team 
is committed to continuously improve 
safety outcomes and believes that 
everyone should return home safely each and every day. 
Embracing diversity 
At Nufarm, we broadly define diversity to include age, gender, experience  and culture. 
There are three main reasons why 
diversity is important to us: 
1. organisations with leadership 
teams comprising members with different experiences and backgrounds earn stronger 
returns than those that don’t, 
due to the value of bringing various perspectives to decision making;
2. feedback from our 2014 employee opinion survey demonstrated that 
our people value an inclusive culture 
where the opportunity for career progression and enrichment is fostered; and
3. we recognise that talent comes from all parts of the community and to be as competitive as possible, we must access and develop that 
talent better than others.
As a global company, we believe 
having diversity is essential to operating successfully in complex international markets. On 1 August 
2015, a Brazilian, Valdemar Fischer, and 
a Canadian, Brent Zacharias, joined the Nufarm’s operations are based in Australia, New Zealand, Asia, Europe 
and the Americas. In the 2015 financial 
year 3,349 people were employed by Nufarm. We also engage people on  a casual or temporary basis, mainly  in the manufacturing areas.
We are a global company operating  
to leverage the best ideas, processes and experiences for the benefit of our customers and farmers in the markets we cover. The actions and choices our 
people make every day help to build 
Nufarm’s reputation for quality products and customer service.
Our structure and processes continue 
to evolve to better support key  areas of business focus, and we are implementing targeted organisational development initiatives to build 
relevant skill and capability.
Our leadership team works hard to 
attract and develop talent and has 
made progress in growing the careers 
of talented people across geographies and functions. We have a stretch group executive team, which now consists of five nationalities, reflecting the global nature of our organisation. 
Over the past year, our work to 
improve diversity at Nufarm has included building our global talent strategy, introducing leadership and 
other training, analysing feedback from 
the 2014 employee opinion survey to ascertain differences in our people’s experience of Nufarm culture, and measuring female participation at 
all levels and functions. 
Underscoring our commitment in this 
area, an updated global diversity policy 
was also launched in 2015. A copy of 
the policy is available on the corporate governance section of the company’s website. The policy shows how our actions to support diversity are aligned 
to our values of responsibility, agility, 
respect and empowerment. Our aim is to provide a work environment where people have the opportunity to realise their  
full potential, where diversity of thought and experience is embraced and where behaviour  is underpinned by the Nufarm values of respect, agility, responsibility and empowerment.  To achieve this, we focus on equipping our leaders with the tools and skills to develop and motivate our people and to act as catalysts to improve ways of working. OUR PEOPLE
Figur e 12: Nufarm employee 
representation – gender
24%Female
76%MaleFigur e 11: Nufarm employee 
representation – geography
24% 11%
17%
30%18%Australia/
New ZealandAsia
EuropeSouth 
AmericaNorth
America
Nufarm is a global company with 
people located in all key agricultural production areas.
Female participation has been increasing one per cent per year for the past three 
years and we continue to work on how 
we can attract and retain more talented women to accelerate this trend.
22  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Responsibility
We are accountable for our decisions and our actions. We recognise trust is at the foundation of relationships and acting ethically, safely and responsibly creates that trust.
AgilityWe are resourceful and adaptable in meeting the needs of our customers and our organisation.
RespectWe respect others – colleagues, customers and stakeholders – and our environment. We care for all our resources.
EmpowermentWe are an innovative, entrepreneurial organisation where individuals and teams can do what is best for the customer,  the organisation and our stakeholders.This means we:
•  promote equal opportunity in the workplace and ensure decisions regarding employment, including (but not limited to) 
recruitment, remuneration, training, promotion and development, are made without regard for race, gender, marital status, religion, age, sexual orientation or any other non-merit related consideration;
•  train our people to ensure they understand their rights and responsibilities in relation to relevant equal employment opportunity, discrimination, human rights and related legislation for each country in which we operate; and
•  create an environment where people are comfortable to report inappropriate or offensive behaviour and where complaints are treated in a sensitive, fair and timely manner.
This means we:
•  aim to reflect the diversity of the communities we serve. To us that means we have been successful in attracting  
and retaining the best talent available in the community; 
•  build a talent pipeline and develop the potential of those who show promise to underpin our continued growth  and contribution to the community; and 
•  develop policies and practices that help support our people to enjoy enriching lives including a balance of work,  
family and personal fulfilment.
This means we:
• create an inclusive workplace culture where all people are treated with dignity and respect; 
•  take opportunities to learn about different cultures and heritages, celebrating their contribution to the richness  
of our workplace and our communities; and
•  recognise and show respect to the traditional custodians of the land and the waters where we operate.
This means we:
•  embrace the value that a range of perspectives and life experiences can add to the quality of decision making  
and to innovation practices/processes, which is fundamental to our future success; and
•  seek to unlock the capabilities and potential of our people through our talent and development frameworks  
and effective leadership behaviours.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  23OUR PEOPLE continued
• Nufarm’s global awards program  
is an annual celebration of employees 
who have made exceptional 
contributions to Nufarm through 
demonstrating our company values.  In December 2014, Leonie Hughes  was awarded the Nufarm global 
innovation award for her work to 
create and launch a tool now used on a daily basis by Nuseed Australia’s sales team.
  The technology titled ‘NuSTEP’  is a unique tool that allows sales representatives to generate a report  on behalf of a customer that details  
the most successful seed varieties 
grown in their local area. The tool  has been exceptionally well received  by Nuseed customers.
Developing capability
Achieving sustainable competitive advantage requires that we continue  to improve our capability across the 
company. 
One example of Nufarm’s development 
activities aimed at growing female 
talent is the company’s participation  
in the NIDA (National Institute of Dramatic Art) Influential Women (formerly ‘Women in Business’) program run in Australia. NIDA’s Influential Women program is  a two-day off-site workshop specifically designed for women in business. The 
workshop aims to enhance participants’ 
communication style and ability to engage and influence both large  and small audiences. The workshops 
include exercises that involve listening 
and responding to challenging communication scenarios, physical  and vocal techniques, and increasing personal awareness of communication 
style and how this can be improved. 
These skills are valuable in overcoming some workplace challenges regularly encountered by women. In 2014 –15, 
25 women from Nufarm participated  
in this program. Employees selected  to participate are currently in a leadership position or are identified  as demonstrating potential to  
progress into a leadership position.
Nursyamsih pictured at a customer field day.“At Nufarm there are  
no gender differences; 
performance is measured 
equally regardless of 
gender. This is not the 
case in all companies.  
I also love the fact that  
in Nufarm, training is 
held regularly and the 
opportunity exists to 
enhance your capability,” 
said Nursyamsih.Examples of diversity  
within Nufarm
• Nagina Raja joined Nufarm in the 
United Kingdom 14 years ago through the Wyke facility’s graduate trainee 
scheme. Initially starting her career as 
junior shift chemist, Nagina has gone on to become a plant manager and  is actively involved in programs aimed 
at giving young people insights into 
careers in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).
  As a STEM ambassador, Nagina  
often finds that young people have misconceived ideas about working in the chemical industry. By discussing  
her experiences and showcasing Nufarm’s Wyke facility, students are often surprised by the scale of 
production and impressed by the 
broad range of career opportunities available to them. Many young people choose to pursue education and 
careers in STEM following 
participation in the program.
• Nursyamsih, a technical researcher with Nufarm Indonesia, recently joined the field sales team as the first 
female sales representative in that 
country. Her role involves significant travel and working with farmers to understand and support their crop 
protection needs. 
24  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015recognising excellence globally. In 
2015, a sustainability award will be added to recognise collaboration  
and contribution towards improving sustainability outcomes; 
•  amplifying the focus on improving  
our safety culture through a number of initiatives, including the deployment 
of the sustainability strategy;
•  introducing new communication tools 
that connect actions to the context  of strategy, including a regular 
newsletter from the chief executive 
officer as well as tailored video communications; and
•  developing an accountability map 
and aligning accountabilities and  key performance indicators (KPIs)  
at the senior level to assist in cascading accountabilities and the alignment of yearly job goals.
Our commitment to safety
Various programs are in place at  many of our facilities to improve  safety through engaging all employees.  
These include:
• sharing a ‘safety moment’ with attendees at the beginning of meetings;Listening to our people
Every two years, Nufarm administers  a global survey of employees across the business. The most recent survey 
was conducted in September 2014. 
The high level results from the 2014 survey were similar to 2012, with engagement levels between the third 
and fourth quartile compared to a  
peer group of companies. The major drivers of engagement were working relationships and intrinsic satisfaction  in the job, followed by the culture  
of the organisation. 
The areas identified for improvement 
from the 2014 survey feedback 
included clarifying roles and standards 
of behaviour, communication of the strategy, and reward and recognition. As a result the following activities and initiatives are well underway:
•  updating and relaunching the Nufarm 
code of conduct in a way that is connected to the Nufarm values and 
sets out our standards of behaviour  
in a way that resonates with people  in all parts of the organisation;
• continuing to evolve the Nufarm awards program to attract nominations across all parts of the company, 
celebrating success locally and •  encouraging all staff across the 
Merak, Indonesia, site to actively participate in toolbox and safety 
meetings, with a schedule set at  
the beginning of each year to ensure that everyone is given an opportunity to participate;
•  dedicating time in daily meetings  
at the Laverton Pipe Road, Australia, site to identify and discuss a safety 
focus for each department;
• establishing a safety mentor program 
at the Chicago Heights, United States, site whereby experienced and 
respected staff members tour the  
site and discuss safety with their colleagues as they work; and
•  increasing the frequency of 
management walking tours at our sites to raise awareness and reinforce 
the safety of our operations.
Interns at the Fortaleza, Brazil, site.Achieving sustainable 
competitive advantage 
requires that we continue 
to improve our capability 
across the company. 
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  25Asia
Nufarm’s Merak, Indonesia, site  
actively participates in local community activities, which included helping 
to paint the local district mosque. 
In addition, the site welcomes the community to learn more about the business through hosting open days, 
which included welcoming local  
schools to tour the facility in 2015.
Europe
Our French team hosted 12 local chemistry students at the Nufarm Gaillon facility for a seven-day 
education program, a major 
component of the students’ baccalaureate in chemistry and  process qualification. This collaboration 
between local industry and education 
bodies has operated for three years, with the aim of inspiring the students  
to continue careers in chemistry through providing them hands-on experience. The site has also recently completed a project to improve the local environment through the safe 
installation of beehives at the facility.We do not have a company-wide 
community engagement policy or strategy but prefer our local sites  to develop and implement their own approach, making sure the 
people important to our industry 
and operations are engaged, participating and supported.
We are a member of the Business for 
Millennium Development alliance, an Australian-based independent not-for-profit organisation that encourages  and facilitates business activities  
that contribute to the Millennium 
Development Goals. We are actively involved with projects that seek  to create sustainable economic 
development progress in developing 
countries.
Extensive work experience programs 
take place at many of our sites 
providing young people with safe  
and rewarding experiences across  all areas of our business. 
The following is a snapshot of some  
of Nufarm’s community engagement activities across our global operations.
Australia and New Zealand
The ANZ team’s commitment to community engagement includes ongoing education and stewardship 
programs, tours and manufacturing  
site visits, and community group and business partnerships. Students are regularly invited to participate 
in programs gaining experience  
working in offices, laboratories  and manufacturing facilities. 
Our Croplands machinery business, 
based in South Australia, recently 
embarked on a series of research projects working closely with students from the University of South Australia. 
Under the supervision of Croplands 
personnel, the students undertake research to provide recommendations on marketing and engineering topics. Croplands also has a successful community sponsorship program  called Cash for Communities, which encourages customers to nominate 
charities to receive donations. In 2015, 
the program supported sports teams, community projects and charities that benefit the disadvantaged.
Top Croppers
® is Nufarm Australia’s 
grower loyalty program, providing 
growers with points for each eligible 
purchase to be redeemed for a variety 
of rewards in an online store. Nufarm has partnered with beyondblue, Australia’s national depression initiative 
working with rural communities 
throughout Australia, enabling growers to use their Top Croppers points to donate to beyondblue. In 2015, over $17,000 was donated through 
the partnership.
Nufarm Australia has continued its 
successful Cropping for the Community 
initiative, whereby we donate a portion 
of product sales purchased through local participating agribusinesses to nominated local schools and sporting clubs. In 2015, over $29,000 was 
donated through the program.We aim to support our contribution to society through developing community-strengthening 
partnerships and ensuring alignment with, or exceeding, community standards for  corporate behaviours.SOCIETAL CONTRIBUTION
Students and teachers taking part in a seven-day education program at the Gaillon facility.
26  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Nufarm’s United Kingdom business 
partners annually with Bradford University to sponsor the Nufarm  
Prize, an award presented to that 
year’s valedictorian in chemistry, pharmaceutical and forensic sciences. An award and cash prize was presented 
to this year’s winner by Wyke site 
laboratory manager Toby Sharif.
South America
Our business in Brazil has developed  a nationally respected internship program for young men and women 
aged between 19 and 25. The program 
provides young people with paid experience in their choice of business functions for a period of up to two 
years, along with access to support  
and training opportunities. In total,  the program has welcomed 256 interns since its launch, with many interns offered full-time positions with Nufarm 
at the completion of their internships. 
 In Colombia, our team engages regularly with local community leaders 
though quarterly meeting held at  
our Nufarm site. During the meeting, site management shares information about our activities and programs  and answers questions from local 
community members.North America
The United States team launched a 
promotion aimed at raising funds for the Green Care for Troops charity,  
a non-profit organisation providing 
military families with assistance in maintaining their green spaces while family members are on military 
deployment. A special edition of 
Nufarm’s Spectro 90 WDG fungicide was launched in a camouflaged pack design, with $15 from each unit sold donated to the charity. 
Nufarm’s Calgary facility is an active 
member of its local community. Each year representatives from the facility 
conduct a meet-and-greet and plant 
tour with neighbours who reside within the facility’s emergency zone. 
Our Alsip site has an established 
partnership with the Chicago High 
School for Agricultural Sciences. A three-year beekeeping apprentice 
program is the latest project that seeks 
to provide students with hands-on experience in a working environment. The apprentice beekeepers work 
closely with Nufarm staff at the facility’s 
‘Ideas Farm’, a creative space that acts as a demonstration, experiment and learning centre. 
The Mexican team works with schools 
to educate children about reforestation and taking care of the environment.  They recently visited a school in the 
Guadalajara province, spending time 
speaking with the children and planting trees across the school grounds.
Interns receiving certificates after completing a presentation skills training course.Our business in Brazil 
has developed a 
nationally respected 
internship program for 
young men and women 
aged between 19 and 25.
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  27In the United States, for example, 
Nufarm is actively involved in sponsoring an industry weed resistance 
management newsletter sent to 
growers, providing information and techniques for managing resistance. 
Through our large portfolio of products 
Nufarm is often able to provide a variety of product options, allowing growers to alternate the chemistry  they use.
In November 2014, Nufarm took  
the opportunity to gather more than  30 members of our chemistry and 
marketing teams with the aim of 
understanding four key objectives in relation to resistance management:
•  creating a common global and 
technical foundation;
•  understanding opportunities for 
resistance programs and products;
•  defining current and emerging 
resistance, weed and drift trends globally; and
•  selecting global initiatives to solve 
resistance issues for growers.In 2015, our European team launched a product stewardship policy, setting out minimum compulsory requirements for our operations in that region. Nufarm 
will look to apply the fundamentals 
from this policy across all regions.
Drift management
Damage to crops caused by off-target spraying is a concern for Nufarm  and users of our products. We take 
proactive steps to minimise the  
risk of this occurring.
We carefully formulate our products  
to have low volatility and drift profiles, 
and educate growers in safe and sustainable use. 
Resistance
Repeated application of the same crop protection products can lead to weed resistance. Nufarm has a number 
of management strategies in place, 
including the provision of education programs for growers about how to prevent the development of disease 
resistance.As a result of this, our people are 
better educated and informed when 
making decisions aimed at improving 
our ability to provide resistance management options to growers.
Technology such as the WEEDit 
machinery range sold by Croplands, 
our spray equipment business in Australia, allows for highly targeted use of chemicals by using infrared cameras 
to detect and spray individual weeds. 
By using less chemicals, growers are able to consider using alternative,  more expensive chemical options  that were previously not economical.
In Australia, Nufarm recently received 
registration for the use of its weedmaster DST glyphosate formulation for ‘over 
the top’ use in glyphosate-tolerant 
cotton. In order to ensure that growers are using the product safely, considering resistance outcomes and to meet the requirements of the registration, 
all users must complete a Nufarm-
developed stewardship accreditation course, available at cottonwise.com.au 
In addition to providing the 
accreditation, the website allows users to register their use of weedmaster DST, record applications and set reminders for field surveys. A similar 
accreditation exists for the product’s 
usage in glyphosate-tolerant canola.We aim to deliver end user and societal benefits from the 
responsible and ethical management of our products throughout each product’s lifecycle. Our innovative technology and product development seeks to contribute to reducing agriculture’s environmental footprint.PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our stewardship activities seek to reduce agriculture’s environmental footprint.
28  |  NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Nufarm recognises the enhanced 
business value of a robust approach  to procurement. We have developed  
a draft policy document and 
implemented a new procurement structure that aligns business requirements and best practices.
The global procurement policy 
articulates a set of foundation principles, covering:
• human rights;
• labour rights;
• environmental impacts;
• local entrepreneurship;
• empowerment; and
• governance.The objective of this policy is to ensure that all procurement activities carried out by Nufarm:
• provide value for money to the company in categories including  
price, quality, availability and 
functionality;
• encompass the entire life cycle  
of products;
• consider environmental aspects, including the effect upon the environment that the assets, 
supplies and/or services have 
over the whole life cycle;
• consider social aspects, including effects on issues such as poverty eradication, inequality in the 
distribution of resources, labour 
conditions, human rights,  fair-trade; and
• use sustainable or recycled materials or products.Integrating these principles into  the procurement of all goods  and services assists Nufarm in its sustainability and corporate social 
responsibility commitments.
The role of procurement is to help 
improve operational efficiencies, 
decrease overall costs and enhance 
Nufarm’s ability to react quickly to unexpected changes in supply or demand. We proactively engage  with employees, assets, suppliers, 
contractors, customers and visitors 
where procurement decisions have  the potential to impact safety. 
Our procurement approach, based  
on class-leading processes, operational discipline and stakeholder engagement aims to deliver competitive advantage and achieve value for money on a 
whole-of-life basis, whilst minimising 
damage to the environment. It focuses on generating benefits to Nufarm, as well as local communities and economies.PROCUREMENT STEWARDSHIP
We will engage with our suppliers to ensure that they uphold the same sustainability 
standards that we hold ourselves accountable to.
The role of procurement 
is to help improve 
operational efficiencies, 
decrease overall costs 
and enhance Nufarm’s 
ability to react quickly 
to unexpected changes 
in supply or demand. 
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  |  29103–105 Pipe Road 
Laverton North Victoria 3026 AustraliaTelephone + 61 3 9282 1000 
Facsimile + 61 3 9282 1001
nufarm.com