Sustainability Report  
2018
Contents
04 Nufarm at a glance
06 About Us
11 Managing director’s message
12 Materiality
14 Stakeholder engagement
16 Safety22 Ethical sourcing
24 Our people
30 Governance33 Environment39 Product stewardship
42 Community44 GRI content indexAbout this report
This report, prepared by Nufarm Limited, 
provides information relating to our sustainability practices and performance for the financial year ending 31 July 2018 (referred to in this report as 2018). This reporting period aligns with our financial reporting. Details of our annual and half yearly financial performance can be found in our financial reports, which are available on our website: nufarm.com,  
as is our 2017 sustainability report.
Our annual sustainability report reports  
on a range of parameters and activities 
including health, safety, environment,  
our people practices and community relations and covers Nufarm’s significant locations and operations. 
This report covers all Nufarm’s businesses 
including wholly owned subsidiaries.  
The health and safety data includes permanent and non-permanent employees across Nufarm manufacturing sites, offices and regional service centres. 
Environmental data is provided by our 
manufacturing plants and summarised  
for this report. At present , it does not include environmental data from Nuseed, our sales offices or distribution centres, however these represent a small percentage of our environmental footprint. Nufarm finalised its manufacturing rationalisation during 2016. Historical  
data in this report includes former Nufarm operations. 2017 data reflects Nufarm’s new manufacturing footprint. This year Nufarm sold a small manufacturing site located in Yenda, Australia. This was a minor operation and as a result was not included in Nufarm’s environmental footprint historically. We consolidated  
our research facilities in 2017; final environmental data related to closure  
of our facility in Paris, France, is included  
in this report.
Last year, as a part of aligning our 
sustainability reporting with the GRI standard, we completed a preliminary materiality assessment. This report meets many of the core standards and some  
of the material, specific disclosures as  
per the GRI content index.
This report has been reviewed and 
approved by Nufarm’s managing director and chief executive officer Greg Hunt. 
For more information please  
contact Nufarm’s head office  
on +61 (0) 3 9282 1000.
Nufarm Limited ABN 37 091 323 31203
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Regional HQ
Seed R &DManufacturing Facilities Sales countriesLinz 
Austria
Cairo
Egypt
Fortaleza
Brazil
Sao PauloBrazil
MelbourneAustralia
2 sites, Laverton AustraliaMerak IndonesiaKualaLumpurMalaysiaGaillon
FranceWyke
UK
Alsip & Chicago Heights USA
Kwinana
AustraliaDuesseldorf
Germany
Shanghai 
Procurement 
Hub ChinaNufarm at a glance
12 crop 
protection 
manufacturing and  
15 seed production 
operations 
globally 10 of our 12 
Manufacturing 
sites LTI free for  
more than  
a year 
Aquaterra™ omega-3  
canola registered in  
3 countriesRevenue was
$3.3b
Environment 
reduction in water  
withdrawal226 ML We develop  
and manufacture 
quality herbicides, 
fungicides, insecticides  
and seed treatment 
products
04
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Regional HQ
Seed R &DManufacturing Facilities Sales countriesLinz 
Austria
Cairo
Egypt
Fortaleza
Brazil
Sao PauloBrazil
Melbourne
Australia
2 sites, Laverton AustraliaMerak IndonesiaKualaLumpurMalaysiaGaillon
FranceWyke
UK
Alsip & Chicago Heights USA
Kwinana
AustraliaDuesseldorf
Germany
Shanghai 
Procurement 
Hub ChinaCorporate Social 
Responsibility 
assessment of  
key suppliers
37%Female  
out of 3,217  
employees24%Lost time injury 
frequency rate 
reduced by
Target 078%
05
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018About us 
Nufarm works with growers around the world to fight disease, weeds and pests and 
to increase crop yields. Nufarm is publicly owned and listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange (ASX) (symbol NUF). Our companies manufacture, distribute and market crop 
protection chemicals. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Nuseed, grows and distributes seeds and seed treatment products. 
Nufarm holds more than 3,300 crop 
protection product registrations in countries around the world. Significant active ingredients in our products include 2,4-D, MCPA, Glyphosate, Azoxystrobin, Tebuconazole and Imidacloprid and  
we sell these in leading brands such as: Crucial, Agroxone, Weedmaster, Stabilan, Nuprid, Kaiso, Amicide, Credit, Tazer, Cuproxat and Mystic. Nuseed focuses  
on three specialty crops: canola,  
sorghum and sunflowers. 
We market our products in 100 countries, 
with our primary markets being in  
Australia and New Zealand, Europe,  
North America, Latin America and Asia. Our products are sold into the agricultural distribution channel and directly to large farms in some regions.
Our global head office is located at 
Laverton North in Victoria, Australia, which is also the site of our largest manufacturing plant. Including those in Australia, Nufarm has manufacturing and seed production facilities in 27 locations across the world.
Strategic alliances and 
acquisitions
The company has strategic alliances  
with a number of agricultural and 
chemical companies, including Sumitomo Chemical Company Limited, which holds 15.88 per cent of Nufarm Ltd shares. These alliances involve joint marketing rights to certain products, and research and development collaborations. This year Nufarm entered into a strategic alliance with Farmers Edge, a global leader in precision agriculture.
This year Nufarm made two significant 
portfolio acquisitions in Europe. The first was the acquisition of a portfolio of over 50 formulations and 260 product registrations from Adama and Syngenta. The second acquisition was a herbicide product portfolio from FMC, comprising eight formulations for use in cereal crops. Both acquisitions were completed in  
2018 and have been integrated into our European business. We expect to see a contribution from these additions to our portfolio and our environmental footprint in 2019. 
A strategy to meet growing 
global demand 
The world needs to increase its food 
production to meet the needs of a growing population. Nufarm’s strategy comprises of five key crop segments:  
corn; soybeans; cereals; trees, nuts, vines and vegetables; and pasture, turf and ornamentals, in four regions: Australia  
and New Zealand; Europe; Latin America, and North America. Nufarm focuses  
its resources on developing products  
in these segments to improve crop efficiency and yield for food  
production in our core regions.
Nufarm develops sustainable solutions to 
help address the growing global demand for food and feed. Global wild fish stocks are rapidly coming under pressure and in support of the move to sustainable aquaculture we developed Aquaterra™, a high DHA canola that is the first land-based source of omega 3. Just one hectare of this canola will deliver as much long-chain omega 3 as 10,000 kg of wild fish. In 2018 Nuseed received the world’s first approval of long-chain omega-3 canola from Australian regulators, the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator (OGTR) and Food Standards Australia  
New Zealand (FSANZ). Subsequent to  
the end of the 2018 financial year, it has also been approved by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in the United States. The project is on track for commercialisation in 2019. 
In addition to developing omega-3 
canola, our wholly owned subsidiary Nuseed has a strategy to develop top performing seeds, including drought and salt-resistant varieties and seeds with health-giving output traits such as,  
Monola
®, a canola that has high  
oleic, low linoleic properties.Nufarm values 
Wherever we operate around the world we aim to help farmers get more from  
their land.
Our core values are:
Responsibility: We are accountable  
for our decisions and our actions. We 
recognise that trust is at the foundation  
of relationships and that acting ethically, safely and responsibly creates that trust.
Agility: We are resourceful and 
adaptable in meeting the needs  
of our customers and our organisation.
Respect: We respect others – colleagues, 
customers and stakeholders – and our environment. We care for all of our resources.
Empowerment: We are an innovative, 
entrepreneurial organisation where 
individuals and teams can do what is  
best for the customer, the organisation 
and our stakeholders.
06
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Nufarm has a code of conduct, approved 
by Nufarm’s board of directors, to guide employees’ decision making and behaviour. New employees are inducted into our code of conduct when they  
join the organisation. In support of our values and code of conduct, in 2018  
we introduced nine new employee behaviours to guide our team in all their activities. This year we launched an education program to embed the  
new behaviours across the business. It is Nufarm’s objective to carry out  
its business with no adverse effect  
on its people, the community and  
the environment and to strive for sustainable development and continuous improvement. Our health, safety and environment (HSE) policy is available  
in the sustainability section of our corporate website.
Our supply chain
Nufarm has 12 crop protection manufacturing facilities located in  
seven countries with the most significant locations being in Australia, Austria,  
UK and North America. Nuseed has  
seed production operations in nine countries with the most significant  
being in Australia and North America. 
omega-3 harvest
Nine Elements, One Nufarm
07
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018About us continued
Our distribution of manufacturing facilities 
across Europe, North America, Latin America, Asia and Australia enables us to tailor our products to suit local conditions and respond rapidly to customer needs.  
In 2019 we will commence the construction of a new formulation facility in Greenville Mississippi in North America which will enable a consistent, high-quality and 
efficient supply of our product to the southeastern U.S. region. 
Supplier location is just one of many 
considerations that we evaluate when sourcing the raw materials and packaging needed by our manufacturing plants. We have significant suppliers located throughout Europe, Asia, North America, Brazil and Australia and more than 3,000 suppliers across all regions to support our global supply chain network. Our global procurement organisation operates out of three key hub locations  
in Australia, China and Switzerland.
We primarily sell our crop protection and 
seed products direct to channel partners, who are distributors that sell directly  
to growers and offer other agricultural inputs and advice. 
Next year we plan to refresh our 
sustainability strategy, continuing to drive improvement in this area and address  
the dynamic nature of sustainability challenges. 
Our impact on and contribution to the 
economy is as important as our financial performance. Our contribution includes both direct and indirect employment, support of farming practices to improve efficiency and productivity, the support  
of local suppliers, capital investment programs, payment of taxes and contribution to local communities. 
Financial and economic 
performance
Our financial results are released annually 
and reflect the period 1 August to 31 July. We also release our half yearly results for the period 1 August to 31 January. These reports are on our website and list all entities included in Nufarm’s consolidated results. A number of entities are included in these statements that are not covered by the environmental data in these reports; however, it is estimated that this sustainability report addresses 90 per cent of Nufarm’s environmental footprint. Table 1 provides a summary of our financial results while Table 2 shows  
out total capitalised breakdown.
 Total group assets were $5.05 billion.
Sustainability at Nufarm
In a changing world, sustainability is  
a priority for all areas of our business.  
We are committed to acting responsibly 
while providing value for our stakeholders. Our sustainability strategy has six pillars: safety; environment; our people; ethical sourcing; product stewardship; and our community responsibilities.
We are now three years into the 
deployment of our four-year sustainability strategy. Execution of the strategy is 
Table 1 – Annual financial results
Year ended 31 July Revenue Operating Costs
1Underlying EBIT
($000) 2018 2017Change 
% 2018 2017Change 
% 2018 2017Change 
%
Crop protection
Australia and  
New Zealand  590,151  654,194 -9.8  580,915  602,565 -3.6  9,236  51,629 -82.1
Asia  170,680  165,633 3.0  148,500  141,204 5.2  22,180  24,429 -9.2
Europe  642,571  539,803 19.0  556,121  453,976 22.5  86,450  85,827 0.7
North America  833,705  761,050 9.5  756,254  690,785 9.5  77,451  70,265 10.2
Latin America  885,232  821,835 7.7  794,459  732,420 8.5  90,773  89,415 1.5
Total crop 
protection  3,122,339  2,942,515 6.1 2,836,249  2,620,950 8.2  286,090  321,565 -11.0
Seed Technologies – global  185,508  168,600 10.0  151,197  132,201 14.4  34,311  36,399 -5.7
Corporate  -  - n/a  55,298  55,679 -0.7  (55,298)  (55,679) -0.7
Nufarm Group  3,307,847  3,111,115 6.3 3,042,744  2,808,830 8.3  265,103  302,285 -12.3
1. Operating costs equals revenue less underlying earnings before interest and tax (EBIT).
Table 2 – Capitalised breakdown
2018
($000,000)
Net Debt 1,374 
Equity 1,972
Total capitalised breakdown 3,346
08
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018largely on track at this stage, and as  
we move into the fourth and final year  
of our strategy we will continue to focus 
on the ethical sourcing, community and environment pillars. Next year we plan  
to refresh our sustainability strategy, continuing to drive improvement in this area and address the dynamic nature  
of sustainability challenges.The following table outlines what we 
have achieved in 2018 and what our objectives are for the next 12 months. 
Table 3 – Summary of achievements and objectives
Achievements for 2018 Objectives for 2019
Safety Implemented a process safety management (PSM) program across our 
manufacturing facilities.Embed the PSM initiatives. 
Achieved our lowest ever lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) result of 0.37, which is down from 1.76 last year.Commence a safety and sustainability leadership development program for 
executive and senior managers.
Ethical 
sourcingContinued supplier corporate social responsibility (CSR) assessments with EcoVadis; increasing from 23% to 37% of our key suppliers.Continue CSR assessments of our existing supplier base, increasing coverage.
Implemented our supply chain risk assessment policy. Implement corrective action plans for suppliers 
with low CSR scores.
Our people Successful global implementation of a new performance management system; Grow Plan Succeed (GPS).Begin execution of the global three year Inclusion and Diversity plan.
Hosted an inclusion and diversity conference in Australia and launched 
a global inclusion and diversity steering committee. Extend our Inclusion and Diversity governance framework by establishing Inclusion and diversity councils in all regions. These councils 
will lead and deploy the regional initiatives 
against the regional action plans that are aligned to the global themes.
Completed modern slavery risk assessments of all our operations and found them to be low risk.Commence modern slavery awareness training for our employees.
Environment Completed environmental gap analyses across all our manufacturing sites and implemented gap closure plans. Progress the implementation of our environmental gap closure plans.
Commenced ISO14001 implementation at our manufacturing  
site in Linz, Austria.Obtain ISO14001 certification for our site in Linz.
Commence implementation of an ISO14001 
environmental manangent system at our site  
in Port Klang, Malaysia and an ISO14001 
equivalent environmental management  
system at our Pipe Road site, Australia.
Product  
stewardshipInitiated projects to minimise the impact of our packaging by reducing waste and increasing recycling content.Deliver projects initiated in 2018 and continue with packaging sustainability 
projects.
Community We had intended to progress development of a global community engagement strategy and framework in 2018, however this has been deferred to 2019.Commence the development of a community strategy and framework. Conduct an investor environmental, social and governance (ESG) risk and priority assessment.  
In progress
• Establishing long term environmental footprint reduction targets.
• Implementing CSR assessment as a part of our new supplier evaluation process.
• Implementing a global sustainability awareness and training program for non-manufacturing employees.
• Reducing the environmental footprint of our products by sourcing more sustainable solvents and developing formulations  
with materials that have a lower end use impact.
• Optimising our product portfolio by rationalising pack sizes, which reduces resource consumption and waste.
09
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 201810
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Safety remains our biggest priority  
and we are working to ensure all of our 
employees go home safely every day.  
We do this by building a culture where we take responsibility for our personal safety  
and the safety of our co-workers and where management leads by example. 
Our most significant hazards relate  
to the potential loss of containment  
at our manufacturing sites. Our global 
process safety management (PSM) program introduced in 2017 is designed  
to manage these hazards. This year  
has seen our sites make great progress  
in implementing their PSM plans. 
This year brought us closer to our goal  
of zero harm with our lost time injury 
frequency rates and serious injury frequency rates at the lowest levels  
ever reported at Nufarm. Of our 12 manufacturing sites, 10 have been injury free for more than a year. I am extremely proud of this year’s safety performance.
Last year we put new environmental 
procedures in place to help us improve our environmental performance and  
this year we have built on that with gap analysis and closure plans developed  
for all our manufacturing sites. We  
have also implemented best practice environmental management systems  
with three of our sites now ISO14001 certified and a fourth site expected to  
achieve certification next year. 
Ensuring our raw materials are sourced 
ethically is important to our business. Last year we commenced a corporate social responsibility assessment program for  
our suppliers, which we have expanded  
in 2018. 
This year we have also taken steps to 
make Nufarm a more diverse and inclusive place to work with the implementation of policies, programs and initiatives to ensure inclusion and diversity are embedded  
in the way we conduct our business.  
We have developed an inclusion and diversity strategy that will be implemented in 2019 and overseen by an executive-level inclusion and diversity steering committee. 
At Nufarm we want to help farmers get 
more from their land. We are committed to providing our customers with great products and technical support and are focused on making our products more sustainable by reducing the waste associated with our packaging and sourcing lower impact ingredients. Looking ahead to 2019 we will refresh  our sustainability strategy and continue  
to work to improve our sustainability performance by progressing the  
objectives set out in this report.
Greg Hunt
Managing director  and chief executive officer
. Managing director’s message
Greg Hunt
Managing director and  
chief executive officer
Nufarm aims to be  a responsible business, which means being transparent about our sustainability 
performance. In this report we highlight the work we are doing to make Nufarm a more sustainable company, by focusing on improving our safety performance, managing our impact on the environment  
and striving to build an inclusive and diverse workplace for our employees. 
11
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Nufarm aims to be open and transparent 
with our stakeholders about our positive  
and negative environmental, social and economic impacts. In keeping with this objective, we are working to align our annual sustainability reporting with the core requirements of the Global Reporting Index (GRI) sustainability reporting standard. While not yet fully GRI  compliant we are moving towards this. Last year we completed a preliminary materiality assessment to identify the sustainability topics relevant to Nufarm and our industry. A survey was used to complete the study, which involved senior business decision makers, such as the board of directors and executive leadership team. We did not engage directly with external stakeholders for this study given resource limitations but will conduct a full materiality assessment  
in the future. 
The findings of this study can be found in 
figure 1 and they have been used to guide the environmental, social and economic disclosures made in this year’s report. Materiality
Significance to stakeholders
Significance to Nufarm Figure 1: Material topics
Safety first culture; Nufarm practices ethical sourcing; 
environmental regulatory compliance; conducting business 
ethically and with integrity; product regulatory compliance; supporting our customer in use of products; diverse and inclusive workplace; effective process safety management; health and regulatory compliance; zero injuries.
Engaging with communities near our manufacturing 
operations, management of legacy soil and groundwater contamination, reducing air emissions and waste, ensuring our suppliers uphold our sustainability values, screening suppliers for corporate social responsibility, supporting  
local community groups and projects.
Sustainable water use, maintaining major hazard  
facility licences, promoting integrated pest management, 
encouraging and supporting the effective recycling of packaging, providing flexible work arrangements, upholding human rights regulations, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, freedom of association and collective bargaining agreements open to all employees, transparency of political affiliations  
and contributions.
12
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 201813
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Nufarm operates its businesses with the 
involvement, support and interaction of  
a range of stakeholders. These include our employees, customers, suppliers, the local communities we operate in, government regulators, financiers and investors.  
We engage with the stakeholders  
who influence or are influenced by  
our business, consulting with them  
to understand their concerns and expectations and using the feedback  
to help shape our business strategy  
and plans. Table 4 provides a list of our stakeholder groups and the frequency with which we engage with them.
We have a variety of approaches to 
engaging with our stakeholders. Our agronomists in the field are in direct contact with the farming community, providing expertise to support the growers while receiving feedback on the issues that matter to farmers. We have a formal customer feedback mechanism in Australia called The Voice of the Customer. In addition to our day-to-day interactions, we engage our distribution channel partners in these formal surveys three times per year to understand insights into their needs enabling us to enhance the service we provide. This year, in response to feedback, we made improvements including changes to our packaging that make it safer and more ergonomic for customers to handle and use. 
We have formal mechanisms to engage 
with our employees, and at some of our manufacturing sites we work with the local community through community development programs. Through our participation in industry associations  
such as CropLife and various industry associations, we stay connected with industry-wide issues and contribute to  
their resolution. We often rely on these organisations to represent Nufarm’s interests to relevant government authorities when a collective response is required. 
Our interactions with government 
regulators keep us engaged in the regulatory process. 
We have open lines of communication 
with our investor community, enabling us to gather feedback on our activities and monitor issues important to them. Some investors are beginning to engage with Nufarm on our sustainability performance. 
To increase accessibility of information 
about our activities, we place a high priority on responding to feedback, questions or concerns and provide information on our corporate website. 
Key topics raised by our stakeholders 
include:
•  Adverse weather conditions: Nufarm 
maintains a geographically diverse footprint, allowing unfavourable conditions in one region to be offset  
by favourable conditions in other  
parts of the business.
•  The risk to our product portfolio  
through regulatory restrictions on  
active ingredients, such as glyphosate. 
Glyphosate continues to be registered for use in all countries and Nufarm rapidly responded to Europe’s regulatory composition changes  
for the product.
•  Our omega-3 canola development 
program and perceived regulatory  
risk for our high Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) canola, Aquaterra™. Aquaterra™ has now been approved by the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator (OGTR), Food Standards Australia New Zealand (FSANZ) and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
•  Nufarm’s acquisition and integration  
of the FMC and Century portfolios  
into our business. Nufarm has kept  
the market informed of our strategic 
plans through investor and media communications. We have significant experience in successfully integrating large acquisitions into our business.Stakeholder engagement
14
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Table 4 – Stakeholder groups and engagement approach
 
Stakeholder 
group Engagement approach Frequency
Investors • Financial reporting, one-on-one meetings and post result roadshows
• Investor conferences
• ASX announcements
• Annual general meeting
• Site visits and meetings 
• Sustainability reporting• Twice a year
• Four times per year
• As required
• Annual
• At investor’s request
• Annual
Financiers • One-on-one meetings
• Financial reporting
• Covenant requirements reporting• Ongoing
• Annual
• Quarterly
Employees • Employee opinion surveys
• Grow Plan Succeed 
• Town hall meetings
• Newsletters
• Emails• Every two years
• Ongoing
• Regularly
• Regularly
• Ongoing
Customers • Customer surveys
• Customer relationship management
• Company website news
• Site tours• Ongoing
• Regularly
• Ongoing
• On request
Suppliers • Supplier audits
• Supplier relationship management
• Corporate social responsibility (CSR) assessments• Initial and then as needed
• Ongoing
• Annual
Non-government organisations• Industry group forums
• Meetings• Regularly
Media • Media releases
• Interviews
• Site visits• Regularly
Local communities• Employee volunteers
• Community relations activities• Ongoing
• Ongoing
Regulators • Site visits and inspections
• Licence requirements reporting
• Meetings• Several times per year
• Annual
• As needed
15
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Our priority is to ensure that all our people 
go home safely every day. We continue to work towards our goal of zero-harm by embedding the processes that identify risks, implement risk reduction measures and foster a culture where people’s health and safety is front of mind in all we do.  
This section details our health and safety actions and improvements in 2018.
Safety performance
This year we have invested significantly  
in our safety programs and safety related plant improvements. This commitment  
has helped to us to deliver our best  
safety performance yet, with our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) and severity rate reaching the lowest levels ever recorded at Nufarm.
Since 2016 we have seen a sustained 
downward trend in the number of serious injuries (medical treatment and lost time injuries) and this year we delivered improvements across all global regions. This outcome reflects the increased effort from our manufacturing sites and other parts of the business in focusing on risk management, staff engagement and  
a strong safety culture; our leaders  
have made safety their top priority.
Our sustainability strategy has guided  
us on our improvement journey with 
initiatives including Nufarm’s health,  
safety and environment (HSE) standard and procedures, process safety management (PSM) program, systematic risk identification and management methodologies, auditing of compliance, Nufarm’s life saving rules, driver safety education programmes and safety training of leaders and staff all contributing to this improvement in safety performance across our business.
This year the nature of the injuries incurred 
by employees has been predominantly manual handling related injuries with some contact injuries, chemical irritations and a burn injury. 
We have seen a reduction in the  
severity of incidents and our sites are 
experiencing record periods of time between occurrence of serious injuries. The severity of injuries is measured by  
the length of time a person is absent from work following the injury and is shown  
on the severity index graph in Figure 3. Safety
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
1. The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) is calculated as the number of lost time injuries per million hours worked.Figure 2: 12 month rolling average lost time injury frequency rate1  Jan 2016
  Jul 2016
  Jul 2017Jan 2017
  Jul 2018Jan 2018
0.0000.0050.0100.0150.0200.0250.030Figure 3: 12 month rolling average severity rate1
 
  Jan 2016
  Jul 2016
  Jul 2017Jan 2017
  Jul 2018Jan 2018
1. The severity rate is calculated as the number of lost days of work per thousand hours worked.
16
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Gaillon  
FranceWyke  
United 
KingdomAlsip,  
United  
States
Croplands  
AustraliaCairo,  
EgyptPort Klang, 
MalaysiaRaymond 
Road, 
AustraliaChicago  
Heights,  
United  
StatesMerak,  
IndonesiaFortaleza  
BrazilLinz  
Austria
Kwinana  
Australia
Table 5 – Safety performance1
2016 2017 2018
Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate
Work related fatalities 2 0.28 0 0 0 0
High-consequence work  
related injuries20 0 0 0 0 0
Lost time injuries 15 2.28 13 1.76 5 0.37
Recordable work related injuries328 3.99 33 4.48 21 2.62
Nufarm of hours worked 7,022,109 7,371,420 8,016,914
Lost time frequency rate4
Australia and New Zealand 4.09 4.47 1.25
Asia 1.97 0.00 0.63
Europe 2.75 2.29 0.00
Latin America 1.40 0.59 0.00
North America 0.00 1.23 0.00
Group 2.28 1.76 0.37
Severity rate5
Australia and New Zealand 0.033 0.026 0.003
Asia 0.022 0.000 0.003
Europe 0.023 0.064 0.000
Latin America 0.006 0.00560.000
North America 0.000 0.004 0.000
Group 0.019 0.022 0.001
1.  All injury counts include injuries of employees and workers whose work/workplace is controlled by Nufarm. Injury rates include the hours worked by Nufarm employees and the 
majority of the hours worked by workers whose work/workplace is controlled by Nufarm. Injury rates are based on 1,000,000 hours worked.
2.  A ‘high consequence work related injury’ is one where the worker cannot, does not, or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health within six months. This excludes fatalities.
3.  A ‘recordable work related injury’ is one that may result from death, days away from work, restricted work, or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, or other significant injury as diagnosed by a physician or health care professional. However, some injuries that have resulted in restructured work or a transfer to another job may not be 
captured here. 
4. The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) is the number of lost time injuries per million hours worked.
5. Severity rate is the sum of lost days of work per thousand hours worked.
6. There was a typographical error in last year’s report with Latin America’s severity rate erroneously reported as 0.05 in 2017. This should have read 0.005.LTI-free years1 2 3 5 6 4 7
Note: Merak was incorrectly reported as seven years without an LTI last year, where the seven year anniversary occurred this year.
17
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Safety continued
This year we have provided some preliminary data on safety performance by gender which shows that neither group is more 
exposed to injuries than the other, refer to Table 6.
Table 6 – Safety performance by gender 2016 2017 2018
Lost time frequency rate
Male 2.59 1.76 0.32
Female 1.24 1.77 0.54
Group 2.28 1.76 0.37
Severity rateMale 0.023 0.022 0.001
Female 0.005 0.022 0.001
Group 0.019 0.022 0.001
 
A risk management  
approach to safety
The most significant hazards managed  
by Nufarm relate to the processing of 
various chemicals at our manufacturing sites. Our Pipe Road and Raymond Road facilities in Australia are classified as major hazard facilities (MHF) while our sites in Linz, Austria, Gaillon, France and Wyke, UK, all fall under Europe’s Seveso III directive. A disciplined, structured approach to risk management is  
at the core of our safety systems.
Risk controls to enable safe processing of 
chemicals are well established across the global chemicals manufacturing industry. Depending on the type of hazard under consideration, Nufarm uses industry best practice quantitative and qualitative risk assessment methodologies to understand the level of risk, the appropriate hierarchy of control and the layers of control to  
be applied.
These range from the relatively simple 
5-Whys type approaches used for non-routine and routine tasks through  
to sophisticated hazard and operability studies (HAZOP) and layers of protection analysis (LOPA). For these types of assessments, we use specialist facilitators and a cross-sectional team to analyse  
complex, low frequency, high consequence scenarios that have potential to occur at major hazard facilities. Nufarm has described these methodologies and their application  
in our corporate HSE standard and  
in its cascading detailed corporate procedures. Nufarm engineers, safety  
and other professionals are trained and experienced in their application. If the need is identified for further specialist expertise, Nufarm engages the relevant external resources to support the activity. Less complex hazard assessments carried  
out at a site’s operations level are supported and facilitated by trained health and safety professional staff working with those staff supervising  
and operating the plant and equipment. 
Members of the board visiting Nufarm’s Maracanau site in Brazil.
18
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018These hazard identification and risk 
assessment processes are subject to site level, corporate level and regulator audits to ensure the quality and effectiveness of these activities. Output from these audits are used as an additional input into improvements in Nufarm’s safety management system (SMS).
We manage risks using a hierarchy of 
controls, with the first consideration being to remove the hazard entirely and, if this  
is not feasible, to manage the risks using engineering controls. The next option  
in order of priority and effectiveness is reducing the risks through administrative controls. Personal protective equipment  
is used to protect people as a last line of defence. Depending on the hazard type and the assessed risk level, multiple layers of risk controls are established such that  
if any single control fails, it will not result  
in a negative event occurring. 
All Nufarm employees and non-Nufarm 
persons are expected to remove themselves from any situation where  
they believe illness or injury could result and to bring these unsafe conditions  
to the attention of management. This is documented in the Nufarm HSE standard and is emphasised regularly to staff.  
Across all sites globally staff do this  without any experience of adverse consequences. It is now part of  
Nufarm’s culture.
Hazards and incidents are reported  
in Nufarm’s incident reporting and 
investigation system which is available  
to all staff. Investigations are participatory and the methodologies used depend on the severity of the hazard or event or its potential. Each operating site runs incident management training programs and has trained HSE professionals and engineers to facilitate more complex investigations using methodologies such as root cause analysis (RCA). The high hazard  
to injury reporting ratio across Nufarm sites demonstrates that people feel safe  
in reporting hazards and near misses without the concern of adverse consequences. Serious incidents  
are escalated up to the Nufarm  
chief executive level within 24 hours  
of occurrence.
Process safety management 
Last year we launched our process  
safety management (PSM) program.  
The program was designed to take a systematic and best practice approach  
to identify and control hazards at manufacturing sites where a loss of containment could result in a catastrophic incident involving fatalities inside and/or outside the site boundary and/or significant environmental damage  
or negative community impact. At the core of this program is our PSM standard. This addresses critical risk control factors such as facility design  
and construction, hazard identification, assessment and control, operations process safety, hazardous materials management, asset integrity and reliability, management of change, competence and training and emergency planning and response. Compliance with PSM requirements is audited by Nufarm and by the regulators in the relevant jurisdiction and is subject to regulatory major hazard facility licensing in many  
of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
As a part of our PSM program, each  
site completed a detailed gap analysis 
against our PSM standard and used this  
as the basis of a PSM gap closure plan. This year our sites have focused on closing the gaps in accordance with their plan. We have now completed 52 per cent  
of the actions and expect to complete  
the plans entirely during 2020. This is a significant and critical undertaking for  
the business which is regularly monitored and reported through to executive management and the board  
HSE committee.
19
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Safety continued
Safety management  
systems (SMS)
Nufarm is a member of Responsible Care, 
an initiative of the international chemical industry to improve HSE performance of  
its operations. This program now operates in over 65 countries. Our SMS meets industry standards for the plastics and chemicals industry as described by relevant global and regional bodies  
such as Chemistry Australia. Nufarm’s SMS also aligns well with other established standards such as ISO 18001.
Nufarm’s SMS has been in place across 
our global operations for many years  
and is subject to continuous improvement arising from internal and external review and developments. It is managed from  
a corporate level down through to a regional and site level and is supported  
at each of these levels by qualified and industry experienced health and safety professionals and line managers. Where the need arises for very specialist advice, Nufarm engages appropriately qualified and experienced external consultants to advise on the issues at hand. 
The Nufarm corporate health, safety and 
environment (HSE) policy, HSE standard, HSE procedures and site specific HSE procedures are the components that make up our SMS and apply to all Nufarm 
employees and non-Nufarm persons.
Health and safety audits
Our SMS system is documented and  
self audited by sites at a set frequency.  
In addition, we undertake corporate 
audits every two years or more frequently if significant deficiencies are identified. 
Since the inception of our sustainability 
strategy three years ago we have changed our approach to auditing, focusing on, and going more deeply  
into, fewer but higher risk incident hazards. Good practices identified during these audits are transferred across to other sites facing similar challenges.  
The reports and improvement actions arising from these site audits are discussed by the group executive and board HSE committee.Typically our sites are regularly audited by government authorities to confirm compliance and Nufarm also uses external auditing organisations on  
an ad hoc basis to test particular  
sites if a need is identified.
The focus of our audit program is on  
our manufacturing sites at present as  
this is where the most serious hazards  
are located. Office environments, while 
subject to the relevant requirements  
of the Nufarm SMS, are not formally audited but will be included in future program scheduling.
Safety training
All Nufarm staff and non-Nufarm persons 
undergo occupational health and safety induction training when joining the company. Further training is provided depending on a person’s role in the organisation and the hazards they may encounter while performing their job. Workers on a chemical manufacturing  
site can receive training in areas such  
as chemical safe handling procedures, confined space entry, chemical and electrical isolation procedures, fire safety, permit to work and dangerous goods.
We use training needs assessments and 
competency based training approaches where appropriate. Delivery of training  
is normally a combination of classroom style training along with on the job, supervised training using qualified personnel. Individual training records  
are maintained and our training systems ensure follow-up refresher training is scheduled as required. This year we provided over 28,000 hours of safety training to our employees and  
non-Nufarm persons.
Health and safety committees
At Nufarm, staff participation is central  
to the development and ongoing improvement of systems of work and procedures for safe operation of plant and equipment. In many regions, this is a regulatory requirement involving worker elected representatives with prescribed roles and powers. Nufarm complies with these regulatory requirements.There are active HSE committees across our business starting at the top with  
the board HSE committee. Site based  
HSE committees provide an additional communication and planning channel  
to enable staff and management to  
work together. The committees identify improvements in staff engagement, safety culture and the SMS, and also review and deploy lessons arising from incidents.
Health and safety compliance
The chemicals industry in which Nufarm  
is a global player is highly regulated  
in each of the jurisdictions in which the company operates and Nufarm works  
to comply with external requirements.  
This regulatory oversight and license to operate along with Nufarm’s process safety management systems manages  
risk from the company’s operations on surrounding neighbourhoods to a community acceptable level.
As an operator of major hazard facilities, 
safety authorities and regulators often require periodic confirmation and verification that we have adequate, effective and sustained hazard controls  
in place. For example, our Wyke site has recently submitted its five-yearly control  
of major accident hazards (COMAH) safety report to the government  
regulator for its review. 
While we recorded five incidents  
of regulatory non-compliance with 
occupational health and safety requirements across our global operations this year, these were all promptly addressed to the satisfaction  
of the relevant regulator. Nufarm’s objective is to be fully compliant with regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
Occupational health services
Nufarm provides access to occupational health services across all its operations globally. The type and arrangements  
vary between sites depending on need. Some sites have an onsite medical centre staffed by a company doctor, company occupational health nurses and ancillary health professionals; some sites have occupational health nurses, while others contract with a local provider to deliver those services. 
20
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018We have medical surveillance programs 
specific to the type of manufacturing process, materials and potential exposures at our sites along with the requirements of the relevant health authorities. We maintain confidential employee medical records, in accordance with the medical  
profession’s standards and practices.  
Employee wellbeing
In addition to health surveillance 
programs, our occupational health services also provide a range of health and lifestyle promotion programs to support the wellbeing of our employees. These are local programs, targeted  
to the needs of the local employees.  
For example, our site in Linz, Austria established a very successful workplace health committee to provide wellness initiatives for employees, such as a recent series of employee health days.
Some sites draw on community based 
resources and promotions such as ‘RU OK Day’ in Australia which promotes checking in on the mental health of colleagues and friends. In Australia and New Zealand close to 60 employees have trained as mental health first aid officers (MHFAOs). The role of a MHFAO is to approach or be available to someone who they believe may be experiencing some level of mental health concern and provide them with support and information on how to get professional help. Our site in Wyke,  
UK has also provided mental health awareness training to its employees.Heart health, stress management and healthy eating are also topics covered  
in these health promotion programs.  
An on-line library of materials supporting these topics is available to all staff on  
the company intranet.
Non-manufacturing safety 
The most significant non-manufacturing hazard within Nufarm’s global business involves our staff driving on public roads, often in rural environments, as a part of their job. This year we continued to deliver practical defensive driver training in all our regions with the launch of a personalised, interactive, behaviour-based, defensive driver training program. The AlertDriving program was rolled out to more than 600 employees who drive a high number of kilometres each week as a part of their role. Employees access monthly training modules through an online portal and to date we have seen a good participation rate in this program. Nufarm’s driver  
risk reduction program also includes specifying active and passive safety features on company vehicles, fatigue management, restricting mobile phone use and ensuring fitness to drive.
Objectives for 2018 
In 2019 we will continue to lock-in the gains we have seen over the last few years. Our PSM program will span a number of years and we will continue  
to drive these plans embedding the  
PSM initiatives. We also intend to start  
a safety and sustainability leadership development program for executives  
and senior management.
Managing director and CEO Greg Hunt with employees and a grower.
21
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Nufarm recognises that our social and 
environmental responsibilities extend beyond our own footprint and we have  
a strategic objective to engage with our suppliers to uphold the same sustainability standards that we hold ourselves accountable to. 
This year we progressed the 
implementation of our ethical  
sourcing strategy.
Our supply chain values
Nufarm believes in acting ethically  
and responsibly in every aspect of our business and we expect our suppliers to do the same. These values help to guide supplier selection and the ongoing evaluation of our supplier relationships. We have a global supplier code of conduct that sets out our expectations  
of our suppliers’ behaviour, addressing business conduct, environment, human rights, child and forced labour and employee health and safety.
Nufarm’s human rights policy establishes 
our zero-tolerance stance on all forms of modern slavery in our operations and supply chain. 
A copy of both our supplier code of 
conduct and human rights policy can  
be found in the corporate governance section of our website.
Improving our purchasing 
systems platform
Over the last few years, Nufarm has 
undertaken an ambitious program to transform our global business systems, including our procurement systems.
In 2018, we commenced the 
implementation of Ariba, a global supplier and procurement management system and RiskMethods, a global supply chain risk monitoring system. The global roll out of these new systems will continue into 2019. These systems will provide our procurement teams with a consistent approach to negotiating and entering agreements with our suppliers in the future, giving us a greater capacity to integrate sustainability measures into our procurement processes. This year we continue to embed our new business systems into everyday operations. Supplier corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) 
assessment
Nufarm has partnered with EcoVadis  
to conduct corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) assessments of our suppliers.  
This process increases our supply  
chain transparency and is an important step towards improving the sustainability of our supply chain. 
EcoVadis is a global leader, providing  
CSR ratings and scorecards for over 30,000 companies. The collaborative platform evaluates suppliers’ environmental, social, ethical and sustainable procurement policies,  
actions and results. 
In 2017, Nufarm completed CSR 
assessments on 23 per cent of existing suppliers, and in 2018 we increased  
this to 37 per cent of existing suppliers (measured as a percentage of total spend). The average CSR performance  
of nearly all of our suppliers has also increased over this period. Once a supplier is onboarded to EcoVadis, their CSR assessment is repeated annually.The adoption of EcoVadis has provided  
us with valuable insight into our suppliers’ sustainability practices. This year we established an internal minimum standard for our suppliers. In 2019, we will work with those suppliers who scored below this level to implement mutually agreed corrective action plans to help drive environmental and social improvements  
in our supply chain. 
Our existing suppliers are our most 
important and the focus of our supply chain CSR program. New suppliers represent a small portion of our total spend and we have not screened them on social or environmental criteria this year, however we will expand the use of CSR assessment as an element of our new supplier evaluation process in the future. 
Supplier risk management
A risk based approach has been adopted to determine supplier priority  
for CSR assessment. Our supply chain risk management policy considers the risk associated with the supplier’s country  
of operation, their importance to Nufarm and their industry. Nufarm has a number of important chemical suppliers in China and India who were given a high priority for CSR assessment based on country risk. 90% of these suppliers have now been invited to undertake an assessment.
Once RiskMethod is fully implemented 
across our business, when combined  
with EcoVadis it will provide Nufarm  
with a solid platform for monitoring  
and responding to a broad spectrum  
of supply chain risks. 
Environmental and social 
performance in our  
supply chain
Our suppliers are primarily chemical or 
packaging manufacturers. The potential significant environmental impacts of these industries are hazardous waste and air emissions, effluent, resource consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. The hazardous chemicals used by our suppliers present a higher occupational health and safety risk to their workers, however, these industries typically provide extensive safety training and this requires workers with above average skill Ethical sourcing
Figure 4: Percentage 
of suppliers in our CSR assessment program
2017 201823%37%
22
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018and education levels. While we recognise 
the risk of modern slavery exists in all supply chains, our main suppliers are not as vulnerable to modern slavery practices as are industries that rely on workers  
to carry out manual or menial tasks.
Of the suppliers assessed in this  
reporting period, none were found  
to have significant actual or potential 
environmental impacts, however  
a ship carrying our cargo experienced very heavy seas off the eastern coast of Australia leading to the loss or damage  
of over 120 containers. None of the containers carrying our materials were damaged and none of our materials were released to the environment because of this incident.
Also, of our suppliers assessed this year, 
none were found to have significant actual or potential social impacts and there was no clear evidence of child or forced labour. However, some suppliers failed to provide documentation to support their claims that they were compliant with globally acceptable labour practices and we recognise that some suppliers need more support in undertaking our CSR assessment process. 
Nufarm has not needed to terminate  
any business relationships due to negative 
environmental or social impacts this year.
In 2019, we will roll out an education 
module to raise our employees’ level  
of awareness of modern slavery, its occurrence in global supply chains,  
and actions they can take to help  
change this abhorrent practice.In line with the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act, we publish a modern slavery statement on the actions we have taken to identify and prevent modern slavery in our supply chains. A copy of this can be found on the home page of our corporate website. 
Inspecting a crop in Latin America. 
23
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Our people are integral to our business 
and their commitment and talent are a key component of our success. Nufarm is a global organisation that aims to provide an inclusive work environment where individuals are valued for their diversity and empowered to reach their full potential. We believe we are stronger when our plans and operations reflect  
the thinking of all our people, representing a broad range of backgrounds, cultures and experience.
Nufarm is focused on improving inclusion 
and diversity outcomes across the business as we believe this will help realise the potential of each employee. This year we established relevant policies, programs and initiatives to ensure inclusion and diversity are embedded in the way we conduct our business. Some examples include the establishment of  
an inclusion and diversity governance structure and executive steering committee, development of an inclusion and diversity strategy, and deployment  
of our global inclusion and diversity  
policy with a focus on increasing  
female representation at Nufarm.Nufarm’s workforce
In 2018, we employed 3,217 full time equivalent (FTE) people across five regions, an increase of less than 1 per  
cent (28 FTEs), from the previous year.  
This slight increase can be attributed  
to our continued focus on our customers, with additional FTE headcount predominantly in the sales function. 
Most of our workforce remains full time 
with 86 per cent permanent employees and 14 per cent contract or non-permanent employees. Where the nature of the role allows it, we support flexible work arrangements, with four per cent  
of our workforce operating with part  
time arrangements.
Our sites employ casual, contract labour 
to support some manufacturing activities, which include labelling and packing our products. These people are engaged for short periods of time to support seasonal demand. Nufarm will also engage the professional services of contractors  
who have unique knowledge or skills to support specific project activities. These include, but are not limited to, engineers  and information technology experts.  
Across the year, it is estimated that Nufarm had an additional 16% of our full time equivalent workforce working on our  
sites in contract roles. We endeavour to provide a more agile workforce in terms of non- permanent and contract labour  
to better respond to the needs of the business.
Employee data presented in this report 
has been sourced from our global human resource management system and local payroll systems. Unless otherwise specified, all data is reported as FTE. Further information on our workforce make up can be found in Tables 7 and 8.  Our people
Table 7 – Our employees by gender
 
2017 2018
 Female % Female Male Total Female % Female Male Total
Employee employment contracts
Permanent 687 25 2,055 2,742 701 25 2,050 2,751
Non-Permanent 43 10 404 447 67 14 399 466
Total 730 23 2,459 3,189 768 24 2,449 3,217
Employee employment type1
Full time 683 22 2,394 3,077 721 23 2,426 3,147
Part time 84 56 67 151 92 73 34 126
Total 767 24 2,461 3,228 813 25 2,460 3,273
1. Reported as head count.
Table 8 – Our employees’ employment contracts
 
2017 2018
 Permanent Non-permanent Total PermanentNon-
permanent Total
Employee region
Australia and New Zealand 666 27 693 677 13 690
Asia 347 372 719 338 335 673
Europe 887 18 905 840 93 933
Latin America 531 17 548 599 6 605
North America 311 13 324 297 19 316
Total 2,742 447 3,189 2,751 466 3,217
24
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Parental leave was accessed by two per 
cent of the workforce. Men represented  
18 per cent (less than one per cent of the male workforce) while women represented 82 per cent (seven per cent  
of the female workforce) of parental  
leave taken. Refer to Table 9.Table 9 – Number of employees using parental leave
2017 2018
 Female Male Female Male
Took parental leave 41 32 57 13
Returned from parental leave - - 48 13
Women at Nufarm
Nufarm’s gender diversity program  
is focused on empowering all our employees by actively addressing the barriers to equality, and creating a level playing field and inclusive culture for  
both men and women.
In 2018, we had a conscious focus on 
improving female representation across all areas of the business, with 30 per cent of new or vacant positions filled by female candidates. This was a 33 per cent increase in female placement from 2017 (23 per cent). Our new employee and turnover information can be found  
in table 10. 
Globally, in 2018 we saw a slight increase 
in female representation to 24 per cent, up from 23 per cent in 2017. This increase can be seen across most regions and functions at Nufarm. 
Female representation increased in the 
Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) region by three per cent and is attributed to broader inclusion initiatives introduced during 2018 including, but not limited to, extending flexible working arrangements with the introduction of purchased leave and gender neutral parental leave policies, unconscious bias training and  
a forum to raise awareness of gender equality and women in agriculture. The ANZ region piloted some new recruitment strategies to reduce potential bias, including the introduction of inclusive language in advertisements to target wider talent pools. The European region also continues to target gender equality. Most functions improved female representation, with the largest increase in sales and supply chain. The sales function had a 20 per cent increase  
in female representation compared  
to last year. Of the increased sales  
FTE headcount, 61 per cent of the roles  
were filled by females. The supply chain function saw a 14 per cent increase  
in the female population, representing  
an overall 2.7 per cent uplift in female population across our two largest functions. In the female dominated functions of finance and human  
resources, male representation  
increased in 2018. Refer over  
the page to table 11.
 Table 10 – Employee hire and turnover
New employees Turnover
 %1%1
Employee age group
Under 30 years old 32 -25
30-50 years old 54 -55
Over 50 years old 14 -20
Employee gender
Female 30 -25
Male 70 -75
Employee region
Australia and New Zealand 22 -24
Asia 15 -25
Europe 25 -21
Latin America 24 -14
North America 14 -16
1.  New employee hires for each employee age group, gender and region are calculated as a percentage of the total new hires. Employee turnover percentages are calculated for 
each employee age group, gender and region as a percentage of the total turnover. 
25
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Our people continued
Board of directors and 
employee diversity
Our global footprint enables a culturally 
diverse workforce of leaders and teams, representing local cultures and customers in over 100 countries. Twenty-five per  
cent of the non-executive board reside outside of Australia and our leadership team is culturally diverse, with at least  
six different cultural backgrounds represented; we have one of the most culturally diverse leadership teams on  
the ASX200. Nufarm’s employee self-disclosed data indicates that our workforce originates from no less than  
56 different countries and speaks  
at least 16 different languages. 
Women continue to represent 
approximately 20 per cent of people leadership positions across Nufarm. Female representation at board level remains stable at 25 per cent Figure 5: Employees and percentage of female 
employees per region
2017
Australia and
 New ZealandAsia Europe Latin America North America201823%26%
2017 201818%19%
2017 201823%24%
2017 201824%23%
2017 201830% 31%
Female Male
26
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018non-executive directors, while female 
representation increased at the  
executive and senior management level from 16 per cent in 2017 to 23 per cent  
this financial year.  
Inclusion programs
To help grow Nufarm’s local talent we continued to expand our regional youth strategy through a variety of global programs. The 2018 financial year saw  
the addition of an ‘Agriculture Future of America’ program that supports the development of a pipeline of talent through engaging and mentoring future agriculture leaders in that region. We continue to recruit across the career lifespan with 32 per cent of new hires aged less than 30 years of age, 54 per cent between 30-50 years and 14 per cent over the age of 50. Our longer-term intent is to increase internal mobility, and as we grow and develop our internal talent to fill more senior roles, we will increase numbers in our younger  
age groups to backfill the roles  
inherently left vacant. 
Disability and inclusion programs offered 
in North America provide opportunities for individuals with developmental disabilities and/or those living with mental illness to work part time in areas that fit their skills.  
In Brazil, we continue to meet the agreed quotas to hire people with disabilities.
This year we also introduced NuLead,  
a One Nufarm leader development 
program. The program targets leaders  
at all levels of the business and aims to improve our inclusive leadership and 
coaching capability. The initial module 
focused on cultivating better connections through quality conversations that inspire employees to grow and learn, to plan what is important, and ultimately succeed through enabling quick solutions to challenges. More than 68 per cent of  
all managers participated in this program. This capability helped provide our leaders with the tools and techniques  
to have more effective conversations across the organisation and complements the performance management cycle.  
The second module focused on using evidence to reduce the bias in people-related decision making.
The 2018 financial year saw the 
introduction of One Nufarm behaviours. The behaviours were launched with a One Nufarm celebration day in regions where all employees had the opportunity to celebrate our heritage and the 
achievement of over 100 years working 
with farmers and growers and our journey to becoming the company  
we are today. 
Table 11 – Employee functional groups
 2017 2018
 Female % Female Male Total Female % Female Male Total
Supply chain 237 17 1,165 1,402 271 19 1,156 1,427
Sales 155 15 876 1,031 187 17 897 1,084
Portfolio solutions 97 35 179 276 99 36 175 274
Finance 139 58 100 239 127 53 112 239
Corporate 57 46 66 123 35 49 37 72
Information technology 8 11 63 71 11 15 60 71
Human resources 37 79 10 47 38 76 12 50
Total 730 23 2,459 3,189 768 24 2,449 3,217
 
Table 12 – Gender and overall age diversity of the board of directors and employees
2017 2018
Gender Gender Overall age (male and female)
 % Female % Female % < 30 years  % 30-50 years % > 50 years
Board of Directors125 25 100
Key management personnel20 0 <1 <1
Executive and senior management 16 23 <1 2 2
People manager 21 19 <1 12 5
Professionals 22 27 9 29 9
Manufacturing shop floor 8 7 3 12 8
Administration 81 69 1 4 2
Other 45 41 <1
Total 23 24 15 59 26
1. Greg Hunt, managing director and chief executive officer is included with the key management personnel in this table.
2. Key management personnel are defined in the director’s report in our annual report which is available in the investor centre on our corporate website. 
3. Age group percentages are based on 3,178 FTEs, rather than 3,217 FTE’s, because disclosure of some personal data is not mandatory in our human resources business system.
27
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Our people continued
Performance and career 
development
Last year we redesigned our 
performance management program aligning it with industry best practice.  
We adopted a more agile approach  
to objective setting to ensure employee priorities and development goals are closely aligned with business objectives. We call this program Grow Plan Succeed (GPS) and as a part of this program, all employees are expected to engage  
in regular check-in conversations with managers and matrix managers to frequently discuss performance and development in real time. This is our first full year with the new program in place and we are seeing the success already with performance objectives captured in  
our new system for at least 7 4 per cent  
of women and 75 per cent of men.
Training and education is an important 
element of employee development and employees across all regions receive diverse training, relevant to their positions and responsibilities. Currently, training information is compiled by each site  
or department, however as a future development to our new global human resources management system, we will be implementing a training management module to provide greater visibility  
of global employee training and education metrics. 
Apprenticeships are an important 
opportunity for young people to develop hands-on, practical experience in a real work environment. Our apprenticeship program continues at Wyke, UK with the intake of five new apprentices into process manufacturing, engineering and instrumentation and control roles. We also take on engineering apprentices at our sites in Maracanau, Brazil and Laverton North, Australia.
Nufarm provides career endings support 
for employees leaving the company due to termination of employment on a region by region basis. This could take the form  
of career transition support, language programs or other employee specific tuition programs.
Human rights
Last year we developed a human rights policy to articulate our position on matters such as collective bargaining, modern slavery, inclusion and diversity and equal opportunity. Our policy recognises and respects employees’ rights and freedoms to join or not to join organisations of their choosing, to associate freely and bargain collectively: 31 per cent of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 
Employment and business decisions 
based on attributes unrelated to job performance, such as race, gender or sexuality, are not tolerated. This year  
we had no incidents of discrimination.
Nufarm has adopted a zero-tolerance 
stance to all forms of modern slavery,  
both in our operations and our supply chains. Last year we commenced modern slavery assessments of our operations, 
looking at the process and controls in 
place to prevent any form of modern slavery entering our business through our own recruitment practices or the use of third party labour providers. This year we completed these assessments. Nufarm’s operations are not at significant risk of forced or compulsory labour or child labour (persons under 15 years of age).  
As a policy, we do not employ young workers (persons under 18 years of age)  
in hazardous areas and our operations have controls in place to ensure this policy is maintained. Under the UK Modern Slavery Act, we publish a modern slavery statement on our corporate website.
Employee remuneration  
and benefits
Employee remuneration is determined  
at a regional level, taking into 
consideration the job description,  
local market remuneration rates, the  
skills and experience of the employee and criticality of the role. This year we began deploying a revised remuneration framework to formalise our standards. Nufarm determines its own employees’ remuneration, engaging the external services of remuneration specialists or market data providers on a case  
by case basis. 
Benefits provided to employees vary 
between regions and local employment conditions, however Nufarm contributes  
to retirement plans for all employees, meeting local regulatory requirements  
as a minimum.
In 2018, we completed a gender pay  
gap analysis in the UK, identifying that  
we were compliant and had no issues  to resolve. This year we also developed  
a three-year inclusion and diversity plan. One of the deliverables of this plan  
will be to conduct a pay parity review 
across at least two other business regions  
and develop an action plan based  
on findings. 
Employee opinion survey
In 2018 we also introduced a #talktous employee opinion survey (EOS) to capture feedback from employees on the global initiatives introduced following the 2016 survey. Overall the result remained stable with sentiment moving in the right direction during a time of significant change. Progress against some of our global initiatives introduced following the  
2016 EOS include:
•  A positive sentiment towards the  
new contemporary and technology-
enabled GPS cycle. 
•  Our information and technology 
transformation continues to extend our global systems and processes into each region, allowing employees to better serve our customers.
•  Employee recognition is still an area  
for improvement and we recently 
introduced a global recognition program aligned to our One  
Nufarm behaviours.
Looking ahead
Nufarm believes that inclusion  
and diversity are both critical to our sustainable growth. A key enabler to achieving growth is to develop our talent and continue to build an inclusive culture. As a continuation of our efforts we have now refreshed our strategic approach to inclusion and diversity and identified key themes to focus the company’s attention and efforts. Over the next three years we will be executing our global inclusion  
and diversity plan and establish inclusion and diversity councils in all regions. 
Initially the inclusion and diversity plan  
will focus on developing a clear vision for 
inclusion and diversity at Nufarm. We will provide education to increase awareness of unconscious bias and how each employee can help bring our inclusion and diversity vision to life. We will review all key people related policies with a lens to eliminate potential bias as well as extend our pay parity reviews to at  
least two more regions.
28
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 201829
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Nufarm is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has a range of policies 
and procedures in place to support this aim. Details of board committees and their terms of reference, along with other corporate policies and protocols, can be found in the governance section of our website. Nufarm is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) and we comply with the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations (the Principles).
Board of directors
The governing body of the company  
is the board of directors. The board’s 
responsibility is to oversee the company’s operations and ensure that Nufarm carries out its business in the best interests of all shareholders and with proper regard  
to the interests of all other stakeholders. The board charter defines the board’s individual and collective responsibilities and describes those responsibilities delegated to the managing director  
and senior executives. A copy of the board charter is available on the corporate governance section  
of the company’s website.
Board members are selected based  
on their experience and skills to ensure  
the board properly discharges its 
responsibilities. 
There are nine members of the board  
with a majority being independent, 
non-executive directors, in line with the Principles. The exceptions are Greg Hunt who is the managing director and chief executive officer and Toshikazu Takasaki. As a major shareholder in Nufarm, Sumitomo’s interests are represented by one board member position, which has been held by Takasaki-san since 2012.The board reviews its composition  
and terms of reference annually.  
It also evaluates the performance and determines remuneration of the managing director and senior executives. Full details of the executive remuneration structure  
are set out in the remuneration report  
on pages 35 to 50 of Nufarm’s 2018  
annual financial report.
Board committees
The board is supported by four 
committees: the audit and risk committee; the nomination and governance committee; the human resources (HR) committee; and the health, safety  
and environment (HSE) committee. 
The HSE committee is responsible for 
reviewing and reporting to the board  
on strategic matters including significant environmental and safety issues. It provides oversight on the annual sustainability report and, in conjunction with the board, has approved the  
group’s sustainability strategy.The responsibilities of the HR  
committee include to review and  
make recommendations to the board in  
relation to Nufarm’s board and executive remuneration strategy, structure and practice. The committee is responsible  
for seeking and approving independent remuneration advisers who will provide independent remuneration advice, as appropriate, on board, chief executive officer and other key management personnel remuneration strategy,  
structure, practice and disclosure.
The HSE and HR committees have joint 
oversight of Nufarm’s material social aspects while making recommendations 
to the board on matters of policy and 
practice. Copies of both the HSE and HR committees’ charters are available on the corporate governance section of the company’s website. Our HSE Policy, which was approved by Nufarm’s CEO, is also available on our website.Governance
Donald 
McGauchie AO
Joined 2003
Board chairmanChairman of the  
board nominations and governance committee and board HR committee memberGreg Hunt
Joined 2015
Managing director 
and chief executive officerAnne Brennan
Joined 2011
Board HR committee 
member and board audit and risk committee memberGordon Davis
Joined 2011
Chairman of the 
board HSE committee, board HR committee member and board audit and risk committee memberFrank Ford
Joined 2012
Chairman of the  
board audit and  risk committee and board nomination  and governance committee member
30
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018The responsibilities of the nomination  
and governance committee include 
composition of the board, reviewing the mix of skills and diversity on the board and recommending changes to the board membership and whether to support  
the re-election of a retiring director. In conjunction with the human resources committee, the nominations and governance committee ensures the diversity policy is applied to the selection of board members. In FY18, women comprised 25% of the Board’s  
non-executive directors. A copy  
of the committee’s charter and a summary of the policy and procedure for director appointments are available on the corporate governance section of the company’s website. 
Each year each board committee will 
self-assess whether it has discharged  
its responsibilities as set out in its charter.
Executive leadership
The board has delegated authority  
for the daily management of Nufarm’s environmental and social aspects to  
the executive leadership team. Reporting directly to the CEO, the group executive  
for manufacturing and supply chain,  
Elbert Prado, is responsible for environment and safety, while John Holding, group executive for people and performance,  
is responsible for the other social aspects of Nufarm’s operations.Conflict of interest
Board members must identify any conflicts 
of interest they may have in dealing with the company’s affairs and then refrain from participating in any discussion or voting on these matters. Further information on this policy can be found in the board charter, available in the corporate governance section of the company’s website. Directors and senior executives must disclose any related party transaction in writing.
Information on cross board memberships 
and major shareholdings is made publicly available to interested parties as it arises through our annual financial report and statements released to the ASX.
Code of conduct
Nufarm’s code of conduct guides our work and represents our commitment  
to fair, ethical and professional business practices and legislative requirements.  
We require all Nufarm directors, employees, contractors and consultants  
to be familiar with and uphold the company’s code of conduct in all business dealings. Wherever we operate, the health and safety of our people, our contribution to sustainable development, and conducting business with integrity  
are key priorities in delivering value to our shareholders and stakeholders. We build strong, mutually beneficial relationships with the communities we operate in, respecting their laws and customs.  
We are politically impartial except where the board believes it is necessary to comment  
due to any perceived major impact  
on the company, its business or any  
of its stakeholders. 
Other policies
Where there are no legislative 
requirements with which to comply, we develop policy statements to support the code of conduct and ensure appropriate standards are met. These policies include the communications policy, diversity policy, security trading policy and continuous disclosure protocol. We  
have a whistle-blower policy to provide employees with a confidential mechanism to report any suspected unethical or illegal behaviour. Nufarm’s Code of Conduct and additional policies can  
be found in the Corporate Governance section of the company’s website.
Our regional legal counsel teams provide 
training in our anti-corruption policies every year. In the future, our new HR business system will track and record training. 
Risk management
The board is committed to identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing  
its material business risks. To that end,  
the board has implemented a sound risk management framework which it reviews at least annually to ensure its effectiveness. 
Bruce 
Goodfellow
Joined 1991
Board nomination  
and governance committee memberPeter Margin
Joined 2011
Chairman of the HR 
committee, board audit and risk committee memberToshikazu 
Takasaki
Joined 2012
Board HSE committee 
memberMarie McDonald
Joined 2017
Board audit and risk 
committee member and HSE committee member
31
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Governance continued
The board is responsible for the  
oversight of the company’s risk 
management system. The board ensures that appropriate policies are in place to ensure compliance with risk management controls and requires management  
to monitor, manage and report on business risks. A dedicated risk management system is in place to facilitate management’s ownership, prioritisation and reporting of risks throughout the group. This includes 
reporting on the status of risks and 
mitigation across all risk categories.
The board delegates certain responsibilities 
to board committees and primarily to its audit and risk committee, which is chaired by an independent director. The audit and 
risk committee’s responsibilities include 
providing an oversight of the effectiveness of Nufarm’s enterprise-wide risk management and internal control framework. 
In so doing, it considers the interests of  
all relevant stakeholders. The company 
recognises a number of operational risks related to its crop protection business including: 
•  market consolidation;
•  climate conditions and seasonality;
•  regulatory, freedom to operate,  
product registration, product  
use and business sustainability;•  human resources and change 
management;
•  relationships with key suppliers  
and customers;
•  licences and operating permits  
for manufacturing facilities; and
•  liquidity and foreign exchange.
A detailed list of risks managed by Nufarm 
is set out on pages 24 to 30 of Nufarm’s 2018 annual financial report. As a part  
of our annual risk review program, we assess all operations for risks related to corruption. Where relevant, mitigating controls are implemented.
Further information can be found in 
Nufarm’s audit and risk committee  
charter and risk oversight and management, both available in  
the corporate governance section  
of the company’s website.
Critical environmental or social concerns 
are reported directly to the board as they arise and delegated by the board to the relevant group executive for resolution. There were no critical environmental or social concerns reported to the board  
this year. There have been no new legal actions against the company for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practice, and there have  
been no incidents of corruption. The ongoing investigation into overall  
industry anti-competitive behaviour  
in agribusinesses in Hungary was concluded and no fines were  
imposed on Nufarm. 
Memberships
While Nufarm does not subscribe to  
any externally developed sustainability charters or principles, we do practise the 
standards established by a number of 
industry groups to which we belong. Nufarm is a member of Responsible Care, a global, voluntary initiative developed by the chemical industry that operates  
in over 65 countries. We also participate in chemical industry associations in  
a number of countries such as the Chemical Industries Association (CIA)  
in the UK and Chemistry Australia and other associations such as CropLife.
32
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Environmental performance
At Nufarm, we are working to prevent  
the actual and potential environmental 
impacts of our operations. In line with this commitment, this year we have invested AUD5.6 million in managing our environmental responsibilities  
and reducing our footprint.
Energy
The primary energy consuming activities 
at our manufacturing sites are: boilers, which generate steam to heat materials  
or provide space heating; electricity  
for producing chlorine and powering process equipment; and fuel for manufacturing and distribution vehicles. Our production facilities formulate and synthesise chemicals with synthesis activities being our most energy intensive, consuming approximately 80 per cent  
of our total energy use. This year our energy intensity (energy used per unit of production) decreased  
by 3 per cent however, our total energy use increased by eight per cent due to  
an even greater increase in production output. Our energy consumption can be found in Table 13. This improvement in energy intensity is the realisation of benefits from installing an economiser on our combined heat and power plant at Wyke, UK last year and efficiency gains from some sites upgrading their steam services. It can also be partly attributed  
to an increased production output of lower energy intensity products.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Nufarm does not generate process 
greenhouse gas emissions, instead our Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions are  
attributable to the use of energy. Our greenhouse gas emission intensity has fallen by 11 per cent despite the increase  
in energy use this year.All activities undertaken this year to reduce energy have had a greenhouse gas emission benefit, however the most significant contributor to this reduction has been the change in the production output product mix and the continuing increase of renewable electricity available in electricity networks. 
In 2017, we reported a leak of a non-
ozone depleting refrigerant from one  
of our manufacturing facilities which accounted for four per cent of our total greenhouse gas emissions. This occurred over two reporting years, so the remaining half of the emissions are included in 2018’s Scope 1 emissions. Preventative maintenance controls  
have been implemented to prevent  
a reoccurrence.
Table 13 – Energy and greenhouse gas emissions
2016 2017 2018 Unit of measure
Energy consumption1
Fuel consumption (non-renewable) 47,282 50,400 49,890 GJ
Fuel consumption (renewable) 50 0 0 GJ
Electricity consumption 320,885 306,030 309,218 GJ
Heating (gas) consumption 269,562 246,904 242,356 GJ
Steam consumption 397,7 40 394,202 482,731 GJ
Total energy 1,035,519 997,53621,084,195 GJ
Energy sold 0 0 0 GJ
Energy intensity32.43 2.27 2.21 GJ/tonne or M3 of production
Greenhouse gas emissions4
Scope 1 – direct 22,036 22,529 22,131 tonne CO2e
Scope 2 – energy indirect 81,580 83,965 83,700 tonne CO2e
Scope 3 – other indirect n/a n/a n/a
Total greenhouse gas emissions 103,616 106,4945105,830 tonne CO2e
Greenhouse gas intensity60.243 0.243 0.216 tonne CO2e/tonne or M3 of production
1.  United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) conversion factors have been applied.
2.  Energy consumption for 2017 has been restated; it was erroneously reported as 1,006,710 GJ.
3.  Energy intensity includes only energy consumed within the organisation, as reported under energy consumption.
4.  Intra-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) default emission and global warming potential factors have been applied to estimate emissions. Electricity retailer conversion  
factors were applied to electricity indirect emissions, where available. Greenhouse gases included in the calculations are CO2, CH4, N2O and R422d.
5.  Greenhouse gas emissions for 2017 have been restated; these were erroneously reported as 101,433 tonne CO2e.
6. Greenhouse gas intensity includes only the scope 1 and 2 emissions reported under greenhouse gas emissions.Environment
33
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Environment continued
Other air emissions
Our manufacturing sites also generate 
other, non-greenhouse gas air emissions. We have combustion emissions from steam-generating boilers and vehicle use as well as hazardous air pollutants (HAP), volatile organic compounds (VOC) and particulate matter (PM) generated by our formulation processes. 
To reduce the environmental impact of our 
process emissions we use scrubbers and activated carbon filters. At our site in Linz, Austria we constructed an incinerator to eliminate our principal HAP . This project represented a significant investment  
and we saw the unit successfully commissioned during the year. We have achieved a reduction in our HAPs and  in a full year, we expect to eliminate over 90 per cent of Nufarm’s total HAPs due to this single point source being addressed. Using the knowledge gained from implementing this technology, the site is now designing a second incinerator to address a large, single point source of VOC emissions.
While we have become accustomed  
to the smell of our products, some of  
them can be malodorous to nearby 
communities. One such community is  
that at Maracanaú in Brazil. This year our site has undertaken several projects to upgrade and replace emission control systems. The results have been promising so far and the projects will continue  
into 2019.Our site in Merak, Indonesia installed an activated carbon scrubber this year to reduce VOC emissions. This will reduce local air emissions in 2019, when the unit  
is scheduled to be commissioned.
This year we identified that some sites 
have office air conditioning units in place containing R-22 (an ozone depleting substance). Each site is assessing their units and putting controls in place to prevent leaks until the gas can be extracted and properly disposed of. This year’s emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) is attributable to losses from such units. Details of our non-greenhouse gas emissions can be found in table 14.
Table 14 – Other air emissions
(tonne) 2016 2017 2018
Air emissions1,2
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 40 48 50
Sulphur oxides (SOx) < 1 1 1
Carbon monoxide (CO) 18 20 18
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 33 23 24
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 0 0 0
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 4 3 2
Particulate matter (PM) 3 3 3
Ozone depleting substances (ODS) (CFC-11 equivalent) 0 0 < 1
Other air emissions < 1 < 1 < 1
Total air emissions 98 98 99
Air emission intensity (gm/ tonne or m3 of production) 229 223 202
1.  Air emissions have been determined by a combination of direct, online measurement, emissions monitoring and estimation.
2. The combustion emissions were understated in previous reports. These have been restated here for 2016 and 2017.
Water and effluent
At Nufarm, water is an essential 
component of our products and we  
also use it for cleaning and cooling our manufacturing equipment. Our largest use of water is single use cooling water. All our sites have third party supplied water available to them and high quality input water is important for maintaining the quality of our products. Some of our sites access river and groundwater, which is primarily used for cooling water.
Growers who use our products need to 
mix these with water before applying them to their paddocks or crops. Nufarm develops multi-action products and products that support more complex  
tank mixes, helping to reduce the grower’s water and resource use when applying our products. There are competing uses for the groundwater at our site in Gaillon, France so we have been working to reduce our groundwater abstraction. To achieve this, the site installed cooling equipment in one of its processing areas. This and other activities have resulted in a 26 per cent reduction in groundwater use and contributed to the overall 226 ML reduction in water withdrawal this year. The reduction in water use has led to a corresponding drop in water discharge. Further details can be found in Table 15.
Each of our manufacturing sites has  
been tasked with establishing a water 
stewardship program involving a comprehensive water balance, identification of water related impacts in their catchment and Nufarm’s influence on these, an assessment of risk and control measures to measures quantify these risks. Depending on the infrastructure and regulatory restrictions at the location of our operations, we treat our waste on site, dispose of it to domestic sewers and/or use third party waste water treatment facilities. At some locations, we also treat all rainwater that falls onto our sites to ensure that even very low levels of chemical are not released directly into waterways. Several of our sites are located on rivers and our treated and monitored effluent is approved by local regulators to be safely discharged back into these rivers. All effluent discharges  
are monitored and we are focused  
on complying with discharge limits established by the local regulators. Our largest facilities have online monitoring which immediately stops effluent from discharging if limits are approached. 
34
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018There are strict quality and regulatory 
controls on our products that require  
us to thoroughly clean our production equipment between production campaigns. This can limit the suitability  
of the wash water for recycling and reuse applications. We are researching new advanced technologies to improve the quality of our effluent and will upgrade our water treatment plant at our facility  
at Maracanau, Brazil and Merak, Indonesia, within the next year. Last year we built a solvent extraction plant at our site in Wyke, UK, which we commissioned this year. This plant has successfully reduced raw material and process water consumption while eliminating 420 tonnes of chemical oxygen demand (COD) from the site’s effluent. At Linz, Austria we installed carbon filters on an effluent steam reducing both the absorbable organic halides (AOX) and solvent components  
in the effluent by over 90 per cent.The largest chemical component of our effluent is salt, which is a waste product  
of our phenoxy synthesis operations.  
This salt results in some of our wastewater discharges exceeding a total dissolved solids (TDS) concentration of 1,000 mg/L. 
We had no significant impact on  
natural water bodies from either effluent 
discharges or run-off from our sites  
this year. 
Table 15 – Water withdrawal and discharge
(ML) 2016 2017 2018
Water withdrawal by source1
Surface water (total) 4,134 4,176 4,099
 Freshwater ( ≤ 1,000 mg/L TDS2) 4,134 4,176 4,099
 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L TDS) 0 0 0
Groundwater (total) 702 601 442
 Freshwater ( ≤ 1,000 mg/L TDS) 702 601 442
 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L TDS) 0 0 0
Seawater (total) 0 0 0
Produced water (total) 0 0 0
Third-party water (total) 791 794 804
 Freshwater ( ≤ 1,000 mg/L TDS) 791 794 804
 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L TDS) 0 0 0
Rainwater collected and stored 1 0 0
Total water withdrawal 5,628 5,571 5,345
Water withdrawal intensity (KL/tonne or M3 of production)  13.19 12.70 10.91
Water discharge by destination3
Surface water 4,71144,58644,445
Groundwater < 1 <1 0
Seawater 0 0 0
Third-party water (total) 648 659 687
 Third-party water sent for use to other organisations 0 0 0
Unplanned discharge 0 0 0
Total water discharge 5,359 5,245 5,132
Water discharge intensity (KL/tonne or M3 of production) 12.56 11.96 10.47
Water discharge by freshwater and other water
Freshwater ( ≤ 1,000 mg/L TDS) n/a n/a < 304
Other water (> 1,000 mg/L TDS) n/a n/a ≥ 383
Water consumption
Total water consumption 269 326 211
1.  All water withdrawal determined from direct, meter measurements or from municipal water supplier billing.
2.  TDS is the total dissolved solids.
3. Water discharge (effluent) has been determined by direct meter measurement.
4.  11 ML of surface water discharge was erroneously reported as groundwater discharge in 2016. 10ML of surface water discharge was erroneously excluded in 2017. Both omissions 
have been corrected here.
Waste
Responsible management and reduction 
of waste is a growing challenge faced  
by companies and communities alike,  
and Nufarm is no exception. Our manufacturing sites generate both hazardous and non-hazardous waste originating from spent raw material packaging, cleaning operations and past use-by-date or obsolete product returned from customers. Where possible, we rework the wash waters and out-of-specification material to minimise generating additional waste.  Table 16 provides further details of our wastes, however this type of reuse  
of materials is not reported here.
This year, the increase in production  
has resulted in an increase in the total 
waste produced. 
35
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Environment continued
Table 16 – Waste and waste transport
2016 2017 2018
(tonne) Waste Non-hazardous Hazardous Non-hazardous Hazardous
Waste type and disposal1
Reused 0 1 284 116 347
Recycled 7,953 4,7622 540 5,264 718
Composted 0 0 0 0 0
Recovered (including energy recovery) 2,969 1,159 2,848 1,349 4,169
Third party treatment 1,781 278 1,580 411 1,464
Incineration 4,993 199 8,419 320 10,412
Deep well injection 4 0 2,051 0 912
Landfill 1,727 1,026 451 937 271
On-site storage 1283283 10930 196
Total waste 19,555 7,708 16,282 8,398 18,489
Waste intensity (Kg/tonne or M3 of production) 45.8 17.6 37.1 17.1 37.7
Transport of hazardous waste4
Hazardous waste transported n/a - 15,889 - 17,946
Hazardous waste imported n/a - 0 - 0
Hazardous waste exported n/a - 164 - 224
Hazardous waste treated n/a - 1,580 - 2,284
% of hazardous waste exported n/a - 1 - 1
1. Waste disposal method has been determined from information provided by the waste contractor.
2. Recycled, non-hazardous waste was erroneously reported at 4,830 tonnes.3. Stored hazardous waste was erroneously omitted in early reports. This has been restated for 2016 and 2017.
4. All waste not reused or recycled on the same Nufarm site as it is generated is transported.
Soil and groundwater
We provide primary and secondary 
containment for our chemicals at our manufacturing facilities to minimise  
the risk of a loss of containment to the environment. This year we have made solid progress in our process safety management (PSM) program, the objective of which is to prevent a loss  
of containment through application of rigorous layers of protection. Our sites have also been incorporating chemical spill containment and clean-up into their emergency response training programs.Some manufacturing sites Nufarm acquired in the past operate on land  
that has a long history of chemical manufacturing. Where needed, we undertook some remediation activities when taking ownership of these properties. This year we continued  
with studies to identify potential legacy contamination at sites such as these to help us identify if further remediation  
 will be needed in the future. 
Unfortunately, we had two significant spills 
this year. The first was the leakage of an underground effluent tank at our site in Linz, Austria. Due to the leak detection equipment in place, this was quickly detected and remediation activities initiated. These are now well progressed, with the leak being fully contained within the site. The second was the overflow of untreated water from the rainwater treatment system at our site in Kwinana, Australia. This incident was the result of  
a power outage in the supply network, during an extreme rain event. The unplanned release did not exceed discharge limits so no remediation was necessary. Neither incident resulted in off-site environmental impacts or presented a risk to human health.
Table 17 – Significant spills and location
(KL) 2016 2017 2018
Waste1 to soil n/a 3,000 1,000
(Location) (Linz, Austria) (Linz, Austria)
Water to soil n/a 750
(Location)  (Kwinana, Australia)
1. Wastewater
36
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Environmental  
management systems
Last year we established new corporate 
environmental procedures to support  
our corporate health, safety and environmental (HSE) standard. These procedures set a higher level of environmental performance for our businesses. To embed the requirements  
of these procedures, we commenced  
an environmental improvement program at our manufacturing sites. This began with each site undertaking an environmental gap analysis against these procedures. This year we completed those analyses and developed environmental gap closure plans. These plans focus on the key, potential environmental impacts  
of our manufacturing sites, such as soil  
and groundwater, waste, effluent  
and emissions. 
Recognising that a strong environmental 
management system sets the foundation for sustainable, best practice environmental management, there will be a focus on improving the principal elements of our environmental management systems  
next year as sites develop environmental compliance registers and calendars; prepare and risk assess aspects and impacts registers; and identify control measures to reduce environmental risk  
as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP). While next year will be a busy year for our sites, the long-term nature of some environmental monitoring activities means that the plans extend for several years. Our sites remain on target and have implemented 14 per cent of the planned environmental gap closure actions  
this year.
We have best practice environmental 
management systems (EMS) in place at our manufacturing sites in Wyke, UK, Gaillon, France and Merak, Indonesia, which are all certified to ISO14001. Our site in Linz, Austria is well progressed in implementing an ISO14001 EMS with certification planned for next year. Our Port Klang site in Malaysia will commence work on an ISO14001 EMS in 2019 while our Pipe Road site in Australia has begun work on an ISO14001 equivalent EMS.
Environmental training
While we provide environmental training 
to our people, we learnt through our environmental gap analyses that we could do better. This year we provided over 2,000 hours of environmental training, up from 1,000 hours last year. Through the implementation of our plans, we intend to increase the depth and breadth of this activity.
Environmental compliance
Our sites operate under the environmental regulatory regime of the country of their operation. We are committed to being fully compliant with environmental regulations in the jurisdictions that we operate. From time to time incidents may arise that result in the regulators issuing remedial notices as a part of their regulatory oversight. Nufarm works with these regulators to ensure full compliance with their requirements and also addressing the underlying cause of the incidents. While we have a goal of  
zero non-compliance with regulatory requirements, this year we had 13. Two  
of these related to the significant spills detailed in the section on soil and groundwater. The balance related to remedial notices which were promptly actioned during the year, or have high priority projects underway that will be completed within the timeframes set  
out by the relevant regulator.
We have not received any monetary fines 
or sanctions related to these items.Where required, sites undertake compliance testing of their air and water emissions to the environment. In 2016,  
we undertook a rationalisation of our manufacturing sites. By 2017 there were less sites to monitor and therefore less compliance tests carried out. This year some sites have expanded the number  
of environmental parameters they include  
as a part of their routine monitoring programs. We consistently comply  
with 99 per cent of these test as can  
be seen in Figure 6.
Environmental complaints
While most of our sites are in industrial areas, some operate close to residential neighbourhoods and from time to time we receive complaints from our neighbours. We have complaint management processes in place at these sites to quickly investigate and respond to concerns raised by neighbours. This year we had two odour complaints where our investigations revealed our operations were the cause and a further two where we were potentially the cause. A project is underway at our site in Wyke to address the odour source. The second complaint was received at our site in Maracanau, Brazil, prior to upgrading our emissions controls at this site.
Table 18 – Environmental complaints
2016 2017 2018
Number of complaints received where investigation revealed Nufarm was at fault 0 5 2
Number of complaints received where investigation revealed Nufarm was not at fault 2 2 3
Number of complaints where the cause was undetermined 3 2 2
Total environmental complaints 5 9 7
Figure 6: Environmental tests
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
2016 201799% 99%
2018
Compliant Non-compliant99%
37
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 201838
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Product stewardship is the way we bring 
responsible and ethical management to our agricultural chemicals and seeds. Through our sustainability strategy we  
are looking to further strengthen the responsibility we take for our products throughout their entire lifecycle.
All our new products undergo extensive 
evaluation and field trials to ensure that they comply with regulatory requirements. We refine our formulations and their use patterns to minimise their environmental impact and educate our customers and end users in their safe use and disposal.
Working to reduce the 
environmental impact  
of our products
We are working to improve the 
environmental profile of products  
through a number of techniques such  
as substitution of solvents and adjuvants with either natural materials or ones with  
a low ecological profile. We also work  
to increase the concentration of our products to improve transportation efficiency and refine the formulations  
to support lower on-field chemical application rates. 
In addition to improving our formulations, 
we have done extensive testing using different spray nozzles. This enables us  
to provide expert advice to growers on improving spray accuracy by using the best nozzles for the application. 
Supply chain
Our supply chain stewardship starts with sourcing raw materials and packaging. We are into our second year of corporate social responsibility (CSR) assessments with EcoVadis and have increased the number of supplier assessments in 2018. We have set a minimum standard for our suppliers and in 2019 we will work with suppliers who do not meet our standard to implement improvement plans.
In Europe, we have an ongoing process 
to ensure our existing purchased materials are REACH compliant. REACH, or registration, evaluation, authorisation  
and restriction of chemicals, is a European Union chemicals regulatory process, that has been put in place to further improve the protection of human health and minimise environmental risks. REACH compliance is now a standard element  
of our raw material sourcing process. It is also now a standard element in our new product development process. Supply chain stewardship continues through to the distribution of our products. As a global business, it is necessary for us  
to rely on the services of third party distributors as well as our own. Transport of the company’s products by road, rail and sea are very tightly regulated and the company uses specialist licensed service providers to transport its products in all regions. Where possible we manufacture locally, reducing the cost and environmental impact of transporting liquid products long distances. We apply United Nations (UN) packaging standards to our products to protect them on their journey so they arrive at our customers in the same condition as they left our sites.
Sustainable packaging 
We are working to minimise the impact  
of our packaging. We have several projects underway around the world to reduce packaging waste and increase the recycled content of our packaging.  
In Brazil we work with inpEV who operate a ’reverse supply chain’ collecting used chemical containers from the field for recycling into new containers. inpEV supplies caps and drums made from  
85 per cent recycled resin. Nufarm is working with the same supplier to develop new drums containing a higher amount of recycled material. In Australia, we are replacing our fluorinated containers with low environmental  
impact alternatives.Product labelling
Our products are heavily regulated in all jurisdictions in which they are marketed and sold, including the very specific requirements for product labelling and provision of safety data sheets. Regulatory controls require our products to be labelled with the active ingredient and  
its content along with relevant dangerous goods markings. Our safety data sheets provide further detail on the chemical composition of the product, safe use instructions and disposal, handling and storage and measures to take to protect the environment in the case of an accidental spill. In addition, we provide extensive technical information to assist growers to get optimal benefit from  
our products.Product stewardship
Spray workshop 
39
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Product stewardship continued
Container management  
and obsolete stock
At the end of a product’s life we partner 
with local service providers and non-profit organisations for the safe collection of empty containers. In Brazil, we work  
with inpEV, in Australia, drumMUSTER,  
in the United States, the Ag Container Recycling Council (ACRC) and with PAMIRA’s agricultural packaging recovery system in Germany, to name a few. These organisations and others collect used agricultural chemical packaging from farmers and distributors and recycle the materials. Through these mechanisms, we reduce the impact our products have on landfill space and on non-renewable resources. 
We have an ongoing project to rationalise 
our SKUs globally to reduce obsolete stock and drive efficiencies in our  
supply chain, reducing waste and  
impact to the environment.
Integrated pest management
Integrated pest management is  
the combination of crop management methods aimed at delivering more effective and sustainable pest control strategies; some of these methods include biological controls, pest resistance and chemical controls.
Pest resistance
Pest resistance is an ongoing threat to 
global food security and a key driver of the need for integrated pest management. Nufarm continues to focus resources in  
this space, helping growers to improve crop productivity and food quality.  
We participate on CropLife’s local and regional resistance committees: IRAC, FRAC and HRAC (insecticide, fungicide and herbicide resistance action committees). We are involved in research projects  
to further our understanding of  
resistance mechanisms. 
We also have a range of initiatives  
and decision tools to support and 
educate growers in managing herbicide resistance. The CATS (CombAt Troublesome weedS) platform in the United States provides comprehensive integrated  
weed management solutions to help growers control and prevent the development of resistant weed populations. In conjunction with the Australian growers, we developed  
Weed Logic, a tool that provides the growers with a medium-term strategy for sustainable and cost-effective resistance management. 
In Australia, Nufarm is a sponsor of 
WeedSmart (weedsmart.org.au), a program where industry, governments and universities have partnered to enhance on-farm practices and promote the long term, sustainable use of herbicides.
Responsible use
We actively work with growers to educate them in the responsible and safe use of our products. Globally we belong to CropLife, an international organisation that undertakes stewardship activities and advocates for the safe and sustainable use of crop protection products.
In all our regions we provide training  
and advice on using our products safely 
and sustainably. In Australia, Nufarm continues to invest  
in SprayWise
® Decisions, an innovative 
internet subscription service that helps rural landholders and contractors to better plan and match the timing of chemical applications to prevailing local weather. Nufarm also runs the SprayWise
®  
program which has been instrumental  
in helping growers better manage their spraying activities, minimising drift, reducing chemical use and maximising spray effectiveness.
Nufarm continues to provide spray 
guidance to product users through  
hands on educational workshops.  
These workshops reiterate good spraying practices, nozzle selection and provide growers with opportunities to ask questions.
Excellence Through Stewardship (ETS)  
is a global industry-coordinated 
organisation that promotes the universal 
Talking to growers in BrazilGrower training, Brazil 
40
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018adoption of stewardship programs and 
quality management systems for the full life cycle of biotechnology-derived plant products. Nuseed, our wholly owned subsidiary, belongs to this organisation  
ensuring our stewardship and quality management systems meet or exceed these internationally-recognised standards, and applying them to our biotechnology portfolio globally, including DHA omega-3 canola. ETS  
will facilitate third party audits of Nuseed’s biotechnology processes as part of our continuous improvement process.
Safety and quality 
Our regulatory team members play an active role in regulatory reviews around the world. We respond to questions or issues raised by regulators either in our own right, or as part of the relevant industry taskforce, which will generate  
the necessary data. Nufarm participates in taskforces globally including the 2,4-D taskforce and the Glyphosate taskforce  
in Europe. 
All our products are developed and 
manufactured to strict global quality and safety standards. These standards were designed with a focus on ensuring our products are safe to use, with industry regulatory requirements as the baseline. Our standards also consider grower needs and application requirements to ensure we deliver a safe, effective product. 
We proactively work with our suppliers  
to consider the latest innovation trends  
for inclusion into our portfolio. These 
innovation trends could be driven by sustainability, performance or application safety. We have laboratories in all our regions where we extensively test our products to ensure quality and safety levels and to meet the stringent regulatory requirements needed to sell our products around the world. Throughout our development process our products undergo compliance checks in line  
with regional requirements, e.g. REACH compliance in Europe
Regulatory changes
Glyphosate is one of our core molecules and while extensive scientific evaluation by public authorities has concluded that glyphosate poses no unacceptable risks to either health or the environment if used according to the manufacturer’s label, glyphosate continues to be a high-profile topic. There has been public concern about the impact of glyphosateon human health following a legal  
case in the US in August 2018. This matter  
is ongoing. In 2018 Glyphosate was re-licensed by the European Commission for five years, although this is a shorter time period than would normally apply. 
Nufarm is a member of the European 
Glyphosate Task Force and our European strategy focuses on products that are  
fully compliant with the new, lower  
use rate conditions of registration. Nufarm has responded to the regulatory changes  
in Europe and our European glyphosate portfolio complies with the new European Union requirements for glyphosate composition. 
In North America, we are a member of  
the Joint Glyphosate Task Force, formed  
to generate data in support of regulatory 
re-evaluation. In Australia, Nufarm is part of the glyphosate sustainability working group, an industry-based body that  
forms recommendations and advice on strategies to mitigate resistance issues. 
Glyphosate continues to be approved  
as safe for use by regulatory authorities 
around the world, including the United States, Australia, New Zealand, Europeand Canada.
There have been regulatory challenges  
in 2018 with the restrictions of certain 
active ingredients in some regions. In April 2018, the European Union restricted threeneonicotinoid products; clothianidin,imidacloprid and thiamethoxam toindoor use only, requiring growersto seek alternative solutions. However,these products are approved for use byregulatory authorities in other regionsincluding Australia, Brazil and theUnited States.
Partnerships 
Nufarm has a number of partnerships  
with other organisations. In June 2018 Nufarm announced an alliance with Farmers Edge, a global leader in precision agriculture. Under this alliance, Nufarm’s channel partners will be able to distribute the Farmers Edge suite of precision agriculture digital solutions. These  
include daily satellite imagery from  
the most comprehensive farm and risk management platform available called Farm Command™. The platform provides growers with valuable rapid insights  
and analytics to maximise their crop productivity, profitability and sustainability. Nufarm has also partnered with  
other companies to market biological crop protection products. One of our partnerships is with Bio-ferm who have developed biological fungicides for  
use in vines and pome fruit trees. This  
year we launched Botector
® in Australia,  
a biological fungicide developed by Bio-ferm that prevents botrytis in grapes. We also market Botector
® in France, 
Portugal, Netherlands, Turkey, Greece  
and Canada. In Canada we also market Blossom Protect
TM a biological fungicide 
that provides effective protection  
against fire blight for pome fruit trees. 
These partnerships enable Nufarm  
to offer products that will improve 
productivity with minimal  
environmental impact. 
Demonstrating personal 
protective equipment  
whilst spraying.
41
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018We are committed to building a company that delivers a sustainable future for our people, our 
customers and the communities in which we operate. We aim to make a positive contribution to  
these communities as well as society as a whole in the countries we operate in with a focus on  
rural communities.
We operate in a diverse number  
of locations and countries and our 
manufacturing sites develop their own community engagement programs that best fit their local environment. Many of our manufacturing sites are in industrial zones; however, there are several that  
are close to residential zones and in  
these locations we work closely with  
local communities. None of Nufarm’s operations have a significant actual or potential negative impact on their local communities. 
Engaging with our local 
communities 
In 2018 our manufacturing facility in Wyke 
established a relationship with the local primary school, Worthinghead Primary, which is located very close to the site. The partnership commenced with a group of Nufarm employees spending a day at the school improving the gardens and play area. As well as strengthening community relations, we wanted to encourage interest in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) subjects and  
to increase awareness of safety and  
the importance of following rules and procedures. We organised for 60 of the older children and their teachers to spend an afternoon visiting the Nufarm site, to learn about what we do. The feedback from the children and teachers was extremely positive and the Wyke team  
are currently planning further activities and volunteering days for 2019.
This year, Nufarm’s North American 
business has continued to support Greencare for Troops. Greencare  
for Troops provides lawn and landscaping services to the families of deployed military personnel and post  
9/11 veterans. In 2018 Nufarm employees have volunteered their time and made donations that have been matched by Nufarm. Nufarm continues to partner  
with Chicago High School for Agricultural studies (CHAS), hosting students at  
our sites on a regular basis. 
At our Maracanau site in Brazil we have 
had a corporate social responsibility program in place since 2009. Through the program we run a number of community engagement and support activities with employee support. This year we launched a new ‘Conscious School’ project which is an environmental awareness program for students at public schools in Maracanau based around the 5 R’s; Re-educate, Reduce, Reuse, Rethink and Recycle.  
One of the core activities was building  
a sustainable garden for a local school. 
In Brazil, Nufarm has also continued to 
partner with Enactus, an international Community
Pupils from Worthinghead Primary School visiting Nufarm’s Wyke site. 
42
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018Nufarm Maracanau employee volunteers non-profit organisation that brings 
together student, academic and business leaders who are committed to using  
the power of entrepreneurial action to improve the quality of life and standard  
of living for people in need. Nufarm sponsored the Nufarm Award for Conscience and Ethics, focused on  
raising awareness in the correct use  
of agrochemicals by small agricultural producers in the Ceara region as well  
as supporting the National Enactus Competition. 
In Merak, Indonesia, we assisted with 
maintenance of a high school building  
in Pontang area, Banten Province, repairing ceilings, painting the building and providing garbage bins. Students from the local high school are provided internship opportunities at our site.
At our manufacturing site in Port Klang 
Malaysia, we engaged with the National Autism Society of Malaysia (Nasom) Klang Branch, to provide learning opportunities for approximately 30 students at our manufacturing site. The site also made a financial contribution to this organisation. Nufarm’s Australian business continues  
its established partnerships with local agricultural colleges to provide students with insights into the crop protection industry and career opportunities available within agriculture. Throughout calendar year 2018, over 70 students visited the Pipe Road and Raymond Road facilities spending time engaging with Nufarm’s sales, laboratory and manufacturing teams. 
These programs would not be such  
a success without the dedication of 
Nufarm employees, who volunteered  
over 400 hours of their time to our local communities this year.
Supporting global education 
and innovation in farming
The Nuffield Farming Scholarship program 
provides a unique opportunity for farmers and agribusiness professionals to travel internationally for a minimum of 16 weeks, researching agricultural production, distribution, management and/or communication. 2019 will see us sponsor a scholarship in Brazil for the third year. Next year we will also support the re-establishment of the Nuffield  
scholarship program in Zimbabwe. 
In addition to funding the scholarships,  
we have supported the program by 
providing travel support and advice to 
scholars through our global network. 
In 2019 we will commence the 
development of a global policy that establishes expectations across Nufarm regarding community engagement as core to our business sustainability and 
social licence to operate.
43
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018GRI content index
GRI Standard and disclosure titles Reference Comments
General disclosures
GRI 102: General disclosures 2016102-1: Name of the organisation Page 2 in About this report
102-2: Activities, brands, products,  
and servicesPage 6 in About us
102-3: Location of headquarters Pages 4-5 in Nufarm at a glance and page 6 in About us
102-4: Location of operations Page 6 in About us
102-5: Ownership and legal form Page 6 in About us
102-6: Markets served Pages 4-5 in Nufarm at a glance and page 6 in About us
102-7: Scale of the organisation Pages 4-5 in Nufarm at a glance and pages 6-8 in About us
102-8: Information on employees  
and other workersPage 24 in Our people
102-9: Supply chain Page 8 in About us
102-10: Significant changes to the organisation and its 
supply chainPage 2 in About this report and Page 6 in About us
102-11: Precautionary principle  
or approachNufarm has a risk based approach to identifying potential social or 
environmental impacts of  
its operations or products.
102-12: External initiatives Page 32 in Governance
102-13: Membership of associations Page 32 in Governance page 40 in Product stewardship
102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker Managing director’s message, page 11 
102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pages 30-31 in Governance and pages 24 -30 in Nufarm’s 2018 
annual financial report
102-16: Values, principles, standards,  
and norms of behaviour Pages 6-7 in About us
102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethicsPage 7 of our Code of conduct which can be found  
at https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/08170437/
Nufarm_Code-Of-Conduct-July2016.pdf and page 31  
in Governance
102-18: Governance structure Pages 30-31 in Governance
102-19: Delegating authority Pages 30-31 in Governance
102-20: Executive-level responsibility  
for economic, environmental, and  
social topics Pages 30-31 in Governance and refer also to the executive management section of our 2018 annual financial report, page 8
102-21: Consulting stakeholders  
on economic, environmental,  
and social topics Pages 14-15 in Engaging our stakeholders
102-22: Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Pages 30-31 in Governance, table 12 on page 27 in Our people and pages 1-4 of Nufarm’s board charter, availble at https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/16123022/NUFARM_BOARD_
CHARTER-161018.pdf
102-23: Chair of the highest  
governance body Page 30 in Governance
102-24: Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body Pages 8-9 of Nufarm’s board charter,  
availble at https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/
uploads/2018/10/16123022/NUFARM_BOARD_CHARTER-161018.pdf 
Refer also to Nufarm’s policy on the nomination and appointment  
of directors, available at https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/
uploads/2018/10/08170455/Nufarm_Nomination-and-Appointment-of-
Directors-Policy-2018.pdf
102-25: Conflicts of interest Page 31 in Governance and also page 12 of Nufarm’s board  
charter, availble at https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/16123022/NUFARM_BOARD_CHARTER-161018.pdf
102-26: Role of highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values, and strategyPage 7 in About us, page 1 of management and oversight over the company, available at https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/
uploads/2018/10/08170450/Nufarm_Management-Oversight-of-the-Company-Oct2012.pdf and Nufarm’s health, safety and environment 
board committee charter, available at https://cdn.nufarm.com/
wp-content/uploads/2018/10/08170446/Nufarm_Health-Safety-and-Environment-Committee-Charter-Mar2015.pdf. 
102-27: Collective knowledge of highest governance bodyInformation unavailable
102-28: Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Refer to Nufarm’s policy on performance  
of board and key executives, available at  
https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/08170457/Nufarm_Performance-of-Board-and-Key-Executives-Oct2012.pdf
102-29: Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and  
social impactsPages 30-32 in Governance and Nufarm’s health, safety and environment board committee charter, available at https://cdn.
nufarm.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/08170446/Nufarm_Health-
Safety-and-Environment-Committee-Charter-Mar2015.pdf
44
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018GRI Standard and disclosure titles Reference Comments
102-30: Effectiveness of risk management processes Pages 30-31 in Governance and Nufarm’s audit and risk board 
committee charter, available at https://cdn.nufarm.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/08170430/Nufarm_Audit-Risk-Committee-
Charter-180116.pdf
102-31: Review of economic, environmental, and 
social topicsThe board committees meet at least three times per year to review a range of topics, including economic, environmental and social topics.
12-32: Highest governance body’s  
role in sustainability reporting This report was reviewed and approved by Nufarm’s HSE board committee chair, Gordon Davies and by Nufarm’s chief executive 
officer, Greg Hunt.
102-33: Communicating critical concerns Page 32 in Governance
102-34: Nature and total number of critical concerns Page 32 in Governance
102-35: Remuneration policies Pages 36-52 of Nufarm’s 2018 annual financial report
102-36: Process for determining remuneration Page 28 in Our people
102-37: Stakeholders’ involvement  
in remuneration Information unavailable
102-38: Annual total compensation ratio Information unavailable
102-39: Percentage increase in annual total 
compensation ratioInformation unavailable
102-40: List of stakeholder groups Pages 14-15 in stakeholder engagement
102-41: Collective bargaining agreements Page 28 in Our people
102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pages 14-15 in stakeholder engagement
102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement Pages 14-15 in stakeholder engagement
102-44: Key topics and concerns raised Pages 14-15 in stakeholder engagement
102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements Note 35, Group entities on pages 106-109  
of Nufarm’s 2018 annual financial report
102-46: Defining report content  
and topic boundaries Page 2 in about this report
102-47: List of material topics Page 12 in Materiality
102-48: Restatements of information Table 5 on page 17 in Safety. In Environment: table 13 on page 33, 
table 14 on page 34, table 15 on page 35, table 16 on page 36 
102-49: Changes in reporting There have been no significant changes  
to material topics or boundaries in 2018.
102-50: Reporting period Page 2 of About this report
102-51: Date of most recent report Page 2 of About this report
102-52: Reporting cycle Page 2 of About this report
102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 2 of About this report
102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the 
GRI standardsWhile Nufarm continues to progress towards meeting the full requirements 
of the GRI sustainability reporting standards, this report does not yet 
meet all of the requirements of the 
standards.
102-55: GRI content index Pages 44-49, GRI content index
102-56: External assurance This report has not had external assurance.
Material disclosures
GRI 201: Economic performance 2016201-1: Direct economic value generated and 
distributedTable 1 on page 8 in About us
201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeInformation unavailable
201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plansNote 26, employee benefits on pages 90-91 of Nufarm’s 2018  
annual financial report and page 28 of People
GRI 202: Market presence 2016
202-1: Ratios of standard entry level  
wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Information unavailable
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016
203-1: Infrastructure investments and services 
supportedNo significant investments  
in infrastructure or services were made this year.
203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts Information unavailable
45
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018GRI content index continued
GRI Standard and disclosure titles Reference Comments
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruptionPage 32 in Governance
205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and proceduresPage 31 in Governance
205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenPage 32 in Governance
GRI: 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 2016
206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practicesPage 32 in Governance
GRI: 301 Materials 2016
301-1: Materials used by weight or volume Information unavailable
301-2: Recycled input materials used Information unavailable
301-3: Reclaimed products and their packaging 
materialsInformation unavailable
GRI: 302 Energy 2016
302-1: Energy consumption within  
the organisationTable 13 on page 33 in Environment
302-2: Energy consumption outside  
of the organisationInformation unavailable
303-3: Energy intensity Table 1 on page 33 in Environment
302-4: Reduction of energy consumption Page 33 in Environment We do not have the information available to quantify how much of this year’s energy reduction is 
directly attributable to energy 
conservation activities.
302-5: Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and servicesInformation unavailable
GRI: 303 Water and effluents 2018
303-1: Interactions with water as a shared resource Page 34 in Environment
303-2: Management of water  
discharge-related impactsPages 34-35 in Environment
303-3: Water withdrawal Table 15 on page 35 in Environment
303-4: Water discharge Table 15 on page 35 in Environment
303-5: Water consumption Table 15 on page 35 in Environment
GRI: 305 Emissions 2016
305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Table 13 on page 33 in Environment
305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2)  
GHG emissionsTable 13 on page 33 in Environment
305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Information unavailable
305-4: GHG emissions intensity Table 13 on page 33 in Environment
305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions Page 33 in Environment
305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 
(ODS)Page 34 in Environment
305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 
other significant air emissionsTable 14 on page 34 in Environment
GRI: 306 Effluents and wastes 2016
306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination Table 15 on page 35 in Environment
306-2: Waste by type and disposal method Table 16 on page 36 in Environment
306-3: Significant spills Table 17 on page 36 in Environment
306-4: Transport of hazardous waste Table 16 on page 36 in Environment
306-5: Water bodies affected by water discharges 
and/or runoffPage 35 in Environment
GRI: 307 Environmental compliance 2016
307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsPage 37 in Environment
GRI: 308 Supplier environmental assessment 2016
308-1: New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaPages 22-23 in Ethical sourcing
308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions takenPages 22-23 in Ethical sourcing
GRI: 401 Employment 2016
401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover Table 10 on page 25 in Our people
401-3: Parental leave Table 9 on page 25 in Our people
GRI: 403 Occupational health and safety 2018
403-1: Occupational health and safety management 
systemPage 20 in Safety
46
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018GRI Standard and disclosure titles Reference Comments
403-2: Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigationPages 18-19 in Safety
403-3: Occupational health services Pages 20-21 in Safety
403-4: Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safetyPage 20 in Safety
403-5: Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyPage 20 in Safety
403-6: Promotion of worker health Page 21 in Safety
403-7: Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationshipsPage 39 in Product stewardship
403-8: Workers covered by an occupational health 
and safety management systemPage 20 in Safety
403-9: Work-related injuries Table 5 on page 17 in Safety
403-10: Work-related ill health Information unavailable
GRI: 404 Training and education 2016
404-1: Average hours of training per year per 
employeePage 28 in Our people
404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programsPage 28 in Our people
404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviewsPage 28 in Our people
GRI: 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 2016
405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and 
employeesTable 12 on page 27 in Our people
405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menPage 28 in Our people
GRI: 406 Non-discrimination 2016
406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenPage 28 in Our people
GRI: 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2016
407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at riskPage 28 in Our people
GRI: 408 Child labour 2016
408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child labourPage 28 in Our people and pages 22-23  
in Ethical sourcing
GRI: 409 Forced and compulsory labour 2016
409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory labourPage 28 in Our people and pages 22-23  
in Ethical sourcing
GRI: 413 Local communities 2016
413-1: Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsPage 42 in Community
413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communitiesPage 42 in Community
GRI: 414 Supplier social assessment 2016
414-1: New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaPage 22 in Ethical sourcing
414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions takenPages 22-23 in Ethical sourcing
GRI: 416 Customer health and safety 2016
416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 
product and service categoriesInformation unavailable
416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts of products and servicesInformation unavailable
GRI: 417 Marketing and labelling 2016
417-1: Requirements for product and service 
information and labellingPage 39 in Product stewardship
417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labellingInformation unavailable
417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsInformation unavailable
GRI: 419 Socioeconomic compliance 2016
419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 
social and economic areaPage 20 in Safety
47
Nufarm Limited Sustainability Report 2018103–105 Pipe Road  
Laverton North
Victoria 3026 AustraliaTelephone: +61 3 9282 1000  
Facsimile: +61 3 9282 1001nufarm.com