SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT
2016
AustraliaFranceGermanyPoland
Europe
Serviced by hubs in Germany,
France and Poland North America
Serviced by
a hub in the
United States
Latin America
Serviced by ahub in Brazil
Australia /New Zealand
Serviced by a hub in AustraliaUnited States
of America
Brazil 
Manufacturing locations
ABOUT THIS REPORT
This report, prepared by Nufarm Limited, provides information 
relating to our sustainability practices and performance for the financial year ending 31 July 2016 (referred to in this report as 2016). It reports on a range of parameters and activities including health, safety, environment, our people, practices and community relations including Nufarm’s significant locations and operations. 
The health and safety data includes 
permanent and casual employees as well as contractors, with data collected from Nufarm manufacturing sites, offices and regional service centres. 
As yet, it does not include 
environmental data from our sales offices and distribution centres.
Environmental data is provided by our 
manufacturing plants and summarised for this report. This year there will  
only be partial data provided for our manufacturing facilities at Botlek in  
the Netherlands, Lytton in Australia, Otahuhu in New Zealand and Calgary  
in Canada due to their closure and decommissioning in 2016.Our financial performance is detailed  
in our annual and half yearly reports which are available on our website: nufarm.com.
Starting with this report we have begun 
working towards Global Reporting Initiative standards (GRI), and this report meets many of the core standards  
and some of the specific disclosures  as per the GRI content index.
For more information please  
contact Nufarm’s head office  
on +61 3 9282 1000.
Our locations
Our global head office is located at Laverton North in Victoria, Australia, which is also the site of our largest manufacturing 
plant. Including Australia, Nufarm has manufacturing facilities in 11 locations across the world.01 About us
05 Managing director’s message
06 Governance
09 Engaging our stakeholders
11 Environmental stewardship
17 Injury prevention
23 Our people
27 Societal contribution
31 Product stewardship
34 GRI content indexCONTENTS
NUFARM LIMITED ABN 37 091 323 312AustraliaFranceGermanyPoland
Europe
Serviced by hubs in Germany,
France and Poland North America
Serviced by
a hub in the
United States
Latin America
Serviced by ahub in Brazil
Australia /New Zealand
Serviced by a hub in AustraliaUnited States
of America
Brazil 
Manufacturing locations
ABOUT US
Nufarm Limited is a crop protection and seed technologies business. It is a publicly owned 
company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). We employ approximately 3,000 people in 30 different countries.Nufarm’s vision is to be 
a world leader in innovative  
crop protection and seed technology solutions.
Crop protection
Nufarm is a manufacturer, distributor and 
marketer of crop protection chemicals.
We improve food security with 
products that help farmers protect 
their crops against weeds, pests and 
disease, helping them to increase crop yields. We are the ninth largest crop 
protection company in the world and 
the market leader in Australia. We have manufacturing and distribution 
platforms in Australia, North America, 
Latin America, Europe and Asia.The company holds approximately  
4,000 product registrations and markets products in over 100 countries around the world. Our leading brands include 
Crucial, Agroxone, Clinic, Weedmaster, 
Stabilan, Nuprid 600, Kaiso, Amicide  
and Credit.
Seed technologies
Nufarm has diversified into the seeds market via its wholly owned subsidiary 
Nuseed and has a growing presence  
in the seed treatment segment.We support global food production and stock fodder with three specialty 
crops: canola, sorghum, and sunflower.
Nuseed has a clear strategy to improve 
the fundamental value of crops through 
developing output traits. Nuseed products are marketed in 35 countries. 
Some of our significant seed products 
are Monola
© and GT Canola.
Our seed treatment goal is to bring innovation and differentiation to the market via formulations, mixtures, 
partnerships and new technologies.
01
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016ABOUT US continued
Strategic alliances
The company has strategic alliances 
with a number of major agricultural and chemical companies, including 
Sumitomo Chemical Company, Limited. 
These alliances involve joint marketing rights to particular products, research and development collaborations and 
manufacturing joint ventures.
Mission, values and vision
At Nufarm our mission, vision and 
core values shape everything we do.
Our mission is to grow a better 
tomorrow.
Our vision is to be a world leader in 
innovative crop protection and seed 
technology solutions.
Our core values are:
• Responsibility: We are accountable 
for our decisions and our actions. We recognise that trust is at the 
foundation of relationships and 
that acting ethically, safely and responsibly creates that trust.
• Agility: We are resourceful and adaptable in meeting the needs of our customers and our organisation.
• Respect: We respect others – colleagues, customers and stakeholders – and our environment. 
• Empowerment: We are an innovative, entrepreneurial organisation where individuals 
and teams can do what is best 
for the customer, the organisation and our stakeholders.
Strategic direction
Nufarm has implemented a new business strategy. The projected global population growth and increased 
demand for animal protein over the 
next 40 years will see demand for  core commodity crops increase. Our strategy works towards improving food 
security by focusing on these important 
crops and the regions where they  are grown.
PO
RTFOLIO EXCELLENCE SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE
PEOPLE  |  VALUES  |  CULTURECUSTOMER EXCELLENCEONE NUFARM
CUSTOMER
EXPERIENCE
Cereal
 Pasture, Turf
& Ornamentals
Soybean
 Trees, Nuts
Vines & Vegetables
CornOperating segments summary
The table below provides a summary of the performance of the operating segments for the 2016 financial year and the prior corresponding period.
Year ended 31 July Revenue Underlying EBIT
($000s) 2016 2015Change 
(%) 2016 2015Change 
(%)
Crop protection
Australia and 
New Zealand 553,994 582,391 -4.9 46,963 52,745 -11.0
Asia 148,604 155,233 -4.3 22,824 18,134 25.9
Europe 550,376 544,775 1.0 73,017 64,426 13.3
North America 653,939 588,650 11.1 59,288 38,921 52.3
Latin America 740,686 706,533 4.8100,396 76,684 30.9
Total crop protection 2,647,599 2,577,582 2.7302,488 250,910 20.6
Seed technologies 
– global 143,618 159,581 -10.0 28,719 31,829 -9.8
Corporate – – n/a (44,511) (45,857) -2.9
Nufarm group 2,791,217 2,737,163 2.0286,696 236,882 21.0
02
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016We will focus on four core regions: 
Australia and New Zealand, Latin America, North America, and Europe, 
with hubs in Australia, Brazil, the 
United States, France, Germany and Poland. 
Going forward, our five key crop 
segments are corn; soybean; cereals; pasture, turf and ornamentals; and trees nuts vines and vegetables, where we will prioritise our investments to 
leverage our deep expertise in these 
crops. Nuseed will continue to be a growth platform and Asia is a longer term growth prospect.
We operate our business as three 
pools: portfolio excellence, supply chain excellence, and customer excellence, with our customers at the 
centre. We have changed our operating 
model so that we have centre-led portfolio and supply chain functions that leverage our global scale. We  
will continue to operate our customer 
marketing and commercial operations on a regional basis.
In 2015 we implemented a  
business improvement program  
and we have made good progress  with this in 2016.
We largely completed the changes  
to our manufacturing footprint this  year with the safe decommissioning  of Lytton in Australia, Otahuhu in  New Zealand, Botlek in the 
Netherlands and Calgary in Canada. 
We have also commissioned an insecticide and fungicide facility in Laverton, Australia, and consolidated 
our European phenoxy manufacturing 
activities to Wyke in the United Kingdom. Decommissioning and part-year data has been included  in this report for these sites. 
We have implemented a manufacturing 
efficiencies program that is well underway across our manufacturing 
sites. We have centralised our 
procurement function with a centre  of excellence in China. We are investing $27 million to improve our supply  chain and demand planning capability.Our supply chain
Nufarm has manufacturing facilities in Europe, North America, Latin America, Asia and Australia, enabling us to tailor 
our products to suit local conditions 
and respond rapidly to customer needs. We primarily sell our crop protection and seed products direct  
to channel partners.
Economic impact
Our financial results are released 
annually and reflect the period 1 August to 31 July. We also release 
our half yearly results for the period 
1 August to 31 January. These reports are on our website and list all entities included in Nufarm’s consolidated 
results.
At the end of the 2016 financial year 
the capitalised breakdown was:
• assets: $3.46 billion; 
• liabilities: $1.91 billion; and
• equity: $1.55 billion.
Our impact on and contribution 
to the economy is as important 
as our financial performance. Our contribution includes both direct and indirect employment, support of 
farming practices to improve efficiency 
and productivity, the support of local suppliers, capital investment programs, payment of taxes and contribution to local communities.
Sustainability at Nufarm
Sustainability underpins our approach to doing business and provides assurance that we will act responsibly 
while providing value for our 
stakeholders.
Nufarm works in an industry 
where sustainability principles are entrenched. As a company engaged in the development, production and 
supply of inputs to agriculture, we 
see sustainability as an overarching business principle that generates value by delivering solutions to farmers.In 2015 Nufarm launched a four-year company-wide sustainability strategy 
cycle. By the end of the cycle we 
expect to see a change in our sustainability maturity and impact.
We identified six strategic pillars 
that will be the focus of our sustainability actions, which are:
• eliminating incidents;
• environmental stewardship;
• our people;
• procurement stewardship;
• product stewardship; and
• societal contribution.
Our focus for the first two years of 
this cycle is to improve in the pillars 
of ‘our people’ and ‘eliminating incidents’. We believe that this will create a firm foundation for step 
changes in our other strategic pillars.
In 2016 we have:
• successfully deployed seven 
Life Saving Rules across the entire business. The seven rules have been 
established to keep our people 
safe from life-threatening potential hazards. The Life Saving Rules set  the expectations for all staff, visitors, 
subcontractors and third party 
workers whilst working at our  sites;
• invested in our safety capability and the Nufarm management team is committed to ensuring that safety 
is our first priority;
• reinvigorated our process safety 
management program at our manufacturing sites; and
• developed a company-wide health, safety and environmental (HSE) standard, which will be implemented in 2017.
03
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 04This report highlights the 
work we are doing across our business to improve our levels of safety, to responsibly manage our impact on the environment and contribute 
to society in a positive way.
Last year, we launched our first 
company-wide sustainability strategy and four-year plan, which is aimed 
at improving our sustainability 
performance. As a part of this plan we have focused on achieving global alignment of our safety systems and 
processes and improving our safety 
behaviours and culture.
We have continued to work towards 
our goal of zero harm and reinforce a 
‘safety first’ culture. We have also made 
good progress in improving the way  we report, investigate and prevent re-occurrence of significant incidents.
The company is midway through 
a major performance improvement program and, as a part of this, we have streamlined our manufacturing 
footprint and conducted manufacturing 
efficiency programs. We completed  the process of decommissioning our plants at Botlek in the Netherlands, 
Lytton in Australia, Otahuhu in  
New Zealand and Calgary in Canada without any lost time injuries. The changes to our manufacturing footprint will ensure Nufarm is more efficient, 
competitive and sustainable in  
the future. During the year, we also safely constructed and commissioned a new insecticide and fungicide manufacturing facility in Laverton North, Melbourne, 
and we have had a good start at 
developing a strong safety culture  at this operation.
Despite these achievements we had  
a tragic fatality in September 2015 at 
our Linz site in Austria. This is a stark reminder of why we need to focus on continuously improving safety at 
Nufarm. In May 2016, an accident on  
a public road resulted in the death of one of our sales people in Western Australia. One of our difficult safety challenges is that we have a sales force 
that use public roads every day to visit 
customers. This year we continued to roll out programs focused on road safety across all our regions.
We continue to work towards reducing 
our environmental footprint and the significant structural changes that we have made to our business mean that 
we are setting new environmental 
baselines. In line with our sustainability strategy, we will continue to focus on improving our water, energy and waste 
management.
We engage with local communities 
in the areas we operate through a variety of programs. We have programs 
at our manufacturing plants that are 
close to communities and we support  a variety of local initiatives. Many of our sales people live in the areas they 
work in and some actively contribute to 
their communities in partnership with our channel partners.This year, we have extended our partnership with Nuffield farming scholarships, sponsoring scholarships  in Australia and Brazil from 2017.  
This provides an opportunity for people 
in the agricultural industry to travel, learn and develop their capabilities. 
Our commitment to change means 
we still have a lot of work to do. This 
report is a snapshot of our progress towards making Nufarm a safer and more sustainable business for our 
people, stakeholders and customers.
Greg Hunt
Managing director  and chief executive officer 
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
05
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Nufarm is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance and has a range of policies and procedures in place to support this aim. Details of board committees and their terms of reference, along with other corporate policies and protocols, can be found in the corporate governance section  of our website. Nufarm is listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange (ASX) and we comply with the ASX Corporate 
Governance Principles and Recommendations (the Principles).
Board of directors
Nufarm’s board of directors has 
overall responsibility for corporate governance.
The board charter clearly defines 
individual and collective responsibilities, including its mandate to oversee the 
company’s operations and ensure 
Nufarm operates in the best interest of all shareholders and with proper regard to the interest of all stakeholders. Board members are selected based  
on their experience and skills to ensure 
the board properly discharges its responsibilities.
The board is comprised of a majority 
of independent non-executive directors, in line with the Principles. The exception is Greg Hunt, who is the managing director and chief 
executive officer.
The board reviews its composition 
and terms of reference annually. 
It also evaluates the performance 
and determines remuneration of the managing director and senior executives. Details of the remuneration of all directors and key management 
personnel are set out in the 
remuneration report in Nufarm’s annual report.Board committees
The board is supported by four 
committees: the audit and risk 
committee, the nomination and 
governance committee, the human resources (HR) committee, and the health, safety and environment (HSE) committee. 
The HSE committee is responsible 
for reviewing and reporting to the board on strategic matters including 
significant environmental issues. 
In conjunction with the board, the 
committee has approved the group’s 
sustainability strategy. The HSE and  HR committees have joint oversight  of Nufarm’s material social and 
environmental aspects while making 
recommendations to the board on matters of policy and practice.
The responsibilities of the nomination 
and governance committee include 
composition of the board, reviewing the mix of skills and diversity on the board and recommending changes 
to the board membership and whether 
to support the re-election of a retiring director. Each year the board committee will self-assess whether it has discharged its responsibility 
as set out in its charter.Executive leadership
The board has delegated authority 
for the daily management of Nufarm’s environmental and social aspects to 
the executive leadership team. 
Reporting directly to the CEO, the group executive for manufacturing and supply chain, Elbert Prado, is 
responsible for environment and safety, 
while John Hannan, group executive for people and performance, is responsible for our employee programs.
Conflict of interest
Board members must identify any 
conflict of interest they may have in 
dealing with the company’s affairs and then refrain from participating in any discussion or voting on these matters. Directors and senior executives must 
disclose any related party transaction 
in writing.
Information on cross-board 
memberships and major shareholdings 
is made publically available to interested parties through our annual financial report and statements released to  the ASX.
Code of conduct
Nufarm seeks to conduct its business in a manner that recognises and adheres to all relevant laws and 
regulations and meets high standards 
with respect to honesty and integrity. We require all Nufarm directors, employees, contractors and consultants 
to be familiar with and uphold the 
company’s code of conduct in all business dealings. While a number of specific and detailed policies have 
Donald McGauchie AO
Joined 2003 
Chairman  
HR committee member Greg Hunt
Joined the board 2015 
Managing director and  
chief executive officerAnne Brennan
Joined 2011 
Board HR committee 
member Gordon Davis
Joined 2011
Chairman of the board 
HSE committee and board  
HR committee member
06
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016been implemented, the Nufarm code 
of conduct broadly encompasses the following values:
• sustainability and safety;
• compliance with law and legislation; 
• managing conflict of interest;
• protecting information and assets;
• being a trusted partner; and
• people, diversity, equal opportunity, respect and inclusion.
Nufarm operates in many countries and does so in accordance with the social and cultural beliefs of each country. We are politically impartial except where the board believes it 
is necessary to comment due to any 
perceived major impact on the company, its business or any of its stakeholders. We require directors, 
senior executives and all employees  
to adopt standards of business conduct that are ethical and in compliance with all legislation.
Other policies
Where there are no legislative 
requirements with which to comply, 
we develop policy statements to 
support the code of conduct and ensure appropriate standards are met. These policies include the 
communications policy, diversity 
policy, security trading policy and continuous disclosure protocol. We have a whistleblower policy to provide employees with a confidential 
mechanism to report any suspected 
unethical or illegal behaviour.Risk management
The board is committed to identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing its material business risks. Nufarm’s risk 
management policies and procedures 
are designed to enable effective and appropriate management of material risks. Each year the board undertakes 
a comprehensive review of the material 
risks faced by the company. In doing so, it considers the interests of all relevant stakeholders. The company recognises a number of operational 
risks related to its crop protection 
business including:
• climate conditions and seasonality;
• regulatory, freedom to operate, product registration, product use and business sustainability;
• relationships with key suppliers and customers; and
• licences and operating permits for manufacturing facilities.
Critical environmental or social concerns are reported directly to the board as they arise. This year two such matters were reported 
to the board with the sad loss  
of one colleague in Austria and  another colleague in Australia.
Memberships
While Nufarm does not subscribe to any externally developed sustainability charters or principles, we do practice 
the standards established by a number 
of industry groups to which we belong. Nufarm is a member of Responsible Care, a global, voluntary initiative 
developed by the chemical industry 
that operates in 52 countries. Signatory chemical companies commit to improve their performance in environmental 
protection, occupational safety and 
health protection, plant safety, product stewardship, logistics and stakeholder engagement.
The Sustainable Agriculture Initiative 
(SAI) platform is an initiative aimed at contributing to the development of sustainable agriculture. The Australian 
Chapter is affiliated with the Global 
SAI Platform, which was founded 13 years ago in Europe as the main food industry initiative supporting the development of sustainable agriculture 
worldwide. As an SAI Platform member, 
Nufarm shares a common vision to enhance agricultural sustainability and impart those benefits along 
the full supply chain for the benefit 
of Australian communities. Nufarm is  a member of PACIA, a national body representing Australia’s chemical industry. Its members include chemical 
manufacturers, importers and 
distributors, logistics and supply chain partners, raw material suppliers, plastics fabricators and compounders, 
chemicals and plastics recyclers and 
industry service providers. We also participate in chemical industry associations in a number of countries and other organisations such  
as CropLife.
Frank Ford
Joined 2012Bruce GoodfellowJoined 1991Peter MarginJoined 2011
Chairman of the board 
HR committee and board  
HSE committee member.Toshikazu TakasakiJoined 2012
Board HSE committee 
member
07
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201608 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Nufarm operates its businesses with the involvement, support and interaction of a range of 
stakeholders. These include our employees, customers, suppliers, the local communities we operate in, government regulators and shareholders. We seek to ensure that these stakeholders are properly informed and we place a high priority on responding to feedback, questions or concerns.
Stakeholder group About the stakeholder Engagement 
Investors and shareholders Mainstream brokers, analysts, fund 
managers, existing and potential 
shareholders. Retail and institutional 
shareholders.Annual general meeting, annual reports, half year reports, sustainability 
reports, ASX releases, site visits, 
presentations at industry conferences, and corporate website (where all releases and other information are held).
Employees Employees are based in five regions 
across multiple locations; employment 
contracts vary according to location and job type.Presentations, discussions, Nufarm 
intranet, emails, CEO letter via email 
and hard copy, meetings, posters and notice boards. 
Customers Channel partners, distributors, end users and growers.Regular formal and informal communication and personal visits via sales team, surveys, email, website 
and customer service telephone 
interaction. 
Industry associations Agrochemical industry associations and stewardship organisations.Representatives on the board and committees; support and engagement 
on key issues.
Media National and local media in the 
countries we operate in.Site visits, media releases, website, interviews.
Community People and organisations close to  
our manufacturing sites and to our 
customers, including schools and community centres.Location-specific community relations 
activities, community meetings, formal 
and informal communications.
Government Local, state and national regulators 
and government agencies.Formal and informal engagement with regulators, including regulatory affairs, 
and other government departments through site visits, meetings, events and reporting.
09 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 10ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
At Nufarm we are committed to protecting the environment. Where our manufacturing sites 
are located close to residential areas, we partner with the local communities to ensure any potential amenity impacts are eliminated. Where sites are located near areas of environmental value, we put rigorous controls in place to prevent adverse incidents. In supporting our environmental activities we have spent $8.2 million this year, an increase of $1.4 million since  last year. These funds were invested in environmental projects ($5.2 million), expenses associated 
with compliance, monitoring and environmental management ($2.5 million), and site rehabilitation 
($0.5 million).
We have ISO14001 certification at 
our Wyke, United Kingdom, and Gaillon, France, sites. Our other sites 
operate equivalent environmental 
management systems. This year, to further embed the values of our HSE policy, we developed a new HSE 
standard with environmental policies 
concentrating on key sustainability issues such as energy, climate change and conservation of resources. We will be launching this standard at all 
of our sites in the next financial year.
2016 has been a year of change for 
Nufarm, with the completion of our 
manufacturing rationalisation program 
and the closure and decommissioning of four sites. This has now been completed and in the near future we will be able to establish new baselines 
against which future environmental 
improvements can be measured.
The following summarises the 2016 
environmental performance at our 
significant places of operation.
Energy
In 2016, total energy consumed at Nufarm manufacturing locations was 1,079 terajoules (TJ). This includes all 
sources of energy – gas, electricity, 
steam and small quantities of fuel.  The 11 per cent change in energy  use this year is largely a result of  
the standardisation of energy reporting 
boundaries across our sites.
Steam is an essential part of the 
manufacturing process at Nufarm, 
used for heating raw materials and 
production vessels; the majority of Nufarm’s energy use is either steam or gas used in steam-generating boilers. 
Our phenoxy synthesis activities are  
our most energy-intensive operations, making up almost 80 per cent of our total energy consumption.We have energy-saving initiatives underway across our business. Many of our sites are progressively upgrading 
their lighting, and we have a significant 
project planned for 2017, which is the replacement of the boiler at our plant in Gaillon, France. This will reduce 
the site’s energy consumption by 
eight per cent.
This year, five per cent of Nufarm’s 
energy came from renewable sources, 
as made available in the electricity grids. Water
We use water in all of our production 
processes for cooling and cleaning and as a component of our products. The 
significant increase in water use this 
year is due to changes in our water use reporting, as we have included water  that we use for cooling and recycle back, clean  to its source. This year  we consumed 5,600 megalitres (ML) of 
water and discharged a similar amount.
Strict quality controls and product 
mix have a strong influence on our 
ability to recycle water; however, 
where possible we collect wash  water for reuse in production.Figure 1: Energy consumption and intensity
00.501.00  1.50  2.00  2.50  3.00  3.50
0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 
Energy Intensity (GJ/KL: Tonne)Energy consumption: (TJ)
Diesel Electricity Gas Steam Oil LPG
Energy intensity 
Notes:
1. Energy is presented in terajoules and energy intensity is calculated as total 
 energy from all sources, including purchased steam in gigajoules per tonne  or kilolitre of production.
2. United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) conversion factors have
 been applied.
3. 2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual
 sustainability report with the annual financial report, as sustainability data was previously reported on a calendar year basis.
11
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Our sites have ongoing water reduction 
initiatives underway. This year in Brazil some simple plumbing modifications 
in the bathrooms reduced water use 
by over 500 kilolitres (KL). We have installed rainwater collection systems  in some locations for use in garden 
irrigation and one of our sites in 
Chicago, United States, installed a new rainwater collection system to allow rainwater and melted snow to be captured and reused in production.
Our operations do not impact upon 
water availability for protected areas or local communities.
Emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions
This year we aligned our greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions with the GHG 
protocol. Our synthesis manufacturing 
sites are our largest energy consumers and also Nufarm’s main emitters  
of GHGs.
We have had a major restructure of our 
manufacturing footprint, which was completed in 2016. We are currently 
establishing a new greenhouse gas 
baseline for the business with an associated improvement program. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP continued
Figure 2: Water withdrawal and intensity
Water utilities River water Rainwater Groundwater
Water intensity 
Notes:
1. Water withdrawal is measured in megalitres and water withdrawal intensity 
 is measured in kilolitres per tonne or kilolitres of production.
2. Water withdrawal from utility providers and groundwater is metered while
 rainwater capture is estimated.
3. The significant increase in water use this year is due to changes in our water
 use reporting. We have included cooling water that we use and recycle back to its source 
4.  2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual   
 sustainability report with the annual financial report, as sustainability    data was previously reported on a calendar year basis.02.00  4.00  6.00  8.00  10.00  12.00  14.00  
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 
2012 2013 2014 2015 Water withdrawal (ML)
Water intensity (KL/KL: Tonne)
2016 
2016 Figure 3: Greenhouse gas emissions and intensity
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 GHG intensity 
Notes:
1. Greenhouse gases are reported in tonnes and greenhouse gas intensity in total 
 kg of greenhouse gas (including Scope 3 emissions), per kg or litre of production.
2. Intra governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)  default emission and
 global potential warming factors have been applied to estimate Scope 1 and  3 emissions. Scope 2 emissions have been estimated using electricity retailer conversion factors where available.
3. 2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual
 sustainability report with the annual financial report, as sustainability data was previously reported on a calendar year basis. 
4. Our scope 3 emissions relate to purchased steam only.0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25 0.30 
0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Greenhouse gas intensity (kg/l: kg)Greenhouse Gases ( Tonnes) Our operations do 
not impact upon water availability for protected areas or 
local communities.
12
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Other air emissions
Nufarm strives to eliminate emissions through process controls at source.  
This year, to reduce air emissions we installed a dust collector on our insecticide 
plant at Merak, Indonesia, and scrubbers on our new insecticide and fungicide site at Laverton North, Australia. With the closure of our Botlek site in the Netherlands, Nufarm has eliminated all emissions of CFC-12.
Table 1: Other emissions to air
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
NOx 176 126 86 142 28
SOx 0.9 0.7 0.4 0.8 0.3
VOC 28 25 16 18 16
HAP 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.5
PM 1.5 0.6 0.4 0.8 1.2
CO 54 39 7 11 8.3
CFC-12 0.1 0.6 0.1 0 0
Total 261.3 192.6 110.4 173 54.3
Notes:
1. Air emissions are expressed in tonnes and estimated.
2.  Nitrous oxides, (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), volatile organic compounds (VOC), hazardous air 
pollutants (HAP), particulate matter (PM), carbon monoxide (CO) and freon (CFC-12). Nufarm has  
no emissions of persistent organic pollutants (POP).
3. 2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual sustainability report with  
 the annual financial report, as sustainability data was previously reported on a calendar year basis. 
4.  It has been identified that NOx and CO emissions originating from the cogeneration plant located on 
our site in Wyke, United Kingdom, were previously and incorrectly reported as Nufarm’s emissions. 
These were excluded in 2016.Effluent and waste
Effluent
This year we delivered some significant 
environmental outcomes in improving 
effluent discharges from our sites. Last year we reported our plans to construct a solvent extraction plant at our site in 
Laverton, Australia. In 2016 the plant 
was constructed and commissioned. When fully operational, we expect the plant to significantly improve our waste quality by reusing chemicals.  
The project was partially funded by  
the state government.
Our operation at Chicago Heights in 
the United States is a zero discharge 
facility for any process and wash water. To reduce the volume of waste being stored on site, we have recently installed equipment to allow the 
evaporation and condensation of 
contaminated water. Condensed water will be recycled back into production for reuse while the volume of waste 
chemical and plastic storage containers 
will be reduced.
This year we permanently ceased 
all use of deep well injection at our 
site in Kwinana, Australia.
Waste
Chemical processes typically 
generate waste and require ongoing 
improvements to adopt cleaner 
production practices. Our waste emissions have increased this year due to the activities associated with the 
manufacturing rationalisation and clean 
up of the sites. We have, however, also taken positive steps to reduce waste, such as the installation of raw material bulk tanks at our plant in Fortaleza, 
Brazil, which eliminated 30 tonnes of 
packaging waste. We also engaged a new waste management partner at Gaillon in France to reduce incinerated 
waste by 16 tonnes.
2016 Figure 4: Total liquid and solid waste (excluding water)
Incineration Industrial treatment 
Reuse Sewage treatment Landfill Recovery 
Recycling 
Surface or ground water Waste intensity 00.020  0.040  0.060  0.080  0.100  0.120  0.140  
0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 
2012 2013 2014 2015 
Notes:
1. Waste is measured in tonnes and represents the chemical component of the  
 waste stream only. The volume of water has been excluded but we intend to   improve this reporting in future.
2. Waste intensity is measured tonne per tonne or kilolitre of production.3. 2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual
 sustainability report with the annual financial report, as sustainability data  was previously reported on a calendar year basis. Waste (tonnes) 
Waste intensity  ( Tonnes/ Tonne: KL) 
13
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016One of our larger waste streams is the 
salty effluent produced by our synthesis operations. In Laverton North, Australia, 
we have partnered with a local 
university and our waste water utility provider to investigate salt recovery options. This is a long term initiative 
with the potential to deliver a significant 
reduction in waste and the possible reuse of the salt in our chlorination process.
We have implemented ongoing soil 
and groundwater monitoring at our sites to prevent off-site impacts from our activities. With the closure of sites, 
some soil remediation was needed to 
support rezoning and ongoing land use. In addition, our site in Laverton remediated 100 tonnes of soil, making it suitable for reuse in landscaping 
and construction. Biodiversity
Many of our sites are located in 
industrial zones with no direct or indirect impact on significant or 
protected areas. However, our site 
in Lytton, Australia, which is now closed, was located next to a protected wetland and there is an area of high 
ecological value near our Gaillon site 
in France. We have had no impact  on these areas.
Compliance and complaints
Environmental management systems are in place at all of our sites to ensure we comply with the local regulatory 
requirements and resolve complaints.
Compliance
Where required, sites undertake 
compliance testing of their emissions to the environment. Compliance to regulatory requirements is historically very good; this year we achieved a 
compliance rate over 99 per cent; 
however, we received one fine of US$400 in Chicago for traces of zinc found in a water discharge. The site 
does not use zinc in any form, so the 
reason for its presence could not be determined. The closure of some of  our sites has reduced compliance testing required this year.
Complaints
Some of our sites operate close to 
residential areas and from time to time we receive complaints from 
our neighbours, mainly due to odour 
or noise. Complaints are taken very seriously by the sites and investigated immediately. At some sites, for 
example in Brazil, a formal odour 
monitoring study was carried out in residential areas this year. As can be 
seen in table 2, we have had five 
complaints this year, although none were confirmed to be a direct result of our operations. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP continued
2016 Figure 5: Environmental compliance testing
Tests Percentage compliance 90.0% 91.0% 92.0% 93.0% 94.0% 95.0% 96.0% 97.0% 98.0% 99.0% 100.0% 
0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 16,000 18,000 
2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of tests
% compliance
Notes:
1. 2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual
 sustainability report with the annual financial report, as sustainability data was
 previously reported on a calendar year basis. 
Environmental 
management systems are in place at all of our sites to ensure we 
comply with the local 
regulatory requirements and resolve complaints.In Laverton North, Australia, we have partnered with a local university and our waste 
water utility provider to 
investigate salt recovery options. This is a long term initiative with the potential to deliver a significant reduction in waste and the possible 
reuse of the salt in our 
chlorination process.
Table 2: Environmental complaints
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Nufarm 8 6 12 2 0
Not Nufarm 9 5 6 3 2
Undetermined 2 0 1 5 3
Total 19 11 19 10 5
Notes:
1.  2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual sustainability report with the 
 annual financial report, as sustainability data was previously reported on a calendar year basis. 
14
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201615 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201616 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016INJURY PREVENTION
The health and safety of our employees is our first priority and 
we are working to build a culture of zero harm. This is supported by the development of processes that identify and manage  
risks and hazards along with preventative measures and regular reviews. This section details our performance in 2016.
In our four-year sustainability strategy 
launched in 2015, incident elimination was highlighted as the key priority for 
the first two years. In 2016 we have 
progressed in improving our safety culture with the implementation of a number of initiatives and investing 
$17.8 million in our safety programs, 
$5.0 million more than last year.
Fatal accidents
In September 2015, a fatality occurred at the company’s manufacturing site in Linz, Austria. The fatality resulted from 
a plant operator falling from the top 
of an operational vessel during upset process conditions. The subsequent investigation identified the root causes 
of the incident and the changes 
needed to prevent a similar situation from arising in the future. These changes were rapidly deployed across Nufarm’s global manufacturing sites.
In May 2016, two of Nufarm’s Crop 
Care staff were involved in a fatal head-on car accident in rural Western 
Australia. One staff member died 
at the scene and the other suffered serious injuries. Driving in rural areas is a very common and necessary activity at Nufarm as we engage with 
our customers and channel partners. 
There are programs established across Nufarm that focus on vehicle driver safety when on public roads. The 
organisation continues to work 
towards reducing risk associated with this activity.Safety performance
We have reset our injury reporting and classification processes to ensure that all injuries are reported and correctly 
classified, providing for consistent, 
company-wide safety performance measurement. This year Nufarm commenced reporting serious injury 
frequency rate (SIFR) as its principal 
lagging safety metric. We have changed to concentrate on all incidents that are serious enough to result in treatment by a medical professional 
rather than only those that result in 
lost work time. While SIFR replaces the lost time injury frequency rate 
(LTIFR) as our principal safety metric, 
LTIFR continues to be measured and reported within the organisation.In addition to a number of proactive 
initiatives implemented in 2016, we 
have also worked to establish more accurate injury reporting to reflect what is truly happening so that we 
can identify gaps and take corrective 
actions to improve safety.
Figure 6 shows the SIFR 12-month 
rolling weighted average, which reveals 
performance trends over time. As we 
became more rigorous in reporting, the injury rate showed an apparent but not real increase, as our true injury 
performance became visible. As our 
leadership team and employees increase their focus on safety as a precondition for any task undertaken and our sustainability strategy actions 
and programs start to gain traction,  
we can now see a downwards trend emerging as we expected to occur. Management is confident that the 
injury reporting issue has been resolved 
and that we have turned the corner in improving our safety performance.
Figure 6: 12-month rolling average SIFR and LTIFRInjury frequency rate
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.04.5
2014 2015 2016 SIFR LTIFR 
Notes:
1. Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) is the number of lost time injuries
 per million hours worked.
2. Serious injury frequency rate (SIFR) is the number of serious injuries per million
 hours worked; the sum of lost time injuries (LTI) and medical treatment injuries (MTI). In previous sustainability reports this was referred to as the medical
 treatment injury frequency rate (MTIFR). 
3. 2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual
 sustainability report with the annual financial report, as sustainability data  was previously reported on a calendar year basis.
17 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016There is no significant change in the 
nature of the injuries reported and they continue to include musculoskeletal 
strains, abrasions, fractures, cuts and 
skin irritation. These injuries result in the injured person requiring either medical treatment or time away from 
work to recuperate. One of the 
underlying causes of some of these injuries is the high use of knives and programs are underway to challenge the use of knives in 
workplace applications.
We use severity to measure the impact 
of the injuries that led to lost working 
days. This year, 134 working days were 
lost as a result of 16 lost time injuries (LTIs), with one of these LTIs accounting for 32 days of this total. While the severity rate in 2016 has increased 
marginally compared to the previous 
year, it continues to trend downwards over the long term as shown in figure 7.
This year we have also recognised 
some safety milestones; our manufacturing sites Alsip and Chicago Heights in the United States, Port Klang in Malaysia, Merak in Indonesia, 
Gaillon in France and Raymond Road in 
Australia have all been LTI free for more than three years. This is a particularly noteworthy achievement for our 
Chicago Heights facility, which 
underwent a significant construction project at the same time, and also for our new insecticide and fungicide plant at Laverton North where a former 
manufacturing site was completely 
reconstructed and commissioned without any LTIs.INJURY PREVENTION continued
Figure 7: Severity rate trending down
Notes:
1. The severity rate is the number of lost time days per thousand hours worked.
2. 2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual
 sustainability report with the annual financial report, as sustainability data was
 previously reported on a calendar year basis. 0.0000.0050.0100.0150.0200.0250.030
2012 2013 2015 2014 2016Severity rate
Table 3: SIFR by region
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Australia and New Zealand 6.88 4.31 3.12 6.16 8.18
Europe 4.14 2.07 2.64 2.12 2.75
North America 1.51 1.36 2.15 6.06 1.27
Asia 0.00 1.57 2.55 0.70 2.63
Latin America 0.00 0.76 0.00 2.20 2.10
Group 3.14 2.18 2.20 3.22 3.56
Table 4: LTIFR by region
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Australia and New Zealand 4.01 1.85 3.12 1.23 4.09
Europe 3.62 1.04 1.76 1.06 2.75
North America 1.51 0.00 0.00 2.42 0.00
Asia 0.00 1.57 2.55 0.70 1.97
Latin America 0.00 0.76 0.00 2.20 1.40
Group 2.24 1.16 1.71 1.40 2.28
Table 5: Severity rate by region
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Australia and New Zealand 0.03 0.01 0.03 0.00 0.03
Europe 0.07 0.05 0.05 0.03 0.02
North America 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00
Asia 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.02
Latin America 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01
Group 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.02
Notes:
1. ANZ was previously reported as two separate regions: Nufarm Australia and NZ and Croplands.
2.  2014 represents seven months only to allow the alignment of the annual sustainability report with  
the annual financial report, as sustainability data was previously reported on a calendar year basis. 
18
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Health and safety audits
In delivering against our new 
sustainability strategy we have changed our approach to internal and global 
health and safety audits to focus on 
fewer but higher risk elements of our safety program and to do a more detailed, deeper dive audit on these. 
In the audit program over the last 
two years a key assessment area has been safety culture and leadership at our manufacturing sites. Additionally, the audits have prioritised process 
safety management practices, vehicle 
safety and fall risks. This year, six manufacturing sites underwent a health and safety audit, meaning all 
sites have now been audited in the last 
18 months with the exception of our newly commissioned site at Raymond Road in Australia, which will be audited in early 2017. Following the audits, 
all of the sites began implementing 
corrective action plans to address any identified shortcomings.
A ‘safety climate’ program was 
launched at our site in Fortaleza, Brazil, this year. This involves the 
health and safety team conducting 
audits on 10 leading metrics on a daily basis in order to verify the compliance of processes and tools, including loading trucks, operations with forklifts 
and verification of suspended loads.
Health and safety committees
HSE committees are active across 
our business, starting at the top with the board HSE committee. Site-based 
HSE committees provide an additional 
communication and planning channel to enable employees and management to work together on identifying 
improvements in employee 
engagement, safety culture and safety 
systems and to review and deploy 
lessons arising from incidents.Leveraging a One Nufarm 
approach to safety
HSE standard
This year we have developed a One 
Nufarm high-level HSE standard with underpinning procedures, which define boundaries within which all Nufarm 
sites and people must work. Our 
objective is to deploy this standard and its cascading procedures across all of our locations in 2017.
Sharing good practice
In addition to the initiatives deployed 
globally through the Nufarm sustainability strategy, individual sites share initiatives around the world through a monthly sustainability report 
that enables rapid cutting and pasting 
of solutions from one part of the business to other Nufarm sites facing similar challenges. A recent example 
is the forklift back-up sensor trialled 
at Chicago Heights that is now being deployed at other locations. The units provide an additional layer of protection for preventing people being 
contacted by a forklift truck, particularly 
in congested environments.
Also, a global HSE incident alert 
process has been established to 
rapidly communicate serious incidents where the lessons learnt could be of value to other locations.
Process safety management
Process safety management (PSM) 
is a formal structured program for the application of management principles, methods and approaches that are 
designed to prevent the loss of 
containment of process materials that could result in a catastrophic incident.Process safety management is the foundation of good safety management in the chemical industry and is particularly important to Nufarm as 
operators of a number of major hazard 
facilities (MHF). Our sites in Europe (Wyke in the United Kingdom, Gaillon in France and Linz in Austria) all fall under Europe’s Seveso III directive. 
Wyke has recently resubmitted its 
control of major accident hazards (COMAH) safety report. In Australia, both of our Laverton North sites are 
classified as Major Hazard Facilities 
(MHF’s); our new insecticide and fungicide site submitted its first safety case to the regulator this year, with formal licensing as an MHF expected 
soon. Our herbicide manufacturing 
plant at Laverton North plant has commenced its safety case revision  for submission to the regulator in  
the coming months.
Nufarm has been applying the 
principles of process safety management (PSM) across our sites for a number  
of years and it continues to be an  
area of attention. This year Nufarm reinvigorated a company-wide PSM program with work underway to roll 
this out globally. The key elements  
of the renewed program are: 
• establishing a PSM leadership network to facilitate consistency and best practice transfer across 
Nufarm’s global operations;
• the One Nufarm HSE standard 
with supporting corporate procedures, which include 
PSM as a key aspect; and
• site level gap analysis and 
corrective action plan leading to the development and 
implementation of site level 
procedures that meet the requirements of the standard. Each site will be required to 
regularly report on its progress.
19
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Life Saving Rules
We achieved a significant milestone in 
our journey to improving our safety 
culture this year, with the introduction of the Life Saving Rules. The purpose of the Life Saving Rules is to keep all 
employees, contractors and visitors 
safe from life-threatening hazards when working at Nufarm. The rules apply to everyone, not just those in manufacturing. We have rolled out  
the rules to all regions and translated 
them into 17 languages; they are non-negotiable safety rules for working at Nufarm and any breach will lead to 
disciplinary action.
Driver safety
Nufarm has many sales people who 
spend a great deal of time driving 
on public roads. Making sure travel  
to and from work safely every day is important to us. Nufarm field staff  in all regions participate in defensive driving programs. This year, over 500 employees have participated in 
some form of driver or rider safety 
training program globally.
Although our safety performance 
has been mixed in 2016, we have 
made headway in developing Nufarm-
wide safety processes and reporting, and in improving our safety behaviours and culture. Injury reporting and 
classification processes have been 
reset to ensure consistent company-wide reporting, and our global serious injury frequency rate (SIFR) had started to trend towards zero from our new 
performance baseline as safety 
initiatives continue to have an impact. In 2017, we will continue to make improvements and work towards 
our goal of zero harm.INJURY PREVENTION continued
Always wear Personal Protective 
Equipment appropriate for the  
nature and scale of work and as 
required by local Site rules. 
RULE #6 -  
PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
Do not smoke at Nufarm 
locations, other than in 
designated smoking areas. 
Do not introduce an ignition 
source, except under a 
properly authorised Hot 
Work Permit.
RULE #4 - IGNITION SOURCES
REMEMBER – FOLLOWING THESE RULES WILL SAVE LIVESSUSTAINABILITY  
AT NUFARM
Never operate equipment 
without necessary guards,  
safety devices, limit  
switches, interlocks or 
controls.
RULE #2 - MACHINERY SAFETYLIFE SAVING RULES
Seven non-negotiable rules for working at Nufarm
LIFE
SAVING
RULES
COMMITMENT
STAKEHOLDERSSTRATEGIC PILLARS
Always immediately report 
all health, safety and 
environmental incidents and 
unsafe conditions to your supervisor. Be open and honest 
regarding the circumstances. 
RULE #7 - INCIDENT REPORTING
RULE #5 - DRUGS AND ALCOHOL
Never consume or be under the influence of alcohol or illicit drugs while at work. Alcohol is 
not allowed in any Nufarm office or site.
Alcohol at social or business functions outside 
Nufarm is permitted provided safe driving arrangements have been made and individuals do not return to a Nufarm site whilst under the 
influence of alcohol.
Never walk under a suspended load, or lift 
a load over any person.
Never violate the requirements  of life saving safety  
procedures including:
• Permits to work• Vehicle safety
• Mobile phone use.
RULE #1 - SAFETY PROCEDURES
RULE #3 - SUSPENDED LOADSIn Indonesia the primary mode 
of transport for our field staff is motorcycle. Motorcycles make 
up a high proportion of road 
traffic in Indonesia and accidents are very common. With that in mind, Nufarm has implemented 
a safe riding program for 
its manufacturing and field employees. The motorcycle safety program began in May 2016 and a total of 370 employees have 
participated in the program so 
far. Employees were engaged in classroom-based theory as well as practical riding sessions. 
On completion of the program, 
all the participants were provided with motorcycle safety gear.
The purpose of 
the Life Saving Rules is to keep all employees, 
contractors and 
visitors safe from life-threatening hazards when working at Nufarm.
In 2017 , we will continue to make improvements and work towards our 
goal of zero harm.Nufarm employees 
in Indonesia undertaking safe rider training.
20
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201621 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201622This year Nufarm employed a total of 
3,257 people across five regions, 85 
per cent of our people are permanent 
employees, and of these, close to two per cent work in a part-time capacity. 
Women in non-permanent roles form 
just under two per cent of our global workforce. Throughout a normal year 
we employ casual staff to respond  
to the peak manufacturing months;  the seasonal workers can increase 
our total workforce by up to three  
per cent at any one time.
Diversity and inclusion
Our work on diversity and inclusion 
highlights how we contribute to the 
sustainable growth of our business 
through the development of talent and culture across all regions. 
Our renewed commitment to our 
2015 diversity policy supports the 
Nufarm values of responsibility, 
agility, respect and empowerment. Our objective is to embed this policy 
into the Nufarm culture.
Women at Nufarm
This year 23 per cent of Nufarm’s 
employees, including permanent and 
temporary employees, were female. 
Although the total percentage of female employees appears to have 
declined since last year, this is due 
to the previous omission of non-permanent employees, which, for 
completeness, we have reported 
this year. If we compare the number of permanent employees year on 
year, 2016 has seen an increase 
from 24 per cent to 25 per cent of permanent females. 
Our sales function is our second-largest 
department and traditionally an area 
that attracts more men. Through 
targeted initiatives Nufarm has successfully increased the proportion 
of women in sales by two per cent 
this year. We have also increased our female participation in the corporate 
functional group by 20 per cent 
since 2015. Figure 10 (page 24) shows the split 
of women and men working at Nufarm 
by function. This year we changed our operating model and some of the 
previously reported functional areas 
have been updated to match the new organisational structure. This has 
impacted the female participation in 
some of these functions. Due to these changes it is not possible to compare 
the female participation rate to last 
year in all departments. However, 2016 establishes a new baseline 
for comparisons going forward.
In Europe, Nufarm has targeted 
diversity through union agreements to 
bring focus and action to gender and pay equity between men and women. 
This is delivering positive results with 
a 24 per cent female representation this year, up from 19 per cent in 2015. 
In North America, we are also making 
good progress in improving our gender balance, with female participation five 
per cent higher than last year. The 
introduction of greater flexible working arrangements into the Australian 
business has seen an improvement  
in the attraction and retention of employees with caring responsibilities; 
with the majority of these roles filled  
by women. 
Cultural diversity
Nufarm supplies products in more 
than 100 countries across five business 
regions. Each region represents a 
sizeable percentage of our employees. This global footprint provides us with 
the opportunity to build a culturally 
diverse workforce. We employ local people where we operate in both 
leadership and team roles and they 
enrich Nufarm with their unique perspectives and cultures as they 
join the broader global team.
Nufarm has developed both cross-
regional and cross-functional teams 
to undertake major business improvement projects. To support 
these projects, an online program 
was implemented to develop our senior leaders and introduce them 
to similar functions in other regions. Nufarm has a diverse leadership team that reflects the global nature 
of our business, with six different 
nationalities represented. OUR PEOPLE
Figure 8: Permanent and
non-permanent employees,
by gender
21%
64%2%13%
Permanent female
Permanent male
Non-permanent female
Non-permanent male
Female MaleFigure 9: Gender of permanent 
full time and part time employees
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 
Full-time Part-time23%77%
Notes:
1.  80 per cent of part time roles are 
 filled by females.  Our people and culture are central to the success of our business. In 2016 we have continued  
to work towards the development of a culturally diverse workforce. 
23
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Building an inclusive workplace
‘Partner in Caring’ is an initiative 
running in North America where Nufarm has partnered with a not-for-
profit organisation to provide 
opportunities for individuals living with disabilities to achieve personal success through work placements. 
Sertoma Centre, located in Alsip, 
Illinois, provides a wide variety of programs and services for individuals living with disabilities. Three years 
ago Nufarm began a partnership with 
Sertoma using its staff and facilities to label cartons. We have recently expanded our relationship with 
Sertoma by hiring the first of two 
employees, who will work in the label room at Chicago Heights. These are part-time roles as there are certain restrictions for employees with 
disabilities. Nufarm has already scoped 
out other areas within the North America manufacturing plants where there are opportunities to employ 
additional staff from Sertoma.The roles being filled by Sertoma 
employees are roles that were previously filled by non-permanent employees. This partnership enables 
Nufarm to provide opportunities for 
people with disabilities who are eager to participate in mainstream work environments, and they are making a positive contribution to our business. We are aware that there may be a need to train and coach individuals with disabilities differently, so we have given Nufarm managers at the plants 
sensitivity training. This initiative is a 
culture shift as it has led us to rethink how we engage all employees to make Nufarm a more inclusive place to work.OUR PEOPLE continued
Figure 10: Female participation by function
18%Supply
chain15%Sales32%Portfolio
solutions56% Finance43% Corporate8%Information
technology72%Human
resources23%Nufarm
group
Female Male
Supply chain includes supply chain planning, procurement, operations and distribution. 
Figure 11: Female particpation by region
23%Australia/
New Zealand18% Asia24% Europe30%North
America22%Latin
America23%Nufarm
group
Female Male
Nufarm Americas and Sertoma Center building 
a successful partnership 
24
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016At our manufacturing site in Fortaleza, 
Brazil, we employ 11 people who live with some form of disability across 
various functional areas.
Developing new capability
This year has seen the global expansion 
of our youth strategies with graduate programs, apprenticeship schemes, 
internships and industry-specific co-ops 
to develop talent. The success of these programs has lead to the placement of at least 14 people as permanent 
Nufarm employees. In Brazil, Nufarm’s 
internship program was recognised nationally and received first place for ‘Best Internship Program Practices’ by the IEL (Euvaldo Lodi Institude 
– Brazil Federation of Industry). 
At our Wyke site in the United 
Kingdom, we expanded the existing 
apprenticeship framework to include 
an entirely new ‘Process Skills Apprenticeship’ program. This included 
the identification of a training provider 
(Kirklees College), the definition of a syllabus and the recruitment of partners to provide the scale necessary to make the scheme viable within 
West Yorkshire. The Process Skills Apprenticeship program is all about 
investing in our future. Being able to recruit, train and develop young people, as well as providing them with the opportunity for a career with Nufarm, 
has a positive impact on Nufarm and  
the community we operate in.
The feedback from the apprentices 
themselves has also been excellent, and they appreciated the opportunity to learn and gain valuable experience 
in a real work environment. Four of the 
Nufarm apprentices graduated at the end of 2015, and three of them were recruited into permanent roles. Two more will graduate at the end of 2016. 
This program, in conjunction with other 
skills training programs at our Wyke site, led to Nufarm being nominated for and winning the Skills award at the 
United Kingdom Chemistry Industry 
Awards in 2016.
Listening to our people
Nufarm conducts an employee opinion survey every two years and uses feedback from the survey to help improve our practices to retain and 
attract talented people. The employee 
opinion survey provides valuable feedback allowing us to track any differences in the working experience between men and women, age and 
culture. Our next employee opinion 
survey will take place in October 2016.As a result of the 2014 survey, Nufarm tailored its employee awards program to attract peer nominations. The  
2016 global employee awards will  
be announced later in the year. Each region gathers nominations for three 
award categories: customer focus, 
innovation, and sustainability. The winners of the regional awards are then eligible to be considered for a ‘One Nufarm’ global award. The global 
awards are selected by a panel  
of members from the Nufarm leadership team. 
Looking ahead
As a company we believe that diversity and inclusion contribute to the sustainable growth of our business 
through positive development of our 
talent and culture. Over the last few years we have taken some positive action and made good progress; 
however, further change in how we 
approach diversity and inclusion is now required.
To support this, Nufarm has engaged 
an external partner to assist in 
developing a diversity and inclusion 
strategy and a series of initiatives. This will ensure diversity and inclusion in our work environment are just another part of how Nufarm does business.Figur e 12: Employees by r egion
18%21%
22%
29%10%
Australia/New Zealand
Asia
Europe
North America
Latin America
25
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 26Nufarm is committed to 
building a company that has a sustainable future for our people, our customers and the communities we operate in. We aim to make a positive 
contribution to these 
communities as well as society as a whole. 
We operate in diverse locations and 
countries so our sites develop their own community engagement programs 
to best fit their local environment. 
Many of our sites are located in industrial zones; however, there are several that are close to residential 
zones and in these areas we work 
closely with local communities. 
Our Wyke site in the United Kingdom 
is one of these, and Nufarm contributes 
to a range of local organisations, 
provides positions for work experience students and also sponsors a chemistry prize at Bradford University. 
At our Fortaleza site in Brazil we 
have an extensive corporate social responsibility program, which includes setting up a children’s library at a local 
crèche and the ‘Cultivating Reading’ 
program, where Nufarm employees help run reading activities on a voluntary basis. Nufarm in Fortaleza 
also organises charitable donations to 
help support its community with food and clothing, as well as sponsoring events and programs such as the Fighting Drugs Project and Novo 
Barça, which promotes sports for 
local children and teenagers.
The Fortaleza site holds an open day 
every year, which provides a program 
of site tours and presentations for the local community, customers and other visitors, and is a great way to strengthen relationships with 
its local community.SOCIETAL CONTRIBUTION
Promoting sports for children.Storytelling program in Brazil.
Supporting opportunities 
for disabled athletes
In December 2015, Nufarm was 
one of the sponsors of the Verdes Mares Paralympics that took place 
in Maracanaú, Ceara, Brazil.
In partnership with Edivaldo Prado 
Institute, which is responsible for the project ‘Supporting disabled athletes’, the competition brought people 
with physical disabilities from different regions of Ceará state together to 
participate in swimming and table tennis competitions. Athletes of all ages showed their skills, proving anything is possible and that disability does not have to be a limitation.
This event was a chance for the athletes to prepare for the Paralympics in 
Rio in August 2016.
It was a great opportunity for Nufarm to contribute to its community 
and provide opportunities for people with disabilities. 
27
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016Our two North American facilities  
at Alsip and Chicago Heights have  a partnership with the Chicago High 
School for Agricultural Science (CHAS) 
to provide the students with hands-on experience with an agricultural business. This year they planted our 
(Nuseed) canola and winter wheat in 
plots at Chicago Heights and continue to successfully keep beehives at Alsip.
In the next financial year we will work 
with the school to extend the ‘Idea 
Farm’, a plot of land we purchased next to Alsip (approx. 1,500 square metres), which will be converted from 
a car park into a small garden and farm 
with fruit trees, crops and vegetable plots. A garden design competition was held at the school and the winning design will be constructed. Work has 
already begun to clear the land. The 
students from CHAS also participate  in the Bee Apprentice program,  which teaches the fundamentals of 
beekeeping as well as providing food 
and shelter for pollinators.
In Australia, Nufarm has a customer 
loyalty program called Top Croppers. 
One of the ways that channel partners 
and growers can spend their points is to contribute to charitable or community projects. Nufarm has 
partnered with Beyond Blue, a not-for-
profit organisation providing mental health support and resources across Australia. This year we contributed close to $7,000 to this cause. Through 
Top Croppers we also contributed over 
$4,000 to support Rowena Primary School, a small school in rural northern New South Wales.
Nufarm Australia has continued its 
successful cropping for the community initiative, whereby we donate a portion of product sales purchased through 
local participating agribusinesses to 
nominated local schools and sporting clubs. In 2016, close to $17,000, was donated through the program. Croplands Australia is also generous in supporting local sporting teams, clubs, art societies and charities in rural and regional towns in Australia. 
As well as regional and local programs, 
we are also involved with global organisations that contribute to society. 
We are a member of the Business 
for Millennium Development (B4D) alliance, an Australian-based independent not-for-profit organisation 
that partners with farmers in 
developing countries to improve their agricultural productivity and income. Through our membership with B4D, 
Nufarm contributes to the UN’s 
Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) to eradicate extreme poverty.
Nufarm supports the Nuffield Farming 
Scholarship Program. Nuffield scholars 
travel overseas for a minimum of 16 weeks on a research scholarship relating to food and fibre production, distribution and management. The scholarships are open to individuals 
between the ages of 28 and 40 who 
are involved in farming or agribusiness as their primary occupation.Nuffield has been awarding scholarships to agriculturalists for 60 years. Current participating countries include the United Kingdom, 
Brazil, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, 
Ireland, France and the Netherlands.
Nufarm has been supporting 
the Nuffield Farming Scholarship 
Program since 2001. Until this year we have supported a scholar from South Australia once every three years. From 2017 , we will be 
sponsoring a scholarship for a 
candidate from South Australia  every year to the value of $15,000.
As well as supporting the program 
in Australia, Nufarm will sponsor a US$30,000 scholarship in 2017 for an agriculturist from Brazil to participate in the program. This 
is the first time that Nufarm has 
been involved in supporting the Nuffield Scholarship Program outside Australia.SOCIETAL CONTRIBUTION continued
Croplands supporting Cootamundra Rugby Union Team.
28
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201629 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 30PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Product stewardship at Nufarm is the way we bring responsible 
and ethical management to our agricultural chemicals and seeds. Through our sustainability strategy we are looking to establish a structured, global product stewardship program to further strengthen the responsibility we take for our products throughout their entire lifecycle.
All of our new products undergo 
extensive evaluation and field trials to ensure they comply with relevant 
regulatory requirements. We refine  
our formulations and their use patterns to minimise their environmental  impact and educate our customers  
and consumers in safe use and disposal.
Research and development
We work to improve the environmental 
profile of products through a number of techniques such as substitution 
of solvents and adjuvants with either 
natural materials or ones with a lower ecological toxicity profile. In anticipation of regulation changes in 
the United States, we are developing 
products like Abamex, a clean air compliant product. In Europe this year we launched lower-impact products, like Nessie, and progressed with our 
roll-out of Ikanosil, while in Australia 
we launched Tazer Xpert. We also work to reduce on field chemical usage with lower application rate products.Reduction of chemical drift continues to be a priority within our business due to its ability to have unintended impacts on neighbouring crops and the environment. This year we have 
increased our development efforts 
and environmental field studies so we can deliver formulations with reduced drift and volatility, focusing 
on our core products like the phenoxy 
and pyridine herbicides.
Biorationals are one of the fastest-
growing segments in crop protection 
and another area of research and 
development for us. Biorationals control pests by using materials that are relatively non-toxic to people 
and that have minimal environmental 
side-effects. Nufarm has committed to developing a range of naturally derived biorational products to complement our existing synthetic chemistry 
products. Current products are already 
making a positive contribution across the world, improving agricultural productivity and making a sustainable 
difference to a farmer’s livelihood.
Research 
and
DevelopmentManufacturingStorage 
and 
Distribution ProcurementIntegrated 
Pest 
ManagementResponsible
Use Container
Management
Disposal of 
Obselete StockLong-chain omega 3 Canola
Nuseed, the Commonwealth 
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) and the 
Grains Research and Development 
Corporation (GRDC) continue their research collaboration partnership to develop a canola source of 
high-quality DHA omega 3 oil.
Long-chain omega 3 fatty acids are 
necessary for human health and have traditionally been obtained by 
eating wild fish. Globally, consumers 
are becoming more aware of the health benefits of DHA omega 3, but meeting this need is increasing 
stress on the ocean’s fish stocks.  
It is projected that the demand for 
long-chain omega 3 will exceed  
the amount that can be sustainably supplied from wild fish stocks in the 
near future.
An alternative land-based source  
of long-chain omega 3 oil will be 
critical for maintaining adequate supply against the ever-increasing demand. It will provide a 
sustainable, renewable and reliable 
source of high-quality product for direct and indirect human consumption.
Nuseed’s omega 3 represents a 
significant advancement in crop development and it will relieve pressure on wild fish, the major 
source of long-chain omega 3 oil 
today. Wild fish are a vital source  
of food for marine animals including seals, whales and sea birds. Every hectare of long-chain omega 3 
canola is expected to provide  
oil equivalent to the yield from 
10,000 kilograms of fish.
The program continues to advance 
through field trials and is now in the 
pre-registration phase of 
development. We anticipate being ready for commercial production in 2018–2019, pending granting the 
necessary regulatory approvals.
Biorationals are one of the fastest-growing segments 
in crop protection and another area of research and development for us.
31 NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016The product registration process is 
very comprehensive and we comply with all national and international 
requirements in the countries we sell 
our products. Globally we belong to Crop Life, an international organisation that undertakes stewardship activities 
and advocates for the safe and 
sustainable use of crop protection products. In Europe we are well progressed towards the REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
and Restriction of Chemicals) 
compliance deadline of May  2018 for the applicable substances  that are manufactured at our  
European sites.
Supply chain
At Nufarm, supply chain stewardship 
begins with the sourcing of raw materials and packaging. This year 
we approved our sustainable 
procurement policy and the adoption of EcoVadis for the corporate social responsibility (CSR) assessment of 
our key suppliers. Our goal for 2017 
is to implement both of these.
In Europe we have a large ongoing 
project to ensure our existing 
purchased materials are REACH 
compliant. REACH compliance is now a standard component of the sourcing process for new materials.
Supply chain stewardship continues 
through to distribution of our products. As a global distributor it is necessary for us to rely on the services of third 
party distributors as well as our own. 
Where possible we manufacture locally, reducing the cost and environmental impact of transporting liquid products 
long distances. We apply United 
Nations (UN) packaging standards  to our products to protect them on their journey so they arrive at our customers in the same condition  
as they left our sites.In Latin America we have recently 
launched a product stewardship program, Nufarm Care, a cornerstone of which is educating distribution partners and customers in the correct 
and safe storage and transport of our 
products. The region has extensive plans in place to improve product quality in transportation, educate 
their distribution partners and increase 
the level of farmer training in the safe application of products and the appropriate use of protective equipment.
Integrated pest management 
Pest resistance is an ongoing threat to global food security and a key driver of the need for integrated pest 
management. Nufarm continues to 
focus resources in this space, helping growers to improve crop productivity. We participate in Crop Life’s global 
resistance committees – Insecticide 
resistance action committee (IRAC), fungicide resistance action committee (FRAC) and herbicide resistance action committee (HRAC). We are involved  
in research projects to further our 
understanding of resistance mechanisms and have launched a number of new products this year 
to tackle glyphosate resistance, 
such as the Panther product range in the United States. In Canada, where glyphosate resistance is a serious issue, we launched Goldwing 
and Blackhawk herbicides, adding 
to a growing number of products that provide growers with tools to support sustainable crop production.We have also introduced a range of initiatives and decision tools to 
support and educate growers in 
managing herbicide resistance. The CATS (Combat troublesome weeds) platform in the United States provides comprehensive integrated 
weed management solutions to help 
growers control and prevent the development of resistant weed populations. In conjunction with the 
Australian growers, we developed 
Weed Logic, a tool that provides the growers with a medium term strategy for sustainable and cost-effective resistance management.
CATS provides a comprehensive 
integrated weed management solution
In Australia, Nufarm is a sponsor 
of WeedSmart (weedSmart.org.au), 
a program where industry, governments and universities have partnered to enhance on-farm 
practices and promote the long term, 
sustainable use of herbicides.
Responsible use
We actively work with customers and growers to educate them in the responsible and safe use of 
our products. All of our products 
are labelled to meet regulatory requirements, which includes a statement of active ingredients. 
We provide consumers with detailed 
information and safety data sheets (SDS) on safe handling and use, storage and appropriate disposal.PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP continued
COMBAT TROUBLESOME WEEDS  
with tough cats herbicides from Nufarm 
MORNINGGLORIES
Ipomoea spp.
COMMON LAMBSQUARTERS
Chenopodium album
KOCHIA
Kochia scoparia
GIANT RAGWEED
Ambrosia trifida
VELVETLEAF
Abutilon theophrasti
MARESTAIL / Horseweed
Conyza canadensis
COMMON RAGWEED
Ambrosia spp.
TALL WATERHEMP
Amaranthus tuberculatus
PALMER AMARANTH
Amaranthus palmeri
EVENINGPRIMROSE
(CUTLEAF)  Oenothera laciniata
The 10 broadleaf weeds featured here are considered the toughest weeds to control in crops 
such as corn, soybeans and cotton. But they aren’t strong enough to stand up to the new 
line of tough cat herbicides from Nufarm. 
TAP ON THE PICTURES BELOW TO LEARN MORE.
32
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016In Argentina we have launched Qué 
Applico? (What shall I apply?), a mobile application that provides the growers 
with agronomic recommendations for 
handling weeds and pests specific to their regions and crops. The application is proving to be very 
successful with our growers.
Qué Applico?
In Australia this year, Nufarm continued 
to build on the SprayWise
® program 
by introducing the SprayWise® 
Horticulture Application handbook. Several years in the making, the 
horticulture handbook provides 
valuable information on application methods, coverage assessment and adjuvant use. SprayWise
® has been 
instrumental in raising awareness of critical spray application parameters 
amongst the farming community. It 
has helped growers better manage their spraying activities, minimising drift, reducing chemical use and 
maximising spray effectiveness.
We address issues raised by local 
regulatory authorities to ensure ongoing, sustainable use of our 
products. In Ireland this year there 
were concerns that 2-methyl-4- -chlorophenoxyacetic acid (MCPA) could be making its way into drinking 
water in some areas. We responded 
immediately by reducing the product application rates and holding public meetings to inform and educate farmers and distributors in how 
to protect vulnerable water sources 
from contamination.Glyphosate is one of our core molecules and while extensive scientific 
evaluation by public authorities has 
concluded that glyphosate poses no unacceptable risks to either health or the environment, its use has received much scrutiny this year, particularly in 
Europe. Nufarm is a member of the 
European Glyphosate Task Force and our European strategy focuses on products that are fully compliant with 
the new lower-use rate conditions of 
registration. In North America we are a member of the Joint Glyphosate Task Force, formed to generate data in support of regulatory re-evaluation.
Container management 
and obsolete stock
At the end of the product’s life we 
partner with local service providers and non-profit organisations for the 
safe collection of empty containers. In 
Brazil we work with inpEV, in Australia, DrumMuster, and in the United States, the Ag Container Recycling Council (ACRC). These organisations collect used agricultural chemical packaging 
from farmers and distributors and 
recycle the materials. Through these mechanisms we reduce the impact our products have on landfill space 
and on non-renewable resources. 
From time to time agricultural products 
are deregistered. We closely manage their withdrawal from the market and 
work with authorities and customers to 
ensure the changes are communicated through to consumers. In parallel, we have formulation development 
activities underway to ensure a smooth 
transition to a replacement product. This process was successful in the recent withdrawal of Amitrole in Europe.WEEDit
Herbicide resistance, the loss of soil moisture and the unintended impact on people and the environment are all 
sustainability issues that are important 
to the agrochemical industry. Nufarm’s wholly owned agricultural spray equipment company, Croplands, has 
recently developed and launched an 
innovative new sprayer to help tackle these challenges.
WEEDit 7000’s optical sensors detect weeds and sprays them directly, 
reducing chemical use by 70 per cent. Less chemical use and drift mean 
a significant reduction in potential adverse impact on neighbouring crops or the environment. Its use in the control of summer weeds helps to retain moisture and nutrients in the soil, improving crop productivity. While the 
loss of agricultural land to urbanisation is a global challenge to food security, 
technology like WEEDit 7000 makes it economical for farmers to convert land overrun by weeds back into productive farmland.
The project represents a significant investment in research and development, 
delivering on Cropland’s vision to create application equipment for sustainable 
agriculture.
Our new WEEDit 7000 sprayer
33
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016General standard disclosures Section Comments
Strategy and analysis
G4-1 Managing directors message
Organisational profile
G4-3 About this report
G4-4 About us
G4-5 About us
G4-6 About us
G4-7 About us
G4-8 About us
G4-9 About us
G4-10 Our people
G4-12 About us
G4-13 About us
G4-15 Governance
G4-16 Governance
Identified material aspects and boundaries
G4-17 About us Refer to Annual Financial Report.
G4-22 About us There is no restatement of previous years, however 
any previous errors or omissions have been identified where relevant.
G4-23 About us
Stakeholder engagement
G4-24 Engaging our stakeholders
G4-26 Engaging our stakeholders
Report profileG4-28 About this report
G4-29 About this report
G4-30 About this report
G4-31 About this report
G4-32 GRI content index
GovernanceG4-34 Governance
G4-35 Governance
G4-36 Governance
G4-38 Governance
G4-39 Governance
G4-40 Governance
G4-41 GovernanceGRI CONTENT INDEX
34
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016General standard disclosures Section Comments
G4-42 Governance
G4-44 Governance
G4-46 Governance  
G4-47 Governance
G4-49 Governance
G4-50 Governance
G4-51 Governance Refer to Annual financial report
Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 Governance and About us
G4-58 Governance
Economic
G4-EC1 About us
EnvironmentalG4-EN3 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN5 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN6 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN8 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN9 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN11 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN12 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN15 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN16 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN18 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN19 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN20 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN21 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN23 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN27 Product Stewardship
G4-EN29 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN31 Environmental stewardship
G4-EN34 Environmental stewardship
SocialG4-LA6 Eliminating incidents
G4-SO1 Societal contribution
G4-SO2 Societal contribution
Product responsibilityG4-PR3 Product stewardship
35
NUFARM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016103–105 Pipe Road 
Laverton North Victoria 3026 AustraliaTelephone: +61 3 9282 1000 
Facsimile: +61 3 9282 1001
nufarm.com