2017 Corporate 
Responsibility Report
2Letter from Our CEO
About OmnicomOmnicom Corporate Responsibility Goals
2017 Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Highlights
 Community
Sustainable Development Goal #4: Quality Education
 People
 Environment GovernanceAbout this ReportUN Communication on ProgressGRI Content IndexContact InformationTable of Contents3These important actions confirm our support 
of the United Nation’s Global Compact, to which we became a signatory in 2016, and our commitment to Common Ground, an initiative of Omnicom and other leading global advertising networks to promote the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
As part of this effort, Omnicom continued its 
work toward Sustainable Development Goal 4: to ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning. In 2017, Omnicom agencies across the world partnered with Girl Effect and Theirworld, two leading NGO’s dedicated to empowering girls and boys through education. In addition, our agencies helped advance education through pro bono work and volunteering for non-profit organizations around the world.
In 2017, we also continued to pursue gender 
and multicultural initiatives to ensure that our organization reflects the diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of the global communities we serve. In 2017, 54% of U.S. officials and managers were women and 21% were multicultural, both representing significant improvements from 2011, our benchmark year. We also saw Omniwomen, Omnicom’s professional women’s network, gain ground, with chapters launching in Germany, UAE, France and Canada, and OPEN Pride, our employee Dear Stakeholders,
We are living through rapidly changing and 
challenging times, as the world responds to societal, technological and environmental disruption. Omnicom’s commitment to corporate responsibility is vital, now more than ever. 
In 2017, we continued to build on the groundwork 
we established in 2016, advancing our efforts across our four focus areas: supporting our communities, creating a dynamic and diverse workforce, managing our environmental footprint and ensuring a strong governance structure. We also underlined our commitment, prior to the release of this report, with the publication of new environmental and human rights policies and by establishing group-wide corporate responsibility goals. 
resource group dedicated to Omnicom’s LGBTQ+ community and its allies, expand in India, China, the Philippines and the United Kingdom.   
Severe weather across a number of our 
communities in 2017 reinforced the potential impacts of climate change and the importance of our efforts to reduce our energy and greenhouse gas impacts. Through our continuing efforts to share office spaces fitted with energy-efficient lighting, equipment and systems, we reduced our year-over-year electricity use in 2017 by 5.5% and GHG emissions by 10%.
All of these efforts would not have been possible 
without the creativity, talent and passion of our employees. They are the foundation of our success, in every way, and I thank each of them for their contributions.
Sincerely,
John D. Wren  
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
4Omnicom Group, Inc. is a strategic holding company and a leading global provider of advertising, marketing 
and corporate communications services. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our networks and agencies provide a comprehensive range of services across the following disciplines:
77,000+  
SPECIALISTS SERVING 
5,000+ BRANDS
in millions 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Revenue $15,273.6 $15,416.9 $15,134.4 $15,317.8 $14,584.5
Operating Income $2,059.7 $2,008.9 $1,920.1 $1,944.1 $1,825.3
Net Income $1,088.4 $1,148.6 $1,093.9 $1,104.0 $991.11500+ 
AGENCIES IN 100+ COUNTRIES
2017 REVENUE
FINANCIAL SUMMARYOur Portfolio includes: Three global advertising agency networks: BBDO, DDB and TBWA; 
three of the world’s premier providers of media services: Hearts & Science, OMD and PHD, 
part of Omnicom Media Group. We also manage a global diversified group of agencies,  
under the DAS Group of Companies.Food and Beverage 13%
Pharmaceuticals and Health Care 12%
Consumer Products 10%
Technology 9%
Auto 10%
Financial Services 7%
Travel and Entertainment 6%
Retail 6%
Telecommunications 5%
Other 22%2017 CLIENT MIXADVERTISING
STRATEGIC MEDIA PLANNING AND BUYINGCUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENTPUBLIC RELATIONSHEAL TH CARE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
USA
54%WORLD
46%5OMNICOM CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY GOALS
People
• By January 1, 2019, Omnicom will offer sexual harassment training to 100% of its full-time, 
regular employees in the United States and require such employees to be trained within 3 months of their hire date and every 2 years thereafter.
Environment
• Reduce energy use 20% per person globally by 2023, using a 2015 baseline.
• Increase use of electricity from renewable sources globally to 20% by 2023.
Governance
• Develop Supplier Code of Conduct by 2020.
• By January 1, 2020, Omnicom will offer business ethics and/or anti-bribery training to 100% of its full-time, regular employees worldwide and require such employees to be trained within 3 months of their hire date and every 2 years thereafter.62017 Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Highlights
CommunityIn 2017, we made progress across the four areas on which we focus: Community, People, Environment and Governance. 
We describe these initiatives in this report and on our website . 
• Supported SDG 4 – ensure inclusive and equitable quality education – through partnerships with Common  
Ground and pro bono support of Girl Effect and Theirworld 
• Strengthened our communities around the world through thousands of agency volunteer initiatives
• Provided powerful pro bono client support to non-profits in service of critical social and environmental causes 
People
Environment
Governance• Named as one of the best employers in the United States by Forbes Magazine for the third straight year, ranking  
128 out of the top 500 largest employers in the nation
• 54% of U.S. officials and managers are women; 21% multicultural
• Launched Omniwomen chapters in Germany, UAE, France and Canada, with plans in place for another half-dozen chapters by mid-2018
• Extended OPEN Pride’s global reach, with new chapters in India, China, the Philippines and the United Kingdom  
in 2017, and Australia and the U.S. in early 2018  
• Introduced new Environmental Policy, outlining our approach to minimize our impact
• Established goals in energy use reduction and increase in the use of electricity from renewable energy sources
• Reduced year-over-year electricity use by 5.5% and GHG emissions by 10%
• Continued diverse representation on our Board, with 10 independent directors (of 11 total), including 6 women  
and 4 African Americans
• Welcomed two new independent directors, Gracia C. Martore and Ronnie S. Hawkins
• Published a Human Rights Policy 
• Introduced two goals to strengthen our supply chain engagement and formalize business ethics trainingCOMMUNITY
Around the world, Omnicom agencies, 
and the people who work at them, contribute time, passion and creativity to champion urgent causes that impact the communities where we work and live. 8Strengthening Our Approach
We know that advertising is a persuasive force 
that can change individual minds to create good for many. We are committed to applying our creativity to support our communities and clients by investing in: 
• Industry-wide initiatives to drive  global change  
• Agency-driven pro bono and volunteer programs  
• Client-focused campaigns that address poverty, human rights and many other social equity and environmental issues
While our efforts support causes important to local communities around the world, we’ve chosen Education as a primary focus of our global work. We describe our efforts in this section. Industry Collaboration to 
Drive Global Change  
In 2016, Common Ground was launched, 
establishing an unprecedented commitment by the marketing and communications industry to put aside their usual rivalry in order to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through Common Ground, the CEOs of Omnicom, WPP , Publicis, Dentsu, Havas and IPG pledged to support the 17 SDGs, recognizing that the global issues the UN has identified transcend commercial rivalry and require broad collaboration to serve a wider common interest. Each holding company has committed to tackling one area across their organization and through client work. Omnicom’s focus on Education is reflected in our work with non-profits Girl Effect and Theirworld, and through the work of our agencies described in the profiles presented in this chapter. 
SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOAL 4 
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.9Theirworld  is dedicated to putting education 
at the top of the global agenda. Theirworld 
is an innovative charity that helps children to fulfil their potential. Through research, pilot projects and campaigning, Theirworld tests and shapes new ideas to help give children the best possible start in life. To tackle the global education crisis, it is intent on creating the public groundswell needed to close the gaps  in global education. With Omnicom’s  Batten & Company, BBDO, Mercury, Porter Novelli and OMD, we are supporting Theirworld’s campaign to convince the G20 countries to create a $10 billion fund to target education in the world’s neediest countries. 
A FOCUS ON EDUCATION
Despite considerable gains in education 
enrollment over the past 15 years, about 263 
million children and youth worldwide were 
out of school in 2014, including 61 million 
children of primary school age. Education 
is the foundation of individual and societal 
growth. It can lift people, communities and 
countries out of poverty and is critical to 
the sustainable future of this world. Young 
children in particular are important. Early 
education – in a child’s first five years when 
90% of the brain’s growth happens – is a 
critical factor in a successful life.  
Children arrive for lessons at a school in Lebanon, 
where Theirworld helped to introduce the double-shift system for refugees. 
Photo credit: Theirworld / Hussein Baydoun
“The Theirworld partnership with Omnicom 
gives a huge boost to the global movement to 
get every girl and boy in school achieving the 
UN's education goal. The engagement of such 
an extensive and vibrant network of clients, 
offices, staff and agencies worldwide has the 
potential to help transform how world leaders 
and communities all around the world prioritize 
the education of children, whoever they are 
and wherever they are born. The personal 
commitment from John Wren in choosing to 
stand by education as the opportunity that 
every child deserves, and the deep investment 
led by Janet Riccio bringing on board the full 
power of Omnicom has demonstrated that 
this is a serious promise. We are honored to 
have been chosen by Omnicom to realize our 
potential as a campaigning charity that always 
aims for the high hanging fruit. We are ready to 
work side by side on the huge effort needed to 
make the impossible probable - getting every 
child into school and learning!”
Sarah Brown, President, Theirworld“Girl Effect and Omnicom have a shared belief in 
the power of branded storytelling to empower 
girls to change their lives. Over the past year, 
Girl Effect's partnership with Omnicom has 
been transformational for our organisation. 
In particular, we've worked closely with OMD 
and DDB in India on media landscaping and analysis that has helped us shape a market 
entry strategy for our new youth brand. For 
our digital and data innovation, we have also 
worked with Annalect, BBDO, Targetbase and 
Rapp on a comprehensive data audit that has 
helped us sharpen our thinking in this area. 
This partnership is truly forward-thinking and 
focused on creating impact for the world’s most 
marginalised girls. " 
Farah Golant, CEO, Girl EffectAdvancing the Education Agenda 
Through Partnerships 
Omnicom, through the donation of time and 
expertise, is collaborating with our signature partners – Girl Effect and Theirworld – to effect change and expand access to education. 
Girl Effect creates youth brands and mobile 
platforms to empower girls to change their lives. Education is a key component in its mission because education is fundamental to empowerment. Girl Effect’s brands provide adolescent girls with enriching educational opportunities providing them with relevant skills and knowledge to fully participate in economic, social, political and cultural life now and as they transition to adulthood. Omnicom agencies are providing pro bono support to launch Girl Effect in India, develop a data strategy plan and provide strategic communications and media support.10Volunteerism
Room to Read Partnership  
Since 2008, Ketchum has partnered with Room to Read, a non-profit that is transforming lives of children in developing countries by focusing on literacy and gender equality in education. 
In 2017, employees raised more than $20,000 to establish a library and support Room to Read’s literacy program in Vietnam. 
Over the past decade, Ketchum volunteers have raised more than $300,000 to fund Room to Read projects in Cambodia, India, Laos, Nepal, South Africa, Tanzania and Zambia. 
In addition, they have donated approximately 10,000 hours, providing messaging development, media and speaker training, media relations, digital strategy, event staffing, translations and more. 
FH4Inclusion Program  In 2017, FleishmanHillard completed its first year of FH4Inclusion, a corporate responsibility initiative launched as part of the firm's 70th anniversary celebration that focuses on supporting organizations that champion social inclusion. Through this global program FH provided more than $2 million in pro bono services to local non-profits, and more than 1,200 employees contributed 7,570 hours to support local communities. 
FleishmanHillard Johannesburg, for example, extended its partnership with the Maharishi Institute, which provides training in business and life skills to disadvantaged youth. Now in its third year, FH Johannesburg has sponsored the postsecondary education of 48 students and provided training and other work readiness support to help others prepare for workforce participation. 
The Bucket List   
Staff from OMD Dubai spent two days in March 
2017 supporting the children who frequent the Bucket List, a club for undocumented street children in Delhi. Along with playing sports and games and helping the kids with their art and reading projects, the team donated art, school and sports supplies for a year of activities, and refurbished the learning center with flooring, lighting and desks. OMD volunteers were also able to support the Bucket List’s initiative to have the children documented, required to receive support from government agencies. 
At the end of 2017, 20% of the children had been documented and were eligible to enroll in school. Our 2018 goal is to help the Bucket List acquire documentation for 100% of the children.   
Our Agencies Supporting 
Education    
Agencies across Omnicom have a long history 
of contributing to their communities through volunteer and pro bono client work. We highlight just a few of their recent efforts.  
In 2018, BBDO was proud to receive AAF’s 
Mosaic Media Image Award for Advocacy 
for “The Talk”, a Procter & Gamble 
campaign. 
The Mosaic Awards recognize an agency’s 
commitment to diversity and inclusion 
as evident in its creative work and 
organization-wide initiatives. 
11Agency Focus: One & All  
One & All is a full-service agency that has 
been providing creative ideas to clients for more than a century. The agency aims to change how the world sees, supports and shares the positive impact made by non-profit organizations and brands. Its nearly 350 employees deliver strategy, research, analytics, media, creative, production and account management services for national, regional and local clients. They share the clients’ sense of purpose, applying their experience and expertise to develop strategies and campaigns that drive awareness, engagement and results by using imagination, creativity and technology to empower the empathy of millions to make a difference. 
For nearly 100 years, One & All has created 
thousands of successful campaigns for clients, including: 
• #GivingTuesday efforts for the Greater Boston Food Bank  that raised enough money to 
provide meals for 212,250 hungry people in eastern Massachusetts in 2017
• Partnering with Operation Smile  to achieve 
record growth by moving from a single-channel program to a fully integrated approach that includes TV, digital, and direct marketing, as well active donor journey management
“We have experience—and a track record of—
helping organizations achieve their goals. Our 
people are passionate and deeply committed 
to our clients’ success—because we believe so 
much in the good they are doing. ”
Alan Hall, CEO One & All"Our mission is to help clients reach new 
populations and improve the health of people 
around the world. Partnerships like our work 
with Merck for Mothers inspire us and enable 
us to fulfill that mission each and every day. "
 Jeff Sturchio, CEO & President  
Rabin MartinAgency Focus: Rabin Martin
Rabin Martin is a strategy consulting firm focused exclusively on global health. We work at the intersection of the private sector and unmet public health need to help our clients become leaders in health. By designing innovative yet practical solutions, we help our clients make a measurable impact on the health of people around the world. For the past 15 years, we have worked with Fortune 100 companies, major foundations, UN agencies and health associations on the development and implementation of a variety of strategies, programs and thought-leadership activities, including: 
Merck for Mothers  
In helping guide the strategy for Merck for 
Mothers , designing innovative projects around 
the world and brokering unusual public/private partnerships, Rabin Martin has been able to leverage our greatest assets to strengthen Merck’s leadership in global health. It has been a privilege to help Merck bring a fresh perspective and business mindset to accelerate progress in reducing maternal mortality and make a difference for more than six million women across the globe – from Harlem to Zambia.In 2017, in the wake of 
the devastating impact of 
Hurricanes Harvey and Irene, 
Omnicom pledged to match 
the donations made by our 
employees to the American 
Red Cross relief efforts. By the 
end of the giving period, we 
raised a total of $267,030 to 
support affected individuals 
and communities.  12Omnicom Agencies Take  
the Lead on Education 
Agencies across our global networks continue to advocate to 
ensure inclusive and equitable quality education through client work and awareness campaigns.
Bay Path University  
"It's My Time"
Opening education up to women
77 million adult women in the United 
States do not have a bachelor’s degree. Marina Maher developed the “It’s My 
Time” campaign to raise awareness of 
the first fully online bachelor’s program created just for women by The American Women’s College, part of not-for-profit 
Bay Path University. Elements included 
LinkedIn “InMail” and influencer campaigns, and public awareness of the barriers to education. 
Marina Maher Communications, DASFree a Girl  
"School for Justice"
Highlighting the issue of childhood 
prostitution
Discussion of childhood prostitution 
is taboo in India. FleishmanHillard supported Free a Girl’s “School for 
Justice” campaign, an education initiative 
that helped survivors of sex trafficking escape prostitution. Designed to bring this taboo topic into public discussion 
in Indian society, the award-winning 
campaign’s integrated approach included collaboration with judicial officials, a high-profile launch event and outreach through social media, media relations 
and educational events. 
FleishmanHillard, DAS13
Isbank Books
Encouraging reading with free books
The job of encouraging kids to read is 
never-ending. For more than 10 years, Medina Turgul has supported Isbank’s 
reading campaign, which gives a free 
book to kids who have completed their school reports. In 2017, we distributed one million books, bringing the total to 12 
million over the course of the campaign. 
Medina Turgul DDB, DDBTu título sirve  
(Your Degree is Useful) SberBank "Ladoshki"
 VisionPath Education
Introducing teens to the world of work
Siegel+Gale supports the work of 
Visionpath Education, a social enterprise that helps young people gain the skills 
they need for a successful future. 
Visionpath works in partnership with leading employers collaborating on inspiring and engaging programs that 
help smart 14-18 year olds build their 
skills, learn about the world of work and connect with organizations they’d love to work for. 
Siegel+Gale, DASBuilding awareness of the value of a 
university degree  
University graduates in Spain are known 
to “lighten” their CV's in order to get a job for which they are typically over 
qualified. DDB Spain created a video to 
reverse the impression that a university degree is not useful and built a social media campaign - #TuTituloSiSirve 
(Your Degree It Is Useful) – around it, 
which was shared by thousands. Paying for school meals with the 
palm of the hand 
Children often spend their lunch money 
to buy anything but healthy food. To help direct the money to its proper use, BBDO 
Moscow with SberBank, implemented 
Ladoshki technology that lets children pay for school meals by using their palms on an infrared scanner. The program 
was piloted in two cities and is now in 
more than 74 schools across Russia. 
DDB Spain, DDB BBDO Moscow, BBDO14
Education for  
Employment
Creating economic opportunities for 
unemployed youth
Education For Employment (EFE) is 
a network of non-profits in the Middle East & North Africa (MENA), with a 
mission to create economic opportunities 
for unemployed youth so that they can create a brighter future for themselves, their families and communities. Impact 
Proximity revamped EFE’s website 
and digital communications to drive awareness for the program, engage stakeholders and increase donations. 
Impact Proximity, BBDOClient Noa Ubongo 
(Sharpen Your Brain) Past & Future Tune In
GirlTalkHQ.com  
Uninterrupted
Highlighting the problem of men interrupting women  
Studies show that men interrupt women 
at an alarming rate in everything from casual conversations to business 
meetings. To bring awareness, BBDO 
Canada created an uninterruptable radio ad for GirlTalkHQ.com, during which a woman explains the facts surrounding 
the issue – where it happens, how it 
feels, the root causes behind it and what we can do about it – all in one single, uninterrupted sentence.
BBDO Canada, BBDOBringing free learning to Tanzanian 
youth
Noa Ubongo, “Sharpen Your Brain” in 
Swahili, is a free learning channel for youth that offers short video classes 
focused on workforce readiness and 
entrepreneurship skills. Created and financed by TBWA\ Khanga Rue, it was launched with three pilot classes in 2016. 
Since then, it’s had nearly 2 million views, 
reached more than 3 million people, with 12,400+ hours of viewing time.Promoting the future of American 
high schools
XQ Institute and the Entertainment 
Industry Foundation (EIF) invited the public to rethink the future of American 
high schools with a special one-hour 
event, “EIF Presents: XQ Super School Live”. MAL\FOR GOOD developed the integrated tune-in campaign for the early 
September event, which aired live on all 
four U.S. networks.
TBWA\Khanga Rue, TBWA MAL\FOR GOOD, TBWA15Client Campaigns that Deliver Change
In 2017, our global agency networks continued to help their 
for-profit and pro bono clients drive progress on social and environmental issues in local communities. Here’s a sample of compelling campaigns from around the world. 
Fractured Truth
Fracturing common misconceptions 
around osteoporosis
The Fractured Truth campaign was 
created to literally fracture common misconceptions around osteoporosis, 
educate women on the facts, and urge 
them to speak with their doctors about the seriousness of this underestimated condition. The campaign has reached 
over 3.5 million people, and the message 
is getting through. Women actively share the content with friends, comment on social media, and talk to their doctors. The #1 message women took away from 
the campaign was urgency to treat.
Patients & Purpose, DASTalent is our only criteria
HP is hiring and talent is the company’s 
only criteria. Dedicated to becoming the employer of choice for underrepresented 
groups seeking careers in the tech 
industry, #LatinoJobs is the latest addition to HP’s Reinvent Mindsets talent attraction series, a collaboration with the 
multicultural experts at Alma DDB. 
Alma, DDBHP #LatinoJobs16
UN Foundation  
+SocialGood
Collaborating to inspire solutions in 
support of the SDGs 
The UN Foundation wanted to encourage 
change makers to gather to share ideas and inspire solutions in support of the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
FleishmanHillard and FleishmanHillard India were engaged to launch a new platform—+SocialGood—in Mumbai.  
The project included execution of a 
turnkey event, including logistics, event management, content development, media relations and social media to amplify the collaboration. 
FleishmanHillard India, DASProcter & Gamble Disaster  
Relief and Tide Loads of Hope Crime Stoppers
State Farm  
Neighborhood of Good
Localizing & personalizing purpose for State Farm
To reinforce its brand values and 
positioning, “We're Here to Help," State Farm introduced Neighborhood 
of Good™, a program to encourage 
volunteerism. The Marketing Arm hosted monthly Neighborhood of Good™ events in three cities and micro 
experiences across 28 markets. Within 
the first month, nearly 16,000 people volunteered approximately 4,000 hours, and a campaign total of 37,000+ acts of volunteerism solidified the State Farm’s 
reputation as a nationwide enabler of 
positive social impact.
The Marketing Arm, DASProviding unique and needed 
disaster relief services
Since 2005, Procter & Gamble has 
provided everyday essentials and free laundry services through its disaster 
relief and Tide Loads of Hope program 
to families affected by natural disasters. In 2017 following Hurricanes Maria, Irma and Harvey, Ketchum provided 
communications outreach and on-site 
support, helping distribute personal care and cleaning kits containing brands such as Always, Bounty, Crest, Gillette and Pampers and helping wash 2,300+ loads 
of laundry. The campaign generated 1.2 
billion+ media impressions.Putting a stop to sex trade trafficking
Trafficking of young girls into the sex trade is an issue, even in Canada. Crime Stoppers had DDB Toronto create a 
campaign to help stop the practice. 
The campaign generated positive results, including the rescue of a young girl after a citizen saw the campaign, 
and recognizing the danger, alerted 
authorities.    
Ketchum, DAS DDB Toronto, DDB17
Audi
Recruiting designated drivers in 
real-time 
Audi asked Verda to develop its holiday 
season designated driver campaign. Verda’s video featured the auto-maker’s 
real-time search for a responsible driver. 
The hook was that once they found him, “Bob” as he was dubbed, was rewarded with a new Audi on the spot to drive his 
friends home in. The campaign garnered 
600,000+ views, 1,500 shares and 5,000 reactions in two days.
Verda, DDBTexas Bathroom Bill  
I Pee with LGBTThere are Many Ways to  
See the World 
Unilever Turkey Lipton 
#It’s time to talk
Supporting talk with silence
In an increasingly polarized world 
where digital media tops face-to-face interaction, Lipton commissioned Medina 
Turgul DDB to create "It's time to talk". 
Employing a media event, the agency dramatized the issue by closing Lipton’s prime time commercial, broadcast 
simultaneously across 17 national 
channels, with five minutes of silent packshot. The event reached 17 million impressions within 15 minutes, and 300 million to date. 
Medina Turgul DDB, DDBDefeating discrimination 
A concerted effort was launched in Texas 
to defeat the discriminatory bathroom bill known at SB6. GSD&M partnered 
with the ACLU of Texas and Legacy 
Community Health to launch “I Pee with LGBT.” A video, shared across digital and social platforms, created awareness 
about the discriminatory nature of SB6 
and ultimately contributed to the bill’s defeat.  Raising the visibility of the Blind 
Institute Of Bahia
Morya worked with the Blind Institute 
of Bahia to raise visibility of the Institute and funds to maintain and expand 
services. Through a branding initiative, 
a commissioned song to reach the unsighted, and donations from media,  
the Institute increased donation revenues, 
and the campaign created more than 
50,000 impressions on Facebook and 16,000 views on YouTube.
GSD&M, DAS Morya, DDB18
IKEA International Day Against 
Violence on Women 
Raising awareness of violence on 
women
DDB Italy supported IKEA to 
communicate the brand’s support for International Day Against Violence 
on Women, in partnership with non-
profit Italian Association Telefono. The campaign created a web-based awareness-raising video and an in-store 
activation, drawing customers attention 
to violence against women with “walls” of personal audio stories.
DDB Italy, DDBThai Heath Promotion  
Foundation Hearing RescueDepartment for  
Transport Pink Kittens
National Safety Council Prescribed to Death
Humanizing the effects of opioid addiction
Opioid addiction is in the news so 
much we can become immune to its message. With the National Safety 
Council, Ketchum and BBDO conceived 
“Prescribed to Death” to humanize the effects of opioid addiction, etching 22,000 faces of real overdose victims—the 
average number who die annually from 
opioids—on replicas of actual pills.  
Ketchum and BBDO, DASHelping alert the hearing impaired 
to danger while they sleep
With Thai Health Promotion Foundation 
and Deaf Association of Bangkok, BBDO Bangkok surveyed the hearing impaired 
in Thailand and found that 100% take out 
their hearing aid at night. In response, the Foundation created the world's first hearing aid that not only amplifies sound, 
but also detects the sounds of danger 
by turning the hearing device into a vibrating wristband. Revealing what you miss when you 
glance at your phone when driving
Distracted driving is dangerous practice 
among young drivers. AMV BBDO created THINK!, a video to show young 
drivers, a third of whom admit to using 
their phone while driving, how much they miss and the disastrous results when they glance at their phone, even for just a few 
seconds.   
BBDO Bangkok, BBDO AMV BBDO, BBDO19
DB Export Beer  
Bottle Sand
Reducing the impact sand dredging 
has on our beaches
To advocate for the reuse of valuable 
resources, AMV BBDO headed out on a roadshow featuring machines that turned 
empty DB Export Gold beer bottles into 
sand that would supply the construction industry, do-it-yourself retailers and engineering firms, and thereby reducing 
the reliance on sand being dredged from 
beaches.  
AMV BBDO, BBDOAsia Pacific Transgender  
Network ‘Change The Clap’Energy Upgrade  
California: Eclipse
 The Blind Spot
Making people aware of a disease they are not affected by
How do you get someone to appreciate 
a disease when they haven’t experienced it? To support Light for the World’s fight 
against preventable blindness, PKP BBDO 
simulated the symptoms of cataracts with an overlay ad published on Austria’s online newspapers and prompted with 
a call to action. The campaign achieved 
a 125% increase in donations in one day compared to donations in a whole month. 
PKP BBDO, BBDOCampaigning against the 
discrimination of transgender community in Pakistan
BBDO Pakistan was tasked with the 
mission to bring the issue of transgender rights to the forefront. Launched on 
International Human Rights Day in 
December 2017, the campaign was picked up by celebrities, publishers, magazines and news channels, in Pakistan and 
globally. The public awareness and 
lobbying prompted the government to add a third gender option to national identity cards and passports. Driving awareness about energy 
conservation during a mid-summer solar eclipse
The client wanted to help Californians 
minimize their power usage. The campaign built on the first total solar 
eclipse experience in the United States 
in 40 years, engaging customers using on-air exposure, social executions and event activations, complete with branded 
viewing glasses, to get Californians 
talking about their energy use. Site traffic doubled in August, with 76% more conversions than prior months. 
BBDO Pakistan, BBDO OMD, Omnicom Media Group20
Channel 4: Paralympics
Changing the nation's attitudes 
towards disability for the better
To raise awareness of the Paralympic 
Games, OMD UK created a three-minute film featuring an entirely disabled cast, 
launched across the Channel 4 network 
and retargeted to give engaged viewers access to behind the scenes footage and athletes’ stories. Almost half the UK 
population tuned in, and 75% believe 
the campaign has helped them feel more comfortable talking to those with a disability.  
OMD UK, Omnicom Media GroupANZ #holdtight The Bridal Uniform
 Burt’s Bees Social Buzz
Helping the plight of the honeybee 
through social media  
Burt’s Bees has a mission to protect 
the honeybee. PHD created a media campaign that drove awareness of the 
mission using a bespoke Snapchat filter, 
which, when shared by users, would trigger the planting of 5,000 wildflower seeds. The campaign overachieved its UK 
target, with 267 million seeds planted and 
an 8% lift in average sales in Boots.  
PHD UK, Omnicom Media GroupHelping Australians to make 
marriage equality a reality
To celebrate 11 years of Mardis Gras and 
to champion marriage equality, TBWA Sydney—Eleven inspired Australians to 
stand proud and #holdtight through a PR 
campaign that went viral within 48 hours and wearable wristbands that lit up as two people held hands. The campaign 
reached 6 million people and distributed 
6,000 wristbands. Raising voices to put an end to 
#childmarriages
At the end of this year’s bridal week, one 
outfit caught everyone’s attention. It was a school uniform, embellished with 
heavy motifs, worn by a girl. A striking 
symbol to raise awareness and highlight the horrible trade-off that takes place when a child is deprived of her right to 
an education, and instead married. This 
bridal uniform was used to question the unfortunate nature of many marriages that should not be a cause of celebration.
TBWA Sydney - Eleven, TBWA BBDO Pakistan, BBDO21
One Love Foundation 
Behind the Post
Raising awareness of relationship abuse 
It can be hard for young adults to 
acknowledge they are in an abusive relationship when social posts are “liked” 
at face value. MAL\FOR GOOD created 
a campaign to raise awareness of abuse, highlighting the warning signs of an unhealthy relationship by showing the 
real life that happens behind social media 
posts. The campaign generated 13 million views and 38 million impressions in one month.  
MAL\FOR GOOD, TBWANYPD: Build the Block Proudly Made in Aba
The Humsafar Trust 
Equal Toilets Mission
Defeating transphobia in the toilets of Mumbai
Building on the notion that people 
wouldn't discriminate among transgender people if they knew what it 
felt like, TBWA\ India executed a social 
experiment using a viral film designed to drive home a hard-hitting message. Overall, organic reach totaled 7 million 
people through a campaign that included 
pledges and digital, print and radio coverage.  
TBWA\ India, TBWAFostering communication between 
NYC police officers and the communities they serve
Build the Block, a partnership between 
the NYPD, New York City Police Foundation and Omnicom agencies, is 
facilitating communication between NYC 
police officers and residents, creating accountability, respect and productive relationships. OMD created a robust 
media plan, starting with a radio 
campaign to target African-American males. The campaign is a first step in OMD’s ongoing support of the NYPD.  Creating a sense of pride in locally 
made products
Despite the fact that Nigerian brands are 
exported globally, they are not valued locally. Nigeria Concept created “Proudly 
Made in Aba” to increase Nigerian’s 
pride in locally made products. The documentaries showcasing the energy and passion needed to produce high-
value local brands received 22 million 
impressions, 5.8 million views, $150,000 of earned media and produced a 35% increase in sales. 
OMD, Omnicom Media Group Nigeria Concept, TBWA22
France Nature  
Environnement  
Promoting nature at its best
Re-Mind PHD obtained €1.7 million ($2 
million USD) worth of free space across digital and print consumer platforms 
to disrupt and electrify the French with 
messages promoting nature at its best and pollution free. The campaign included placement of more than 5,500 panels, 
published in 28 daily publications and 
magazines, and more than 3.5 million impressions delivered on the Internet.
Re-Mind PHD, Omnicom Media GroupChicco’s TurnAfter2 
Campaign CARE
Jane Goodall Institute  
Australia Rewind the Future
Helping turn back the clock by 
inspiring action
The Jane Goodall Institute Australia 
wanted to encourage people to make their own positive change for the environment. 
TBWA Sydney’s Rewind the Future 
campaign, in support of Jane Goodall’s national speaking tour, drew attention to the current state of the earth and how 
Jane is inspiring others to make a change 
- as it's not too late to rewind the future. 
TBWA Sydney, TBWAChanging safety behavior with a 
simple message
Cone Communications and Chicco, a 
brand known for its top-rated car seats, launched a campaign to keep children 
safer on the road. TurnAfter2 reminds 
parents to wait to “turn” their child forward-facing “after two” years old. In just one year, the simplicity of the 
message helped increase awareness from 
58% to 73% among parents of children under the age of two. Providing urgent assistance to the 
world’s most vulnerable people
Porter Novelli, as part of its multi-year 
global pro bono partnership with CARE, brought the Global Emergency Response 
Coalition to life, working along with other 
committed agencies, through a two-week campaign designed to help those already going hungry and on the brink of famine 
to survive and lay the groundwork for 
recovery.
Cone Communications, DAS Porter Novelli, DASPEOPLE
Across our agencies, Omnicom 
employees create award-winning campaigns and deliver innovative communications that reach millions of people in every corner of the world. We are successful because our people – and the unique contributions each brings to our work – reflect the diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of the global communities we serve. 24Strengthening Our Approach
Omnicom is dedicated to helping our people 
flourish, providing them with advancement opportunities, competitive benefits and creative workspaces. Underpinning each of these is our abiding commitment to diversity and inclusion, which we foster through: 
Leadership : Reporting to Omnicom’s Chief 
Diversity Officer, diversity champions across our agency networks help ensure we meet our diversity and inclusion objectives, while representing the unique needs and cultures within their organizations
Measurement : Omnicom discloses our five-year 
progress on key global diversity metrics. For 
our 2017 report, see Measuring Our Progress. 
Accountability: Each year, qualitative factors, 
including diversity, are considered in determining Omnicom's CEO pay.
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is core to our People initiatives at Omnicom and across our agency networks. In this chapter, we explain how we are:  
• Building an Inclusive Culture 
• Attracting Diverse Talent 
• Developing Our People 
• Celebrating Difference
• Expanding Our Influence For the second consecutive year, 
Omnicom received a perfect score 
on the Corporate Equality Index, 
designating us as a 2017 “Best  
Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality. ” 
In May 2018, Omnicom Group was 
named as one of the best employers in 
the United States by Forbes Magazine 
for the third straight year, ranking 128 
out of the top 500 large employers in  
the nation. Measuring Our Progress 
Omnicom discloses our five-year  progress for U.S. employees against  key diversity metrics: 
21% of U.S. “Officials and Managers” are multicultural, an increase of 31% from five years ago with improvement among each of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s Hispanic/Latino, Black/African American and Asian designations
The U.S. “Professional” talent base 
is 28% multicultural, an increase of 23% from five years ago with improvement among each of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s Hispanic/Latino, Black/African American and Asian designations
Women make up 54% of U.S. 
"Officials and Managers"
Of the approximately 24,000 U.S. employees who are “Professionals” and “Officials and Managers,” 26% are multicultural, 55% are women, and only 34% are white men
Of the 11 current members of Omnicom’s 
Board of Directors, six are women and four are African American
54%
28%
21%
At the 44th annual One Show Awards, 
Omnicom Group was named Creative 
Holding Company of the Year. In total, 51 
Omnicom agencies won 332 Pencils and 
Merits from approximately 20 different 
countries.
25Building an Inclusive Culture   
Diversity matters, to our people, who seek an 
inclusive culture where differences in gender, age and ethnicity are embraced and supported, and to our clients, who increasingly are using diversity as a way to build diverse cultures. 
At Omnicom, we foster an inclusive work 
environment through our Omnicom People Engagement Network (OPEN) and its vibrant employee resource groups – Omniwomen and OPEN Pride.
Omniwomen
With women representing more than 50% of Omnicom’s global workforce, their professional progress is not simply a gender issue but a business imperative.  
Founded in 2014, Omniwomen’s global  mission is to drive the advancement of women to senior leadership roles throughout Omnicom. We are proud to say that great progress has been made with the ascension of women into high-profile leadership roles across our networks. 
In 2017, we experienced a groundswell of 
support, with Omniwomen chapters launching in Germany, United Arab Emirates (UAE), France and Canada and plans in place for International Women’s Day  
March 8 is a time when people all over the world come together to celebrate the professional and personal achievements of women. Omniwomen joined these celebrations through a number of events and activations:  
• Omniwomen Next challenged the women of Omnicom to share what bold action they would take to help drive gender parity and inclusiveness, in honor of the 2017 International Women’s Day theme #BeBoldForChange. Hundreds of women from around the world participated in the initiative and their stories were posted on tumblr . 
• Omniwomen chapters were launched in Canada, the UAE and Germany, where 150 clients and employees attended the kick-off event in Berlin.
• The third annual Leadership Summit was hosted by Omniwomen UK. Approximately 350 women gathered for inspirational stories focused on leadership journeys and offering encouragement to aim high, be authentic and believe in yourself. 
OMNIWOMEN AT CANNES
Omniwomen France, which was launched in 
March 2017, convened an Omniwomen breakfast 
at the OMD Oasis during Cannes 2017. The 
event featured interviews with 10 inspiring 
Omniwomen, and an unannounced guest 
appearance by Omnicom CEO John Wren.  
Attendees at Cannes 2017another half-dozen chapters by mid-2018, in New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles and other global centers, each focused on expanding networking, career opportunities and skills development (see Omniwomen Canada Launch, page 26). 
50%
In 2018, in advance of publishing 
this report, we established a new 
company-wide goal: By January 
1, 2019, Omnicom will offer sexual 
harassment training to 100% of 
its full-time, regular employees in 
the United States and require such 
employee to be trained within three 
months of their hire date and every  
two years thereafter.  GOAL26Omniwomen Canada Launch  
In March 2017, Aileen Virola, Managing Director, 
GMR Marketing, Carolyn Ray, Managing Director, Interbrand Canada, and Anika Latif, Principal, Daggerwing Group joined forces with Omnicom Group to create a new Omniwomen Canada chapter. brandchannel spoke with them about their plans to be a catalyst for leadership development. We’ve excerpted and condensed their conversation:
Inspired by what we’ve seen in the UK and 
US chapters, our mission is to serve as the catalyst to increase the influence and number of women leaders throughout the Omnicom network in Canada by bringing them together in an open and supportive environment for networking and learning.  We want to inspire, empower and support one another to reach our full leadership potential and drive improved business impact.
Our first priority is to focus on mentoring and 
coaching, starting with a speed mentoring event, where our members can meet with strong women leaders, exchange ideas, insights, information and experience with senior leaders. 
We have big dreams for the Canada chapter. We aspire to have an engaged base of 250-plus active members and subscribers to the Omniwomen Canada group and, perhaps most exciting, have an all-Canada summit with incredible, inspirational speakers in 2018.  
 OPEN Pride
Launched in 2016 in New York, OPEN Pride leads our company-wide efforts to promote awareness, acceptance and advocacy for Omnicom’s LGBTQ+ community and its allies. Through our global chapters, we are fostering an inclusive and engaging work environment by creating opportunities for leadership, visibility, community involvement, networking and business creation. Our goal is to engage our workforce wherever they are in the world and then, with the launch of new chapters, adopt an approach that reflects and respects local issues. 
In 2017, OPEN Pride extended its global reach, 
with inspiring groundbreaking initiatives in India, China, the Philippines and the United Kingdom. In the first part of 2018, new chapters were added in Australia and the United States. In 2017, we also launched a Facebook group with the aim of creating a safe space for members plus allies of Omnicom’s LGBTQ+ community to connect, communicate and share. 
Among the 2017 highlights: OPEN Pride UK  was launched by a group of 
LGBTQ+ volunteers from agencies across the 
Omnicom Group in the UK. At the official kick-off in May, the founders declared their modest target to have the group come out at the 2017 Pride in London Parade, just 66 days away. The challenge to UK colleagues was to produce 60-second videos on the Parade theme, “Love Happens Here.” Eight videos , from UK 
OPEN Pride China launch participants
“OPEN PRIDE TRIES TO FOSTER AN 
INCLUSIVE AND ENGAGING WORK 
ENVIRONMENT FOR OMNICOM’S 
LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY AND ALLIES. I 
AM PARTICULARL Y PLEASED THAT IN 
A VERY SHORT TIME, OPEN PRIDE HAS 
BECOME A TRUL Y GLOBAL INITIATIVE 
WITH THRIVING CHAPTERS AROUND 
THE WORLD AND PARTICULARL Y 
IN KEY CITIES IN ASIA PACIFIC, A 
REGION THAT IS HOME TO 60 PERCENT 
OF HUMANITY AND THE WORLD’S 
LARGEST LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY . ”  
Serge Dumont, Omnicom Vice Chairman  
and OPEN Pride Global Executive Sponsor27agencies Hall & Partners, Haygarth, Proximity, 
Progress, DDB Remedy, FleishmanHillard Fishburn, RAPP and TBWA, were showcased on a truck-mounted screen along the parade route. The launch ignited an important conversation that continued through 2017 as OPEN Pride UK expanded its engagement, reach and membership. 
OPEN Pride New York  was well represented in 
New York City’s Pride March in 2017. The group 
also secured a Platinum Sponsorship with the NYC Pride Organization for 2019, which will be an especially important year as the city of New York will be the official host of World Pride 2019 and will also be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall uprising. The sponsorship is in exchange for in-kind branding and PR contributions with support from RAPP Worldwide, FleishmanHillard, Interbrand and Ketchum, among others. 
OPEN Pride China  launched in Shanghai in 
January 2018 with an inaugural Omnicom 
Leadership speaking series. Fittingly, the series’ opening event featured a dialogue between Serge Dumont, Omnicom Vice Chairman and OPEN Pride Global Executive Sponsor, and celebrity Jin Xing. Jin Xing, a dancer, choreographer and TV talk show host, is an icon in the LGBTQ+ community. With 100 million weekly viewers, she is the first transgender woman in China to receive, in the mid-1990s, official recognition of her transition as a woman. The candid and engaging conversation centered on Jin Xing’s personal story and aspects of leadership that helped  her succeed. Omnicom at Davos advanced our OPEN Pride mission during the World Economic Forum’s compelling panel, “Progress in Peril: How Business, Philanthropy and Media Can Lead to Achieving 100% Acceptance for LGBTQ People”. Speakers at the January 2018 annual gathering in Switzerland included Serge Dumont, Omnicom Vice Chairman and OPEN Pride Global Executive Sponsor, Jim Fitterling, President of Dow Chemical, and Brad Smith, President of Microsoft, among others, who discussed their companies’ initiatives to drive LGBTQ+ equality. 
Sponsored by GLAAD, the Ariadne Getty Foundation and Omnicom, the highlight of the panel was the announcement by Ari Getty of a $15M gift to fund the newly launched GLAAD Media Institute, a training, consulting and research venture to effect positive change with LGBTQ+ advocates around the world. 
Hearts & Science celebrates Pride Month
OMNICOM OPEN  
INCLUSION SUMMIT 
As we navigate increasingly challenging times, it’s 
important that we come together as a network 
to share ideas and best practices to connect and 
build lasting relationships. On November 8th, 
2017 Omnicom hosted our first annual OPEN 
Inclusion Summit in New York City. The one-day 
immersive experience convened more than 100 
diversity leaders, diversity champions, allies 
and advocates to focus on creating a culture 
of acceptance and building the workforce of 
the future. Content for the day included case 
studies, presentations, panels and networking. 
Topics discussed included: employee resources 
groups, talent development, workplace culture, 
unconscious bias, crisis communication, and 
client work. 
Attendees at the OPEN Inclusion Summit in  
New York City28Attracting Diverse Talent 
In today’s changing media landscape, it’s 
critical that we seek out and champion talent from every corner of our communities. Around the world, Omnicom agencies are reaching out to young people to raise awareness about the different opportunities in our industry and rolling out initiatives to attract – and retain – our young leaders of tomorrow. For example:
FleishmanHillard’s FH4Inclusion Campaigns 
support education, scholarships and outreach in underserved, diverse neighborhoods in Asia, South Africa, Russia, the EU and the United States. In the UK, for example, FleishmanHillard Fishburn (FHF) partners with Career Ready, a charity that gives 16 to 18 year old students from lower income homes access to the professional world. FHF has provided three, six-week summer internships to Career Ready students, who gain first-hand agency experience, practical employment knowledge, as well as inspiration, through one-on-one mentorship from FHF staff and master-class sessions on networking, communication, personal branding and interview success.
CPM France’s CPM Académie, the first of 
its kind, is a business development and marketing school formed in partnership with the CFA CODIS, an apprenticeship training organization. Through a 12-month training program, CPM Académie apprentices gain the expertise required for jobs in the sales force, merchandising and sales demonstrations. In 2017, 20 new apprentices joined CPM France’s sales force, sales activation and merchandising teams. Since the program launched in 2014, 70 young people have been trained at CPM France.
Welcoming MAIP Fellows at Omnicom Health Group
Top (left to right): 
• Marcia Hu, CDM NY, Brand Coordinator,  
MAIP Class of 2017
• Eduardo Benavidez Jr. , CDM NY, Brand 
Coordinator, MAIP Class of 2017
• Artiana Wynder, Patients & Purpose, Art 
Director, MAIP Class of 2016
• Theo Chiong , Patients & Purpose, Brand 
Coordinator, MAIP Class of 2017
Bottom (left to right): 
• Julian Soto, Patients & Purpose, Senior Copywriter, MAIP Class of 2015
• Carlos Estrada, DDB Health, Art Director, MAIP Class of 2017Leadership in Talent Diversity  
and Inclusion  
In 2017, Omnicom Health Group continued 
its network-leading partnership with the 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program (MAIP), hosting 13 MAIP Fellows across the Omnicom Health Group network. Under the leadership of Edward Frankel, SVP and Director of Talent Acquisition at OHG, 2017 was their third successful year of participation. Since Frankel initiated the program at Omnicom, he has hosted 24 MAIP Fellows with nine more participating in the 2018 Summer Internship Program. 
MAIP offers full-time, paid internships for 
diverse young professionals with more than 100 agencies across the industry. 
Interns spend 22 weeks in virtual and in-agency training, to gain exposure, experience and networking opportunities. 
In return, the agency gains access to top talent, with the aim of hiring MAIP Fellows at the end of their internships or tapping into the talent pool down the road through alumni events.
Building on the success achieved placing 
interns across OHG agencies, the network continued to expand OHG’s talent acquisition programs, identifying historical black colleges & universities (HBCU) to partner with to build awareness of career opportunities in the advertising world. Educational efforts are already underway with Tennessee State, Howard and Hampton Universities.
In 2017, Edward Frankel, SVP and 
Director of Talent Acquisition at 
Omnicom Health Group, was honored 
by the 4As Multicultural Advertising 
Internship Program with the Pantheon 
Award for his transformational 
leadership in talent diversity and 
inclusion.
29Partnerships in Diversity 
In 2017, Omnicom Group advanced its diversity 
and inclusion efforts through two significant new commitments: 
Omnicom Group CEO John Wren joined more than 300 other CEOs to sign on to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion initiative, the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace. 
As a signatory, Omnicom is committed to providing employees time and space to have conversations about topics like race, delivering unconscious bias training to employees and sharing actions to help advance diversity and inclusion. In January 2018, almost 250 Chief Human Resources Officers and Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officers from CEO Action signatory companies, including Omnicom’s Chief Diversity Officer Tiffany R. Warren, convened for a summit to learn, listen, and support CEO efforts to lead with action-oriented steps and drive diversity and inclusion commitments.  
Omnicom Group joined global advertisers, digital 
media partners, advertising agency consortia, associations and industry champions at the Cannes Festival of Creativity to launch the Unstereotype Alliance  affirming their commitment 
to a global and universal agenda to tackle 
Young filmmakers participating in the  
Ghetto Film Schoolharmful gender stereotypes in advertising. Driven by the United Nations, the Unstereotype Alliance is committed to drive, measure and deliver decisive change.  
Omnicom also continues to collaborate 
with a variety of industry and community organizations to create opportunities for diverse talent. These include:  
• AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism : 
A leader in multicultural marketing/advertising and inclusion issues. Omnicom Group is the premiere sponsor of the AAF Most Promising Multicultural Student Program (MPMS) and sponsor/producer of Most Promising University (MPU)
• The Brotherhood/Sister Sol : Comprehensive, 
holistic and long-term support services to Black and Latino youth who range in age from eight to twenty-two
• Ghetto Film School (GFS) : An organization 
that educates, develops and celebrates the next generation of diverse filmmakers 
• GLAAD: A dynamic media force that tackles tough issues to shape the narrative of LGBTQ acceptance
• LaGrant Foundation : Scholarships, career 
development workshops, mentoring and internships for multicultural students in PR and Communications
30Developing Our People
Omnicom has a deep and longstanding 
commitment to developing our people. Dedicated to making our organization a place where people can build their careers, we have continued our focus on education and training, from basic skills to the advanced programs of Omnicom University. Omnicom University is regarded as one of the pre-eminent executive education experiences and a major source of “cultural glue” for Omnicom. For 23 years, Omnicom University has built the leadership muscle of our most senior leaders by using hundreds of real world cases – from Omnicom agencies – to help leadership navigate industry challenges and opportunities in our  
rapidly changing business. To date, more than 4,800 students have gone through our programs, which include: 
Senior Management Undergraduate and Graduate 
Programs (SMP) , designed for the most senior 
executives in the company, with course content over the two-year commitment focusing on individual leadership, including balancing responsibilities as a producer, manager and leader, as well current critical issues facing our industry.
Advanced Management Program (AMP) , which 
introduces future leaders and “rising stars” to the 
core principles of managing a professional service firm, with a focus on our case-study method to stimulate discussions of issues and trends that challenge our industry.
Agency Leadership Program (ALP), a hands-on course tailored to new leaders to hone their decision-making through simulation challenges Omnicom University changes people’s lives. Here 
is how a few of our participants describe the 
experience:
“THE OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN 
SUBSTANTIVE AND RELEVANT 
CONTENT , TAUGHT WITH PASSION… 
THE MOST INSPIRING AND 
SUPPORTIVE EXPERIENCE OF MY 
CAREER. ”  
Sharon Callahan, Chief Client Officer, 
Omnicom Healthcare Group 
“THREE DAYS OF IMMERSION AND 
TRANSFORMATION. …IT HELPED ME 
CHART A LEARNING COURSE FOR 
MYSELF . MORE IMPORTANTL Y , I 
HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO MEET 
WONDERFUL PEOPLE AND SHARE 
SIMILAR PROBLEMS. ” 
Ranji Cherian, President  
 DDB Mudra South
“THE SMP FORMULA IS FUELED 
BY THREE THINGS: 1. RELEVANT 
CASES ON REAL ISSUES, 2. GREAT 
TEACHERS TO LEARN FROM, 3. LIVEL Y 
CLASSMATES TO LEARN WITH. IT 
PROVIDES GROWTH, INSPIRATION, MOTIVATION AND DIRECTION, AS 
WELL AS AFFIRMING AND ENDURING 
SUPPORT , BOTH IN AND BEYOND THE 
BABSON CLASSROOM. "  
Cilla Snowball, Group Chairman &  
Group CEO, AMV Groupbased on situations that face our agency leaders 
on a regular basis.
In addition to Omnicom University, our networks 
and agencies offer a variety of training and development programs. Below are just a few highlights:
Omnicom Emerging Stars brings together top young 
talent from across Omnicom agencies to help kick start their careers. Our Emerging Stars are submerged in a crash course in innovation and creative methodologies, introduced to leading thinkers and see inside some of the world’s best agencies. The three-day experience culminates in the creation and pitch of an integrated marketing challenge to senior client stakeholders and Omnicom leaders. 
Interbrand Academy  is an open-access, global 
learning platform offering live-streamed sessions 
throughout the year, available to every office in the network, across every level of experience in the organization. The on-demand sessions, available on our employees’ mobile devices, offer how-to skills sessions, trademark law and image rights modules. 
Discovery and Development  provides high-
performing professionals at Porter Novelli with 
the opportunity to immerse themselves in the work and culture of another office. Participants expand their knowledge and skills, build lasting relationships and share their experiences, splitting their time between home office existing projects and local client work at their host site. Twelve staff members participated in 2017 and another dozen, representing 10 cities and visiting offices in the U.S., U.K., Belgium and Mexico, are taking part  in 2018.
“The Discovery and Development program was hands-down the best experience of my career 
thus far. I got to meet my fellow Omnicom brethren, got a fantastic understanding of the 
business challenges and opportunities in the EU that I’ve been able to put to work in DC, and 
got to truly feel how global and respected the Porter Novelli brand is. ”
Rebecca Mark, Vice President of Research in Porter Novelli’s Washington, DC office,  
travelled to Brussels for her Discovery and Development assignment31DAS Accelerate Military  
Veterans Program
Now in its fourth year, the DAS Accelerate 
Military Veterans Program (MVP) provides training and employment for veterans of Special Operation Forces (SOF) including SEALs, MARSOC, Para Rescue, Rangers and Green Berets. Veterans rotate through three, four-month training stints at one of the 40 participating DAS companies and are offered positions within a company on completion of their residency. The program aims to add three full-time candidates each year moving forward.
“My time in the DAS 
Accelerate MVP program 
has given me incredible 
insight into the breadth 
of agencies that DAS has 
to offer and given me 
confidence that my career 
path is the right one. ” 
William (Veteran Marine Raider), 
Accelerate Resident“The most valuable part of 
the program was the ability 
to get a glimpse into various 
careers that we’ve never 
been exposed to. Being 
able to see the dynamics 
of how an agency works 
prior to taking on a full-time position gave me the chance 
to craft my leadership and 
soft skills appropriately. ” 
Maria Samantha Moeller (Veteran 
Staff Sargent US Army), Account 
Supervisor, Dieste
“I look back at the last year 
– new job, new organization, 
new boss, new goals – 
and how much the DAS 
Accelerate MVP program 
has made an impact on my 
life. I like to think about the 
impact that I can make in 
return, not only to Omnicom 
Group, but to other military 
members who are looking to 
start their new career. ” 
Mark Allen (Veteran Navy SEAL), 
Project Manager, Integrated 
Merchandizing Systems
“What this DAS Accelerate 
MVP program has given 
me over the past two years 
has been an incredible 
understanding of how 
the mindset and Special 
Operations Forces skills 
that you develop while in the military are directly 
applicable to a wide range 
of career paths within DAS. ” 
John Unsworth (Veteran Navy 
SEAL), Client Relations Manager, 
Healthcare Consultancy Group“OUR GOAL IS TO BRING THE BEST 
TALENT TO DAS, AND SOMETIMES WE 
NEED TO LOOK BEYOND THE OBVIOUS 
TALENT POOL. ”  
Dale A Adams, Chairman and CEO  
The DAS Group of Companies
The DAS Accelerate MVP program has 
unleashed an impressive and under-tapped pool of Special Forces experts whose deep training and unwavering commitment to excellence makes them superior candidates who enrich our culture, thinking and business and bring a diverse set of perspectives that help us learn and grow.
We’re proud to profile four program 
participants:Currently, 11 program participants  
are employed at DAS/Omnicom.
32SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE 
HEAL TH AND WELL-BEING    
Omnicom continues to offer comprehensive 
and quality health care benefits while 
maintaining a reasonable degree of 
individual choice to meet our employees’ 
diverse needs.
Many of our agencies offer health and 
wellness incentives, including:
• Health screenings, nutritional 
counseling, stress management 
workshops, mental health awareness 
and Employee Assistance Program 
(EAP)
• Wellness fairs, gym membership 
discounts, massage programs, yoga 
sessions, meditation and ergonomics 
assessments
• Smoking cessation programs
• As well as incentives for public 
transportation via free or subsidized 
commuter passes, and bike-riding 
encouragement with onsite bike racks, 
rentals and discountsUnconscious Bias Training   
Our diversity of experiences, backgrounds, 
locations, viewpoints and ideas are what makes Omnicom a great place to work, and differentiates us as an employer of choice. In an effort to help support this culture of openness, three of our networks—BBDO,  DAS, DDB and TBWA—have introduced unconscious bias training for their employees, with Omnicom Health Group having launched its training program in the first quarter of 2018. Unconscious bias training provides the tools and resources needed to work effectively in our diverse workplace, including the ability to recognize the biases we all carry with us in our interactions with others and more mindful of such behavior and the impact it has on others. 
Celebrating Difference With ADCOLOR
Now in its 11th year, ADCOLOR continues to lead the way, championing individuals and companies that go above and beyond to make a difference in the creative and tech industries. Its annual awards celebrate the achievements of people of color along with members of the LGBTQ+ community and other underrepresented groups. A complementary industry conference convenes innovators, experts and thought leaders from multiple creative industries. And ADCOLOR FUTURES, a third initiative of the non-profit, focuses on identifying and nurturing the next generation of leaders in the advertising, marketing, media, and public relations industries through career training and mentorship.Omnicom agencies presented on panels, including “A Briefing on the Now, Next and Future,” with Sparks & Honey, and “Programs That Make Impact,” with BBDO. In addition, a highlight of 2017’s ADCOLOR Awards celebration featured a conversation between rapper/disrupter of culture Snoop Dogg, Ryan Ford, Creative Director of Snoop’s ad agency, Cashmere, and Doug Melville, Chief Diversity Officer, North America, TBWA, and Disruptor Series co-founder. As Snoop Dogg says, somebody’s got to use their voice to make a difference. “I’m disrupting to push the culture forward.” Listen to the engaging and provocative conversation at Disruptor Series 
Podcast.
Kendra Clarke, VP of Data Science and Product 
Development, Sparks & Honey at the 2017 ADCOLOR Conference
“ADCOLOR created a new status quo, 
and we continue to do so by honoring, 
discussing and supporting those who rise 
up while reaching back. As always, add 
color and advocate. ” 
Tiffany Warren, SVP and Chief Diversity Officer, 
Omnicom and ADCOLOR Founder 33Expanding Our Influence
Omnicom is committed to expanding our 
supplier diversity efforts. 
52% of the 30 million businesses operating in the U.S. are minority- and women-owned, yet they receive just 6% of the country’s business-to-business procurement spend. 
We think this is a huge opportunity, and while we still have a long way to go, our diversity officers across our networks and agencies are initiating the conversations and connections required to involve more diverse vendors to the work we deliver to our clients. 
In connection with the Omnicom Supplier 
Diversity efforts, we created the Omnicom Supplier Diversity Database in order to expand access to diverse suppliers across our global network of agencies. The database is a resource that spurs collaboration with clients and suppliers and currently includes more than 1,300 minority- and women-owned vendors. By successfully utilizing these relationships, we help meet the diversity goals that we have set for Omnicom as well as those of our clients. 
BRINGING YOUTH TO  
THE TABLE   
In 2017, GSD&M took part, for the first 
time, in an E4 Youth initiative designed to establish pathways to careers in 
commercial creative arts by removing 
barriers for talented yet underserved and 
underrepresented youth. The agency 
coordinated an E4 Youth/Southwest Airlines 
project, under the direction of Kirya Francis, 
VP-Strategic Solutions, built on a creative 
roster of students (two high-schoolers and 
a graduate) who were submerged—with no 
prior advertising or agency experience—into 
developing a campaign to drive engagement 
among millennials. 
E4 Youth initiative participantsAcross our businesses, we are both acting on our clients’ requirements and driving uptake within our own networks. We are responding to the continued increase in the number and size of client requests for diverse suppliers, ranging from 5% to 25% of their total creative spend. In addition, our diversity executives continue to create a broad range of tools and tactics to introduce the broad range of talented supplier services to our creative and production directors. For example:
GSD&M created vendor partner discovery training capsules using a new electronic mail technology called “EYEMAIL ” (developed by a minority/woman-owned enterprise) that introduces 60-second executive-led educational videos promoting the importance of vendor diversity. The first, Leadership and Commitment, was released in December 2017. Four others are following in 2018.
TBWA is developing One Sandbox, a web-based 
platform listing qualified women, multicultural and LGBTQ+ vendors that will be available across its collective of US agencies in 2018.
BBDO, DDB, Organic and others support Free the 
Bid, which builds diversity by having networks and agencies pledge to include one woman director’s bid on every job they produce or  
bid on. 
“THESE KIDS HAVE NATURAL TALENT . 
WHEN THEY ARE EDUCATED, AND 
MENTORED, THEY SHINE!”
Max Rutherford, Vendor Partner Diversity 
Director at GSD&M and advisory board member 
of E4 Youth, captured the campaign’s success52%
ENVIRONMENT
Omnicom is committed to environmental 
stewardship – to promote innovation, increase efficiency and reduce waste – everywhere we have direct control of the resources. Recognizing the local and national contexts within which our global network operates, Omnicom has established an overarching stewardship framework and empowered our companies to take responsibility for developing and implementing environmental policies, procedures and training. 35BRIGHT IDEA
DDB Hamburg DmbH moved into its new 
location in May 2017. By employing open 
floor plan designs, eliminating individual 
offices and creating shared spaces, the 
company increased collaboration and 
fostered a dynamic creative environment. 
More than that, by reducing the total amount 
of space occupied and making more 
efficient use of it, the Hamburg crew reduced energy use by 25% compared to its former office residency and drew all of its electricity 
from renewable energy sources.Strengthening Our 
Approach
In 2018, Omnicom introduced our new 
Environmental Policy. It outlines our approach to minimize our impact by encouraging our companies to consider their environmental footprint in terms of: 
• Conscious design of office space
• Energy efficiency
• Travel and community 
• Procurement
• Recycling and waste management
We describe our initiatives in each of these areas below.
Collectively, our efforts underpin our 
commitment to the United Nations  
Global Compact, to which Omnicom is  
a signatory. Designing Space for 
Creativity and Energy Efficiency
In 2017, we continued our real estate strategy 
to transition our global agency portfolio into shared office spaces, designed with innovation and efficiency in mind. Our open-plan designs have the dual advantage of fostering collaboration and creativity across agencies and of helping us use the space we own and lease more efficiently, resulting in reduced costs and environmental impacts. We opened the door to shared spaces in Beijing, Stamford, CT, and Berlin in 2017. Similar projects are set to open in New York City, Chicago and Dallas in 2018. 
From an efficiency perspective, we are 
maximizing the use of our real estate footage, through shared use conference rooms, reception, wellness and other common spaces. From a design perspective, we are minimizing our footprint by building and retrofitting to our new planning standard, which includes energy-efficient lighting and heating and cooling, and reduced material use in ceilings and flooring. 
Standardizing Efficiency of Building 
Operations
In addition, as part of this long-term initiative, 
we are standardizing operations across the millions of square feet our global network occupies. As a result we are reducing equipment needs, and saving energy, through centralized printing and duplication stations and pantry services, while also achieving purchasing and administrative services efficiencies.CARBON SAVINGS
In 2017, TBWA Sydney began a major 
energy conservation project with the 
intention of significantly reducing its energy 
consumption in 2018 and beyond. The 
project will see the installation of 244 solar panels to the roof of the offices on Pyrmont 
Street, with anticipated investment pay 
back in under four years (with a return 
on investment of 26%) and, importantly, 
reduces carbon emissions projected at 100 tons per annum.  20%
20%We also established goals to help 
us drive performance against our 
commitment:  
Reduce energy use by 20% 
per person globally by 2023, 
using a 2015 baseline
Increase use of electricity 
from renewable energy 
sources globally by 20% by 
2023GOALS36Our Performance 
As Omnicom continues to grow, these new 
policies and goals reinforce our commitment to managing our energy use and carbon footprint, the areas where we have the largest environmental impact. 
Offsetting Our Carbon Impact Using 
Renewable Energy
As part of Omnicom’s strategy to reduce our 
carbon footprint, we derive a portion of our electricity needs from renewable sources. Our efforts in this area are spearheaded in the UK, where we control our electricity purchases and are buying green power through our purchasing agreements. In the United States, 90% of our electricity spend is under the control of landlords in our leased spaces and we only have the opportunity to manage 10% of our spend. In 2017, total electricity purchased from renewable resources remained steady at 10.1%. In addition, we reduced our company-wide greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 10.1% in 2017 compared to 2016. This reduction is the result of a 40% decrease year-over-year in our Scope 1 emissions as the positive impacts of our office consolidation efforts continued. We also reported a decrease in air-travel related Scope 3 emissions, from 176,016 metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent (MT CO2e) in 2016 to 158,016 MT CO2e in 2017, which was offset by a 5% increase in our Scope 2 emissions compared to 2016.In 2017, we used 152,841 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity:
5.5%decrease compared  
to 2016
6.5%reduction of total energy 
use year-over-year
Electricity from Renewable Sources (MWh)
Purchased (MWh)
% of Total 2017 2016 2015
15,68910.116,40110.313,3538.0
Energy Footprint
Total Energy UsedTotal Electricity  
Used (MWh)
Total GHG Emissions  
(MT CO
2e)2017 2016 2015
175,964
152,841
258,963188,365
161,903
288,806191,128
167,585
286,134
GHG Emissions (MT CO2e)
Scope 1
Scope 2Scope 3Total GHG Emissions2017 2016 2015
23,961
77,445
158,016260,23339,76473,905176,016289,68549,27775,532160,325286,134
Smart Travel and Commuting
Our business is built on relationships, and 
these are strengthened when we meet with our clients face-to-face. Air travel is our largest source of carbon emissions, so we promote smart travel policies that reduce the need for air travel when possible by combining business trips to minimize travel impact and employing video conferencing where effective. As we continue to implement our shared workspace strategy, we target locations that are close to public transit in order to provide options for employee commuting. In addition, some Omnicom companies provide incentives for employees to use public transportation, cycle and car pool to reduce their environmental footprint. At our new location in Stamford, CT, for example, we provide shuttle service from the local train station to our workspace. We work on a case-by-case basis to create opportunities for tele-working to allow for better work life balance and lower environmental impact. In 2017, our Scope 3 emissions fell 10% compared to 2016.
Minimizing Our Waste Impact
As a holding company, we encourage our agencies to implement programs to maximize reuse and safe recycling of electronic office equipment, paper and other office resources.       2016 Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been restated to 
include a previously unreported emissions source in the United Kingdom.GOVERNANCE
Omnicom is committed to strengthening 
our governing structure, building a board of directors with exceptional experience and diverse points of view, and ensuring that across our networks and agencies, we are upholding the highest ethical standards.   38A Strong and Diverse Board
Omnicom believes that workplace diversity 
creates value for the Company, enhances the quality of work we create for clients and fosters a positive corporate culture. We know that a workforce reflecting the demographics of our society is better poised to create effective campaigns for our clients that resonate with a diverse population. With our global presence, we believe it is important that our workforce reflects our global community. This commitment to diversity starts within the boardroom. Our Board includes six women, a majority, and four African Americans, including Leonard S. Coleman, Jr., our Lead Independent Director. A majority of the Audit, Compensation, and Governance Committees are comprised of female directors, with female directors Chairing both the Audit and Compensation Committees.  
Board Refreshment
In 2015, we undertook a Board Refreshment initiative that has led to a number of meaningful steps, including expanding the responsibilities of our Lead Independent Director, adopting a mandatory retirement age for Board members, and bringing greater diversity into the Board and committee leadership.
At our May shareholder meeting, Bruce 
Crawford stepped down as Chairman. Bruce has been a remarkable leader and we thank him for his wisdom, guidance and numerous contributions to both Omnicom and the Board of Directors over the past three decades.
In anticipation of Mr. Crawford’s retirement, 
the Board determined that at this time it would be in the best interests of Omnicom and its shareholders to combine the roles of Chairman INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
Since the 2017 Annual Meeting, two new 
independent directors, Gracia C. Martore and 
Ronnie S. Hawkins, have been appointed 
to the Board. Ms. Martore is the former 
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
TEGNA Inc. and Mr. Hawkins is a Managing 
Director of Global Infrastructure Partners. Each of Ms. Martore and Mr. Hawkins bring 
critical skills to the Board’s overall mix of skill 
sets, which strengthen the Board’s collective 
ability to effectively oversee management and the implementation of Omnicom’s 
plan for long-term strategic growth. Ms. 
Martore serves as a member of the Audit 
and Governance Committees. Mr. Hawkins 
serves on the Finance Committee.
 New independent directors: Gracia C. Martore (left) 
and Ronnie S. Hawkins (right)and CEO. The Board carefully considered 
shareholder perspectives on Omnicom's leadership structure through extensive engagement in which shareholders indicated they were largely supportive of combining these roles. 
Long-serving Board members Jack Purcell 
and Reg Murphy also stepped down from the Board in May. We would like to recognize both Jack and Reg and extend our thanks for their outstanding leadership, dedication and loyalty to Omnicom over the years.
In the past year, we also welcomed two new 
independent directors - Gracia Martore (2017) and Ronnie Hawkins (2018). Ms. Martore was recently the President and CEO of TEGNA, formerly known as Gannett and Co. Mr. Hawkins is a Managing Director of Global Infrastructure Partners. 
With these changes, Omnicom’s Board has 11 
directors, with ten independent members, 
These changes strengthen Omnicom’s 
governance structure and demonstrate our commitment to onboarding exceptional candidates who bring a wealth of experience and diverse points of view.
For more information, see OmnicomGroup  
Proxy Statement 2018.and four African Americans.including six women
39Continuing Shareholder Engagement
Ongoing shareholder engagement is a priority 
for our Board and management team. In 2017, we reached out to shareholders holding more than 70% of our outstanding shares and engaged with approximately 40% of outstanding shares. Mr. Coleman, our Lead Independent Director, actively participated in investor meetings with over 20% of outstanding shares. Broad topics discussed included company strategy and performance; Board composition, refreshment and leadership; inclusion and diversity efforts across the organization; sustainability initiatives; and Omnicom’s executive compensation program.
In addition, key topics discussed with 
shareholders included:
• Board Leadership , with the majority 
of shareholders indicating they were supportive of combining the Chair and CEO positions as described above, and 
• Board Refreshment , with shareholders 
responding favorably to the level of progress Omnicom has shown to meaningfully refresh our Board, including adoption of a mandatory retirement policy, which is fostering a smooth transition, and in ensuring that our Board is representative of all of our constituencies – our clients, our employees and our shareholders.Human Rights and Anti-Corruption
Omnicom operates in an increasingly complex global environment and is committed to supporting and respecting human rights. Our commitment to the highest ethical standards in the communities where we do business is outlined in our Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct. In 2017, we began an update of our Code of Business Conduct for a 2018 release. We expect training to rollout across Omnicom in the second half of 2018. We also implemented global policies to ensure our compliance with the EU’s Global Data Protection Regulation, which took effect on May 25, 2018. At Omnicom, we recognize that we have 
the power to create positive change in 
society. As a signatory to the United Nation’s 
Global Compact, we have committed to 
“supporting and respecting the protection 
of internationally proclaimed human rights 
and making sure that we are not complicit in 
human rights abuses.” To further underscore 
our commitment, in 2018, we published our Human Rights Policy. It outlines our 
responsibilities to our employees, clients, 
suppliers and other stakeholders, and the 
mechanisms through which we will inform 
about and uphold our commitments. For 
more information, visit our website. 
Omnicom directors, officers and employees 
are required to comply with all applicable anti-corruption and and-bribery laws, 
including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act, the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and any other 
local and anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where we do business.
  
We provide robust processes for confidential 
and anonymous submission by employees 
of concerns regarding accounting or auditing 
matters, as well as potential violations of our 
Code of Business Conduct or Code of Ethics 
for Senior Financial Officers. Procedures for 
submitting concerns are available on our 
website at http://www.omnicomgroup.com.In addition, to underscore our 
commitment, we have established the 
following goals:  
• Develop Supplier Code of  
Conduct by 2020
• By January 1, 2020, Omnicom  
will offer business ethics and/or 
anti-bribery training to 100% of 
its full-time, regular employees 
worldwide and require such 
employees to be trained within  
3 months of their hire date and 
every 2 years thereafter.  GOAL40ABOUT THIS REPORT
This report provides a high-level overview of Omnicom’s corporate responsibility commitments, 
activities and progress in 2017. The report is organized to reflect our four main focus areas: Community, People, Environment and Governance. We have included some of the top case studies from our diverse network of agencies to characterize our impact on social and environmental issues around the world. 
Material Topics Identification 
In developing this report we consulted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the CDP climate change framework, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Marketing and Advertising sector guidelines, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals to determine relevant material issues. 
Stakeholder Engagement  
In addition to consulting global reporting frameworks, the content of this report was developed through stakeholder interviews with Omnicom executives, subject matter experts, network company representatives and key supplier and client feedback. The Governance section of this report was influenced by our ongoing shareholder engagement including, specifically, the direct dialogues we had with our largest shareholders in 2017. 
Scope 
The data in this report covers Omnicom’s global operations in FY2017 (from January 1 – December 31, 2017). Unless otherwise noted, data within the report reflects our United States operations. Our last report was published in 2017. We plan to continue publishing an annual comprehensive corporate responsibility report that fulfills the requirements of the GRI Standards and the UNGC Communication on Progress.41OMNICOM  
UN COMMUNICATION
ON PROGRESS
In May 2016, Omnicom committed to align with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact 
(UNGC), a leadership platform for the development, implementation and disclosure of responsible corporate policies and practices in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This report confirms Omnicom’s ongoing commitment to continuous improvement in our own operations, and through collaboration with other organizations, to advance best practices in corporate responsibility worldwide. This report provides information on our corporate responsibility strategy and performance for FY2017 and covers the UNGC Communication on Progress requirements. 
Human Rights
Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 
human rights; and
Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 
Omnicom’s commitment to support and respect human rights is embodied in our Human 
Rights Policy and revised Code of Business Conduct. The Code of Business Conduct covers our commitment to comply with all laws of the places where we do business, our prohibition against insider trading, our duty to advance our employer’s legitimate interest and our commitment to equal opportunity. The Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct are available on our Corporate Governance website. For more information on our commitment to respecting human rights, see the Governance section of this report.42Labor
Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of 
the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labor; and
Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Omnicom’s directors, officers and employees are required to comply with our Code of Business 
Conduct, which sets the foundation for how we should do business on a da y-to-day basis. We 
are an equal opportunity employer and do not discriminate against employees or job applicants on the basis of race, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, pregnancy or any similar status or condition. For more information on our commitment to fair labor, see the People section of this report.
Environment
Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Omnicom is committed to promoting greater environmental responsibility, and regularly reports on environmental performance throughout our operations. Omnicom’s Environmental Policy outlines our approach to minimize our impact by encouraging our companies to consider their environmental footprint in terms of conscious design of office space; energy efficiency; travel and commuting; procurement; and recycling and waste management. For more information on our commitment to environmental sustainability, see the Environment section of this report.
Anti-Corruption
Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 
bribery.
Omnicom operates in an increasingly complex global environment, and our commitment to the 
highest ethical standards in the communities where we do business is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct. Omnicom directors, officers and employees are required to comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act of 2010, and any other local anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where we do business. For more information on our commitment to ethics and compliance, see the Governance section of this report.43Disclosure Number Description Response
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organization Page 1 of CR Report, Page 1 of Omnicom 10-K
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Page 1 of Omnicom 10-K
102-3 Location of headquarters Page 6 of Omnicom 10-K
102-4 Location of operations Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
102-5 Ownership and legal form Pages 1, 7 of Omnicom 10-K
102-6 Markets served Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
102-9 Supply chain Pages 4, 33 of CR Report
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There were no significant changes during the reporting period
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Pages 35-36 of CR Report
102-12 External initiatives Page 40 of CR Report
102-13 Membership of associations Pages 29, 32 of CR Report
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 1 of CR Report
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pages 5-6 of CR Report, Page 3 of Omnicom 10-K
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Omnicom Code of Business Conduct
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure Page 38 of CR Report, Pages 5-6 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-19 Delegating authority Pages 22-23 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and 
social topics Page 40 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-21Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Page 40 of CR Report, Page 7 of Omnicom Proxy Statement2017 GRI Content Index
General Standard Disclosures44Disclosure Number Description Response
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Page 38 of CR Report, Pages 14-22 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Page 38 of CR Report, Pages 14-22 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Pages 38-39 of CR Report, Pages 20-21 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-25 Conflicts of interest Pages 30-31 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Pages 21-22, 56 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Reviewed and approved by Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer
102-33 Communicating critical concernsPages 30-31 of Omnicom Proxy Statement, Omnicom Internal Control Line
102-35 Remuneration policies Pages 8, 22 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 43 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 40 of CR Report
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements0% of Omnicom employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 40 of CR Report
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 40 of CR Report
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 40 of CR Report
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Pages 15-17 of Omnicom 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Page 40 of CR Report
102-47 List of material topics Page 40 of CR Report
102-48 Restatements of information Page 36 of the report includes a footnote restating 2016 GHG emissions
102-49 Changes in reporting Page 40 of CR Report
102-50 Reporting period Page 40 of CR ReportGeneral Standard Disclosures45Disclosure Number Description Response
102-51 Date of most recent report Page 40 of CR Report
102-52 Reporting cycle Page 40 of CR Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 47 of CR Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option
102-55 GRI content index Page 43 of CR Report
102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 4-6 of CR Report
103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 4-6 of CR Report
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 4-6 of CR ReportGeneral Standard Disclosures462017 GRI Content Index
Topic-Specific Disclosures
Disclosure Number Description Response
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 4 of CR Report, Page 8 of Omnicom 10-K
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Page F-12 of Omnicom 10-K
ANTI-CORRUPTION
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Pages 39, 41-42 of CR Report, Page 5 of Omnicom 10-K
ENERGY
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Page 36 of CR Report
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Page 36 of CR Report
EMISSIONS
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 36 of CR Report
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 36 of CR Report
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 36 of CR Report
EMPLOYMENT
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employeesPage 32 of CR Report
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pages 24-25 of CR Report
HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Pages 39, 41-42 of CR Report, Omnicom Code of Business Conduct
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
413-1Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programsPages 7-11 of CR Report
PUBLIC POLICY
415-1 Political contributions N/A47If you have questions or comments regarding this report, please email CR@omnicomgroup.com
Read more at csr.omnicomgroup.com
         