2016 Corporate Responsibility ReportLetter from Our CEO
About Omnicom2016 Highlights
 Community
Commitment to SDG #4
 People
 Environment GovernanceAbout this ReportUN Communication on ProgressCommitments and Plans GRI G4 IndexContact Information
Cover: Employees at TBWA\Chiat\Day NY TBWATable of Contents1
As a result, we have pursued gender and multicultural initiatives  
across our entire organization, and last year marked some important 
milestones. Women now make up 55% of our U.S. officials and  
managers, up 7% from 2011. We hired or promoted women to a number of key positions and expanded our Omniwomen networking and career development organization to ten chapters. Multicultural employees make up an increasing percentage of our U.S. officials and managers; 19% are now multicultural, an increase of 30% from five years ago. 
Our newly configured Board also reflects this commitment to  
inclusiveness. Our 12-member Board now includes five women and  
three African American members, setting a high standard for Board 
diversity. We hope to increase that diversity even further as our Board refreshment process continues.
Finally, we made significant progress towards reducing our  
environmental footprint, primarily by consolidating office space and installing more energy-efficient heating and cooling systems. This year, during a period of growth, we decreased our square footage, a major factor in cutting our use of electric power by more than 10%, and  
reducing our Scope 1 emissions by 21% and our Scope 2 emissions  by 10%.  
By tracking these key performance indicators, we will get a more 
accurate picture of where we stand in our corporate responsibility efforts — and as advertisers and communicators, we know that when you measure results, you often improve results. In this respect, I believe 2016 has been a pivotal year for us, laying the groundwork for many more years of progress. 
Sincerely,
John D. Wren  
President & Chief Executive OfficerDear Stakeholders,
Diversity, community engagement and environmental stewardship  
have always been important values to Omnicom. This year we are  
excited to report we have enhanced our commitment to corporate social responsibility in a number of visible and noteworthy ways. 
Omnicom became a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact  
in 2016, committing to the world’s largest voluntary corporate  
sustainability initiative. By signing, we have pledged to support  
10 universal principles — like protecting human rights, promoting fair labor practices, protecting the environment and rooting out corruption — in our businesses.
I believe the marketing communications industry can play a crucial role 
in raising awareness and changing attitudes towards sustainability and development issues. At last year’s Cannes Lions Festival, Omnicom and five other leading global advertising networks joined forces to promote the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through the Common Ground initiative. 
As part of our commitment to Common Ground, Omnicom is working 
towards Sustainable Development Goal 4 , to ensure inclusive and  
quality education for all and promote lifelong learning. More  
specifically, we are donating our time and deploying our world-class expertise to promote Girl Effect and Theirworld, two non-profits that create educational opportunities for children. I look forward to working with our agencies and networks to find more ways to support global education — through volunteering and pro bono work. 
Secondly, as a creative organization, we understand the value of  
diversity. We know diverse teams are more creative and they  
understand diverse audiences better. Furthermore, many of our clients are committed to diversity within their own companies and they expect the same commitment from us. 2
Global network of leading marketing and communications companies
ADVERTISING
DIGITAL AND INTERACTIVE MARKETINGSTRATEGIC MEDIA PLANNING AND BUYINGCUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENTPUBLIC RELATIONSHEAL TH CARE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
78.5K+  
SPECIALISTS SERVING 
5,000+ BRANDS1500+ 
AGENCIES IN 100+ COUNTRIES
2016 REVENUE
FINANCIAL SUMMARYPortfolio includes: Three global advertising agency networks: BBDO, DDB and TBWA; three 
of the world’s premier providers of media services: H&S, OMD and PHD, part of Omnicom 
Media Group. We also manage a global diversified group of agencies, under the DAS Group 
of Companies.Food and Beverage 13%
Pharmaceuticals and Health Care 12%
Consumer Products 10%
Technology 9%
Auto 8%Financial Services 7%
Travel and Entertainment 7%
Retail 6%
Telecommunications 6%
Other 23%2016 CLIENT MIX
in millions 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue $15,416 $15,134 $15,317 $14,584 $14,219
Operating Income $2,008 $1,920 $1,944 $1,825 $1,804
Net Income $1,148 $1,093 $1,104 $991 $998USA
56%WORLD
44%3At Omnicom, we’re committed to promoting 
sustainable practices and making positive contributions to society around the globe.  Details from our efforts are available at  csr.omnicomgroup.com. This document includes key highlights and progress from 2016,  
in the four areas on which we focus: Community, People, Environment and Governance.2016 Omnicom  
CR Highlights 
ENVIRONMENT  
• 15% reduction in electricity use  between 2015 and 2016 
• 21% reduction in Scope 1 emissions  and 10% reduction in Scope 2  
emissions between 2015 and 2016
• 7.4% of total power derived from  
renewable sourcesGOVERNANCE 
• 2 new Board members — Deborah  
J. Kissire and Valerie M. Williams 
• 5 women and 3 African Americans  
represented on the Board
• 10 out of 12 Board members are  
independent directorsPEOPLE
• 55% of Omnicom’s U.S. officials  and managers are women; 19% are  
multicultural employees 
• Achieved 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation’s 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI)
• 10 Omniwomen chapters open around the world, with new organizations in Canada, Germany, UAE and FranceCOMMUNITY  
• Played an active role in local  
communities and the world at large through volunteering and  fundraising 
• Launched “PeopleConnect,” a  
volunteer engagement network of  
more than 100,000 participating non-profits, to help our people find  
ways to get involved
• Produced powerful pro bono work for non-profit clients through our agencies 
around the worldCOMMUNITYOur agencies — and the people that work in them — take an  
active role in their communities and the world at large through volunteering, fundraising and producing powerful work for clients.  
We reinvigorate our creativity by engaging with the issues that  
matter to us. Interbrand employees participating in Month of Service5
In this video, UN Under-Secretary-General for 
Communications and Public Information Cristina Gallach, describes why our industry is so critical in working toward a better world. 
A Focus on Education
As part of Common Ground, each holding 
company has chosen one of the 17 SDGs (see right). Omnicom will focus on Sustainable Development Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. 
“Education has always been part of our DNA as 
a network, whether through our organization-wide commitment to developing each employee’s potential, or our industry-leading Omnicom University leadership development program, or our agency-level pro bono support for many different educational organizations,” said Omnicom President and CEO John Wren. “We know that educational programs can have a profound impact not just on the people they reach directly, but on our larger community, economy and society, as well.”  
Two Signature Programs
Omnicom has identified two global NGOs focused on creating change and expanding access to education as partners in our educational initiative. Omnicom employees will donate time and expertise to help these organizations achieve their goals.
Girl Effect
 uses 21st century tools like social 
media, mobile technology and girl-centered 
community engagement to create a “new normal” for girls. Working in communities in Africa, the Middle East and worldwide, Girl Effect empowers young women with skills, ideas and knowledge. It connects them with resources so that they can remain in school, get healthcare and start a family when  they choose.
Theirworld
 is an innovative charity that helps to 
create global change and bring better health 
and education to children. Through research, pilot projects and campaigning, Theirworld is at the forefront of testing and shaping new ideas to help give the most vulnerable children around the world a brighter future and the best possible start in life.COMMON GROUND FOR THE 
COMMON GOOD
Six major advertising holding companies  
unite to support the UN’s Sustainable 
Development Goals
In June 2016, leaders from advertising’s 
“Big Six” set aside rivalries to make the 
world a better place. The Common Ground 
Initiative was announced at the Cannes Lions 
International Festival of Creativity in France 
where UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
stated, “The six biggest communications 
businesses in the world…have agreed to put 
their differences aside in support of a joint 
unique and exciting initiative to advance the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the SDGs.”
The collaboration known as “Common Ground” 
is explained through a global advertising 
campaign and website. Advertising leaders 
are also asked to encourage their clients, 
employees and partners to support the SDGs. 6
Education
Above AllHelping girls graduate from  
high school
Network: BBDO     
Agency: Garwich BBDO Peru
A CARE study found that around 
150,000 girls don’t finish high school on time in Peru. Garwich BBDO Peru 
supports the NGO’s work with public 
schools, families, communities and girls to help young women finish  
their studies.
Supporting the UN goal towards 
quality education
Network: DAS     
Agency: Portland Communications
Portland Communications worked 
with Education Above All, an organization that empowers children 
through education, to develop 
powerful messaging that positioned the global foundation as a key partner 
in attaining the UN’s Sustainable 
Development Goal #4 around education.  
CARE PeruOmnicom Agencies 
Take the Lead on  
Education
Companies across our global networks are 
already tackling the challenges of ensuring 
inclusive and equitable quality education 
for all through client work, fundraising, volunteering and advocacy campaigns.  7
Unlocking the written word for people 
who can’t read
Network: DAS    Agency: Flamingo London
Illiterate people are more likely to live 
in poverty, lack education and miss out 
on opportunities to participate in society and join the workforce. Flamingo London 
partnered with Pearson’s Project Literacy 
to develop a messaging campaign showing how illiteracy contributes to social and 
economic hardships.    
Project Literacy
Starting a conversation about 
forgotten children
Network: DDB    Agency: DDB Tandem
What if the future Queen of Spain, 
Princess Leonor, dropped out of school?  
#Leonordejalaescuela, a campaign created by DDB Tandem, asked a 
question that went viral to focus 
attention on another Leonor, who, as a Romani child, faced a 60% risk of  
quitting school.
Leonor deja  
la esculela Educating African children 
orphaned by AIDS
Network: DDB    
Agency: TracyLocke Communications
TracyLocke raised $1 million to 
support the Indwe Learning Center in Illovo, South Africa, a Montessori 
blended curriculum school for 
children orphaned by the massive AIDS epidemic in South Africa.  
The school establishes a model that 
can be used in other countries. 
Indwe Learning 
Center in Illovo
Raising money to educate girls  
in Uganda
Network: DAS     
Agency: Marina Maher 
Communications
Over the past five years, Marina 
Maher Communications has raised 
money for She’s the First through bake sales, yoga sessions, company-
wide jeans days and raffles. In 2016, 
they funded tuition for 14 girls at the Arlington Academy in Uganda.
She's the First
ActionAid -  
Donate Your Profile
Taking over social media one 
profile page at a time
Network: BBDO     
Agency: DLV BBDO Milan
ActionAid, an NGO dedicated to 
children’s survival and education, wanted to raise awareness of its 
work cost-effectively. To help, DLV 
BBDO Milan designed the Donate Your Profile social media campaign, 
inviting people to let ActionAid stories 
take over their pages. The campaign went viral, creating 79 million media 
impressions worldwide.   
RMHC/Hacer  
Scholarship  
ProgramInspiring Hispanic youth to go 
to college
Network: DDB    Agency: Alma DDB
“Your voice is your power. Use it.”  A 
video produced by Alma DDB shows 
the struggles of Hispanic students as they balance work, family, 
academics and extracurriculars, 
and encourages them to apply for a McDonald’s scholarship.8
#OmniWindows campaign winner
BBDO Greater China celebrated its Silver 
anniversary by donating strategic positioning and creative work to 25 small businesses and startups. Throughout 2017, the agency will be targeting companies listed on Alibaba’s e-commerce site Taobao for a free advertising and marketing tune-up.  
When Texas’ proposed Senate Bill 6  
threatened to force transgender people to 
use the bathroom of their birth sex, GSD&M teamed with acclaimed writer/director Richard Linklater, the ACLU and Legacy Community Health to mobilize opposition with the “Pee with 
LGBT” campaign. Meanwhile, BBDO New York’s “Put Her on the Map” campaign draws attention to women’s under-representation in street names, public statues and other monuments and attempts to redress the imbalance. Engaging with Communities,  
Empowering Change
#OmniWindows celebrated International Women’s Day by challenging every Omnicom UK agency to dress their windows and donate clothing for Smart Works, a charity that provides high quality interview clothes, styling advice and interview training to out-of-work women on low incomes. Omniwomen UK also raised £20,000 for Smart Works.
Woman-owned businesses in New York City and 
Los Angeles got a marketing boost from TBWA\Chiat\Day’s “Her Business Is Our Business” campaign in March 2017. Both New York City and Los Angeles offices partnered with four businesses each, creating an all-women branding team to support companies like Hotcakes bakery in Los Angeles and the shared woodworking space SUPERSMITH in New York City. ONE HUNDRED
ONE HUNDRED, launched by the DAS Group 
of Companies in 2016, brings cutting-edge 
knowledge and propriety tools in brand 
reputation, marketing and fundraising to the 
non-profit sector. The coalition of agencies, 
including Changing Our World, Critical Mass, 
Interbrand, Ketchum, Porter Novelli and Russ 
Reid, help non-profits create powerful stories 
that raise awareness, drive engagement and 
increase donations. The ONE HUNDRED 
brand was recognized with a Wood Pencil for 
Industry Evolution by D&AD Impact in 2016 
for developing innovative solutions that have 
an impact on efficiency, effectiveness and 
economic sustainability. In its first year, ONE 
HUNDRED partnered with leading non-profits, 
a few of which include The Salvation Army, 
City of Hope and INROADS. 
ONE HUNDRED creates a cultural shift. A 
disruption that unifies non-profits internally. It 
is feeding the desire of the modern non-profit: 
the desire to utilize branding to drive growth 
in all areas – especially its impact in the 
community.“By engaging ONE HUNDRED,  
our clients bring together  
leaders within organizations 
who rarely meet – let alone 
strategize together. ”
 - Brian Crimmins, ONE HUNDRED  
               Managing Partner  
   9
FleishmanHillard Atlanta
FleishmanHillard Shanghai
Volunteering
Giving back connects us to our communities 
and gives us a voice in the issues that shape our world. Omnicom employees across our networks and agencies donate their time, energy and creative vision to non-profit organizations. This year Omnicom launched “PeopleConnect” a volunteer engagement network of more than 100,000 participating non-
non-profits, to help our people find ways to  get involved.  
In addition, many of our agencies encourage 
volunteering.  This year highlights included:
In 2016, FleishmanHillard’s 70th anniversary 
year, the agency launched FH4Inclusio n to 
celebrate and strengthen a culture of collab-oration, respect and inclusion. Throughout the year, FleishmanHillard identified non-profits, charities and organizations that champion social inclusion and encouraged employees to donate their time and talent. While offices had the freedom to blaze their own trails by selecting local organizations and determining an action plan to assist, many projects followed a few key themes such as providing access to food and shelter to underserved people, preparing disadvantaged teens, women and minorities for college or a career, advocating for LGBTQ equality and supporting refugees' and migrants' rights.
Ketchum makes social responsibility central 
to its business through the Ketchum Social Responsibility (KSR) platform. A partnership with Room to Read , a non-profit focused on literacy 
and education for girls, is one focal point of this enterprise-wide initiative. In 2016, Ketchum employees raised more than $20,000 to support a library in Cambodia. To date, more than 500 employees have participated in the pro bono partnership across 31 offices and raised nearly $300,000 to support Room to Read projects. 
In addition to supporting Room to Read, 
every September employees are encouraged to participate in office organized volunteer events up to four hours (or a half a day) for KSR Month. In 2016, more than 900 Ketchum global employees participated, donating 3,600 volunteer hours to their local communities.
Interbrand celebrated a Month of Service in  
July. Collectively, employees across the 
Interbrand global network donated one day  out of the month to volunteer in their communities through hands-on consulting  
and field engagements. 10
Sberbank
XQ Super SchoolEncouraging innovation at 
America’s public high schools
Network: TBWA     
Agency: MAL\FOR GOOD
MAL\FOR GOOD created a website 
and campaign to promote XQ Super School’s competition inviting solutions 
to challenges facing youth preparing 
for college and life. The website encouraged access to open source 
solutions and a bus tour connected 
grassroots activists with youth, parents and educators. 
Bringing art to the  
visually impaired
Network: BBDO     
Agency: BBDO Moscow
To celebrate the International Day of 
the Blind, Sberbank created a unique exhibition of tactile pictures, allowing 
both visually-impaired and seeing 
people to experience art through touch. BBDO Moscow developed 
a communications campaign for 
the exhibit that drew in more than 130,000 people. Client Work for Social 
and Environmental  
Impact
In 2016, our global agency networks 
continued to help their for-profit and 
pro bono clients drive progress against 
social and environmental issues in their local communities. Here is a sampling of 
compelling campaigns from around  
the world.
Additional case studies can be found on the 
corporate responsibility section of our web 
site at csr.omnicomgroup.com.11
COVERGIRL 's 
Commitment to  Equal Opportunity
Off the Street Club -  
"Hope is Tougher"
Austin Parks  Foundation -  
It's My Park Day
The Hunting Ground -  
Unacceptable  
Acceptance Letters
Korean National 
Health Promotion Plan - Fingerband
We CompostExpanding the notion of LGBTQ beauty
Network: DAS     
Agency: Marina Maher Communications
COVERGIRL emerged as a champion of 
inclusivity by announcing the first-ever male face of the brand: James Charles, a 
boundary-breaking young social media star 
and aspiring makeup artist. The move put COVERGIRL at the forefront of a cultural 
shift toward equal opportunity of self-
expression for all genders.
Mobilizing volunteers to clean 
up Austin’s public parks
Network: TBWA    Agency: GSD&M
Over 3,000 volunteers worked on 
over 100 projects at 80 locations 
in and around Austin, Texas. Volunteers worked to care for trees, 
repaint park structures, pick up 
trash and refurbish trails.Combatting campus rape and 
sexual assault
Network: DAS     
Agency: Goodby, Silverstein & 
Partners
This pro bono campaign raised 
awareness around sexual assault 
and rape on college campuses by creating mock acceptance letters 
from colleges that included details 
about actual assaults students should plan on being subjected to.
A Fingerband enlists peer 
pressure to stop smoking
Network: DAS     
Agency: FleishmanHillard
A 21.6% smoking rate puts South 
Korea amongst the highest of the OECD countries for smoking. 
FleishmanHillard designed a 
Fingerband – or rubber wristband – as the focus of a National Health 
Promotion Plan that helped reduce 
teen smoking rates in Korea by  
15% for boys and 20% for girls. Raising awareness of mindful 
composting
Network: DDB    Agency: DDB NZ
People can exchange a bag of food 
scraps for goods such as coffee beans, 
muffins and t-shirts, thanks to an initiative by Auckland organic waste 
collection business, We Compost, with 
support from Auckland Council  
and DDB.  
Combatting urban violence with kids’ 
programs in Chicago
Network: BBDO    Agency: Energy BBDO
A bullet hole in a window of Off the Street 
Club, a West Garfield Park refuge for kids 
and teenagers, was a shocking reminder of the 93 murders of young Chicagoans 
last year. But, it also became a symbol of 
hope in an Energy BBDO campaign that drew more than two million donations.12
Warning Voice
Timberland's  
KOMBIT: The 
Cooperative  
Documentary
Caritas -  
Keys of Hope
Hope NorthGetting reckless drivers' attention  
with a familiar voice
Network: TBWA     
Agency: TBWA\RAAD\LEBANON
In Lebanon, speeding is a major cause 
of accidents. TBWA\RAAD\LEBANON’s Warning Voice campaign promoted an 
unusual way to get drivers to slow down:  
a Nissan speed warning that replaced 
alarm sounds with voices of loved ones.
Stories bring refugees’ 
experience to life
Network: BBDO    
Agency: BBDO D Üsseldorf GMbH
Refugees often leave everything 
behind but their house key. Caritas’ Keys of Hope campaign matched ten 
human stories recorded in Caritas 
refugee camps to ten keys, giving anonymous refugees a voice that the 
mainstream media denied them. 
Translating hope into healing 
for Ugandan children
Network: DAS     
Agency: Critical Mass
Critical Mass launched a responsive 
website for Hope North, a non-profit that provides education and healing 
for children affected by Uganda’s 
civil war. The website highlights how music, art, literature and dance 
inspire Hope North students to 
become future leaders. Promoting Timberland’s  
CSR leadership
Network: DAS    
Agency: Cone Communications
Cone hosted branded events to 
promote KOMBIT: The Cooperative to the CSR influencer community, 
resulting in over 173.4 million 
impressions. The documentary campaign introduced media, 
influencers and consumers to 
Timberland’s agroforestry model. 
AB InBev -  
GlobalBe(er)  Responsible DayA global campaign to get  
drinkers home safe
Network: DAS     
Agency: FleishmanHillard
When AB InBev partnered with 
Lyft to provide 80,000 free safe rides home as part of a year-long 
responsible drinking campaign, 
FleishmanHillard promoted the program with social and traditional 
media that reached 1.8 million 
Facebook users and 32 million Twitter users, receiving 3.9  
thousand mentions in conversations.
Fashion to be FreeMaking pants a political statement
Network: DDB     
Agency: DDB Tandem
In more than 120 countries, women 
have fewer rights than men, including restrictions on what they can wear. 
DDB Tandem’s video, developed with the 
support of Spanish designer David Delfin, highlights discrimination by showing 
models wearing clothing forbidden  
to women.13
Teva Women's 
Health - Perfectly Imperfect
John Fawcett Foundation -  
CatarArt
Boost Your Voice
Poverty Line  
Prices
 One Love -  
That's Not LoveRemoving the stigma of emergency 
contraception
Network: DAS     
Agency: Rx Mosaic Health
This campaign for the maker of Plan B 
One-Step®, sought to reduce unwanted pregnancy by promoting emergency 
contraception. The campaign educated 
young women about their planning options via events on college campuses and through 
social and traditional media. 
Improving voter access in  
low-income neighborhoods
Network: TBWA    Agency:180LA
Boost Your Voice created a 
partnership between local 
governments, voting rights organizations and elected officials  
to increase voter access in  low-income communities.  
A striking statement on  
income inequality
Network: DAS     
Agency: Goodby, Silverstein & 
Partners
Imagine walking into a grocery 
store where every item is five times 
more expensive than it usually is. Goodby, Silverstein & Partners 
used this simple concept to raise 
awareness of the 800,000 people in San Francisco who live on the 
poverty line, earning about a fifth  
of the median income. Using art to help prevent  
cataract blindness
Network: TBWA    
Agency: TBWA\Group Singapore
To help Indonesians affected by 
cataract blindness, a team from TBWA\Group Singapore worked 
with the John Fawcett Foundation 
to develop a virtual reality device that simulates cataracts. Artists then 
created work based on the VR images 
which were sold to raise funds for  
the cause. Changing the discussion around 
relationship violence 
Network: TBWA    
Agency: TBWA\Media Arts Lab
That’s Not Love changes the 
language around relationship violence in order to give young 
people the tools to have open 
conversations about the issue. Hundreds of victims have contacted 
the One Love organization to 
express how the campaign has  
helped them.  
HAI Group:  
ReThink Why  
Housing MattersChanging the perception of public 
housing in the U.S.
Network: DAS    
Agency: Cone Communications
Few Americans realize the benefits that 
public housing offers to individuals, as well as communities. Cone Communications 
developed a campaign and promoted the 
documentary “Our Journey Home” to emotionally connect consumers to the critical 
importance of a safe and stable home.14
Ariel Dads 
#ShareTheLoad
PepsiCo - Lighting  
Up Lives
Team London  Skill-UP
Colores Piel
 AT&T It Can Wait - "The Unseen"Helping charities get their  
message across
Network: DAS     
Agency: Portland Communications
Twenty charities, ranging from 
London’s air ambulance to a nature project in Hackney, got mentoring 
and training from Portland to make 
them better communicators through the Team London charity project. 
Portland was handpicked by the 
Mayor of London to be the official communications partner for  
the project. 
Changing gender attitudes in India
Network: BBDO    Agency: BBDO India
Ariel’s #ShareTheLoad campaign exposed 
how the burden of housework is focused 
solely on women and is passed down over generations in India. The campaign 
inspired over two million men to share 
the load of laundry, and Sheryl Sandberg, COO of Facebook, said this campaign 
contained “one of the most powerful 
videos I have ever seen.” 
The OMD Fast  
Forward ProgramTeaching underprivileged young people 
digital skills
Network: OMD    Agency: OMD EMEA
The OMD Fast Forward Programme, in 
partnership with Good Jobs, aims to bridge 
the opportunity gap between companies looking for diverse talent and talented 
young people from disadvantaged areas.  
Twenty OMD volunteers pitch in to mentor students in digital communications skills in 
a 12-month paid internship program.    
Teaching children to respect 
racial diversity in Colombia 
Network: BBDO     
Agency: Sancho BBDO
Sancho BBDO created the Colores 
Piel campaign for Fundacion Pies Descalzos, the Colombian non-
governmental organization founded 
by international pop star Shakira. The campaign promotes respect  
for racial diversity and teaches 
children to stand up against discrimination.Bringing light to  
impoverished Pakistanis
Network: BBDO     
Agency: BBDO Pakistan
Millions of Pakistanis live in the 
darkness. BBDO Pakistan created a campaign to promote PepsiCo’s 
Lighting Up Lives campaign, an 
initiative that has helped install hundreds of lights in refugee camps 
and other underprivileged areas 
across Pakistan.A chilling reminder not to  
text and drive
Network: BBDO     
Agency: BBDO New York
A powerful ad about the dangers of 
distracted driving makes the case that “you’re never alone when you’re 
driving, even when you’re alone in 
your car.”  The ad supported AT&T’s It Can Wait campaign to reduce 
texting while driving, reducing 
accidents and saving lives.15
Tostitos - Party 
Safe Bag
Hindustan  Unilever - Health  
and Hygiene  
The Estée Lauder  
Companies -  Breast Cancer Awareness
Pikitup -  Eco-Rangers
Nivea Yards
Here We BelongConnecting immigrants and Czechs
Network: DDB     
Agency: DDB Prague
The campaign Mezi svými (Here we 
belong) shows immigrants talking about the hateful — and friendly — reactions 
they’ve gotten from native Czechs, 
celebrating and reaffirming connections between new and old residents of this 
European country. 
Turning Singapore pink to 
celebrate breast cancer survivors
Network: OMD     
Agency: OMD Singapore
OMD Singapore spearheaded a 
promotional campaign to promote Estée Lauder’s Breast Cancer 
Awareness program, which included 
media outreach as well as lighting iconic Singapore buildings in pink to  
celebrate survivors. Cleaner hands for healthier living
Network: Omnicom Media Group  
Agency: Omnicom Media Group/ 
PHD India
PHD India and Omnicom Media 
Group support Hindustan Unilever’s 
efforts to improve health and hygiene for one billion people 
through education on the benefits of 
hand-washing to prevent diarrhea. Creating safe spaces for  
 families to share
Network: OMD     
Agency: OMD Macroscope
Cosmetics manufacturer Nivea 
supports quality time with families by building 40 Nivea Yards, or 
places where families could spend 
time together. OMD Macroscope supports them with media that 
encourages families to build and  
use public play spaces like  
Podwórko NIVEA. 
Helping people get home safe with  
a bag of chips 
Network: DAS     
Agency: Goodby, Silverstein & Partners
Timed for Super Bowl Sunday 2017, Goodby, 
Silverstein & Partners worked with Tostitos to create the Party Safe Bag – a limited-edition 
chip bag that contained a sensor to detect 
traces of alcohol on a person’s breath. When alcohol was detected, the bag turned red, 
revealing an Uber code and a “Don’t drink and 
drive” message.Kids theater teaches about 
protecting the environment in  
South Africa
Network: TBWA    
Agency: HDI Youth Marketeers
HDI Youth Marketeers helped 
Pikitup, the City of Johannesburg’s Waste Management Company, 
develop the Eco-Rangers program. 
The campaign includes theatrical roadshows to teach primary school 
students about taking care of the 
environment, and has visited over 100 schools performing for more  
than 35,000 participants. 16
PEOPLEPeople drive our business success. Whether they’re pitching  
new business, creating powerful branding, designing interactive  web experiences or planning multi-million dollar media campaigns,  we support them with a diverse, inclusive environment that  
nurtures their creative energy.  Omnicom HealthGroup MAIP Interns17
Campaign US Inclusion and Creativity Summit
subcommittees tackling multiple workplace 
diversity and inclusion issues. 
Omnicom agencies have developed 
programs to protect against the unintentional perpetuation of stereotypes. Unconscious Bias training programs were designed to help leaders within our agencies recognize bias and address it. Training is now underway at three of our networks: DDB, TBWA and BBDO. Omnicom Media Group also developed a virtual training called “Diversity 101” for all U.S. employees, which rolled out during the second quarter of 2017. 
Diversity continues to expand. This year, 
for the first time, Omnicom will disclose its five-year progress on key diversity metrics . In 
2016, women made up 55% and multicultural employees comprised 19% of Omnicom’s officials and managers, an increase of 7% and 30% from 2011 levels. And we continue to make strides. 
At Omnicom, 55 percent of "officials 
and managers" and "professionals" 
are women.
And finally, inclusive diversity is a strategic 
asset for our company. Diverse creative teams enable us to create powerful messaging that speaks to diverse audiences, strengthening our ability to serve global clients. We recognize the value of diversity by linking a portion of CEO pay to qualitative factors including diversity. Diversity Fosters Creativity
Research shows that when people from different backgrounds feel supported at work, they generate more creative ideas.  They’re better able to understand and speak to diverse global audiences. They challenge assumptions and think outside the box. Diversity isn’t just  
a nice idea at Omnicom. It’s integral to  our success. 
A Commitment to Inclusion  
and Diversity
Inclusion doesn’t happen by accident. You have to build it into your company from the ground up. At Omnicom, we’ve placed diversity professionals throughout our networks and agencies, so that they can respond to the specific concerns and challenges of their team members. These 12 diversity champions connect and collaborate to enhance diversity across our organization. In addition, the Omnicom Media Group Diversity Council continues to thrive. The Council has grown to be 35 members across all US regions, with 
*Data available for United States onlyWHO WE ARE AT OMNICOM*
Our officials and managers, and professionals
Officials and managers55% women25% 
multicultural
55% women19% 
multicultural
18
Open Pride Point Foundation Event
FIVE-YEAR IMPROVEMENT
• 19% of U.S. “Officials and Managers” are 
multicultural, an increase of 30% from five years ago with improvement among each of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s Hispanic/Latino, Black/African American and Asian designations.
• The U.S. “Professional” talent base is 28% multicultural, an increase of 23% from five years ago with improvement among each of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s Hispanic/Latino, Black/African American and Asian designations.
• Women make up 55% of U.S. “Officials  and Managers,” an increase of 7% from five years ago.
• Of the approximately 23,000 U.S. employees who are “Professionals” and “Officials and Managers,” 25% are multicultural, 55% are women and only 35% are white men.
• Of the 12 members of Omnicom’s Board of Directors, five are women and three are African American.
EXPANDED TRANSGENDER BENEFITS
In 2016, Omnicom expanded the transgender related services covered under the medical plans covering almost all employees and their eligible 
family members. A Sense of Belonging Defines  
Our Culture
In an uncertain political climate, Omnicom 
agencies seek to provide a safe, inviting  
space for all employees. We nurture a  sense of connection through vibrant and growing grassroots employee resource  groups including:
OPEN Pride
In 2016, the Omnicom People Engagement Network (OPEN) launched OPEN Pride – an employee resource group committed to inclusion and diversity efforts for Omnicom's LGBT community and its allies. A kickoff event in April 2017 brought together LGBT employees from throughout the Omnicom family to share experiences, make connections and work together for a more inclusive workplace. 
More resource groups are planned for 2017 
and beyond. A Perfect 100 from the Human  
Rights Campaign
How great are Omnicom agencies for LGBT em-ployees? Really great. Omnicom received a per -
fect 100% on the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Foundation’s 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), which is the national benchmarking tool on cor -
porate policies and practices pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. Upon earning a top score, Omnicom was listed as one of the "Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality" by the HRC Foundation.
SVP , Chief Diversity Officer Tiffany R. Warren 
said, "We are extremely proud to be recognized this year by the Human Rights Campaign  
along with so many of our clients and peers."  Omnicom agencies are committed to staying at the forefront of workplace LGBT-friendly policies  
and benefits,  and have hosted training sessions on transgender issues in the workplace for  
Human Resources. 19
Ketchum Open Pride LGBT Panel
This video, produced for the Omniwomen UK Summit, 
demonstrates Omniwomen’s global reach, featuring Omniwomen leaders from around the world. 
Marianne Heiss, CFO, BBDO Group Germany, 
launched Omniwomen Germany in 2016. 
The first Omniwomen Summit in Germany, 
therefore, was organized around the theme, “Women are changing the economy” and emphasized the message that a higher number of women in senior management positions improves the results of the company significantly.  
"I highly appreciate the worldwide 
initiative targeting a higher 
percentage of women in leadership 
positions and I strongly believe gender diversity programs have to be 
part of a company’s strategy. " 
Diksha Dua, a CSR Advocate at RAPP in the 
United Arab Emirates, has pulled together leadership support from RAPP ME, TBWA, OMD and BBDO to form the new chapter of Omniwomen in Dubai. The new group will raise awareness of gender equity and work/life balance issues, as well as create leadership and networking opportunities for women in Dubai. Plans are in the works for a mentor/mentee network. “Omniwomen globally is only as strong as Omniwomen locally,” says Dua. “Collaborating and aligning with the global Omniwomen organization can help markets like ours, which are much smaller.”Omniwomen
This global organization for advancing Omnicom’s women expanded to ten chapters in 2017 with new organizations in Canada, Germany, UAE and France. Additionally, new chapters in Chicago, Los Angeles, Atlanta,  
San Francisco and New York set to open later this year. 
Progress in Omniwomen’s flagship UK 
chapter has been especially strong; an annual gathering drew 350 women from throughout our agencies in Great Britain, and UK senior management is now comprised of 48% women. In New York, OmniwomenNEXT connects 200 rising stars to bring about change in the workplace; the chapter’s  Women of Omnicom  Tumblr celebrates 
achievement and diversity. 
New Global Chapters for  
Omniwomen
As Omniwomen expands around the world, 
individual chapters wrestle with both global and local challenges.  EMBRACING DIVERSITY IN ASIA
From the beginning, OPEN Pride, Omnicom’s 
enterprise-wide employee resource group for 
LGBT people, was conceived on an  
international scale. Serge Dumont, the vice 
chairman of Omnicom Group Inc., chairman of 
Omnicom Asia Pacific and a strong supporter 
of Omnicom diversity initiatives like Omni-
women, took an early interest in the group, 
advocating for a global perspective on LGBT 
issues and bringing in J.C. Catibog, managing 
director of BBDO South China to help shape 
the program. 
“Approaching something as complex and  
culturally sensitive as LGBT issues requires 
a deft strategy,” says Dumont. “Asia includes 
several places where same-sex sexual 
activities are illegal and two where they are 
punishable by death, while at the other end of 
the spectrum same-sex marriage is currently 
being debated in front of the high court in 
Taiwan.” He adds, “Our approach is for OPEN 
Pride to become a truly global program to 
help promote diversity throughout Omnicom 
agencies around the world and to reinforce our 
commitment to hiring and offering opportu-
nities based solely on merit to the best and 
brightest individuals, regardless of gender, 
nationality, ethnic and religious background or 
sexual orientation.”20
Omniwomen China kicked off its program in 2016 with a 
“Be the Best You Can Be” video that celebrated women in all different jobs at Omnicom agencies, from creative to HR to media planning. It showed them loving their jobs and loving their lives, whether they were junior staffers or senior executives.  Omniwomen China Authentic Leadership Session
Lao hopes that Omniwomen China will 
ultimately have an impact on all employees. “We want to establish a foundation for women to meet and share and learn from each other first,” she says. “But the next step will be to involve men in a way that’s positive and also supports the change that we’re all trying to make.” The upcoming creative leadership session, she says, will be a terrific forum to involve men in the process, since the field is dominated by males. 
Omnicom’s commitment to gender  
diversity differentiates the network from  other competitors, says Lao, and should provide an edge in attracting and retaining talent. “I feel Omnicom has gotten involved much earlier than other companies. We’re definitely ahead of the curve, and we’re committed to staying there.” “We were losing women even before they were 30 because either they feared being a leftover woman or they didn’t have traditional career path goals,” Lao explained.  “So we decided that we didn’t want to force women to have to be CEOs or Executive Creative Directors or C-Suite level people. We wanted women who were working with us to be their best at whatever level they were. And we wanted to support the decisions they were making through the passions they had in life and at work. That became our two-pronged approach.”
In 2016, Omniwomen began hosting a series of 
events in China where women could share and learn from one another. PHD Shanghai had a client lead a discussion on gender integration in the workplace. TRO Shanghai followed, inviting representatives from Johnson & Johnson to talk about career paths for women. Lao herself spoke on authentic leadership at a third gathering, and events around creative leadership and mentoring are scheduled for 2017. About 40 to 50 women attend each session, and plans are in the works to make them available via streaming video to other Omnicom agencies in China. 
“Our goal is to enable more women 
to stay at our companies and take on 
leadership positions, ” says Lao. “We 
know that diverse companies are more creative, more responsive to customer 
needs and achieve business results, so 
we want to do everything we can to bring more women into roles where they are 
influencing leadership decisions. ”Empowering the ‘leftover woman’:  
Omniwomen Leads Change in  
Greater China
Working women in China face distinct barriers 
against career advancement. One of the more troubling notions is the perception that any unmarried female over the age of 27 is deemed a “leftover woman,” an incomplete person in a society that frowns on career-oriented women. When Joanne Lao took on her current role as TBWA’s CEO for Greater China — and concurrently, responsibility for starting Omniwomen in China — she knew that she would have to tackle this stereotype head on.
Lao gathered a dozen women from the region’s 
Omnicom agencies to set goals and plan initiatives for Omniwomen. A survey of women in agencies across China identified key issues that the group had to address. For example, they identified the negative perceptions around “leftover women” as an obstacle to retaining female talent. 21
Marianne Heiss, CFO, BBDO Group Germany launching Omniwomen Germany
Women across the global Omnicom 
organization have a lot to be proud of this year. Here are some of the highlights:
• Omnicom UK exceeded gender equity 
targets. Almost 80% of Omnicom UK’s management teams are  40% or more comprised of women, meeting goals set by the UK marketing organization, Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, two years ahead of schedule.  
• BBDO’s #PutHerOnTheMap campaign highlighted trailblazing women. In February 2017, BBDO New York launched a new public awareness campaign to encourage cities and corporations to put women on the map by naming streets, statues and buildings after influential female figures. 
• DDB US’s Better by Half gender balance initiative brought men and women together, at every level, to discuss and find opportunities to improve this important issue in our industry.
• FleishmanHillard was recognized for female empowerment, earning a spot for the eighth consecutive year on the National Association for Female Executives "Top Companies for Executive Women" list. COMMUNITY AND INDUSTRY 
PARTNERSHIPS THAT ENCOURAGE 
DIVERSITY
In addition to our work with ADCOLOR,  
Omnicom collaborates with a variety of  
industry and community organizations to 
create opportunities for diverse talent.
• 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern  
Program: Full-time, paid internships 
for diverse young professionals provide 
real-world work experience, training and 
development and networking  
opportunities within the industry.
• AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism:  
A leader in multicultural marketing/adver-
tising and inclusion issues and sponsor 
of the AAF Most Promising Multicultural 
Students internships.
• The Brotherhood/Sister Sol:  Learning 
and support programs for Black and Lati -
no youth in impoverished communities.
• Ghetto Film School (GFS): An orga-
nization that educates, develops and 
celebrates the next generation of diverse 
filmmakers.
• GLAAD:  Collaboration with print,  
broadcast and online news sources to 
bring people powerful stories from the 
LGBT community.
• LaGrant Foundation: Scholarships, career 
development workshops, mentoring and 
internships for multicultural students in 
PR and Communications.2016 Was a Big Year for Women  
at Omnicom22
Urban Prep Academies at Unlimited Talent event
FROM INTERN TO MENTOR
Criseli Saenz now works as a coordinator on the 
Diversity & Inclusion team, but she first came to 
Omnicom via the Year Up program, a non-profit 
initiative that matches young people from chal -
lenging backgrounds with corporate internships. 
“Year Up gave me all the soft and hard skills; the 
training and development; the mock interviews; 
network events and the community I needed 
to not only survive, but succeed in Corporate 
America,” she says.
In addition to a number of other responsibilities, 
today Criseli manages ADCOLOR FUTURES, 
which is a unique program dedicated to 
identifying and nurturing the next generation of 
leaders in the advertising, marketing, media and 
public relations industries. It provides training, 
mentorship and opportunities for young people 
with similar backgrounds to hers who have lots 
of potential, but few connections in the industry. 
“The advice I would give to an intern who was in 
my shoes is to pursue your passion first – and 
that passion will find itself in the right place 
with the right people,” she says.  International Women’s Day
How would you #BeBoldForChange? That 
was the theme for International Women’s Day on March 8, 2017, and hundreds of women from our agencies responded with their own personal reflections. The contributions of the women below and many more can be found on the Women of Omnicom  Tumblr.  
“I pledge to #BeBoldForChange by being 
a mentor to my female colleagues and volunteering my time with young girls in my community,” said Ashleigh Dixon, a senior account executive at Marina Maher.  
“I will #BeBoldForChange by encouraging other 
women, standing up for them, and helping make sure their voices and opinions are equally heard and considered,” offered Lisa Donato, a junior art director at GSD&M.  
“I will #BeBoldForChange by establishing a 
voice and not being an echo,” asserted Pauline Perez, a project manager at RAPP New York. 
Empowering the Next Generation of Diverse Leaders
Talented young people come from every 
neighborhood, every race and ethnic group and every background. Our agencies seek out emerging leaders wherever they can be found, assisting them with scholarships and internship programs that prepare them for creative careers.  
For instance:• The Most Promising University helps talented 
students navigate the workplace with training on decision making, handling office politics, resolving conflict and many other skills.  • ADCOLOR’s FUTURES and Year Up  programs bring diverse young people into  the workplace as interns, so that they can get a hands-on sense of what it would be like to work in advertising.   
• At BBDO, a Creative Residency Program is now in its third year, building a pipeline of top creative talent from multicultural backgrounds to fill full-time creative positions.
• Omnicom Health Group was named the 4A’s 2016 Multicultural Advertising Intern Program (MAIP) Agency of the Year.
• Ketchum’s LaunchPad, a gamified recruitment tool that allows the agency to attract and hire better and more diverse candidates for its Summer Fellows Program received an Honorable Mention at the PR Week Diversity Distinction in PR awards, under the category of Best New Diversity initiative.
• We Are Unlimited launched Unlimited Talent this year to attract diverse high school and college students to advertising careers. On April 6, the agency invited 20 students from Urban Prep Academies, to visit and learn about its work. The Chicago-based school has a 100% graduation rate for the young men who attend; and all graduates have been accepted to four-year colleges and universities.23
Taelor PawnellADCOLOR Awards
Celebrating the Differences that 
Spark Great Ideas
We embrace our diversity, encouraging  
our employees to bring forward the  different perspectives and experiences that feed our creative process. Programs throughout the year foster an appreciation  for diverse viewpoints.   
Black History Month
How far have we come in our fight for diversity?  How much further do we have to go?  In Chicago, Bounce and Omnicom Media Group celebrated Black History Month by gathering 150 advertising and media professionals and press to discuss “Recognizing Progress in Diversity.” Speakers included CNN commentator Angela Rye and veteran journalist Ed Gordon.  A Creative Star Emerges from  
the Multicultural Advertising  Intern Program
Taelor Pawnell was fresh from suburban Texas 
when she arrived at Cline, Davis and Mann (CDM) as part of the Multicultural Advertising Intern Pro-gram (MAIP) class of 2015. “I honestly had no idea what to expect from my art direction internship at CDM--a pharmaceutical agency,” says Pawnell.  “But I remember on the first day, the other interns and I actually got to meet Josh Prince. That’s when I knew that I was in good hands at CDM.”
The rest of her internship was just as 
exciting. “I was challenged in MAIP with 
a group project for Nike, weekly semi -
nars, and an abundance of networking 
and portfolio developing events, ” she 
says. “While at CDM I was introduced to 
the world of advertising. I was given the opportunity to shadow many creatives 
and learn what exactly the role of an art 
director consists of. I got to help with creating concepts for pitches, icons and 
websites. I really had a blast while learn -
ing so much that summer. ”
 
Later, Pawnell was hired full-time by CDM as an 
Art Director.  She was named Rookie of the Year by the agency within months of joining.  She has also taken part in Omnicom’s Emerging Star program. “MAIP opened the door and CDM laid the solid foundation for me to jump start my career as an Art Director. Without both MAIP and CDM, I wouldn’t be where I am today,” she says.  RISE UP AND REACH BACK  
WITH ADCOLOR
The non-profit, now it in its 10th year, 
promotes diversity and inclusion in creative 
industries through networking, internship 
opportunities and an annual awards 
program. At this year’s ADCOLOR Awards 
in September 2016, Omnicom honorees included:
• TBWA\ Chiat Day & MAL & Park 
Pictures: The MVP Award for two 
or more companies that collaborate on diversity solutions within their organizations and industries.  
• Stacey Hightower, Chief Operating 
Officer of Group E, DAS Group of 
Companies: One of three nominees for 
THE INNOVATOR AWARD, presented to 
a professional who embodies progress and imagination.  24
John Deere "Misconceptions" TV spot
ACCELERATE SPECIAL OPERATION 
FORCES VETERANS RESIDENCY 
Special Operations veterans develop a unique 
and valuable skillset through their experience. 
They know how to lead and manage groups. 
They communicate effectively. They are 
adept at crisis resolution and problem solving. 
These valuable skills relate to specific busi-
ness functions, so DAS Group actively seeks 
to recruit veterans to its agencies through the 
Accelerate Special Operation Forces Veterans 
Residency program.
Now in its third year, the Accelerate pro-
gram provides training and employment for 
veterans of Special Operation Forces (SOF) 
including SEALs, MARSOC, Para Rescue, 
Rangers and Green Berets. Veterans train 
and work for 12 months at DAS participating 
companies. When they have completed their 
training program in a specific vertical — such 
as HealthCare, Public Relations, General  
Advertising, CRM and Group E — these  
veterans are offered positions in a company 
in the specific vertical. In addition, companies 
within DAS have directly hired individuals that 
were not selected for the residency. 
The Accelerate program gives veterans the 
skills to succeed in corporate America, and 
benefits the workplace by bringing the disci -
pline of an Elite Team and more diversity into 
corporate America. In addition to the direct 
impact the program has on participants, it 
also inspires veterans with opportunities for 
successful careers after their service. Broadening the Pool of  
Diverse Suppliers
We seek out diverse suppliers for the same reasons we look for diverse employees – because it enables us to tap a broader talent pool, engage with many different perspectives and experiences and ultimately create better work for our clients. In 2016, we achieved our objective of increasing our spending with diverse suppliers.
To reach out to diverse suppliers in 2016, we 
exhibited at the Women's Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) and The National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC). We also hosted multiple Diversity Supplier Lunch and Learns for employees in the NY area. In addition, Omnicom and DDB co-sponsored an event and panel discussion for diverse suppliers called “NO RESPECT FOR STATUS QUO.”Many of our clients have their  
own diversity targets, ranging from 
5% to 25% of their total spend, and 
they require our help in meeting  
these goals and documenting  
their progress. 
Our supplier diversity efforts help clients reach 
their goals, all the way up to the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a designation for Fortune 500 corporations that have formally committed to procuring at least $1 billion annually in goods and services from diverse businesses.
Seeking Diverse Talent for John Deere
GSD&M hired two minority-owned vendors to craft diverse messages for John Deere. BLK MKT Studios, a small, certified minority/woman-owned editing and finishing collective, brought broadcast creative to life in the “Misconceptions”  TV spot. The ad showed 
varied groups of John Deere customers debunking misconceptions and making the case that John Deere tractors were affordable for a broad spectrum of customers.   
GSD&M also worked with Pony Sound, a 
premier small disadvantaged business and certified minority-owned audio recording and post-production house to bring a hardworking, personality-rich spot called “ING Radio,” to life for John Deere. Pony’s expertise in all things audio made them an easy, trusted partner and helped ensure the highest quality product for the client. 25
Omnicom University Advanced Management Program
A Great Place to Work for  
All Employees
People drive our business, so our agencies 
and networks structure their organizations to give employees a chance to thrive. Omnicom companies offer competitive benefits to help employees stay healthy, up-to-date on workplace skills and financially secure now, and into retirement.
Our agencies and networks also strive to 
provide networking and learning opportunities, so that employees can grow and advance to their highest potential. For 23 years, Omnicom University has been our company’s flagship program for leadership development. Employing the Harvard Business School case study method, Omnicom University brings together senior-level executives to discuss leading edge management thinking in a highly competitive and fast-changing global marketplace. Original content, developed annually, focuses on today’s challenges faced by leaders throughout the Omnicom network of companies. Participants describe the Omnicom University experience as life-changing. Here is what some recent graduates had to say about the program.  “Omnicom University will have a 
profound impact on my development 
as a leader. I look forward to working 
on my initiative, so I can add to 
Omnicom’s continued success. ”  
- Andrew Gottfried, President, Entrée Health
“I am excited to have the opportunity 
to share my insights and learnings 
with my agency, and beyond 
delighted to know that I have a truly 
accountable partner and a treasure 
chest of resources to call on. ”  
Leigh Ober, Chief People Officer, Javelin Marketing
“Everything was amazing — the 
professors, the in-depth, insightful 
case studies and dynamic approach 
that made this program so impactful. 
It made me feel very proud to be  
part of a network that stays true  
to its vision. ” 
Raje Hiranand, Account Director, BBDO Hong Kong
“Omnicom University had a major 
impact on me, and I will do my best 
to carry that positive energy to my 
agency and my family. ” 
Terry Dry, CEO of Digital,   
The Marketing Arm/FanscapeLEARNING BY DOING –  
ON A GLOBAL SCALE
In 2015, Porter Novelli launched an innovative 
program to expand the skills and competen -
cies of high performing executives through 
short-term assignments at other Porter Novelli 
offices. Through the Discovery and Develop-
ment Program, employees from senior account 
executive to vice president spend four to six 
weeks at a Porter Novelli agency outside their 
home base.  Participants continue to spend 
50% of their time on existing projects, but  
also take on projects or local client work that 
supports their career development. So far, 
eight people have taken the opportunity to 
stretch their capabilities through the program 
with an additional 13 scheduled for the  
remainder of 2017. 
“Expanding the skills of our  
colleagues is a critical plank  
to our success. By creating  
opportunities to learn by doing, 
we can considerably enhance 
our firm’s capabilities and give 
our employees a chance  
to grow. ” 
            - Mindy Gikas, Executive Vice President  
       Global Talent   
 26
ENVIRONMENTWe seek to make more efficient use of space and resources to 
reduce our impact on the environment and to create a greener, more sustainable world. By improving the efficiency of our space and bringing together our agencies from separate offices into shared locations, we are able to cut energy use and emissions, while fostering a more creative, collaborative environment. Omnicom space at 220 42nd Street, New York City27
Meeting space at 220 East 42nd Street in New York City
Renderings of planned space in Beijing.
microwaves and dishwashers to further reduce 
power consumption. The floor has a shared reception area, conference and meeting rooms, mailroom and pantries for space efficiency. Lighting efficiencies at the Harborside facility will reduce energy use by 10%.  
Similar projects have been completed in 
Atlanta, Berlin, New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco and more are in the works in Beijing, Chicago, Toronto and other cities. Making More Efficient Use of Space
Whether we are reconfiguring existing workplaces or adding new office locations, Omnicom seeks sustainability in various ways. By bringing agencies together in a single location, we can reduce the total amount of space we require by sharing common areas and facilities, such as reception, conference rooms and break-out spaces. At the same time, we are employing open floor plan designs, eliminating individual offices, and creating shared spaces to increase collaboration and foster a more fertile creative environment. 
For example, in our new Harborside location 
in Jersey City, NJ Omnicom occupies almost 80,000 square feet on a single floor. It has an open floor plan with shared spaces and energy-efficient lighting and heat. The Harborside facility was constructed to maximize the use of natural light wherever possible, and employs LED lighting with day light sensors. The space is outfitted with energy efficient refrigerators, MANAGING IMPACT WHILE 
SUPPORTING GROWTH
Growing service businesses generally 
require more space as their need for 
people increases. In 2016, we were 
awarded significant new business by 
some of the world’s top marketers – 
AT&T, McDonald’s, Procter & Gamble 
and Volkswagen – that created a 
need to expand facilities in multiple 
locations. Yet we continue to manage 
our environmental impact, even in this 
growth phase, through more efficient use 
of our existing space, consolidation of our agencies into fewer locations, and by employing energy-efficient heat and light 
systems. 
As a result, we have been able to 
reduce our geographic footprint and our 
emissions and energy use even as we 
build our business. We saw our electricity 
use fall from 167,585 megawatt hours 
(MWh) in 2015 to 142,846 MWh in 2016, 
and we made similar reductions in our 
use of natural gas. Our Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions, that is emissions 
produced directly or created from the power we use, declined sharply. Scope 
1 emissions fell from 49,277 metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent (MT CO2e) in 2015 to 
38,885 MT CO2e in 2016, while Scope 
2 declined from 76,532 to 68,528 MT 
CO2e. Only Scope 3 emissions — which 
are produced by companies in our 
supply chain — increased. This is due to 
increased air travel.28
Reusing old materials makes environmental sense – 
and it can also add historic and artistic value. Consider this beautiful old fireplace from the former AT&T headquarters at 195 Broadway. When Omnicom took over the space, we pledged to maintain continuity in this historic building, while, reducing solid waste. Olswang's rooftop beehive
Using Renewable Energy Sources
Omnicom agencies and networks can reduce 
their carbon impact by purchasing renewables like wind, water and solar power for a portion of their energy needs. In 2016, Omnicom derived 7.4% of its total power from renewable sources, a proportion that is down slightly from earlier years but still significant. In leased spaces, decisions about whether or not to use renewable energy are typically made by building owners, not Omnicom itself. Omnicom is working to use less energy overall through continued office space consolidation and energy efficient construction.   
Being Smart About Business Travel
Visiting clients, face-to-face, is critical to our business — but air travel is also our largest source of carbon emissions. To balance business and environmental goals, Omnicom encourages agency teams to be efficient about travel, combining multiple trips into one, using public transportation or substituting video or conference calling whenever feasible. 
Even so, we expect travel to increase during 
growth phases and, in fact, that occurred in 2016. Air travel-related emissions increased from 160,325 MT CO2e in 2015 to 176,016 MT CO2e in 2016. Recycling and Procurement
As a holding company, Omnicom doesn’t  have company-wide guidelines for environmentally friendly purchasing and recycling. Our networks and agencies take  the lead in establishing their own green initiatives, finding many different ways to  do business sustainably.
Led by our Strategic Alliance Services (SAS), 
we strive to use energy-efficient methods of procurement and seek out energy-efficient office equipment, such as personal computers and servers, printers and paper sourcing, whenever possible. We also encourage the safe recycling and reuse of office equipment, and will work with vendors, when appropriate, to establish recycling programs.
THE BUZZ ABOUT BEES AT WOLFF 
OLINS AND GSD&M
Bees pollinate crops that feed 90% of the world 
population. Without them, $30 billion in crops 
a year would perish. They are critical to global agriculture and threatened by loss of habitat, 
so two separate Omnicom agencies have stepped up to save the bees. 
Wolff Olins in London installed two beehives 
on its roof in 2011 and started an agency-wide 
community initiative called the Honey Club to 
protect these vital insects. The agency has 
created an app that guides visitors on an hour-
long walking tour through a bee habitat nearby 
to view different kinds of bees and the plant life that supports them. 
Meanwhile in Austin, atop GSD&M 
headquarters, six hives house roughly 300,000 bees. The hives were moved and installed by 
the American Honey Protection Agency and 
Walter Schumacher, who is affectionately 
known as the “bee czar.” The bees pollinate 
a rooftop garden and make honey. All of the 
produce from the garden goes to charity.2014
2015201615,11913,35310,6888.0%8.0%7.4%
MW OF ELECTRCITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES
YEAR        MW HS                        % OF TOTAL
29
GOVERNANCEOmnicom continued to work for stronger, more diverse 
leadership in 2016, building a Board of Directors that now leads the industry for inclusiveness. 30
Ms. Williams joined our Board and the Audit 
Committee, bringing with her more than 35  
years of audit and public accounting experience 
at EY, serving global companies across a 
variety of industries. Ms. Williams held several 
senior leadership positions at EY and served on 
numerous strategic committees, including the 
firm’s Partner Advisory Council, Inclusiveness 
Council, Audit Innovation Taskforce and the 
Diversity Taskforce.
A Diverse Board Reflects Our  
Diverse Businesses
Diversity matters at Omnicom. Our employees, 
clients and their customers live on six continents, speak dozens of languages and come from every imaginable ethnic background, religion, life experience and gender orientation. To inspire such a diverse workforce, to deliver value for such diverse clients, and to create messages that speak to such diverse audiences, we must build diversity into our organization from the very top.
In 2016, we made significant strides 
toward refreshing our Board, bringing on 
two new independent Board members 
— Valerie M. Williams and Deborah J. Kissire — while two long-serving Board 
members stepped down.
Continuing Engagement with  
Shareholders
We are strongly committed to shareholder 
outreach and in 2016, for the second year in a row, we reached out to shareholders representing approximately 70% of Omnicom shares. We arranged meetings with 35% and many others indicated there was no need to meet in 2016. This was down from more than 50% in 2015, when participation was particularly strong because of these first-time engagements.
Shareholders responded favorably to Omnicom’s 
Board refreshment initiative led by the Chair of our Governance Committee, Jack Purcell, as well as  Mr. Coleman’s role in strengthening independent oversight as the Board's Lead Independent Director. While shareholders appreciated Omnicom’s work on Board and workplace diversity, some asked for more information on year-on-year progress towards diversity goals. Please see details on our progress with increasing diversity on pages  
20 and 21.
OUR BOARD IS OVERSEEN BY A LEAD 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
In December 2015, the independent members 
of the Board elected Leonard Coleman as Lead 
Independent Director. In this role, Mr. Coleman 
has participated in a multi-year initiative to bring 
new, diverse members to our Board, including 
Ms. Williams and Ms. Kissire. He has also taken 
an active role in engaging with shareholders, 
meeting strategically with some of our largest 
investors to hear their concerns. 
Independent oversight from our Board keeps  
our company focused on the right goals, ensures 
that high ethical standards are met and provides 
outside perspectives on our challenges and opportunities. Our Board consists of 12 directors. 
Of these, ten are independent directors. Our 
Chairman Bruce Crawford and our President and Chief Executive Officer John D. Wren comprise 
the remaining two seats. Each director stands  
for election annually. The Board met nine 
times in 2016 and has Audit, Compensation, 
Governance, Finance and Executive committees 
that meet separately. For more information, see 
our proxy statement . 31
Ms. Kissire also serves on the Board and the Audit 
Committee. She held multiple senior leadership 
positions at EY during her career from 1979 to 2015, 
serving most recently as Vice Chair and Regional 
Managing Partner, member of the Americas Executive 
Board and member of the Global Practice Group. 
Throughout her career at EY, Ms. Kissire’s leadership 
skills and vision were leveraged for strategic initiatives 
and programs such as their Partner Advisory Council, 
Strategy Task Force, Gender Equity Task Force, Vision 
2000 Sales Task Force and global Vision 2020.  
OMG Diversity Council Meeting in LA 2017
We are Committed to Leading  
on Diversity
Our Board is one of the most diverse in our 
industry with five women and three African American members, and we expect to continue our focus on Board diversity in 2017 and beyond. Our goal remains to make our Board as diverse as the global industry we compete in, so that from our most senior leadership team on down, we have access to all of the insights, experiences and ideas that can guide effective decision-making.
We anticipate that three more current directors 
will retire in 2018, giving Omnicom additional opportunities to recruit highly qualified new Board members. We are making particularly strong progress in recruiting female directors and expect to reach gender parity on our Board by 2018. 
Human Rights and Anti-Corruption
Omnicom operates in an increasingly com-plex global environment and is committed to supporting and respecting human rights. Our commitment to the highest ethical standards in the communities where we do business is out -
lined in our Code of Business Conduct. Omnicom 
directors, officers and employees are required to comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign  Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and any other local anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where we do business. Of the 12 members  of Omnicom's Board 
of Directors:
5 women3 African
American32About This Report
This report provides a high-level overview of Omnicom’s corporate 
responsibility commitments, activities and progress in 2016. The report is organized by our four main focus areas: Community, People, Environment and Governance. We have included some of the top case studies from our diverse network of agencies to characterize our impact on social and environmental issues around the world. 
Material Issues Identification 
In developing this report we consulted the GRI G4 Guidelines, the CDP framework, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Marketing and Advertising sector guidelines, the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals to determine relevant material issues. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
In addition to consulting global reporting frameworks, the content of this report was developed through stakeholder interviews with Omnicom executives, subject matter experts, network company representatives and key supplier and client feedback. The Governance section of this report was influenced by our ongoing shareholder engagement, specifically direct dialogues with our largest shareholders in 2016. 
Scope 
The data in this report covers Omnicom’s global operations in FY2016 (from January 1 – December 31, 2016). Unless otherwise noted, data within the report reflects our United States operations. Our last report was published in May 2016. We plan to continue publishing an annual comprehensive corporate responsibility report that fulfills the requirements for the Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress.UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL 
COMPACT - COMMUNICATION ON 
PROGRESS 2016
In May 2016, Omnicom committed to align 
with the ten principles of the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC), a leadership platform 
for the development, implementation and 
disclosure of responsible corporate policies 
and practices in the areas of human rights, 
labor, environment and anti-corruption. As 
stated in the opening letter from our CEO, 
this report confirms Omnicom’s ongoing 
commitment to continuous improvement 
in our own operations, and through 
collaboration with other organizations, 
to advance best practices in corporate 
responsibility worldwide. This report provides 
information on our corporate responsibility 
strategy and performance for fiscal year 2016 
and covers the UNGC Communication on 
Progress requirements.  33Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of 
internationally proclaimed human rights; and 
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 
Omnicom’s commitment to support and respect human rights is embodied 
in our Code of Business Conduct. The Code of Business Conduct covers our commitment to comply with all laws of the places where we do business, our prohibition against insider trading, our duty to advance our employer’s legitimate interest and our commitment to equal opportunity. The policy is available on our Corporate Governance website. For more information on our commitment to respecting human rights, see the Governance  section of 
this report.  
Labor
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 
the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 
and occupation. 
Omnicom’s directors, officers and employees are required to comply with 
our Code of Business Conduct, which sets the foundation for how we should do business on a day-to-day basis. We are an equal opportunity employer and do not discriminate against employees or job applicants on the basis of race, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, pregnancy or any similar status or condition. For more information on our commitment to fair labor, see the People  section of 
this report.    Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 
environmental challenges; 
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 
responsibility; and 
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies. 
Omnicom is committed to promoting greater environmental 
responsibility, and regularly report on environmental performance throughout our operations. We seek to make more efficient use of our space and resources to reduce our impact on the environment and to create a greener, more sustainable world. For more information on our commitment to environmental sustainability, see the Environment  
section of this report.    
Anti-Corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its 
forms, including extortion and bribery.
Omnicom operates in an increasingly complex global environment and 
our commitment to the highest ethical standards in the communities where we do business is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct. Omnicom directors, officers and employees are required to comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act of 2010, and any other local anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where we do business. For more information on our commitment to ethics and compliance, see the Governance  section of this report.Omnicom UN Communication on Progress34Commitments and 2017 Plans
Commitment 2017 Plan
COMMUNITY
Support Sustainable Development Goal #4: EducationIdentify global signature programs with respected non-profit partners that support education for children
Engage employees to contribute their time and expertise to promote the activities of these organizations
Continue to support the communities where we work Maintain and build our strong connections with communities through volunteer work, pro bono campaigns and 
financial support 
PEOPLE
Support industry-wide diversity through programming and financial support Continue to support ADCOLOR and other industry-wide diversity efforts 
Expand Omniwomen program to additional regions of the worldExpand Omnicom's OPEN employee resource group to the UK 
Maintain a diverse supplier base and encourage diverse 
supplier certification Promote Omnicom’s Supplier Diversity database across our global network of agencies to drive supplier diversity 
Increase the number of diverse employees Widen outreach to non-profit and educational organizations to increase diversity of hiring pool
Provide Omnicom employees with annual diversity trainingIncrease the number of employees who receive unconscious bias training
Train CEO leadership across all networks in diversity topics
ENVIRONMENT
Increase the proportion of renewable energy use Consider renewable energy sources in all energy procurement decisions
Enhance travel policies to reduce carbon emissions Craft and distribute recommendations to reduce emissions for business travel
Increase the number of offices using recycled content  
office suppliesEncourage and track use of procurement sources providing recycled content office supplies
GOVERNANCE
Maintain a diverse and independent BoardContinue to reduce average tenure of the BoardContinue to increase Board diversity
Ensure Board of Directors is informed by senior  
Omnicom staff of strategy and progress on corporate 
responsibility issuesSenior staff tasked with responsibility for oversight of corporate responsibility efforts to brief the Board of Directors annually on our progress
Continue to engage with shareholders on corporate responsibility issuesContinue shareholder engagement process to discuss corporate responsibility matters, including diversity and  
inclusion and governance35Indicator Title Location
STRATEGY & ANAL YSIS
G4-1 CEO Letter Page 1 of CR Report
G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Page 34 of CR Report, Page 3 of Omnicom 10-K
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
G4-3 Organization name Page 1 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Page 1 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-5 Headquarters location Page 6 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-6 Where the organization operates Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Pages 1, 7 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-8 Markets served Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-9 Scale of the organization Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-10 Total number of employees by type Page 2 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements0% of Omnicom employees in the United States are covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.
G4-12 Supply chain description Pages 2, 19 of CR Report
G4-13 Organizational changes during the reporting period There were no significant changes during the reporting period.
G4-14 Precautionary principle Page 27 of CR Report 
G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives Page 32 of CR Report
G4-16 Membership associations Pages 20-23 of CR Report
MATERIAL ASPECTS & BOUNDARIES
G4-17 Entities included in financial statements Pages 15-17 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-18 Process for defining report boundaries and content Page 32 of CR Report
G4-19 Material aspects included in the report Page 32 of CR Report
G4-20 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries within the organization Page 32 of CR Report
G4-21 Descriptions of material aspect boundaries outside the organization Page 32 of CR Report
G4-22 Restatements Page 32 of CR Report
G4-23 Changes from previous reports in terms of scope and/or boundaries Page 32 of CR Report2016 GRI G4 Index
General Standard Disclosures36Indicator Title Location
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24 Stakeholder groups Page 32 of CR Report
G4-25 How stakeholders were identified Page 32 of CR Report
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 32 of CR Report
G4-27 Topics raised during stakeholder engagements Page 32 of CR Report
REPORT PROFILE
G4-28 Reporting period Page 32 of CR Report
G4-29 Date of most recent report Page 32 of CR Report
G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 32 of CR Report
G4-31 Report contact Page 38 of CR Report
G4-32 "In accordance" option, GRI Index and report assurance Page 32 of CR Report
G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance N/A
GOVERNANCE
G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Page 33 of CR Report, Pages 7-9 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-35Process for delegating authority for sustainability topics from the 
board to senior executives and other employeesPages 11, 30 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-36 High-level accountability for sustainability topics Page 41 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-37Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the board on sustainability topicsPage 33 of CR Report, Pages 2, 7 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees Page 33 of CR Report, Pages 6, 9-10 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-39 Whether the chair of the board is also an executive officer Page 33 of CR Report, Page 8 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-40Nomination and selection processes for the board and its 
committeesPage 33 of CR Report, Pages 10-11 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-41 Board conflicts of interest Page 13 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-48Highest committee or position that formally reviews and 
approves the organization’s sustainability reportPhilip J. Angelastro, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the board Pages 7, 68 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-51 Remuneration policies for the board and senior executives Page 28 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Pages 32-47 of Omnicom Proxy Statement
ETHICS & INTEGRITY
G4-56 Code of conduct Omnicom Code of Business Conduct37Indicator Title Location
ECONOMIC
ECONOMIC 
PERFORMANCEG4-EC1 Economic value Page 2 of CR Report, Page 8 of Omnicom 10-K
G4-EC3 Benefit plan coverage Page 25 of Omnicom 10-K
ENVIRONMENTAL
ENERGYG4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Page 27 of CR Report
G4-EN6 Energy reductions Page 27 of CR Report
EMISSIONSG4-EN15 GHG emissions (Scope 1) Page 27 of CR Report
G4-EN16 GHG emissions (Scope 2) Page 27 of CR Report
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 27 of CR Report
PRODUCTS & SERVICESG4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Page 28 of CR Report
TRANSPORT G4-EN30 Environmental impacts from employee air travel Page 28 of CR Report
LABOR PRACTICES
EMPLOYMENT G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Page 25 of CR Report, Page F-22 of Omnicom 10-K
DIVERSITY G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and employees Pages 17-18 of CR Report
LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices Omnicom Internal Control Line
HUMAN RIGHTS
HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENTSG4-HR2 Employee training on human rights Omnicom Code of Business Conduct
SOCIETY
LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO1 Local community engagement, and development programs Pages 5-15 of CR Report
ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-SO3 Risks related to corruption Page 31 of CR Report, Page 5 of Omnicom 10-K
PUBLIC POLICY G4-SO6 Political contributions N/A2016 GRI G4 Index
Specific Standard Disclosures38If you have questions or comments regarding this report, please email CR@omnicomgroup.com
Read more at csr.omnicomgroup.com
         