WITH 2020 UPDATESCOLLECTIVE STRENGTHDIVERSE TALENT
 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  REPORT2019Omnicom is a group 
of thousands of 
individuals across 
more than 70 countries 
collectively bringing 
their passion and 
creativity to over 5,000 
brands. The talent of 
this diverse group of 
people allows us to 
create a positive and 
lasting impact on  
the world the best  
way we know how: 
through our work.GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
04
05
08
27
40
48Letter from Our CEO
About Omnicom Group
PeopleCommunityEnvironmentGovernance
About This ReportUN Global Compact (UNGC) 
Communication on Progress
GRI Standards  
Content IndexTable of Contents
52
53
54
2019 CR Report 4
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
A Letter from Our CEO
In a world that’s rapidly changing, Omnicom grounds itself in its 
commitments to having the industry’s most innovative, collaborative  
and diverse talent. Through diverse perspectives and collective strength, 
our organization is able to uphold the highest standards of excellence and 
creativity for our clients and the communities we share around the globe.  
While this report focuses on our 2019 activities, its release comes at  
a time of uncertainty and unrest in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic 
and the racial inequalities brought to light by George Floyd’s tragic death. 
While we have certainly seen tremendous progress in our diversity,  
equity and inclusion (DE&I) efforts over the last decade, we recognize  
our efforts to date have not been nearly enough. We are actively  
listening to and communicating with our people and management  
teams to create improvements, and our entire leadership team is 
committed to accelerating our efforts in building a more inclusive,  
diverse and aware organization. These efforts, along with our response  
to the global health crisis, will be covered in depth in future reports,  
but we have also summarized them in the following pages.  
With this backdrop in mind, we’d like to share some of the noteworthy 
actions from 2019 that strengthened our inclusive culture and served  
as a foundation for our 2020 conversations. For example, we established  
five new chapters of OPEN (Omnicom People Engagement Network) Pride 
to help promote awareness, acceptance and advocacy for the LGBTQIA+ 
community. We also launched OPEN DisAbility, a new employee resource 
group addressing issues affecting individuals with disabilities.
Omnicom also promoted widespread inclusion as a strategic partner  
for The Valuable 500, which launched at the January 2019 World 
Economic Forum with the goal of persuading 500 CEOs to make a  
public commitment to advance disability inclusion in their organizations. 
Such efforts helped us earn recognition as No. 1 in our industry for  
The Wall Street Journal’s D&I ranking of S&P 500 companies, and  
we were also named a 2020 “Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality”  
by the Human Rights Campaign.Furthermore, we supported Theirworld again in 2019 through its 
#WriteTheWrong campaign, which raised awareness of the 260 million  
children who do not attend school each day. Our work on the 
#WriteTheWrong campaign helped secure $2.3 billion in commitments 
to education over one week and underscored our own commitment to  
UN Sustainable Development Goal 4. 
We also continued our progress against our goals of reducing the 
environmental impact of our activities, enhancing employee ethics 
training and advancing a code of conduct for our supply chain. Taken together, these actions, plus the many others outlined in this report, 
demonstrate our support for the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact.  
As we move through and beyond our current challenges, we remain 
optimistic and undeterred. The people of Omnicom will continue to bring 
the highest standards of excellence to our clients, our shareholders, our 
neighbors and one another.
Sincerely,
  
John D. Wren  
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
This report focuses on 2019 activities occurring before the 
COVID-19 outbreak, but includes a summary of key response 
efforts by Omnicom and its agencies.2019 CR Report 5
CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance ABOUT US
About Omnicom GroupOmnicom is an interconnected global network of leading 
advertising, marketing and corporate communications 
companies. Our branded networks and agencies provide  
a diverse, comprehensive range of global, regional and local 
solutions in the following disciplines:
• Advertising
• Strategic Media Planning and Buying
• Customer Relationship Management
• Public Relations
• Health Care Communication Services
Our portfolio of companies provides the best talent, creativity,  
technology and innovation to some of the world’s most 
iconic and successful brands.
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
IN MILLIONS
2019 2018 2017
REVENUE $14,953.70 $15,290.20 $15,273.60
OPERATING INCOME $2,122.30 $2,133.50 $2,083.80
NET INCOME $1,339.10 $1,326.40 $1,088.40
REVENUE 
2019
Rest of the World
46.3%  
United States
53.7% 
CLIENT MIX 
2019Auto
10%
Consumer 
Products
9%
Financial Services
8%
Food & Beverage
13%
Other
23%Travel & Entertainment
6%
Telcom
5%
Tech
7%
Retail
5%
Pharma & Health
14%
FIVE MAJOR NETWORKS  
AS PART OF OUR WORLDWIDE FAMIL Y OF COMPANIES:
2019 CR Report 6
About Us Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance CR GOALS
Omnicom is dedicated to advancing our corporate responsibility goals year over year. Due to the 
uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have temporarily paused announcing new 
goals while remaining focused on driving progress against our current commitments.
ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE
2019
AWARDS AND  
RECOGNITIONS  
SNAPSHOT
Fortune Magazine 
Recognized as 1 of 6  
companies with a majority-  
women board of directors 
The Wall Street  
Journal Diversity & 
Inclusion Ranking
1st place in 
Communication Services industry, tied for 3rd  place overall
WARC Creative 100HRC Corporate 
Equality Index 2020 (100%)
4th consecutive year
Cannes Lions  
Festival Holding  
Company of the Year
Forbes’ Best 
Employers for Diversity 2020 
Forbes 2019 
America’s Best 
Employers List
3rd consecutive yearGOAL: In Progress GOAL: Drafted and In Progress 
REDUCE ENERGY USE BY
20% PER  
PERSON
GLOBALL Y BY 2023  
USING A 2015 BASELINE
INCREASE USE OF ELECTRICITY FROM
RENEWABLE 
SOURCES
GLOBALL Y TO 20% BY 2023 DEVELOP SUPPLIER
CODE OF  
CONDUCT
BY JANUARY 1, 2020
GOAL: In ProgressOmnicom
Corporate Responsibility Goals2019 CR Report 7
About Us CR Goals People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance YEAR IN REVIEW
In 2019, we made significant progress across all four of our focus areas: People, Community, 
Environment and Governance. We describe these initiatives in this report and on our website . 
• Supported The Valuable 500 in its inaugural year by providing creative and public relations work 
from nine Omnicom agencies, earning five industry 
awards. The Valuable 500 is a global movement to 
put disability on the business leadership agenda.
• Partnered with ADCOLOR and the American 
Advertising Federation (AAF) to launch THE APEX,  
a multicultural speakers bureau designed to encourage  
diverse thought leadership at industry events.
• Founded OPEN DisAbility, a new employee resource group in the United Kingdom with a mission to 
improve inclusion, visibility and awareness of issues  
that affect individuals with disabilities.
• Launched five new chapters of OPEN Pride in the 
United States and Europe dedicated to promoting 
awareness, acceptance and advocacy for the 
LGBTQIA+ community.
• Launched One Sandbox, an online directory of more than 250 diverse suppliers available to the entire 
Omnicom network.• Partnered with Theirworld to take the 
#WriteTheWrong campaign to the 74th session 
of the United Nations General Assembly, using a 
classroom of empty desks to spread awareness  
of the global education crisis.
• Supported Girl Effect with the launch of Chhaa Jaa (Go Forth and Shine), a social media brand 
for adolescent girls in India.
• Continued to support the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and our local 
communities through client and pro bono work, 
along with volunteer contributions from our 
agencies across the globe. • Reduced our global energy footprint in excess of 
5.5% year over year, and energy use per person by 
approximately 19% compared to our 2015 baseline.
• Increased use of electricity from renewable sources 
by approximately 37% compared to our 2015 baseline.
• Reduced companywide greenhouse gas  
emissions by approximately 16% in 2019  
compared to our 2017 baseline.
• Developed a Supplier Code of Conduct outlining  
our expectations for the businesses with which  
we work.
• Continued diverse representation on our nine-member  
board of directors with six women and four African 
American board members (as of June 9, 2020).
• Continued offering mandatory business ethics, 
security awareness and cybersecurity training to  
all Omnicom employees. Year in Review
Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Highlights
PEOPLE
COMMUNITY
ENVIRONMENT
GOVERNANCEGRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
Human connection 
drives the work that 
Omnicom agencies  
do for our clients.  
We are able to deliver ideas that resonate with consumers and businesses across  the globe because  
of our top-notch employees who bring a wealth of knowledge, experiences and perspectives.PEOPLE2019 CR Report 9
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE
Our award-winning creativity is fueled by this diverse community who collaborates 
as a team, inspires the best in each other and celebrates success together.
Our Commitment  
to Diversity & Inclusion  
CULTIVATING AN INCLUSIVE WORKFORCE 
AS DIVERSE AS OUR CLIENTS AND THE PEOPLE THEY SERVE
Our work demands dedicated employees 
with diverse backgrounds, experiences and 
perspectives. That’s why we’re relentlessly 
focused on recruiting, developing and retaining 
talent from a multitude of backgrounds and  
fostering inclusive environments for all employees. 
Across our global network of agencies and 
consultancies, our employees champion awareness,  
acceptance and advocacy initiatives both in the workplace and in their communities to create personal and professional opportunities for all.  
OPEN 2019 Chief Diversity Champions
2019 CR Report 10
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE
v
OUR COMMITMENT AND APPROACH
We underpin our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion through:
Leadership. 
The OPEN Leadership Team, which is led by Omnicom’s Chief Diversity Officer  
and includes Diversity Champions from across our agencies and networks,  
provides structure, support, counsel and visibility to DE&I initiatives and policies throughout our organization.
Measurement. 
We disclose five-year progress on diversity metrics for our U.S. employees.
Accountability. 
Omnicom’s CEO pay is determined, in part, on qualitative factors that include diversity.
Transparency. 
Following the tragic acts of racism in 2020 throughout the U.S., we reinforced our 
commitment to meaningful action to address inequalities. Understanding and providing  
transparency in where we currently stand is a necessary first step in paving a path forward. With this in mind, in this year’s report we’ve provided additional disclosures 
of Omnicom’s workforce diversity in the United States, as of June 15, 2020. It’s clear 
that we, and our entire industry, need to do more to truly reflect the businesses, 
communities and consumers we serve. With this in mind, we created OPEN 2.0,  
an action plan that builds upon the progress we’ve made thus far to achieve our 
ultimate goal: systemic equity throughout Omnicom. Additional details on OPEN 2.0 
will be shared in future reports.
MEASURING OUR PROGRESS
This is the fourth year we have disclosed our five-year progress against key diversity 
metrics for U.S. employees. Disclosure in this report and on our website reinforces our 
commitment to transparency and keeps us accountable to strengthening the diverse 
perspectives that inform our client work.OUR PEOPLE
AT A GLANCE  
Number of total who are:   
WOMEN
6AFRICAN  
AMERICAN
4
CURRENT MEMBERS OF  
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 9
Percentage of total employees who are:   
U.S. “PROFESSIONALS” AND  
“OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS” 21,000
WOMEN
58%WHITE MEN
31%
Percentage of total who are:   TOTAL “PROFESSIONALS”
Percentage of total who are:   TOTAL “OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS”
Executive 
Managers
Mid 
Managers
ProfessionalsBLACK
2.7%
4.8%
5.5%ASIAN
7.2%
8.9%
11.1 %HISPANIC
4.9%
8.6%
10.3 %84.1%
74.8 %
70.1%WHITEU.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (EEOC) DATA  
Omnicom Group data as of June 15, 2020MULTICULTURAL
29%  12%
From five years agoMULTICULTURAL
22%  29%
From five years agoWOMEN
57%2019 CR Report 11
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE
Accelerating Change  
for a More Inclusive World
Advancing diversity, equity and inclusion 
efforts requires the action and passion  
of an entire community. That’s why we 
collaborate not only with network leadership, 
but also community partners to more  
quickly achieve equal opportunities for 
individuals everywhere.
EMBRACING ALL ABILITIES:  
THE VALUABLE 500
Among the most meaningful new ways  
we advanced inclusion in 2019 was our 
work promoting The Valuable 500 ,  
an organization that seeks to elevate 
disability on the business leadership  
agenda. The Valuable 500 launched at the 
World Economic Forum Annual Meeting  
in Davos in January 2019 with the 
ambitious goal of persuading 500 CEOs 
to make a public commitment to advance 
disability inclusion in their organizations. 
Since then, over 250 businesses,  
representing more than 10.25 million 
employees and over $4 trillion in combined 
revenue, have committed to making 
disability inclusion a priority of leadership. Omnicom is more than just a signatory to The Valuable 500, we’re also a strategic partner. Our collaboration  
is led by campaign director Marianne Waite, who is charged with helping as many Omnicom agencies as 
possible interact with the organization. To date, nine of our agencies ( RAPP , AMV BBDO , Interbrand, Ketchum , 
Manning Gottlieb , Porter Novelli , ONE HUNDRED , Changing Our World  and Fuse ) have provided creative and public 
relations support for this important movement. 
In 2019, our agencies’ work for The Valuable 500 earned three awards from the Cannes Lions Festival, a British 
Interactive Media award and a British Design & Art Direction (D&AD) award for Creative B2B Campaign. We also helped 
The Valuable 500 participate in 75 events in 10 countries, ranging from small roundtables to large festivals like SXSW, to raise 
awareness of the untapped potential of the disability community. As a result, the number of companies joining The Valuable 500 
continues to grow, with more than 200 potential signatories in the pipeline.
“The Valuable 500 is transforming 
the global business system, 
thereby creating an equal and 
inclusive society for all of us.  
Its achievements would not have  
been possible without Omnicom’s  
ongoing passion and support.”  
Marianne Waite
Director of Inclusive Brands,  
The Valuable 500 2019 CR Report 12
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE
MENTORING THE NEXT GENERATION  
OF DIVERSE LEADERS
To build a more inclusive future, we’re leveraging 
our passion for communications and marketing to 
strategically partner with organizations that help 
diverse young professionals hone their creative 
skills and feel confident taking on leadership roles. 
Our key partnerships in this area include: 
• ADCOLOR: Omnicom is a proud partner of 
ADCOLOR, an organization founded by our 
own Chief Diversity Officer, Tiffany R. Warren. 
ADCOLOR celebrates and champions diversity 
in the creative industries through its annual 
conference, award show and FUTURES 
program. Each year, the FUTURES program 
identifies a class of 30 young professionals 
and nurtures them as leaders through training, 
mentorship and empowerment.
• AAF’s Most Promising Multicultural Students 
(MPMS) Program:  Omnicom is the premiere 
sponsor of AAF’s MPMS Program, a program 
that connects the advertising industry with 
the nation’s top multicultural college seniors. 
As part of the program, Omnicom sponsors/
produces Most Promising University, a daylong  
immersive advertising and media curriculum 
that hosts 50 college students each year.
“Most Promising University helped  
my overall confidence as a professional, 
pushing me to vocalize my strengths and celebrate my individuality. With help  
from the program’s mentors, I was able to create a personalized hashtag and tagline that I still use to brand who I am—  
something that has proven to be extremely valuable as I start my career.” 
Jayda Hill
AAF MPMS 2020 | 2020 MAIP Fellow2019 CR Report 13
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLESupporting Diverse Young Professionals at Cannes  
Cannes Can: Diversity Collective (CC:DC) brings 
previously absent faces of color to the Cannes Lions 
International Festival of Creativity. In support of CC:DC, Omnicom’s Chief Diversity Officer Tiffany R. Warren 
mentored members of its 2019 scholars program. 
• 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern  
Program (MAIP):  Omnicom is also a partner 
of MAIP , whose mission is to provide and 
showcase the advertising industry with the 
best talent through world-class development 
opportunities. Many of our agencies support 
the program by hiring MAIP fellows and  
offering internship opportunities.
• The LAGRANT Foundation:  Omnicom proudly 
supports The LAGRANT Foundation, which 
provides scholarships, career development 
workshops, professional development, 
mentors and internships to ethnically diverse 
undergraduate and graduate students.
• Ghetto Film School (GFS):  Omnicom also 
supports the GFS fellow programs, which 
educate, develop and celebrate the next 
generation of great American storytellers.  
With locations in New York City, Los Angeles 
and London, GFS is the most elite and 
inclusive film academy in the world.
2019 CR Report 14
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE
ELEVATING DIVERSITY, EQUITY  
AND INCLUSION CONVERSATIONS 
THROUGH COLLABORATION
Omnicom strives to inspire transformative 
change by collaborating with numerous 
partners to draw attention to issues of 
inequality that persist in our society.  
These include:
• Ad Council: We serve on the board of  
Ad Council, the leading producer of public 
service advertisements in the United States,  
to raise awareness of LGBTQIA+ acceptance, 
diversity, equity and inclusion, sexual 
harassment, empowerment of girls and 
other issues.
• Makers: As a Makers partner, we are shining  
a light on game-changing women within 
organizations, sharing diversity, equity and 
inclusion best practices, and promoting 
the work companies are doing to advance 
equality for women in the workplace.
• GLAAD: We have supported GLAAD’s work 
tackling tough issues to shape the narrative  
of LGBTQIA+ acceptance since 2011.
• Unstereotype Alliance: We are a founding 
member of the Unstereotype Alliance,  
a consortium of global advertisers, digital 
media partners, associations and industry 
champions who have committed to a 
global and universal agenda to eradicate 
harmful gender stereotypes in advertising.Our agencies are also partnering with nonprofit organizations in their communities to complement 
Omnicom’s diversity and inclusion efforts. 
• In 2019, eg+ worldwide  partnered with the charity Imaan to provide creative support for an 
awareness campaign with the goal of helping the Muslim LGBTQIA+ community reconcile faith  
with sexuality and gender identity. 
• Recognizing how difficult it is for refugees to find employment, 180 Kingsday partnered with the Refugee Talent Hub to help connect displaced people to meaningful employment in their chosen fields.
• In 2019, CPM International  sponsored PRIDE Barcelona  for the third consecutive year to show  
its support for the rights of the LGBTQIA+ community. As an official sponsor, a team of 200 CPM  
employees were involved in the design and creation of the float, social media engagement, 
photography and participation in the parade.
BRINGING  
MUL TICUL TURAL VOICES
TO THE FOREFRONT
In early 2020, we formed a new partnership with ADCOLOR and AAF to support the launch o f THE APEX —a Multicultural 
Speakers Bureau. THE APEX seeks to increase the diversity of thought leaders who present at industry conferences, seminars, 
webinars, podcasts and other discussions. We aim to make it easier for event organizers to be more inclusive of different vital perspectives at industry events by making THE APEX a go-to source for multicultural talent.2019 CR Report 15
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE
FOSTERING A CULTURE OF INCLUSION
At Omnicom, we are continuously striving 
to create a work environment where all 
employees feel comfortable, confident and 
supported. This culture of inclusion is critical 
to the progress and innovation we hope to 
see within our company. As part of this vision, 
we’ve established and grown the Omnicom 
People Engagement Network (OPEN)  and its 
complementary employee resource groups: 
OPEN DisAbility, Omniwomen and OPEN Pride.OPEN DisAbility 
In 2019, we founded OPEN DisAbility, a new employee resource group in 
the UK, which aims to improve inclusion, visibility and awareness of issues 
affecting individuals with visible, invisible and/or learning disabilities, or 
people with long-term illnesses. OPEN DisAbility launched in March 2019 
and multiple events have been held since, including a range of Basecamps 
and CEO panels discussing both seen and unseen disabilities. 
In December 2019, OPEN DisAbility hosted its first Summit in the UK to 
dispel misconceptions about hiring workers living with disabilities and 
celebrate the unique strengths these individuals bring to the workplace. 
The Summit drew more than 150 people from 40 Omnicom agencies to 
participate in valuable conversations about the representation of people 
living with disabilities within our workforce and beyond.SUPPORTING 
INDIVIDUALS
LIVING WITH DISABILITIES IN OUR AGENCIES
Omnicom agency, Rabin Martin , has pledged to  
The Valuable 500 to make disability inclusion a business 
priority and has been a champion of Omnicom’s OPEN 
DisAbility+Allies UK employee resource group. The agency 
played an integral role in OPEN DisAbility’s development 
of the #HowToDoMore Toolkit – a collection of tools  
and resources to support all agencies in their efforts  to become “disability inclusion SMART.” This evolving 
toolkit includes a Disability Confident Guide and  
a Disability Experts Guide, among other vital information.
In 2019, Ketchum London partnered with Ambitious  
about Autism (AaA), a charity that provides services  
for young people on the autism spectrum and helps  
the public understand how to ensure individuals living with autism are valued members of our society.  
When Ketchum London hired an individual living with autism into its fall internship program, AaA delivered  
a specialized staff training session to members of Ketchum London’s Corporate Team on how to create  
a supportive work environment. 
2019 CR Report 16
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE
Omniwomen
Since launching globally in 2014, Omniwomen has focused on promoting 
networking and career opportunities for women across our networks and 
agencies, as well as developing the female leaders of tomorrow. Over the 
last six years, participation in Omniwomen has grown to include more 
than 10,000 members.
In 2019, Omniwomen opened a new chapter in Dallas on International 
Women’s Day, representing the 14th Omniwomen chapter across the 
globe. Since its launch, Omniwomen Dallas has focused on supporting 
High Tech High Heels, an organization that funds programs to increase 
the number of young women majoring in STEM fields in college.
Beyond Dallas, Omniwomen members unleashed their creativity and 
passion in 2019 to promote the professional advancement of women 
around the world:
Chicago: Omniwomen Chicago grew to more than 750 members and 
increased member engagement by 559%. The Chicago chapter now 
partners with 26 agencies, up from 10 in 2018. With this growth,  
the group revamped its mission and appointed its first-ever board  
of directors. In October, Omniwomen Chicago hosted author and fashion 
editor Elaine Welteroth for a fireside chat and book signing. The group’s 
International Women’s Day (IWD) celebration received one of the IWD 
organization’s 2019 Best Practice awards.
United Kingdom:  Omniwomen UK hosted its annual Leadership Summit 
and celebrated Omniwomen’s five-year anniversary. In 2019, the theme 
was “Celebrating and Supporting Diverse Paths to the Top” and featured 
inspirational and diverse speakers, including Ketchum London CEO  
Jo-ann Robertson. The day saw men and women supporting one  
another, celebrating each other’s achievements and acknowledging  how far women have come in the workforce. As Omniwomen UK’s largest Leadership Summit yet, the event brought more than 300 women  
together and allowed attendees to focus on their personal interests, such as building confidence, understanding “imposter syndrome”  
and acknowledging and prioritizing the importance of mental health. 
New York:  Omniwomen New York hosted 17 hub events, including an art exhibit and three keynote speakers. These events reached every 
Omnicom agency in the city and addressed a variety of pertinent topics, including work-life balance, financial fitness, wellness and building  
a personal brand, among others.
Paris: Omniwomen France partnered with BVA Group prior to its annual summit to conduct a survey challenging stereotypes around  
gender parity. This research helped inspire Omniwomen France to include male allies who were sensitive to Omniwomen goals into its ranks.
China: Omniwomen China created a video titled “I am an Omniwoman,” featuring women from diverse backgrounds sharing their experiences  
and supporting the Spring Bud Project, an organization that helps girls who have dropped out of school return to complete their education.  
They also created a WeChat gallery filled with images of women across the Omnicom network celebrating and supporting each other.
Looking ahead, Omniwomen aims to exceed 20 chapters globally by 2021. It also plans to develop a training module  
in partnership with Omnicom University and pursue more global content and research focused on women in leadership. 2019 CR Report 17
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance PEOPLE
SUPPORTING  
GENDER PARITY 
ACROSS OUR NETWORK
In 2019, Omnicom agencies actively took part in International Women’s Day advocacy events 
around the world. Highlights include:
• Advocacy and Partnership: In honor of International 
Women’s Day, Harrison and Star  hosted leadership 
trainer Carol DiSanto of Omnicom Health Group for  
a Q&A session with employees. They also held a raffle 
with proceeds going to the Pad Project, a nonprofit  
that brings affordable feminine hygiene products to women in underdeveloped nations.  
• Supporting Female Entrepreneurs: As part of its 
International Women’s Day celebrations, Haygarth 
Group launched WomanMade, an initiative to find and 
support one female founder at the start of her small business journey. In 2019, the agency chose a hairstylist 
who was in the process of creating a customized  
wig-styling business with a first-of-its-kind augmented reality app that would allow customers to test wigs virtually before purchasing them. In a year of working together, Haygarth Group helped its entrepreneurial client create her 
business plan and company goals, as well as assisted with 
branding, collateral materials and public relations. 
• Small Business Workshops:  To celebrate International 
Women’s Day, 10 female-run small businesses were invited 
to RAPP UK  for PowerHouse – a series of workshops 
covering marketing disciplines such as social media, SEO, brand tone of voice, digital presence and the user experience. 
Businesses participating in the inaugural PowerHouse 
ranged from coffee production to architecture.
“There are many talented women 
who are experts in what they do, 
but who might be struggling to maximize their business’ potential or 
failing to use digital marketing tools 
to their advantage. We can hopefully make a tangible difference on the future success of their ventures.” 
Chris Freeland
CEO at RAPP UK2019 CR Report 18
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLEOPEN Pride
Founded in 2016, OPEN Pride fuels the personal growth, organizational inclusion and business 
success of Omnicom Group’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender, queer or questioning, 
intersex, and asexual or allied (LGBTQIA+) employees and allies. In 2019 and early 2020, OPEN 
Pride established six new chapters in Dallas, Denver, Houston, Southern California, Barcelona and 
Brussels, bringing the total number of active OPEN Pride chapters in the Omnicom network to twelve.
OPEN PRIDE
CHICAGO
In 2018, when DDB Senior Designer Joseph Klomes learned there was no LGBTQIA+  
group in his office in Chicago, he decided to start one. When a colleague subsequently 
informed him about OPEN Pride, Joseph immediately got to work connecting with other Omnicom agencies in the area to expand the OPEN Pride Chicago chapter.  
By the end of 2019, approximately 20 Omnicom agencies in Chicago had joined  
the chapter, and members led a series of fundraising activities that generated more than $1,900 in donations for the AIDS Foundation. Joseph also led the design and  
branding for the Human Rights Campaign’s 2019 Chicago gala, earning DDB Chicago   
a sponsorship at the event. In 2020, OPEN Pride Chicago hopes to grow its partnerships with the AIDS Foundation and Human Rights Campaign, as well as find new opportunities to partner more with the local community.2019 CR Report 19
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLEOmnicom tapped into its talent to offer support to the LGBTQIA+  
community in many ways in 2019. Highlights included:
• Sponsorship: Omnicom worked with NYC Pride as a Platinum 
Sponsor for the 2019 WorldPride celebration. As part of its 
sponsorship, Omnicom agencies provided in-kind work to promote 
the historic event, which marked the first WorldPride celebration in 
the United States, the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots and 
a half-century of LGBTQIA+ liberation. Many Omnicom agencies assisted NYC Pride in its branding and communications efforts, 
including Interbrand , RAPP Worldwide , Siegel + Gale , TBWA\
WorldHealth , Harrison and Star , FleishmanHillard, Ketchum ,  
Porter Novelli  and RXMOSAIC .
• Legislation: The chair of OPEN Pride’s Manila chapter participated 
in a campaign for the SOGIE Equality Bill. The legislation is intended  
to prevent various economic and service-related acts of discrimination  
against people based on their sexual orientation, gender identity  
or expression.
• Career Opportunities:  OPEN Pride Dubai developed and launched  
a new internship program, called DDBTransit, specifically designed 
to help transgender workers find fulfilling career experiences in  
an inclusive work setting.
• Workplace Sensitivity:  Sometimes, unintentionally and simply out  
of curiosity, LGBTQIA+ employees may get questions from colleagues  
that could be perceived as invasive, and in some cases, they may 
be misgendered or placed in awkward situations. To avoid such 
scenarios, OPEN Pride’s Global Board created globally curated 
guidelines that can serve as a helpful reference when engaging 
with colleagues from the LGBTQIA+ community.Looking ahead, OPEN Pride has several goals for 2020. They include:
• Serving, again, as a Platinum Sponsor for NYC Pride’s fully digital 2020 celebration; 
• Credentialing OPEN Pride members as experts in understanding how to appropriately and accurately communicate  
to and with the LGBTQIA+ community;
• Creating a business consultancy specifically to help clients improve engagement with LGBTQIA+ consumers;
• Developing partnerships with Omnicom’s other employee resource groups to make a bigger impact on the community; and
• Continuing to champion, through partnerships or in-kind work, local/grassroots organizations with a mission to offer 
support to the LGBTQIA+ community, including NYC Pride, GLAAD, the Human Rights Campaign, the Trevor Project,  
the Point Foundation and the AIDS Foundation.
2019 CR Report 20
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance PEOPLE
AMPLIFYING
AFRICAN AMERICAN VOICES
In celebration of Black History Month, OHG Voices – Omnicom Health Group’s diversity and 
inclusion group – hosted a series of events throughout the month to recognize the contributions of both prominent and lesser-known African Americans alike. The events included the group’s inaugural Black History Month movie night showing of “The Hate U Give,” an OHG Voices Mixer featuring artwork and jazz music from Harrison and Star employees, and a speaker panel hosted 
by Patients & Purpose  titled “Going Beyond Diversity and Inclusion: Let’s Get Real About Race.”OMNICOM MEDIA GROUP’S  
BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS
In 2019, Omnicom Media Group (OMG) launched three Business Resource Groups (BRGs) 
across the United States. BRGs are employee-led impact groups that share in Omnicom’s 
commitment to create inclusive workplaces for underrepresented populations. 
The Black Leadership Network was the first of the BRGs to launch. During Black Histor y 
Month 2019, the BRG hosted 13 events across the country. Highlights included:
• Black Girl Magic:  Black women are trendsetters, brand loyalists and early adopters who 
care about projecting a positive self-image and influencing mainstream culture in areas 
like fashion, beauty, television and music. Together with Turner, now part of WarnerMedia, 
OMG explored the magic of black woman consumers and discussed the factors that 
drive their purchase considerations and intent. 
• Pride Campaign: OMG encouraged employees to show their pride on social media by 
sharing pictures of their family, community or service events with a description of what 
Black History Month means to them. Social posts included the hashtag #OMGBHM2019.
• Screening of Railroad Ties: The OMG DE&I team screened the short film “Railroad Ties” 
in offices across the United States. The film featured six descendants of fugitive slaves 
and abolitionists who learned about their lineage – and how they shared a common bond 
with complete strangers. In New York, OMG Director of Diversity and Inclusion Justin 
Reyes moderated a panel discussion featuring senior leaders from Sundance TV for  
a behind-the-scenes look at the making of the film. 
Following the launch of the Black Leadership Network, OMG formed the Latino Leadership 
Network and Asian Leadership Network. In 2020, OMG plans to launch at least two additional 
BRGs, including a Working Parents Network.
2019 CR Report 
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance PEOPLE
v 
v
SUPPORTING 
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Across Omnicom networks and agencies, we are committed 
to ensuring our creative and production directors can draw from a diverse supplier base when assembling project teams.  
We recognize we need to do better to ensure that we’re tapping into the wealth of underutilized diverse talent around the world. 
In 2019, we rolled out One Sandbox – a curated, web-based  
directory developed by TBWA\WorldHealth  that features 
more than 250 women-owned, multicultural and LGBTQIA+ 
suppliers – to agencies across the Omnicom network. Agencies have leveraged One Sandbox in addition to their  
own innovative tools and aggressive goals to boost diversity  
in their respective supplier networks and maintain a reputation  
for responsible purchasing:
• Critical Mass enacted a tracking system to 
easily identify vendors with diverse ownership  
to ensure a healthy percentage of its outsourcing 
supported supplier diversity. In 2019, the agency spent approximately $500,000 with minority-owned vendors – a $240,000 increase from the prior year. The agency also increased spending with women-owned vendors by $40,000.
• GUTENBERG’s commitment to establishing mutually responsible and lasting relationships with its suppliers has earned the agency France’s Supplier Relations and Responsible Purchasing label for six years. 
212019 CR Report 22
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance PEOPLE
BLACK LIVES MATTER
Recent acts of racism and violence against diverse communities 
around the globe have been tragic and heartbreaking. We condemn this hatred and bigotry and stand in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement.
Since the formation of Omnicom, diversity and equality have  
been among our core values. And while Omnicom and its agencies 
have made tremendous progress over the past decade, we know it is not enough. Through ongoing discussions with our diversity leaders, employees and community partners, we are learning how  
we can better support our diverse colleagues and hold ourselves accountable in the areas of training, recruitment, talent development  
and retention, and compensation.
As part of our recent efforts, we recognized June 19th, or Juneteenth,  
as a companywide day off from work to allow for reflection on 
issues around race and inequality. In addition, Omnicom’s Chief Diversity Officer and OPEN Leadership Team launched a new video series titled “Open Conversation,” which explores Omnicom initiatives, DE&I resources and global issues inspiring change. 
We also have long supported and invested in educational and  
career development programs that have created greater diversity 
in our industry. These include AAF Most Promising Multicultural Students Program, The LAGRANT Foundation, 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program and ADCOLOR. Moving forward, we plan to strengthen our support of these programs and adopt new programs where appropriate.
We will turn these acts of injustice into a catalyst for lasting change —  
as individuals, as a company and as a community.
2019 CR Report 
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 PEOPLE23Investing in Training  
and Development
Learning and growth never stops at Omnicom.  
Each year, we make substantial investments 
in education and training, which include 
basic skills training all the way through our 
advanced Omnicom University for current 
and future leaders. We also continue to ramp 
up digital training so that all of our employees 
have a deep understanding of how to leverage  
new technologies and channels for clients 
and their brands.
OMNICOM UNIVERSITY
Omnicom University is considered one of 
the preeminent management and leadership 
development programs in the industry. The 
format is based on the Harvard Business 
School case study method and is led by 
professors from Harvard Business School 
and IESE Business School in Spain.
Founded in 1995, Omnicom University will 
be celebrating its 25th anniversary in 2020. 
This prestigious program has grown to 
offer 12 programs a year on two continents 
with nearly 5,200 global alumni, many of whom have gone on to rise in the ranks of leadership within our organization. In December 2019, Karen van Bergen was 
named the new dean of Omnicom University, the third in the program’s history, 
following Janet Riccio and founder Tom Watson. 
Omnicom University is structured into several programs to cultivate leaders at 
different stages in their career:
• Senior Management Undergraduate and Graduate Programs (SMP) – SMP 
is an invitation-only, two-year commitment for the most senior executives in 
the company. Students attend a six-day Undergraduate Program focused on 
leading-edge management thinking, followed by a four-day Graduate Program 
one year later.
• Senior Management Postgraduate Program – A four-day Postgraduate  
Program is offered to SMP graduates to reinforce concepts and refresh the 
enthusiasm found in the original SMP experience.
• Advanced Management Program (AMP) – AMP is a three-day immersive 
training experience for future leaders and “rising stars” throughout Omnicom 
that teaches the core principles of managing a professional service firm. Three 
AMPs are taught each fall: two in the United States at Babson College and one 
in Europe in Milan.
• Agency Leadership Program (ALP) – ALP is a hands-on course designed 
for relatively new leaders running an office, a large account or team. Over the 
week-long course, students are broken out into teams to work on an agency-
simulation program, with situations and events that our agency leaders face  
on a regular basis.
OMNICOM UNIVERSITY
TESTIMONIALS
Omnicom University programs consistently receive ratings 
from students in the 4.7 to 4.9 range (on a scale of 5) for 
program excellence. These programs are often regarded as 
high points in the careers of participants. Here is what a few 
had to say about their experience:
“The quality of the professors, combined with the  
intellectual horsepower of the group, is lifechanging.”
Bill Mulligan
Group CEO, Chameleon Communications New York
“I did not anticipate, or perhaps underestimated, the depth  
of life lessons we’d learn. ‘Thank you’ is simply not enough.”  
Emily Caine
SVP , Senior Partner, FleishmanHillard St. Louis
“There is an amazing balance of providing a physical, 
mental, emotional and intellectual education between 
both what is being taught and how it is being taught.  
Truly motivating!”
Gati Curtis
SVP , Senior Director, BBDO New York
“The faculty is like a well-tuned orchestra – they build on 
content; challenge what you believe is the right answer; 
and make you acknowledge a different answer may be the 
one that makes more sense.” 
Shalini Gupta
SVP , Client Partner, RAPP Chicago
232019 CR Report 24
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance PEOPLE
TRAINING  
YOUNG TALENT
ACROSS DISCIPLINES
Across our networks and agencies, multidisciplinary  
training for entry-level employees and candidates has been  
a key focus. 
In 2019, IMS invited its first class of young professionals  
to participate in its Associate Development Program (ADP).  
The two-year program rotates associates through four 
different assignments in various roles within the organization to develop cross-functional skills and a well-rounded understanding of marketing. For their first rotations, associates  
held roles in account management, digital marketing, data analytics and vendor management. As the program grows, ADP graduates will assist with the selection and mentoring  
of future participants.
Designory  has partnered with California State University 
Long Beach’s (CSULB) Senior Design Program – an initiative 
where students work with Designory mentors on a selected assignment that exposes the students to real-world marketing  
challenges and pushes them to design creative solutions.  
The students gain valuable agency experience and a chance at an internship, and Designory gains insights into the best talent coming out of the CSULB graduating class.
2019 CR Report 25
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance PEOPLEEmerging Stars
Emerging Stars brings together top junior talent from across all 
Omnicom networks, exposes them to multiple marketing disciplines  
 and gives them the experience of working on an integrated team. 
The program begins with a three-day workshop that allows participants 
to learn from experts in various disciplines and immediately put that 
knowledge to work. A marketing brief from one of Omnicom’s largest 
clients is delivered to the group, and participants work in multidiscipline 
teams with senior-level Omnicom agency mentors over the course 
of three weeks following the workshop. The session culminates in 
a competition where teams deliver an integrated pitch to selected 
Omnicom agency CEOs and a senior representative from the client 
involved in the brief.
This talented and ambitious group builds a fantastic network and  
pipeline for future leadership.
EMERGING STARS
TESTIMONIALS
Emerging Stars is not just a valuable opportunity for young 
professionals in the Omnicom Network, but also for our client 
partners. Here’s what they had to say:
“Omnicom friends, what an amazing experience!  
Thank you again for choosing Olay to be your partner 
in the Emerging Stars program. The talent, the ideas, 
the energy and the partnership were amazing. It says  
a lot about the Omnicom family when you see this type  
of focus and investment in top talent. Thank you for  
choosing Proctor & Gamble and Olay to be your partner.”
Leigh Radford
Global GM Skin Care, P&G 
“I rarely get the opportunity to step away from my 
business – but this was so worth it! The insights  
and ideas presented were fantastic. The young talent on this program are lucky to be part of a holding 
company that invests in developing and connecting 
talent in this way – because we need our agency 
partners to work in a cross-discipline way, and  
this program proves the magic of what happens  when you do.” 
Valerie Vargas
Vice President - Advertising & Marketing  
Communications, AT&T  “Emerging Stars is my favorite program because  
it works on so many different levels. Our young  
talent gets to experience the power of all our specialty 
expertise working together. The clients we involve 
are blown away by the quality of the talent, the ideas 
and the true sense of partnership they experience 
firsthand. For our senior leaders who mentor and 
judge the final day, it’s a chance to feel the excitement 
and the energy of what we can achieve together. 
Congratulations to all involved.”
Dale A. Adams
Chairman and CEO, the DAS Group of Companies
FPO2019 CR Report 26
About Us CR Goals Year in Review Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance PEOPLE
Advancing the Health and Well-Being of Our People
Omnicom continues to offer comprehensive and quality health care benefits to U.S. employees while 
maintaining a degree of individual choice to meet our employees’ diverse needs. Since 2016, Omnicom has 
covered transgender-related services under its medical plans, which cover almost all U.S. employees and 
their eligible family members.
PARENTAL LEAVE POLICY EXPANSION
In 2019, we updated our U.S. parental leave policies, which went into effect on January 1, 2020. First, any 
employee who has been with Omnicom for at least one year can claim up to eight weeks of paid short-term 
disability. Omnicom also now offer six weeks of paid parental leave in addition to eligible short-term disability 
benefits for all U.S. agencies.
A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO 
WELLNESS
Beyond offering quality health care benefits, our agencies 
and networks encourage employees to stay healthy with programs and initiatives that promote physical, mental and financial well-being. 
• In 2019, Omnicom Media Group offered five 
in-office fitness lessons to employees each 
week, enabled the services of a chiropractor in the workplace once per week, provided fresh fruit in the office year-round and held multiple stress reduction and mental health seminars throughout the year. These initiatives helped Omnicom Media Group earn the “Health Promoting Enterprise” accreditation from the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic.
• At darwin BBDO in Belgium, employees welcomed a new Chief Executive “Woofficer,”  
a canine named Basille. The office dog has been a hit with employees and shown to reduce stress, boost office productivity and improve social engagement among employees who struggle to socialize with others.
• In 2019, Proximity  launched Feel Good –  
a series of workshops and initiatives  
to promote mental, physical and financial  
well-being. External speakers were brought  
in to address a range of topics, including mindfulness, sleep, breathing and nutrition.
GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
Omnicom has a  
long-standing 
commitment to serve the areas where we live and work.  
We use our expertise and passion to strengthen our communities and contribute to the greater good. COMMUNITY
2019 CR Report 28
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 COMMUNITYThrough industry initiatives, employee volunteerism and 
client and pro bono campaigns, our work is making  
an impact around the world.
Education: A Right for All
Omnicom is a founding member of Common Ground, a commitment by agencies in the marketing 
and communications industries to support the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). As the pro bono global partner of Theirworld and Girl Effect, we focus on SDG No. 4, ensuring 
inclusive and quality education for children around the world. 
RAISING VISIBILITY AND FUNDS FOR THEIRWORLD
Theirworld is a global children’s charity committed to ending the education crisis by mobilizing support for 
funding partners through advocacy, campaigning and partnerships. 
In 2019, Omnicom agencies BBDO and Porter Novelli partnered with Theirworld to increase world leaders’ awareness of the 
global education crisis through the #WriteTheWrong campaign. At the 74th session of the UN General Assembly in New York, 
we took #WriteTheWrong to the next level with an art installation in the main UN plaza. We built an “infinity classroom” of empty desks, 
using walls full of mirrors to visually depict the 260 million children who do not attend school each day. The campaign was amplified with 
billboards in Times Square, an online video and posts on social media using #WriteTheWrong. 
During the week,  $2.3 billion  was committed to education, making it the single largest mobilization for education. In addition, Theirworld 
mobilized several million dollars in grants to support refugee education around the world and promote more protective learning environments 
for more than 160,000 students . 
“It’s clear that the vast 
majority of young people 
will be left behind and without hope for a brighter future.  
This is why education  
is so important.” 
Sarah Brown
Founder, Theirworld
Viewers in-person and online were left with a powerful story. The display captured the attention of presidents and prime ministers 
from around the world, but more importantly, it helped raise financial support.
2019 CR Report 29
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 COMMUNITY
SUPPORTING GIRL EFFECT
Girl Effect is a nonprofit organization working to connect and equip girls with resources to navigate 
adolescence, with a focus on health care. In 2019, Omnicom agencies supported Girl Effect through 
pro bono campaign creation and materials development for two important initiatives:  
Chhaa Jaa 
In 2019, Girl Effect launched Chhaa Jaa (Go Forth and Shine), a social media brand for adolescent 
girls in India. This group makes up 10% of the population but is largely invisible, valued primarily for 
marriage and motherhood, with little say over their lives and decisions. Chhaa Jaa leverages social 
media to share content educating girls on reproductive health, relationships and jobs, as well as 
empowering them with skills and confidence. With the help of Omnicom agencies OMD , DDB and 
22Feet , Girl Effect reached 2.8 million users on social media in only six months, with over 90% of 
those in the brand’s target population.
Nutrition International Partnership 
In June 2018, Girl Effect embarked on a partnership with Nutrition International to improve 
Indonesian girls’ knowledge, attitudes toward and practices around nutrition. Teenage girls in 
Indonesia are significantly malnourished due to a lack of proper nutrients in their typical diets of rice 
and rice cakes. In 2019, Omnicom agency PHD  supported the partnership with an SEO strategy and 
paid search to drive traffic to a Springster site – a mobile platform made for girls – with nutrition-
specific stories. In three months, the site attracted 104,000 unique page views, helping Girl Effect 
and Nutrition International reach 11.3 million Indonesians over the length of the campaign. 2019 CR Report 30
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 COMMUNITYMaking a World of Difference 
Omnicom agencies around the globe have a history of volunteering in, and engaging with, their local 
communities, with many agencies providing paid time off for employees to partake in volunteer activities – 
many of which contribute to aspects of the UN SDGs. 
PREGNANT AND PARENTING YOUTH
DAS Gives Back, the corporate volunteer initiative of the DAS Group of Companies , held a baby-supply drive 
to support Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) for children in New York City and the organization’s 
Pregnant and Parenting Youth (PPY) Initiative. The PPY Initiative is designed to support young parents and 
provide goods to reduce economic stressors. DAS Gives Back donated more than 2,300 items to CASA-NYC 
to help the PPY Initiative. 
I GOT YOUR BACKPACK 
Since 2014, the FleishmanHillard St. Louis office has collected, donated and delivered a backpack of food 
every week to each of 25 local elementary school students who would otherwise go without food for the 
entire weekend. The students receive enough food for two breakfasts, lunches and dinners, and snacks for 
the weekend. Through 2019, FleishmanHillard donated nearly 400 backpacks of food. 
FPO2019 CR Report 31
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 COMMUNITYDO GOOD. PERIOD. 
In 2019, TBWA\WorldHealth  collected more than 200 feminine hygiene product kits and donated them to  
The Period Collective, a nonprofit organization that provides impoverished women with access to free products. 
The initiative raised awareness about the challenges many women face accessing these crucial supplies. 
SUPPORTING EDUCATION IN SOUTH AFRICA
For two years, Omnicom Media Group South Africa (Pty) Ltd . has provided financial support for education 
and living expenses for more than 200 disadvantaged and disabled students. Students learn computing and entrepreneurial skills to help prepare them for the workforce, and the program has led to a 90% success rate in 
finding employment for participants. 
EMPOWERING IMMIGRANT WOMEN 
In 2019, Critical Mass  partnered with the Calgary Immigrant Women’s Association to host a Learn to Code 
seminar for young women. This nonprofit organization recognizes, responds to and focuses on the unique 
concerns and needs of immigrant and refugee women, girls and their families. The seminar provided each 
participant the opportunity to learn basic coding languages, skills and tools.
2019 CR Report 32
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 COMMUNITY
BARNABUS CHARITY COLLABORATION 
Throughout 2019, Healthcare Consultancy Group’s (HCG) Chameleon 
Communications’ office in Manchester, England, supported Barnabus,  
a charity that helps homeless individuals find employment opportunities 
and rebuild their lives through access to food and clothing, health care 
and rehabilitation. HCG employees helped Barnabus through volunteering 
days, donation drives, cake sales and a sponsored sky dive event. 
CLOTH BAGS FOR PATIENTS 
Omnicom Media Group (OMG) Thailand  created a “No Plastic Bag” 
campaign for hospitals after becoming aware of the large volume of  
nonrecyclable plastic bags used every day for patients and their medications,  
which contribute to the global plastics crisis. Colleagues from OMG Thailand 
set up public collection boxes for reusable cloth bags and invited their 
clients and media partners to join them in decorating the bags. As a result, almost 10,000 cloth bags were donated to 25 hospitals nationwide. CLEAN UP AUSTRALIA
In March 2019, PHD Sydney closed early to participate in its annual  
“PHD’s Big Hug” initiative that encourages employees to volunteer  
in the community. One group of employees took to the beaches and 
spent the afternoon cleaning up rubbish to restore and preserve the 
area’s natural state. 
2019 CR Report 33
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance COMMUNITYLew’Lara\TBWA, TBWA
Nineteen million children around the world are vision impaired. Born from the discovery that toy building bricks have the same pattern as the braille alphabet, Lew’Lara\TBWA teamed up 
with the Dorina Nowill Foundation in Brazil to launch an online campaign aimed to convince toy manufacturers to embrace Braille Bricks and produce them on a much wider scale. Using 
the #BrailleBricksForAll hashtag, the campaign reached over 141 million impressions. As a result, LEGO® announced they would modify their iconic toy bricks to help blind and visually 
impaired children learn and develop critical skills. Following initial pilots, the final LEGO® Braille Bricks kit will be launched in 2020 and distributed free of charge to select institutions.
For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com .
► #BRAILLEBRICKSFORALL  an iconic 
childhood toyReimagining
Our Agencies
in Action2019 CR Report 34
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance COMMUNITYDDB Group Hong Kong, DDB
Created by DDB Hong Kong  on the eve of the 25th anniversary of anti-slavery organization Hagar International, the Reality Check campaign raised awareness that slavery is not only 
rife throughout the world but is also cheaper now than any time in human history. In a live activation shown in the campaign’s video, unsuspecting Hong Kong diners are presented with 
bills showing the number of human lives they could buy for the same price as their meal. DDB also developed a campaign microsite featuring the stories of survivors of slavery and 
information for visitors to learn more about how to support Hagar International’s efforts around the world. The campaign resulted in a 140% increase in donations made to Hagar.
For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com .
► REALITY CHECK    the truths of 
modern slaveryUncovering2019 CR Report 35
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance COMMUNITYAMVBBDO and Ketchum, BBDO  
Viva La Vulva is a campaign with at its heart, a lip-sync music video with a twist: it shows a beautiful diversity of vulvas singing loud and proud to the women who love them. Girls are  
not born ashamed of their genitals. Yet over half of women are embarrassed by theirs and a growing number wonder how to “get the perfect vagina”. How can you care for something  
if you do not love it the way it is? Libresse, a feminine care brand, who was new to intimate care in Europe, along with AMVBBDO and Ketchum, decided to dynamite the myth of the perfect vulva through much-needed diversity and positivity that culture and the category were denying because the only imperfect vulva is the one that is silenced and unloved.
For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com .
► VIVA LA VULVA     taboos around 
the female bodyChallenging2019 CR Report 36
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance COMMUNITYFleishmanHillard, DAS
FleishmanHillard  worked with the Thomson Reuters Foundation to launch OPENLY — an impartial LGBTQIA+ news platform that removes western bias to tell 
stories across the map. On top of 1.1 million-plus organic Facebook video views and 118 million-plus readers in 48 countries, the unbiased reporting through 
OPENLY influenced Malaysia’s National Health Ministry to drop its “gender identity disorder” language. The powerful work earned recognition at the 2019 ICCO 
Global Awards and the first-ever PRWeek Campaigns for Good Awards.
For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com .
► OPENLY     unbiased  
news reportingEnabling2019 CR Report 37
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance COMMUNITYGoodby Silverstein & Partners, DAS
Less than 11% of stories in U.S. history textbooks are about women, giving children a false picture of what is possible. Timed with Women’s History Month, GS&P  helped 
Daughters of the Evolution launch “Lessons in HerStory,” an app that uses augmented reality to rewrite popular U.S. history textbooks. Lessons in HerStory tackles the 
power imbalance between men and women in society and shows young girls they can make history too. The app has reached thousands of schools and a potential 
audience of more than 59 million students, expanding history and instilling confidence in the leaders of tomorrow.
For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com .
► LESSONS IN HERSTORY in the leaders  
of tomorrowInstilling 
confidence 2019 CR Report 38
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 COMMUNITYCOVID-19 Response: A 2020 Summary
As the COVID-19 pandemic has upended the world, Omnicom agencies have worked tirelessly to support their communities and provide 
clients the services and solutions they need during these unprecedented times. Here are a few examples. 
HANDLE WITH CARE
TBWA\Helsinki, TBWA (Finland)
Public places are hot spots for contagious diseases. To help control  
the spread of COVID-19, clean-energy company Fortum developed Vipu, 
a hands-free handle made from recycled plastics that enables people 
to open doors with their forearms. TBWA helped develop an advertising 
campaign for the product launch to demonstrate its innovative and 
sustainable design, which gives new life to plastic waste while reducing 
people’s contact with potentially contaminated surfaces.COMMUNITY SHIELDS
BBDO Guerrero, BBDO (Philippines)
Due to a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), nonmedical 
frontline workers, such as delivery persons and security personnel,  
can often be left without proper protection. BBDO Guerrero teamed  
up with the Philippine Chamber of Business and Professionals to raise 
awareness of the issue and launch #CommunityShields – a series  
of instructional posters and social posts that teach people how  
to construct masks and shields for community frontliners using  
everyday materials. 
DRAFT -A-THON
OMD, DAS (United States)
To raise money for COVID-19 relief, OMD worked with the National 
Football League (NFL) to develop a campaign for Draft-A-Thon –  
a fundraiser held in conjunction with the iconic NFL Draft. Using targeted messaging, social media, digital assets and search functions, 
the team amplified awareness of the event, directing audiences 
to stream the fundraiser alongside the NFL Draft. Draft-A-Thon 
generated 23 million-plus views, with 46 million-plus minutes watched 
and an Ask Me Anything of 55,000-plus across multiple platforms –  
all while raising over $100 million for COVID-19 relief. SUPPORTING NONPROFIT PARTNERS
OMG MENA, DAS (Middle East)
To contribute to critical relief campaigns during the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Omnicom Media Group MENA joined forces with regional media owners 
in the Middle East to provide complimentary media space to its long-
standing partner charities. With this support, Dubai Cares, Gulf for Good 
and Médecins Sans Frontières were able to reach a larger audience with 
their call to action. Their COVID-19 campaigns are focused on education, 
health, and critical support for people, particularly children, in need in the 
region and beyond. 
COVID-19 RETAILER TOOLKIT
The Integer Group (United States)
The United Nations issued an open call to creatives around the globe 
to help in “translating critical public health messages into different 
languages, different cultures, communities and platforms, reaching 
everyone, everywhere.” In response, the Integer Group created the 
COVID-19 Retailer Toolkit, featuring clear, visual “two carts apart” 
guidelines that will help retailers promote social distancing requirements 
and ensure the safety of shoppers. The toolkit is turnkey and its files are 
open, allowing for customization in language, color palette and logos. 
2019 CR Report 39
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 COMMUNITYSIGNAL FOR HELP
Juniper Park\TBWA, TBWA (Canada) 
During quarantine, domestic violence reports escalated globally.  
The Canadian Women’s Foundation initiated “Signal For Help” to identify  
victims of domestic abuse through a simple hand gesture used during  
virtual gatherings. Toronto-based Juniper Park\TBWA helped develop  
a social media plan that demonstrated how to perform the signal, along with sharable web-based materials . The campaign has expanded  
to Australia, France, Spain and the United States, providing resources for victims around the world. 
WHATSAPP INTEGRATION
DDB Singapore, DDB (Singapore)
Receiving timely, accurate information is critical during a pandemic. 
DDB Singapore worked with the local government to create an official 
WhatsApp channel to deliver daily COVID-19 updates. This tool gave 
subscribers access to trusted communications from the government 
and provided a platform for health officials to clarify misinformation 
and share key announcements. REOPEN CONNECTICUT
BBDO, Critical Mass, DDC Public Affairs, FleishmanHillard, OMD, 
Porter Novelli, Omnicom (United States)
As part of Connecticut’s efforts to reopen in a responsible and safe 
manner, several Omnicom agencies worked to support the governor’s 
Reopen Connecticut Advisory Group, composed  of business leaders 
and health and education experts. Agency representatives developed 
an integrated communications plan featuring messaging, paid media, 
website development , creative for PSAs and stakeholder outreach  
to ensure messages were shared across the state.  
BLACK HEALTH NOW
TBWA\WorldHealth, TBWA (United States)
Beginning as an awareness campaign around medical bias, TBWA\
WorldHealth’s Black Health Now quickly transformed into a series of 
virtual sessions with doctors, athletes, fitness experts and community 
leaders to help promote preventative health care and provide COVID-19 
information tailored to the needs of Black Americans. The social media 
series presents a different guest each week to address COVID-19’s 
disparate impact on people of color. Guests have included Olympian 
Tianna Bartoletta, National Urban League CEO Marc H. Morial and 
emergency medical physician Dr. Garth Walker. 
GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
At Omnicom, we’re 
taking strategic 
actions to reduce the environmental impact of our operations across our networks and agencies in locations around  
the world. ENVIRONMENT
2019 CR Report 41
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 ENVIRONMENTOur teams are empowered to enhance and expand their 
efforts to advance our environmental priorities.
Minimizing the Impact  
of Our Global Operations
Being sustainable starts with holding ourselves 
accountable and requires taking an innovative 
approach to increasing efficiency and reducing 
waste. As a provider of professional services, the  
primary environmental impact of our operations 
is from energy use in our buildings. As a result,  
our Environmental Policy  focuses on the following  
principles to minimize the environmental impact 
across our real estate footprint: 
• Efficient use of space
• Proactive energy management 
• Smart travel and commuting
• Waste minimization 
We have established goals to reduce our 
overall energy use and increase the amount 
of electricity we consume from renewable 
resources. The following table shows our progress to date against these goals.OUR GOAL for 2023
OUR GOAL for 2023OUR PROGRESS in 2019
OUR PROGRESS in 2019REDUCE ENERGY USE BY
20% PER  
PERSON
GLOBALL Y BY 2023  
USING A 2015 BASELINE
INCREASE USE OF ELECTRICITY  
FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 
GLOBALL Y  
TO 20% 
BY 2023ENERGY USE
  19% PER  
PERSON 
GLOBALL Y PER  
2015 BASELINE
  37% 
IN USE OF ELECTRICITY FROM  
RENEWABLE SOURCES  
PER 2015 BASELINE,  
FROM 8% IN 2016, TO 16% IN 2019
Photo provided by GSD&M.
2019 CR Report 42
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 ENVIRONMENT
GOING 
PAPERLESS
The finance departments for Quantum Market Research  and Hall & Partners eliminated 
the use of paper in 2019. The eco-friendly move not only came with the added benefit of 
reduced paper and ink costs, but also increased productivity by giving the teams one-click access to supporting documentation.
Making Efficient Use of Space, Increasing Efficiency and Collaborating Across Agencies
Around the world, our goal is to use the spaces we own and lease more efficiently, to reduce environmental impacts, while 
also promoting collaboration and creativity between agencies. 
The United Nations Environment Programme reports that buildings account for 36% of global energy use and 39% of 
greenhouse gas emissions annually. To reduce our contribution to this global challenge, we continually advanced efforts to 
reduce the footprint of our offices by transitioning to hub buildings with open floor plans and shared spaces for our agencies.
In 2019, we completed the consolidation of agencies in multiple locations around the world. For example, in Dallas, we 
consolidated our agencies within an existing hub building by implementing an open office plan, cutting our office footprint by 
nearly half. Work is currently underway to consolidate more spaces in 2020, including moving our headquarters in New York 
City to a building with a smaller environmental footprint. 
Across our footprint, we’ve begun moving to agile work environments that bypass traditional dedicated workstations 
wherever it makes sense for our agencies and employees. As of this writing, we are still assessing what impact the  
COVID-19 pandemic will have on the way we work together in office spaces going forward. 2019 CR Report 43
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance ENVIRONMENT
The goal of agile workplaces is to make the most efficient use of our spaces while giving people the room and comfort 
they need to work productively. In certain offices where we implemented this measure, such as Dallas and New York City, 
employees have already transitioned from assigned to unassigned workspaces. 
Our global planning standard guides our building and retrofitting activities, which includes following Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental DesignTM (LEED®) principles. We’re introducing energy-efficient lighting, heating and cooling, while also 
reducing and reusing materials. In these new and updated spaces, we’re driving ongoing energy and waste savings through 
shared conference rooms and service areas, state-of-the-art video conferencing, virtual file storage and printing centers.  
We also seek to replace existing building mechanical systems wherever possible and cost-effective to more efficient systems. For example, in Los Angeles, we are replacing 50 air-conditioning units with more efficient models in 2020. 
We regularly collect employee feedback through surveys, workshops and leadership meetings to ensure we’re implementing 
the best solutions for our agencies. We are testing desk reservation systems to better gauge the usage of space in shared 
environments. We’re encouraging our employees everywhere to make more efficient use of technology, such as video 
conferencing and collaboration tools, to cut down on travel and reduce the associated environmental impacts. A few of  
our agencies that have car fleets to execute their work are investing in hybrid and electric vehicles. Wherever possible,  
we encourage our employees to bike to work, use public transportation and choose train travel over flying. However,  
at the time of reporting, travel and commuting recommendations have been adjusted to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines  
and prioritize employee health and safety.
ARTFUL
RECYCLING
Marina Maher Communications has turned recycling into an art form. The agency donates its  
used poster boards, easels and other items made of glass, metal or plastic to Materials for the Arts, 
a program that provides goods to artists, nonprofit groups and public schools in New York City. 
GRACE
OF WASTE
The Peter Schmidt Group  turned their daily coffee grounds 
into a nourishing beauty product. Used as a high-quality holiday gift for business partners, even the packaging is made from discarded coffee cups, and the amount of ink used is minimal.2019 CR Report 44
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 ENVIRONMENTShrinking Our Energy Footprint 
In 2019, we continued to cut our global energy 
consumption, using 146,119 megawatt-hours 
(MWh) of energy, a 5% reduction compared  
to 2018. We also cut our electricity use by 6.4%, from 140,929 MWh in 2018 to 131,990 MWh  
in 2019. 
We reduced our companywide greenhouse gas 
emissions by 16% in 2019, compared to 2018, 
thanks to lower business-travel emissions, 
which were down 23% compared to 2018, and lower purchased-electricity emissions, down 
nearly 12% year over year. 
As part of Omnicom’s strategy to curb our 
carbon footprint, we derive a portion of our 
electricity needs from renewable sources. 
These efforts are spearheaded in the UK,  
where we are buying green power in buildings that we manage through electricity purchasing 
agreements. In the United States, more  than 90% of our electricity spend is through 
landlords in our leased spaces, and we 
encourage them to seek renewable energy 
sources whenever possible. In 2019, total 
electricity purchased from renewable resources 
was up 30% year over year to 16% of total 
electricity in 2019 from 10.6% in 2018. This 
is advancing our goal to increase our use of 
electricity from renewable sources globally  
to 20% by 2023.GLOBAL ENERGY FOOTPRINT 
GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS (MT CO2e)
 
GLOBAL ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES (MWH)
DEDICATING
A DAY TO THE 
ENVIRONMENT
Around the globe in 2019, our agencies celebrated our planet 
by dedicating days of activities and initiatives to care for the 
environment. Here are few examples:
• In St. Louis, the FleishmanHillard  Green Team encouraged  
employees to bring a reusable container to work on World Environment Day in order to promote the habit 
and phase out the use of paper cups. Team members 
also led a sustainability workshop where they discussed 
sustainability tips for work and home and offered 
attendees the opportunity to make sustainability pledges.  
In Germany, the FleishmanHillard offices introduced “job bike,” a service through which employees can lease 
an insured bike to reduce the carbon footprint of their commutes, and employees participated in a Zero Waste 
Workshop with a local sustainable partner. 
• On World Environment Day,  Proximity London  
completely stripped the office kitchen of single-use cups and promoted the “If you can’t reuse it, refuse it” 
message as part of its “Cut the Plastic” campaign.
• Resolution Media  teams participated in Clean Up  
Australia Day to show appreciation for their communities 
by sending out teams of employees with plastic bags 
and gloves to clean up their neighborhoods.2019 2018 2017 2016
Total energy used (MWh) 146,119 153,023 175,964 188,365
Total electricity used (MWh) 131,990 140,929 152,841 161,903
Total GHG emissions (Metric Tonnes of CO
2e (MT CO2e)200,376 240,124 260,233 289,685
2019 2018 2017 2016
Purchased (MWh) 21,200 14,987 15,689 16,401
% of total 16.1 10.6 10.1 10.32019 2018 2017 2016
Scope 1 32,409 30,614 23,961 39,764
Scope 2 58,005 65,407 77,445 73,905
Scope 3 109,962 144,103 158,827 176,016
Total GHG Emissions 200,376 240,124 260,233 289,685
442019 CR Report 45
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance ENVIRONMENT
COMING
TOGETHER
Agency employees are passionate about the environment, and they demonstrate that enthusiasm by working together 
to raise awareness among their teams. Here are some ways they increased internal engagement in 2019:
• PHD Australia  kicked off an effort to “gamify” printing 
with a friendly competition between teams to see who 
could print the least. Since launch, the agency has 
reduced paper consumption by 42%.
• In every city across its network,  OMD  has a “greenkeeper”  
who helps the agency meet its sustainability and 
environmental protection goals. OMD also offers a 
bike-leasing program, called JobRad, to encourage 
employees to cycle to work instead of driving.
• BBDO Düsseldorf, Proximity, Batten & Company  and 
Craftwork  partnered on an internal campaign named 
“Don’t be stupid. Stay clean.” The initiative reminds 
employees in a cheeky and funny way to act sustainably 
in the office, with posters in environmental “hot spots” 
by the printer and in the kitchen. • The CPM  “ROOT” team launched several initiatives, 
including the development of a gardening club, 
swapping single-use plastic cups with plant-based 
packaging, adding three charging ports in the parking 
lot for electric cars and raising awareness of new 
recycling bins. 
• Omnicom Media Group Malaysia participates in 
the Plant Cartridge Green Office program, which 
encourages employees to adopt a healthy lifestyle 
and diet while supporting local, sustainable farms. 
The office receives fresh vegetables daily, and any 
unused produce is donated to the local soup kitchen.
UK NATIONAL GRID 
DEMAND SIDE RESPONSE
Omnicom’s London headquarters participates in the National Grid Demand Side 
Response (DSR) program. By balancing the grid during times of high-energy demand, DSR helps negate the need for new fossil fuel-fired generation plants to address peak power needs. In 2019, Omnicom provided 2.5 megawatts of demand response, helping lower carbon emissions and ensure continuity of supply.
2019 CR Report 46
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 ENVIRONMENTClemenger BBDO Melbourne, BBDO
Led by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and a coalition of businesses including founder FINCH, founding partner Mars, Clemenger BBDO  and Nielsen, The Lion’s 
Share was created to tackle the biodiversity and climate crises. The initiative asks advertisers worldwide to contribute 0.5% of their media spend for each advertisement that features 
an animal. The funds are distributed to projects around the world that make a significant impact on animal conservation, habitat loss and climate change. As a campaign partner, 
Clemenger BBDO brought the concept to life and used its creative thinking to drive meaningful impact. 
For additional agency highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com .
► LION’S SHARE biodiversity and 
climate crisesTackling the 2019 CR Report 47
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
 ENVIRONMENTHearts & Science, OMG
As Ad Council’s pro bono partner of the year, Hearts & Science  partnered with the organization to celebrate the 75th birthday of its iconic Smokey Bear. Supported only by donated 
media space and strategic audience insights, the team executed a fully refreshed digital campaign targeting millennial outdoor enthusiasts with tips and resources to prevent wildfires. 
Hearts & Science negotiated close to 10 million impressions in free display media, including customized assets triggered by high fire-risk weather, which created a more unique 
experience for audiences. Following the campaign’s success, Ad Council adopted Hearts & Science’s partner outreach process for use with other partners as well. 
For additional agency highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com .
► KEEPING WILDFIRE PREVENTION FROM “GETTING OLD”      Smokey Bear’s 
75th birthdayRinging in GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
Omnicom is dedicated 
to continually 
strengthening the structure and  policies that govern our business. We know our success stems from a  
clear strategy and a transparent set of controls that align  
with the needs of all  our stakeholders. GOVERNANCE
2019 CR Report 49
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
GOVERNANCE
Governing Our Business 
Omnicom is led by our senior management team  under the direction of our board of directors .  
The board has adopted, and periodically reviews, policies and procedures that guide the discharge 
of its oversight responsibilities. These policies and procedures provide a framework for managing 
our company, consistent with our shareholders’ best interests and requirements of the law. 
Our board consists of nine directors: eight independent or outside directors and our Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer, John D. Wren. Each director stands for election annually. Our four board 
committees are all composed solely of independent directors:
• Audit Committee
• Compensation Committee
• Finance Committee 
• Governance Committee
We seek to align our directors’ collective expertise with the skill areas most important to strong 
oversight of management. Accordingly, we periodically evaluate board composition to help  
inform board succession planning efforts, maintain close alignment between board skills and  
our long-term strategy, and promote board effectiveness. 
We elect our Lead Independent Director annually and evaluate the scope and nature of this role  
on an ongoing basis to ensure that its responsibilities are robust. LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY
AS OF JUNE 9, 2020
ARE FEMALE ARE AFRICAN AMERICAN,  
INCLUDING OUR LEAD 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
ARE MULTICULTURAL ARE FEMALEEach member of our board of directors and leadership team 
has extensive experience and diverse perspectives to ensure 
ethical standards are upheld and exemplary oversight is 
maintained across our networks and agencies.Board members:
Senior management team:
Susan S. Denison
 Mary C. Choksi
Ronnie S. Hawkins
 Linda Johnson Rice
 Valerie M. Williams
John D. Wren
Gracia C. Martore
Leonard S. Coleman, Jr.
Deborah J. Kissireof6 9
of3 11 of3 11of4 92019 CR Report 50
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance
GOVERNANCE
HUMAN RIGHTS
POLICY
As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we 
are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and eliminating discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. This commitment is outlined in our Human Rights Policy .
UPHOLDING 
THE CODE
If employees or others see or hear about activities that may violate the Code, the law or our policies, they are encouraged to ask questions and share their concerns by:
• Talking with their supervisor or any senior manager, the financial manager  
for their agency or network, or the legal department of their agency or network.
• Reaching out to Omnicom’s Legal Department via email or mail.
• Contacting the Internal Control Line – a 24/7, anonymous phone line.Ethics and Integrity
Our Code of Business Conduct  underscores our commitment to 
upholding the highest ethical standards. The Code spells out what we 
value, what we believe and the policies that all Omnicom employees –  
both full- and part-time, at every level, in every location around the 
world – must uphold. The Code also applies to everyone who represents 
Omnicom, from contractors to our board of directors.
With an enhanced Code of Business Conduct rolled out across the 
Omnicom network in 2018, we focused on, and achieved, our goal to 
establish business ethics and/or anti-bribery training for our full-time, 
regular employees worldwide in 2019.
We also developed a Supplier Code of Conduct. Similar to our own 
Code of Business Conduct, the Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the 
expectations and high standards we expect from the businesses that 
provide us with goods and services. We require that all members of  
our supply chain – meaning any person or organization that provides  
a product or service to Omnicom, our agencies or indirectly to our clients –  
endorse our values by operating in compliance with this Code. Topics 
include creating a positive work environment, safeguarding our resources, 
establishing and maintaining trust, complying with industry laws and 
regulations, protecting the environment and respecting human rights.2019 CR Report 51
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report GovernanceGOVERNANCESAFEGUARDING INFORMATION
By the nature of our business, we rely extensively on information technology systems at 
Omnicom and all our agencies and networks. Cybersecurity threats and attacks, which 
are becoming both more frequent and sophisticated, may pose a risk to our systems 
and networks. We have systems and processes in place designed to protect against, 
detect, prevent, monitor, and respond to and mitigate cybersecurity incidents.
Interactive security awareness and cybersecurity training is offered in more than 
a dozen languages, every quarter, to all Omnicom employees. Mandatory training 
modules include topics such as:
• Email, Passwords and Phishing
• Information Classification and Social Engineering
• The Clean Desk Principle and Working Remotely
• Cloud Computing and Mobile Devices
• Intellectual Property
In 2019, we implemented a cloud access security broker, which restricts the use of 
several unsupported cloud platforms for storing documents or collaborating. This 
enables us to better control data storage and manage the security of our clients’ 
intellectual property. 
With regard to consumer data use and privacy, Omnicom and its agencies act as data 
integrators, connecting separate data sources in order to deliver valuable insights to 
clients. This interconnected data is completely anonymous, and we work continuously 
with our partners to ensure it is protected from potential security threats.
COMPLIANCE WITH 
DATA PRIVACY LAWS  
AND REGULATIONS
Since the European Union’s (EU) Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) took effect in 2018, 
we implemented global policies and additional awareness training to all our employees around the world, regardless of their location or level of exposure to personal identification information or related high-risk situations. We also updated our online Privacy Notice in 2019 in response to the California Consumer Privacy Act.2019 CR Report 52
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance ABOUT THIS REPORT
About This ReportPhoto provided by GSD&M.
Material Topics Identification
In developing this report, we consulted various 
global reporting frameworks – including the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and 
G4 Media Sector Disclosures, the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Marketing 
and Advertising Sector Guidelines, the United 
Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the  
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) – and internal and external stakeholders 
to determinve relevant material topics. 
OUR MATERIAL TOPICS ARE:
• Diversity, equity and inclusion 
• Employee attraction, development  
and retention 
• Community engagement 
• Environment 
• Ethics and integrity
• Governance This report provides a high-level overview of Omnicom’s 
corporate responsibility commitments, activities 
and progress in 2019 and includes some anecdotal 
information from early 2020. The report is organized 
to reflect our four focus areas: People, Community, 
Environment and Governance. In this report and online 
at csr.omnicomgroup.com , we have included key  
case studies from our diverse network of agencies  
to characterize our positive impact on society and  
the environment around the world. Stakeholder Engagement 
The content of this report was developed primarily through interviews with Omnicom executives, 
subject matter experts and Omnicom agency employees. We also engaged in conversations with some of our largest shareholders and interviewed NGO partners, clients and investors to solicit 
feedback on our recent corporate responsibility reports. These interviews informed our reporting 
strategy and provided further stakeholder input into our corporate responsibility efforts. 
As part of our regular governance efforts, we reached out to shareholders holding more than 60% 
of our outstanding shares, and we spoke to every shareholder who accepted our invitation for 
engagement. The constructive feedback we received from shareholders – which often included corporate responsibility topics such as diversity, equity and inclusion and environmental sustainability –  
is shared with and discussed by the full board of directors on a regular basis. 
Feedback received from clients centered around requiring more accountability throughout the 
supply chain, ensuring data privacy and information security practices are upheld, being more 
proactive in sharing corporate responsibility efforts, and exploring ways to track and disclose 
additional information requested from SASB, other reporting frameworks and related raters/rankers. 
These topics will help inform our path forward. 
Scope
The quantitative data in this report covers Omnicom’s global operations in fiscal year 2019 (from 
January 1 to December 31, 2019). Numbers throughout the report are estimates based on available 
data. Unless otherwise noted, data within the report reflects our United States operations. Our last 
report was published in 2018.
We plan to continue publishing an annual comprehensive corporate responsibility report that 
references the GRI Standards and fulfills our commitment as a UNGC signatory to produce  
a Communication on Progress.2019 CR Report 53
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance UNGC PROGRESS
UN Global Compact
Communication on ProgressThis report provides information on our corporate responsibility strategy and performance for  
fiscal year 2019 and covers the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress requirements.
Labor
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
Principle 4:  The elimination of all forms of 
forced and compulsory labor;
Principle 5: The effective abolition of child 
labor; and 
Principle 6:  The elimination of discrimination  
in respect of employment and occupation.
Omnicom’s directors, officers and employees 
are required to comply with our Code of 
Business Conduct, which sets the foundation 
for how we should do business on a day-
to-day basis. We are an equal opportunity 
employer and do not discriminate against 
employees or job applicants on the basis 
of race, religion, sex, national origin, age, 
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity 
and/or expression, pregnancy or any similar 
status or condition. For more information on 
our commitment to fair labor, see the People 
section of this report.Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support  
and respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights; and
Principle 2:  Make sure that they are not 
complicit in human rights abuses.
Omnicom’s commitment to support and 
respect human rights is embodied in our 
Human Rights Policy, Code of Business 
Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct 
(expected to go into effect prior to December 
31, 2020). The Code of Business Conduct 
covers our commitment to comply with all 
laws of the places where we do business, 
our prohibition against insider trading, our 
duty to advance our employer’s legitimate 
interest and our commitment to equal 
opportunity. Our Supplier Code of Conduct 
will hold our vendors to the same high 
standards we hold ourselves. The Human 
Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct 
are available on our Corporate Governance 
website. For more information on our 
commitment to respecting human rights, 
see the Governance section of this report.Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should  
support a precautionary approach to  
environmental challenges;
Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote 
greater environmental responsibility; and
Principle 9: Encourage the development  
and diffusion of environmentally  
friendly technologies.
Omnicom is committed to promoting greater 
environmental responsibility and regularly 
reports on environmental performance 
throughout our operations. Omnicom’s 
Environmental Policy outlines our approach 
to minimize our impact by encouraging our 
companies to consider their environmental 
footprint in terms of conscious design of office 
space; energy efficiency; travel and commuting; 
procurement; and recycling and waste 
management. For more information on our 
commitment to environmental sustainability, 
see the Environment section of this report.Anti-Corruption
Principle 10:  Businesses should work 
against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
Omnicom operates in an increasingly 
complex global environment, and our 
commitment to the highest ethical standards 
in the communities where we do business is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct. 
Omnicom directors, officers and employees 
undergo mandatory training for, and are 
required to comply with, all applicable anti-
corruption and anti-bribery laws, including 
the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the 
UK Bribery Act of 2010, and any other local 
anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where 
we do business. For more information on  
our commitment to ethics and compliance, 
see the Governance section of this report.2019 CR Report 54
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance GRI INDEX
GRI IndexTITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE
General Disclosures
General Disclosures 102-01 Name of the organization Omnicom Group
General Disclosures 102-02 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019 10-K , p. 1 (Our Business)
General Disclosures 102-03 Location of headquarters 437 Madison Avenue, New York, New York
General Disclosures 102-04 Location of operations 2019 10-K , p. 7 (Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations)
General Disclosures 102-05 Ownership and legal form 2019 10-K , p. 1 (Our Business), p. 6 (Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common 
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities)
General Disclosures 102-06 Markets served 2019 10-K , p. 1 (Our Business), p. 2 (Our Clients), p. 7 (Item 7: Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations)  
 
2019 CR Report, p. 5 (About Omnicom Group)
General Disclosures 102-07 Scale of the organization 2019 CR Report, p. 5 (About Omnicom Group)
2019 10-K , p. 2 (Our Employees), p. 5 (Item 2: Properties), p. 6 (Item 6: Selected 
Financial Data)
General Disclosures 102-08 Information on employees and other workers 2019 CR Report, p. 5 (About Omnicom Group), p. 10 (Measuring Our Progress),  
p. 10 (Our People at a Glance)
General Disclosures 102-09 Supply chain 2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity), p. 21 (Supporting Supplier Diversity)
General Disclosures 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2019 10-K , p. 10 (Acquisitions and Goodwill)
General Disclosures 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Omnicom Environmental Policy2020 Proxy Statement , p. 20 (Risk Oversight)
General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives CEO Action, Common Ground, Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality, The Valuable 500,  
UN Global Compact, UN Unstereotype Alliance2019 CR Report 55
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance GRI INDEX
General Disclosures 102-13 Membership of associations 4A’s Advertiser Protection Bureau, 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program, 
AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism, Ad Council, ADCOLOR, Advertising Research Fund, Girl Effect, GLAAD, Makers, Trustworthy Accountability Group, Theirworld, Time’s Up
General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2019 CR Report, p. 4 (Letter from Our CEO)
General Disclosures 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
2019 10-K , p. 3 (Item 1A: Risk Factors)
General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Omnicom Code of Business Conduct
2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity)
General Disclosures 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Omnicom Code of Business ConductInternal Control Line
General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure
The Company’s Governance Committee works with management to adopt and 
make recommendations to the Company’s Code of Business Conduct, which includes economic, environmental and social topics.  
 See also:  
2019 CR Report, p. 49 (Leadership Diversity)
2020 Proxy Statement , p. 25-28 (Board Leadership Structure)
General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority 
2020 Proxy Statement , p. 21
General Disclosures 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental,  
and social topics Omnicom’s leadership team oversees economic, environmental, social and  
governance initiatives. The leadership team includes our Chief Financial Officer,  
General Counsel and Secretary, Chief Diversity Officer, Dean of Omnicom  
University and Chief Communications Officer.
General Disclosures 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and  
social topics 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement)
2020 Proxy Statement , p. 6 (Shareholder Engagement)
General Disclosures 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2019 CR Report, p. 49 (Leadership Diversity)2020 Proxy Statement , p. 13-18 (2020 Director Nominees)TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE2019 CR Report 56
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance GRI INDEX
General Disclosures 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 25 (Board Leadership Structure)
General Disclosures 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 19 (Shareholder Nomination Process), p. 20 (Majority 
Voting Standard for Election of Directors)
General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 30-31 (Ethical Business Conduct)
General Disclosures 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values,  
and strategy2020 Proxy Statement , p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities)
Governance Committee Charter
General Disclosures 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Senior management (see Disclosure 102-20) regularly discusses economic, environmental, social and governance topics during shareholder engagement meetings conducted annually.
General Disclosures 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 
2020 Proxy Statement , p. 11-12 (Qualifications of the Members of the Board)
General Disclosures 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and  
social impacts2020 Proxy Statement , p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities)
Governance Committee Charter
General Disclosures 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities)
General Disclosures 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities), p. 26-27 
(Board Operations and Committee Structure)
General Disclosures 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Reviewed by Chief Financial Officer.
General Disclosures 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 24 (Shareholder Communications with Board Members)
General Disclosures 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 4-8 (Meeting Agenda and Voting Recommendations)
General Disclosures 102-35 Remuneration policies 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 7 (Executive Compensation Highlights), p. 31 (Directors’ 
Compensation for Fiscal Year 2019), p. 35-65 (Executive Compensation)
General Disclosures 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 43 (Compensation Discussion & Analysis), p. 55 (Role of 
the Independent Compensation Consultant)TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE2019 CR Report 57
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance GRI INDEX
General Disclosures 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 33 (Item 2: Advisory Resolution to Approve  
Executive Compensation)
General Disclosures 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2020 Proxy Statement , p. 65 (Pay Ratio Disclosure)
General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement)
General Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 0% of Omnicom employees in the United States are covered by collective  
bargaining agreements.
General Disclosures 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement)
General Disclosures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement)
General Disclosures 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement)
General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2019 10-K , Exhibit 21 (Subsidiaries of the Registrant)
General Disclosures 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (About This Report)
General Disclosures 102-47 List of material topics 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Material Topics Identification)
General Disclosures 102-48 Restatements of information No material restatements
General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting None
General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2019
General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018
General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
General Disclosures 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com
General Disclosures 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report references disclosures from the GRI Standards 2018 and the GRI G4 Media Sector Disclosures, as detailed in this index.
General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index 2019 CR Report, p. 54 (2019 GRI Content Index)TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE2019 CR Report 58
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance GRI INDEX
General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured.
Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 CR Report, p. 10 (Our Commitment and Approach), p. 21 (Supporting Supplier 
Diversity), p. 23 (Investing in Training and Development), p. 27 (Community),  
p. 30 (Making a World of Difference), p. 41 (Minimizing the Impact of Our Global Operations), p. 48 (Governance) 
Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components See Disclosure 103-1
Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See Disclosure 103-1
Economic Disclosures
Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 10-K , p. 6 (Item 6: Selected Financial Data), p. F4-F8 (Consolidated  
Balance Sheets)
Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due  
to climate change2019 10-K , p. 5 (Item 1A: Risk Factors)
Economic Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2019 10-K , p. F25-F26 (Defined Benefit Pension Plans)
Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the  
local communityPartially reported: The majority of our senior management at the Omnicom holding company level are hired from the countries they work in.
Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community)
Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community), p. 30 (Making a World of Difference)
Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Most of Omnicom’s buying decisions are made at the agency level in the context  
of the production of client products and campaigns.
Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 
2019 CR Report, p. 53 (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress:  Anti-Corruption)
2019 10-K , p. 4-5 (Item 1A: Risk Factors)
Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies  
and procedures 2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity)Omnicom Code of Business ConductTITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE2019 CR Report 59
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance GRI INDEX
Environmental Disclosures
Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint)
Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2019 CR Report, p. 41 (Minimizing the Impact of Our Global Operations)
Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint)
Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint)
Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint)
Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint)
Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint)
Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2019 Climate Change CDP Response
Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint)
Social Disclosures
Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided   
to temporary or part-time employeesThe percentage of part-time employees at the Omnicom holding company level is 
insignificant. Omnicom doesn’t track this information at the agency level.
Employment 401-3 Parental leave 2019 CR Report, p. 26 (Parental Leave Policy Expansion)
Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Partially reported: 2019 CR Report, p. 23 (Omnicom University)  
 Omnicom offers employees training related to cybersecurity, sexual harassment,  and ethics and integrity.
Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programs2019 CR Report, p. 23 (Omnicom University)
Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviewsEmployee performance and career development reviews are conducted at the  
agency level.TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE2019 CR Report 60
About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GRI Index UNGC Progress About This Report Governance GRI INDEX
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2019 CR Report, p. 10 (Measuring Our Progress), p. 49 (Governing Our Business)
Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity)
Human Rights PolicyOmnicom Code of Business Conduct
Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community)
Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Partially reported: Omnicom Group does not make direct monetary contributions to political candidates or party committees. In accordance with all applicable laws, persons working at Omnicom agencies are permitted to make contributions whether directly or through in-kind support using their own resources. 
Sector-Specific Disclosures
Media G4-DMA Portrayal of Human Rights Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area.  
 See: 2019 CR Report, p. 27-32 (Community), p. 33-37 (Our Agencies in Action)
Media G4-DMA Cultural Rights Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area.  
 See: 2019 CR Report, p. 33-37 (Our Agencies in Action)
Media G4-M7 Media Literacy Omnicom at the holding company level contributes to partners who empower audiences and society to develop skills.  See: 2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community)TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSEIf you have questions or comments regarding this report, 
please email Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com . 
Read more at csr.omnicomgroup.com . 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  REPORT
