1
Title Bold Title Light
2018 CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY  REPORT
02Contents
03
04
05
06
07
18
31
36
40
42
43
52Letter from Our CEO
About Omnicom GroupOmnicom Corporate Responsibility GoalsYear in Review: Omnicom Corporate Responsibility HighlightsPeopleCommunityEnvironmentGovernanceAbout this ReportUN Communications on ProgressGRI Standards Content IndexContact Information03A Letter from Our CEO
As we noted in our last report, in 2018 we 
implemented policies in human rights and 
environmental areas, and began tracking 
our progress against new goals – to reduce 
global energy use, increase electricity use from 
renewable energy sources, formalize business 
ethics training and strengthen engagement with  
our supply chain. I’m pleased to report we 
achieved or made progress against each. 
Omnicom’s success is rooted in the work  
we do for our clients and not in awards. Still, 
it is an honor to be recognized by industry 
peers as we were in 2018, receiving a holding 
company of the year award from Cannes 
Lions as well as The One Show and WARC.
These honors belong to 70,000+ specialists and 
their distinctive talents, who all bring common 
award-winning intangibles, such as creativity, 
flexibility and empathy, which deliver success 
for our clients, our shareholders and the 
communities we share.
Sincerely,
  
John D. Wren 
Chairman & Chief Executive OfficerChange continues to 
be the predominant 
factor impacting our 
industry. Changing 
consumer behaviors, 
transformational 
digital technologies, 
increasing media 
channels and  
hyper-connectivity  
are driving our business,  
and business models. 
In response to the shifting 
marketplace, in 2018 we continued 
to streamline Omnicom’s model to  
allow us to deliver clients a single  
point of access to our network of  
thousands of industry specialists  
in specific marketing disciplines. 
 
In today’s challenging  
times, Omnicom’s  
commitment to  
corporate responsibility  is vital, now more  
than ever.
A letter from our CEO  |  2019CR
 
The reach of our networks  
is matched by the diversity  
of perspectives we bring  
to the creative process.  
In 2018, we continued  
to strengthen our diverse 
teams, expanding our 
Omniwomen chapter  
network in Mexico and the 
United States and celebrating  
our OPEN Pride UK chapter,  
which was shortlisted by the  
British LGBT Awards as one of the  
UK’s top 10 Employee Resource Groups.  
We also lent a hand to a number of industry 
initiatives, including The Valuable 500, the 
Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality and  
the promotion of the 2019 WorldPride events  
in New York City. And we marked another  
year of diversity accomplishments: in addition 
to our diverse board of directors, 56% of our 
U.S. officials and managers were women and 
21% were multicultural. 
Our people also make possible our contributions 
to the communities where we live and work. 
We continued our commitment to the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goal (UN 
SDG) 4, to ensure inclusive and equitable quality  
education. Our pro bono support of Theirworld’s 
#WriteTheWrong campaign helped launch 
a $10 billion plan to put 260 million children 
in school. This report also underpins our 
commitment to the UN Global Compact. 04About Omnicom Group
We are a strategic holding company  
providing advertising, marketing and  corporate communications services  to clients through our branded networks  and agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our networks and agencies provide a comprehensive range of services in the following fundamental disciplines:  
•
 Adv
ertising
•
 S
trategic Media Planning and Buying
•
 Customer Relationship Management
 
•
 Public Relations
•
 Health Car
e Communication Services 
About Omnicom Group  |  2019CRUSA
Food and  
Beverage Technology 
Auto 
Financial  ServicesPharmaceuticals  and Health CareConsumer  
Products
Other 
Telecommunications RetailTravel and Entertainment
Our portfolio includes:  Three global advertising agency networks: BBDO, DDB and TBWA; and 
three of the world’s premier providers of media services: Hearts & Science, OMD and PHD, part 
of Omnicom Media Group. We also manage a global diversified group of agencies under the DAS Group of Companies. 70K+
5K+
70+EMPLOYEES
CLIENTS
COUNTRIES
Rest of 
the World13% 9%
8%
10%
8%
7%
6%5%21%13%52%
48%2018  
CLIENT MIX2018  
REVENUE
Financial Summary  
(in Millions)
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Revenue $15,290.20 $15,273.60 $15,416.90 $15,134.40 $15,317.80
Operating 
Income $2,133.50 $2,083.80 $2,030.50 $1,920.10 $1,944.10
Net Income $1,326.40 $1,088.40 $1,148.60 $1,093.90 $1,104.0005Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Goals
About Omnicom Group  |  2019CR
PEOPLE
Goal:  
Omnicom established  
sexual harassment training  
for its full-time, regular  
employees in the  
United States. ENVIRONMENT
Goal:   
Reduce energy use 20%  
per person globally by 2023,  
using a 2015 baseline.
In progress. 
Goal:  
Increase use of electricity  
from renewable sources  
globally to 15% by 2023.  
In progress.GOVERNANCE 
Goal:   
Develop Supplier Code of  
Conduct by January 1, 2020.
In progress.
Goal:  
By January 1, 2020,  
Omnicom will establish business  
ethics and/or anti-bribery training  
for its full-time, regular  
employees worldwide.
06Year in Review: Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Highlights
Since our last report, we made progress across the four areas on which we focus: People, Community,  
Environment and Governance. We describe these initiatives in this report and on our website.
PEOPLE
• Collaborated on the launch of the P artnership 
for Global LGBTI Equality and assisted on the launch of The Valuable 500 at Davos 
•
 Receiv
ed a perfect score on the  
Corporate Equality Index conducted by  
the Human Rights Campaign for the third consecutive year
•
 Launched Omniwomen cha
pters in  
New York and Mexico in 2018, and Dallas  
on International Women’s Day 2019
•
 S
elected as Platinum sponsor for  
2019 WorldPride in New York City 
•
 OPEN Pride UK shor
tlisted by the  
British LGBT Awards as one of the  
UK’s top 10 Employee Resource Groups
COMMUNITY
• Pr ovided pro bono creative for Theirworld’s 
#WriteTheWrong campaign in support of a $10 billion UN-backed plan to put 260 million children in school
•
 S
upported the UN SDGs through pro bono and 
volunteer contributions by our agencies across the globe
•
 Helped build mor
e resilient communities 
worldwide through our volunteer work where we live and work, and through pro bono creative contributions around the world
ENVIRONMENT
• Reduced global ener gy footprint in excess 
of 10% year over year, and energy use per person by approximately 14% compared  
to 2015 baseline
•
 I
ncreased use of electricity from renewable 
sources by approximately 12% compared  
to 2015 baseline 
•
 Reduced company-wide gr
eenhouse gas 
emissions by approximately 8% in 2018 compared to 2017 baseline
GOVERNANCE
• Continued div erse representation on 
our Board; six of 11 board members are women and four are African American
•
 Achie
ved our goal to establish business  
ethics and/or anti-bribery training  
for our full-time, regular employees  
by the end of 2019
•
 Amended our b
y-laws to reduce  
the ownership threshold required  
for shareholders to call a special  
meeting from 25% to 10% in response  to a shareholder proposal  
About Omnicom Group  |  2019CR
07Omnicom’s people deliver big ideas, powerful 
branding and award-winning campaigns built on deep consumer insights and fueled by their boundless creativity. Together we are a richly  diverse community that is reflected in the work  we produce for clients worldwide.PEOPLE08Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
Omnicom is committed to fostering diverse 
and inclusive workplaces where all employees, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or experience feel comfortable and confident in bringing their whole selves to work.
Across our global network of communications 
and marketing consultancies, we promote awareness, acceptance and advocacy of our diverse communities, creating opportunities for leadership, visibility, networking and business development for all. 
PEOPLE  |  2019CRWe underpin our commitment with: 
Leadership: Collaborating with Omnicom’s chief diversity officer, diversity champions across our 
agency networks help ensure we meet our diversity and inclusion objectives, while representing the 
unique needs and cultures within their organizations.
Measurement: We disclose five-year progress on diversity metrics for our U.S. employees.
Accountability: Omnicom’s CEO pay is determined, in part, on qualitative factors that include diversity.
SPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: 
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
Omnicom agencies are building diverse and inclusive cultures through targeted  
training, mentorship and engagement. 
Leadership in Talent Diversity: FleishmanHillard’s diversity and inclusion (D&I) efforts, 
from hiring to recognition to leadership opportunities, are coordinated under the FH 
Perspectives umbrella. Its 2018 initiatives included Lose the Whisper, a lunch-and-learn series that engaged colleagues in open dialogue around such topics as gender parity, cultural appropriation and LGBTQ+ rights. Critical Mass’ D&I board was established  
in 2018 to lead the agency’s inclusion efforts. Among its initial activities, it launched new D&I-focused employee resource groups and introduced training for hiring managers to remove unintentional bias from the interview process.  
Advancing Women: A Milwaukee office initiative, GMR Marketing’s GLOW (Growth, 
Leadership, Opportunities for Women) rallied employees with signature speaker  
events, personal growth GLOW chats, valuable social and networking events, and inspiring film and Ted Talk screenings. DDB Worldwide’s The Phyllis Project –  named after Phyllis Robinson, DDB Worldwide’s first copywriter and the first female copy chief in U.S. history – is designed to increase the number of female creative leaders. Selected participants receive mentorship, assignments on pitches for DDB Worldwide’s top global clients and enrollment in networks’ leadership training programs. See more examples of our agencies advancing women on page 13. 
Welcoming Everyone: Agencies such as C Space, London, Hall & Partners and Lew’Lara  
\TBWA Brazil have removed the requisite to be a university graduate to work with them. 
C Space reports that the more inclusive criteria means that about one in five new hires now come from a non-traditional background.
09An increase of 13%  
from five years ago.Measuring Our Progress 
This is the third year we have disclosed our five-year progress against key diversity metrics  
for U.S. employees. Disclosure in this report and on our website underlines our commitment  
to strengthen the diverse perspectives that inform our client work.  Building our diverse, 
world-class workforce didn’t happen by accident. Companies must build it into their DNA to achieve 
long-term success.
 
John Wren
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
For the third consecutive year, 
Omnicom received a perfect score  on the Corporate Equality Index conducted by the Human Rights Campaign, demonstrating our commitment to LGBTQ+ equality  and inclusion and designating us  as a 2019 “Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality.”
Omnicom was once again named to 
Forbes Magazine’s list of America’s Best Large Employers, coming in at #104. This recognition marks the third straight year Omnicom was included on the list. It also marks the first time Forbes included Omnicom on its World’s Best Employers list, ranking #89 out of 2,000 global companies.  
OF U.S.  
“OFFICIALS AND 
MANAGERS” ARE  
MUL TICUL TURAL
An increase of 24%   
from five years ago.African 
American4Women6
CURRENT MEMBERS  
OF OUR BOARD  
OF DIRECTORS11
PEOPLE  |  2019CR
56%
OF U.S.  
“OFFICIALS AND 
MANAGERS”  
ARE WOMEN 21% 26%
OF U.S. 
“PROFESSIONAL” 
TALENT BASE IS 
MUL TICUL TURALWomen 57%
White men 33%
Multicultural 24%U.S. “PROFESSIONALS”  
AND “OFFICIALS  
AND MANAGERS”22K10Collaborating for an Inclusive Today and Tomorrow
I am so grateful to Omnicom for dedicating itself  
to the inclusion revolution and giving #valuable the wings it deserved. This is a zeitgeist moment for inclusion, and Omnicom spotted it, supported us  and will now be ahead of the curve. Many of its agencies were instrumental in the launch of the Valuable 500, proving my point that our greatest  allies for change are creative minds and brands.
 
Caroline Casey
Founder, The Valuable 500 Partnering For Change
We joined one such effort in early 2019, partnering with a consortium 
of leading multinational companies (Accenture, Deutsche Bank, EY, Mastercard, Microsoft and Salesforce) in collaboration with the World Economic Forum, to launch the Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality. Announced at Davos in early 2019, the ambitious initiative aims to help accelerate LGBTQ+ workplace inclusion globally by encouraging businesses around the world to implement the United Nation’s  
LGBTQ+ Standards of Conduct. The partnership is closely aligned  with Omnicom’s commitment to foster diverse and inclusive workplaces. We believe we can pave the way toward LGBTQ+ acceptance by changing hearts and minds through thoughtful  and inclusive marketing and advertising.
Also at Davos, we were proud to assist with the launch  
of The Valuable 500, which encourages Fortune 500 companies  
to add disability inclusion to their leadership agendas. This is the  first time that Davos has included disability on its main stage, featuring a distinguished panel of business leaders making the case for disability inclusion. With one in seven people living with some form of disability, the Valuable 500 aims to mobilize commitments from 500 corporate leaders to unlock the value of these 1.3 billion people around the world. In addition to being a signatory, Omnicom is a strategic partner of the Valuable 500, along with nine of our agencies  
(RAPP , AMVBBDO, Interbrand, Ketchum, Manning Gottlieb, Porter  Novelli, One Hundred, Changing Our World, Inc., Fuse), who have provided creative and public relations support for the movement.Creating diverse and inclusive workplaces, as with all complex business issues, demands a long-term view. We collaborate with leaders within our 
networks and across industries to accelerate efforts and more quickly achieve equitable workplaces everywhere. 
PEOPLE  |  2019CR
PEOPLE  |  2019CR
11Raising Our Game Through Collaboration 
Omnicom continues to collaborate with numerous industry and community organizations to elevate 
diversity and inclusion conversations, and actions, in our workplaces and across the industry.  These include:
Ad Council: We serve on the board of  
Ad Council, the leading producer of public service advertisements in the United States, raising awareness and inspiring action  
on a variety of issues, including LGBTQ+ acceptance, diversity and inclusion, sexual harassment and empowering girls. 
Makers:  As a 2018-2019 Makers partner,  
we are helping accelerate the women’s 
movement by shining a light on game-changing women within organizations, sharing diversity and inclusion best practices, and promoting the visionary work companies are doing to create internal change.  Omnicom has supported, 
created and expanded numerous Mosaic Center programs designed to foster an industry culture that attracts and sustains high potential multicultural students pursuing  
an advertising career.  
It has also been an ardent supporter of AAF’s thought leadership initiatives to advance the industry’s understanding of the power of images and messages and its responsibility  
to use its influence  
to improve society.
Constance Cannon Fazier
Chief Operating Officer 
American Advertising Federation
GLAAD: As a platinum partner for the  
2019 Annual GLAAD media awards,  
we have supported GLAAD’s work tackling tough issues to shape the narrative of LGBTQ+ acceptance since 2011.
Unstereotype Alliance:  We are a founding 
member of the Unstereotype Alliance,  
a consortium of global advertisers, digital  
media partners, associations and industry champions who have committed to a global and universal agenda to eradicate harmful gender stereotypes in advertising. 
AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism:   
Omnicom is the AFF Most Promising 
Multicultural Students Program’s premiere sponsor and is sponsor/producer of its  
Most Promising University, where we host  50 young people each year in a daylong immersive advertising and media curriculum.   
ADCOLOR: Since 2007, we have celebrated 
diverse professionals through the ADCOLOR awards program and conference and ADCOLOR FUTURES, which nurtures the next generation of industry leaders through complementary admission to the ADCOLOR conference,  career training through ADCOLOR  
University and mentorship.12Fostering a Culture of Diversity & Inclusion
A culture of equality fosters trust, innovation, creativity and, ultimately, business success.  
We nurture a sense of connection through investments in our Omnicom People Engagement Network (OPEN) and its vibrant employee resource groups, Omniwomen and OPEN Pride.
Omniwomen + ALLIES
Since launching globally in 2014 and establishing 
its UK flagship chapter in 2015, Omniwomen has catalyzed the number and influence of women leaders across our networks and agencies. We continue to increase the number of women in leadership positions across our Omnicom network, and our business is stronger due to their growing numbers and contributions.
Omniwomen chapters launched in New York  
and Mexico in 2018, and we anticipate continued growth in 2019, with interest  
in another half-dozen global centers in countries such as Argentina, Australia,  
Belgium, Brazil and Singapore. In the U.S., our first 2019 chapter opened in Dallas on International Women’s Day. These recent additions brought the total to 15 Omniwomen chapters across the globe.In addition to an expanding reach,  
the Omniwomen experience is becoming increasingly rich. Around the world, members  
are deepening their skills and networks at:  
•
 Summits,
 annual symposia focused  
on inspiring and activating women  
in leadership, including Omniwomen  
UK + Allies fifth annual leadership 
gathering, which welcomed more  
than 300 women and men to a day of workshops, discussions and reflection along with talks from inspirational and diverse speakers 
•
 W
orkshops, such as Chicago’s  
“Activate a Better You” and Canada’s  
“Being Brave” sessions, to help women develop capabilities and confidence
•
 Mentorship,
 through events like 2018’s 
match-up in Germany, where mentors  
and mentees from agencies across the country were partnered by way of speed mentoring events
•
 Giving back, 
by way of contributions 
to global and local initiatives, such as donations from Omniwomen France  
to La Cravate Solidaire, a charity that distributes gently used professional apparel to unemployed women to fight against appearance discrimination  
during job interviews 
NEXT GEN LEADERSHIP
Omniwomen France is nurturing a new generation 
of bold leaders. Declaring the mold is broken, the chapter’s younger members – and future leaders – published their vision of leadership for the 21st century. The hugely popular volume is being translated from French into English for distribution to all Omniwomen chapters. 
OMNIWOMEN + ALLIES
Recognizing that support from our male colleagues  is an important asset to promote women’s leadership, Omniwomen chapters in Canada, Germany and the UK, evolved their strategies in 2018 inviting men to share leadership stories, participate in panels and contribute as mentors and allies. 
DIVERSE TALENT
Our agencies are partnering with nonprofit organizations in their communities to prepare  and hire diverse talent:
GSD&M collaborates closely with Huston Tillotson 
University, a historically black university, to sponsor networking opportunities at a national advertising competition and to help students prepare for the workforce through mock interviews.
OMD participates in “Creative Spirit,” an initiative 
that helps agencies hire and retain individuals with intellectual, developmental and learning disabilities. OMD made their first Creative Spirit hire in 2018.
PEOPLE  |  2019CRPEOPLE  |  2019CR
13
OPEN Pride
Omnicom’s diversity and inclusion efforts  
are strengthened through our engagement  of and advocacy for our LBGTQ+ employees and allies. We embrace our colleagues through OPEN Pride, which provides opportunities for leadership, visibility, community involvement, networking and business growth. 
With 2018 chapter launches in Australia (Sydney 
and Melbourne) and the United States (St. Louis and Chicago), OPEN Pride continues to expand its global representation – already in India, China, The Philippines, UK and Canada, along with NYC in the U.S. and our newest chapter, in Germany (Berlin), which opened early in 2019.
OPEN Pride achieved two significant  
milestones in 2018. First, Omnicom was 
selected as Platinum sponsor for 2019 WorldPride, which is being celebrated in New York City in June 2019. In-kind campaigns  
from Omnicom agencies, including Interbrand, RAPP Worldwide, Ketchum, FleishmanHillard,  Porter Novelli and RXMosaic, will assist NYC Pride in its branding and marketing efforts. Across the pond, OPEN Pride UK is having a celebration of its own after being shortlisted by the British LGBT Awards as one of the UK’s top 10 Employee Resource Groups. It’s a proud accomplishment for the chapter, receiving  
the recognition only two years after its launch.  A look at the incredible activities it activated  in 2018 shows why: 
•
 K
eep the Noise Up, a documentary  
produced by the Proximity OPEN Pride  team and featuring Black Pride’s Phyll Opoku-Gyimah won Best in Show at a gala screening. #keepthenoiseup was shared well beyond the community, reaching more than 1.7 million people through 100,000-plus views.
•
 OPEN Pride UK named, branded and launched O
penly , the first global LGBTQ+ 
news platform, through a pro bono partnership with the Thomson Reuters Foundation. It then teamed up with Free  & Equal United Nations for LGBTQ+ Equality for September launch events in New York and London.
OPEN Pride UK has grown from 10 to more  than 100 registered members, and employees from 44 Omnicom UK companies have participated in an OPEN Pride UK event. International Women’s Day
International Women’s Day’s 2018  theme #PressforProgress rallied Omnicom people around the world to fight for gender equality, with keynotes, panel discussions, networking events and project launches. We highlight a few here:
Global branding firm Siegel+Gale 
leveraged their network of leading  female executives from across  industries in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco to discuss how women can #PressforProgress in the corporate workplace. Attracting more than 180 marketing leaders representing international brands, their inspiring three-day program earned them recognition among International Women’s Day 2018 Best Practice Winners. 
14On this day, BBDO Singapore launched 
Heels of Steel, a diversity project that expanded across Southeast Asian markets in 2018. First launched in 2017 in Malaysia, the series hosts influential female leaders from all walks of life to give talks to employees about their personal paths to success. Its aim is  to accelerate the progress of women  in the workplace and inspire both female and male employees.
TBWA launched Circle of Women, 
which aims to create a pipeline to grow female leadership in the agency. The initiative offers group training and speakers as well as executive coaching for women on the cusp of leadership. Recently TBWA invited clients to join the program to attract, coach and advance top talent on both sides  of the industry. 
Cincinnati-based Barefoot Proximity 
marked the day by encouraging  
female employees to shout out  
their talents and accomplishments  
in self-produced “Brag Booth” video  
clips. In addition to women delivering their own promos, male colleagues shared videos celebrating the ideas  
and contributions of their female peers.Our idea – hatched  
by several female 
leaders within 
Omnicom – was 
simple: create  
a forum to help 
other women advance 
to leadership positions. 
Women account for 85% of the 
public relations industry, yet men make up 80% of the executive management. I’m proud of the  
work I’ve been able to do to help increase gender diversity and  more broadly attract diverse  talent into the companies.
 
Karen van Bergen
CEO, Omnicom Public Relations Group,  
Founding Member and  
Board Member, Omniwomen
When we believe in something, we must fight for it. We all love to fight for 
a brilliant idea. We must also fight for our values. That’s why I proposed 
launching Omniwomen in France. For three years now, it’s been 
supported by more and more women, and by men. 
 
Valerie Accary
President, BBDO Paris & CLM BBDO We can’t afford to limit 
ourselves to just 50% 
of the available talent 
pool. By placing our 
women in positions 
of leadership, we send 
a clear message that we 
value, support and promote 
top talent, irrespective of gender. This message inspires young talent coming through. And it demonstrates to our clients, many of whom have women in positions of leadership themselves, that we are working hard to ensure we have diverse and balanced thinking across our agencies.
 
Kimberly Wells
CEO, TBWA\Melbourne  
and TBWA\Adelaide
PEOPLE  |  2019CR
15Developing Our People
Omnicom’s culture is distinguished by a long-standing belief in the power of learning and 
development. We offer the industry’s richest opportunities for individual growth through Omnicom 
University and through our network programs, including Catalyst at DDB, BBDO University, 
Tiger Academy at TBWA, Ketchum University, OMD Foundations, and more — all contributing 
to enhancing employees’ professional breadth and our success in retaining top talent. 
Leadership Development
For 25 years, Omnicom University has led  
the way, providing advanced education for current and future leaders using real world case studies developed from the wealth  
and breadth of experiences at Omnicom agencies. To date, more than 5,000 students have completed programs at Omnicom University, including: 
•
 Senior Management Under
graduate 
and Graduate Programs, providing 
senior executives with leading-edge 
management thinking on management and change leadership in a highly competitive and fast-changing  
global marketplace
•
 Adv
anced Management Program,   
three-day immersive sessions for future leaders tackling industry-challenging issues and trends through the Omnicom University’s unique case-study approach
•
 Agency Leadership Pr
ogram, delivering  
a personalized experience to new  
leaders to up their decision-making effectiveness and leadership acumen through an agency simulation program
PEOPLE  |  2019CROMNICOM  
UNIVERSITY 
TESTIMONIALS
Omnicom University has a profound impact  
on participants. Here is how a few described 
their experience:
I loved the way the program is 
structured like a cumulative, growing 
tsunami of knowledge.
 
Luis Miguel Messianu, 
CEO, Creative Chairman, Alma, Miami
It is the single best thing about 
Omnicom. I loved the recognition of the 
professional and personal challenges 
we face day-to-day. It was hard work, 
but I feel refreshed!
 
Mike Cooper, 
OMG-Group CEO, APAC and EMEA, London
Good to be reminded that what I do 
matters. I love the balance between 
brilliant professors, cases and 
colleagues.
Sharon Love, 
CEO, TPN, New YorkAcross our networks and agencies, unconscious 
bias training has been another area of recent focus. Recognizing that we all carry some level of unconscious bias, Omnicom Media Group India partnered with Facebook to help employees in Mumbai and Delhi understand common biases and how to manage them. Among others, BBDO Atlanta also provides unconscious bias training for its employees,  
as does Proximity London’s Diversity and Inclusion Steering Committee, for its managers. 
PEOPLE  |  2019CR
16
MEDIA ARTS LAB  
ANTI-BIAS TRAINING
Media Arts Lab (MAL) Train-the-Trainer  
is a five-day immersive course available to Omnicom agencies that facilitates agency-led unconscious bias learning. The specially designed programming includes topics such as active listening, common workplace biases, and effective examples of diversity in industry ads. MAL piloted Train-the-Trainer with  
GMR Marketing, which has since held 18,  four-hour intensive learning labs that  
received 59% employee enrollment. Health and Well-Being
Omnicom continues to offer comprehensive and quality health care benefits to U.S. employees while maintaining a reasonable degree of individual choice to meet our employees’ diverse needs. Since 2016, Omnicom has covered transgender related services under the medical plans that cover almost all employees and their eligible family members.
Mental Health Education and Wellbeing:  
Mental health is increasingly being recognized 
as a workplace issue. We know that supporting employee mental health is as important as supporting their physical health. Creating a non-judgmental culture where employees are comfortable talking about mental illness is a first step. RAPP UK offers coaching sessions for staff to increase their confidence in talking about mental health with colleagues. adam&eve DDB deploys 25 volunteer mental health first aiders trained to recognize mental health concerns, offer initial support and inform about the options available for professional help.Omnicom Health Group Stepping It Up: Launched in October 2018, Omnicom  
Health Group’s OHGfit challenged agencies across its global network to compete to get  
the most steps and win the opportunity  
to choose a charity to receive a donation.  
As the preeminent healthcare communications network in the industry, OHG partnered with a client, Fitbit, to encourage its talent to literally walk the talk and embrace the importance of healthy activity and wellness through this program. In one month, 1,100 OHG employees across 15 agency networks walked 212 million steps. Within three months, OHG exceeded its goal of 30% employee engagement. Three winning agencies – Snow Companies, Link9  
and Harrison & Star – donated a total of  
$30,000 in prize money to deserving charities.
PEOPLE  |  2019CR
17Emphasizing Supplier Diversity
Across Omnicom networks and agencies, we are committed to bringing  
the most creative and technically savvy contractors to our client work.  We continue to advance our efforts through conversations, connections  and tools to ensure our creative and production directors can draw from  a diverse supplier base when assembling project teams.   
We recognize we need to move beyond simply meeting targets to ensuring 
that we’re tapping into the wealth of underutilized diverse talent around the world. In 2018, we expanded our efforts in two areas to help that process. 
TBWA launched One Sandbox, a curated, web-based directory  
of 250-plus women-owned, multicultural and LGBTQ+ suppliers.  
At year-end, One Sandbox was in beta test across 10 TBWA agencies.  
The member-based search platform was rolled out across additional Omnicom agencies in Spring 2019, where we hope it will catalyze  diverse supplier hiring. TBWA agencies spent more than $160 million  with more than 300 diverse companies in the past five years.
GSD&M completed the rollout of its vendor partner mini-training  
capsules. Sent using EYEMAIL, a new pop-up electronic mail  
technology, the 60-second, executive-led videos covered topics  describing the importance of vendor diversity and the ins and outs  
of small-business contracting.GSD&M exceeded its agency-wide  diversity goals, achieving more than 12% spend on minority-owned  and women-owned vendors in 2018. Over a 10-year contract 
with the U.S. Air Force, 
GSD&M achieved  
nearly triple the 23% 
mandated.
DIVERSE SUPPLIER 
SPEND64%
GSD&M was awarded  
a subsequent  
10-year contract.18Omnicom’s commitment to serving our 
communities is long-standing. We contribute our passion, creativity and time to support causes that advance global education, equity and environmental protection—all of which are more important than ever. COMMUNITY19Advertising is a persuasive force that can 
change individual minds to create good for many. 
Omnicom and our agencies generously support 
communities and clients by investing in:  
•
 I
ndustry-wide initiatives  
to drive global change
•
 Agency-driv
en pro bono  
and volunteer programs
•
 Client campaigns that addr
ess  
poverty, human rights and other  
social equity issues
As a founding member of Common Ground,  
an unprecedented commitment by the 
marketing and communications industry  
to put aside their usual rivalry to support  
the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals, we are the pro bono global marketing 
and communications partner for Theirworld and Girl Effect. Through these initiatives,  
we work to ensure inclusive and quality 
education for children around the world, 
contributing to SDG 4. 
In a significant achievement, Theirworld,  
a charity dedicated to putting education  at the top of the global agenda, succeeded  
in getting the backing of the United Nations, 
World Bank and G20 nations for its bold 
education funding plan to put 260 million 
children in school. The $10 billion plan,  
the single biggest investment in education  
in history, will establish the International 
Finance Facility for Education to target  
COMMUNITY  |  2019CRSPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: 
THE UN SDGs
The efforts of our agencies in communities 
around the world support the Sustainable Development Goals.
Marina Maher Communications with RXMOSAIC sponsored the primary school education of 14 girls through She’s the First, a nonprofit that 
supports girls who will be the first in their families to graduate high school. The 40-strong volunteer team has raised $30,000 over seven years through a variety of events including #CheeseTheFirst, celebrating the International Day of the Girl with cheese and wine from local women-run wineries and female cheesemakers, and a Day of the Girl event featuring conversations between actress and advocate Monique Coleman and She’s the First scholar Ellie Kaaya.  
Contributing to the Global Good
some of the world’s most marginalized  
youth and address issues that are denying 
them access to school, such as child labor, 
child marriage and discrimination against  
girls. The centerpiece of the campaign was  
an animated film #WriteTheWrong, which 
depicts a global education crisis that has left 
hundreds of millions of children out of school. 
It was created pro bono by Omnicom and 
our agencies, Ketchum PR, OMD and BBDO. 
#WriteTheWrong launched ahead of the United 
Nations General Assembly in New York in 
September 2018 and was featured at high-level 
UN meetings and on billboards throughout 
Times Square. 
We also continued our pro bono strategic 
communications and media support with Girl 
Effect, a nonprofit that creates youth brands 
and mobile platforms to empower girls to 
change their lives.   
20Entrée Health Princeton with partner Link9 
provided pro bono work for the ZanaArica Foundation launch on International Woman’s Day 2019. Zana Africa supports adolescent girls in Kenya with sanitary pads and health education, both scarce in their communities. 
The creative team developed a campaign for use on billboards throughout the United States, including eight billboards in Times Square on launch day, with a companion Instagram and Facebook ad campaign that ran for the week surrounding it.
Rabin Martin employees serve on the Young Professionals Board of Amref Health 
Africa, the largest Africa-based healthcare nonprofit, and raise funds for the ongoing work to stop the practice of female genital mutilation and child marriage. For 50 years, Amref Health Africa has helped improve the health of thousands of people across  35 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, partnering with local communities and the  private sector to scale their programs and realize sustainable change.
OMG MENA volunteer teams supported rural villages in India  
and The Philippines, building water filtration towers to provide access to clean running water. The teams also educated children on basic hygiene, volunteered at community projects and provided the communities with school and hygiene supplies. 
RAPP volunteers fundraise on an almost monthly basis to  
support Shelter, a nonprofit that aims to end homelessness  
and housing inequality in the UK through donation drives for 
clothing, hygiene items and food for local shelters, as well as initiatives to ensure neighborhood caterers and restaurants  
divert their food waste to good causes. 
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR
2021Engaging with Communities and Volunteering 
Agencies across Omnicom have a long history of contributing to their  communities through volunteer and pro bono client work, with many agencies providing 
employees with paid time off to contribute to volunteer activities. We highlight a few recent efforts.
•
 Thr
ough Call in Time, 16 volunteers from OMG Age UK  
are matched with elderly people for weekly 20-minute  
calls. The national telephone befriending service was  
designed by Age UK to tackle loneliness in older people.  
•
 About 90 BBDO Russia emplo
yees volunteer with Our Children,  
a charity foundation that aims to prevent social orphanhood  
by helping children who lack parental care successfully integrate  
into society. Volunteers give lessons, organize educational  
and sporting activities in orphanages, and participate in  
fundraising actions.
•
 The Clemenger Gr
oup companies teamed up to participate  
in Tour de Cure, a three-day ride through Tasmania to raise  
money for Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute in Australia.  
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR
With 10 people on bikes, two filming and many, many more 
supporting the effort, the team raised almost $90,000 for  
cancer research. 
•
 Recognizing that access to medical equipment pr
ovides life-
changing positive effects around the world, particularly in areas  
with limited resources such as Northern Ghana, Chameleon 
committed to raising funds for the Afrikids Medical Centre via 
a series of activities to provide a much-needed upgrade to the 
Centre’s hematology laboratory. 
•
 Ramadan S
haring Fridges, an initiative of the Emirates Red  
Crescent and Islamic Affairs & Charitable Activities Department, 
gives back to the community by providing access to nourishment 
for people who may struggle otherwise. Starting on the first day of 
Ramadan, 100 refrigerators are distributed across Dubai. The BBDO 
group, including IMPACT BBDO, IMPACT Porter Novelli and IMPACT 
Proximity, participated in 2018, collecting nonperishable food items 
each week and stocking the refrigerators around the city.
•
 F
or women who have been displaced from their homes and 
estranged from their families, the holidays can be a particularly 
challenging time. The Shoebox Project collects and distributes  
gift-filled shoeboxes to women impacted by homelessness.  
In 2018, CDM Montreal created specially designed wrapping  
paper for the more than 100 shoeboxes it assembled. 
22
Title Bold Title LightPRESCRIBED TO DEATH 
Energy BBDO, BBDO;  
Ketchum, Omnicom PRG
The National Safety Council created 
Prescribed to Death, a memorial  
of 22,000 pills with carved faces of 
opioid victims on them. Energy BBDO 
created Warn Me Labels to urge 
Americans to see the risk in their 
own medicine cabinets, and 
Ketchum produced online video 
stories. The campaign’s success 
earned an invitation to host the 
memorial at the White House. 
HEART HEAL THY
CDM NY, DAS
Many lower-income 
neighborhoods are “deserts” for 
heart-healthy food, which can put 
residents at risk for heart-related 
illnesses. Using Instagram, CDM NY 
created an awareness campaign for the 
American Heart Association, highlighting 
food access issues and educating residents 
on ways to make healthier choices. THE PARALYMPIC NETWORK
BBDO Toronto, BBDO
The Canadian Paralympic Committee with  
BBDO Toronto created their own social  
media broadcast network made entirely  
of fans. Live event feeds were 
automatically posted to fans’  
social streams resulting in an  
11,000% increase in viewership 
and making the 2018 Paralympic 
Games the most watched in 
Canadian history.
THE COLOR OF 
OUR CHARACTER
Rodgers Townsend, DDB
Through music, poetry and 
prose, performers at the Black 
Rep theatre, the largest African-
American theatre company in the 
U.S., communicate the passion and 
pain of being black. For the 42nd season, 
Rodgers Townsend created a collection 
of attention-grabbing posters that were as 
supercharged as the performances they promoted. 
Improving Lives Through Client Work
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR23PRETTY
The Integer Group, TBWA
To stop the counting of selfie likes and start 
building self-worth, the Integer Group 
partnered with Girls Inc. of Metro Denver 
to publish Pretty. The picture book 
redefines what pretty means, going 
beyond appearance to teach 
girls that being pretty strong, 
pretty kind and pretty smart 
are pretty important, too.
 MCDOWELL’S 
DRIVEU APP
DDB Mudra Group, DDB
Drinking and driving causes 
most fatal road accidents in 
India’s metro areas. McDowell’s 
No. 1 Soda commissioned DDB 
Mudra Group to create a campaign 
urging friends to pledge against 
drunk driving. McDowell partnered with 
DriveU, a hire-a-driver app, to provide a 
solution that lets friends call for a driver. RE:SCAM
DDB NZ, DDB
DDB NZ, working with Netsafe, devised  
the Re:Scam bot to combat scammers. 
Using AI, Re:Scam determines if email 
content is likely a scam and, if it 
is, engages the scammer in a 
never-ending trail of questions. 
The campaign had 279 million 
media impressions,  
sent 1 million emails  
to scammers, and  
wasted five years  
of scammers’ time.
SAVE THE 
CHILDREN  
AND P&G 
CORPORATE
BBDO Indonesia, BBDO
BBDO Indonesia, working with  
P&G and Save the Children, created  
a campaign aimed at educating secondary 
school students against the danger of 
domestic violence and underage marriage, 
and encouraging them to embrace their full 
potential before embarking into domestic life. 
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR24GRACIE AI
BBDO Atlanta, BBDO
Gracie is an artificially intelligent online 
presence created by BBDO Atlanta for 
Street Grace, a faith-based organization. 
Gracie impersonates minors selling 
sex with the aim of intercepting 
predators. “She” warns and directs 
predators to resources to find 
help, while also relaying their 
information to law enforcement.  
THE MINING 
SCREENSAVER
Tracylocke Brasil
Tracylocke Brasil designed 
the Mining Screensaver, putting 
idle computers to work raising 
funds for Change.org. Once 
installed, computers are programmed 
to mine for cryptocurrencies during 
downtime.  Fees generated by processing 
transactions are automatically donated to 
Change.org to help fund social change programs.MÉXXICO LIBRE DE CORRUPCION  
(MEXICO FREE OF CORRUPTION)
TERAN, TBWA
Working in support of Méxxico Libre  
de Corrupcion, TERAN’s campaign  
takes action through TV ads, radio  
spots, in-theatre ads and digital  
media to end the corruption  
afflicting the country. The  
campaign reached more  
than 8 million people. 
STAND UP  
TO CANCER
OMD, OMG
SU2C provides funding to top 
cancer researchers at more 
than 140 institutions. OMD 
continues to partner with SU2C, 
leveraging relationships to feature 
celebrity ambassadors and create 
awareness. Its work on SU2C’s telecasts 
resulted in more than 4 billion impressions 
that will continue to drive cancer fundraising. 
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR25BUILD THE BLOCK
OMD, OMG
Build the Block is a New York City 
neighborhood police initiative aimed at 
facilitating communication between 
officers and residents. OMD produced 
a media campaign that continued 
into 2018 to publicize the program 
through TV, radio and social 
media, bringing more than 
$2 million in added value. 
#MENTALDOWNLOAD
PROXIMITY SPAIN, DAS
Women are disproportionately 
affected by mental load,  
an invisible burden from  
being responsible for logistics 
and decision-making at home. 
P&G collaborated with Proximity 
Madrid to develop the #descargamental 
(#MentalDownload) project, creating 
awareness of the imbalance between men’s 
and women’s responsibility for household tasks.BUZZED DRIVING 
OMD, OMG
Ad Council partnered with OMD to address 
the dangers of buzzed driving, focusing 
on millennial males. OMD provided 
creative insight and donated media 
on YouTube and Facebook to make 
the campaign a viral success.  
One of the campaign videos 
even made #7 on AdAge’s  
list of top viral videos. 
DO SOMETHING
DDB Health, DAS
DDB Health created a poignant 
commercial for Children’s Brain 
Tumor Project to raise awareness 
of the fact that every day, seven 
children are lost due to brain tumors. 
Focused on a child in danger of 
drowning and the inaction of bystanders, 
it asks the question, “If a child was in 
danger, you’d do something. Wouldn’t you?”
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR26COCHLEAR HEARING TEST
CHE Proximity, BBDO
Our hearing is as unique as our fingerprint. 
Cochlear’s Hearprint is an online 
application that calibrates online 
video and music to the listener’s 
unique hearing ability, improving 
their audio experience. CHE 
Proximity supported this 
project through a visceral 
and captivating launch film 
and media campaign.
DEADLY 
QUESTIONS
Porter Novelli 
Australia, BBDO
Porter Novelli worked with 
Clemenger BBDO and Hall & 
Partners to create Deadly Questions, 
a campaign to help Victorians learn 
more about local Aboriginal cultures 
and Treaty. The campaign launch secured 
widespread support, setting the agenda for the 
historic first Treaty bill to pass State Parliament. OVARIAN CANCER AUSTRALIA 
GRACosway, BBDO 
GRACosway works with Ovarian Cancer 
Australia to raise awareness of ovarian 
cancer, provide strategic counsel on 
OCA’s engagement with government 
officials, and highlight the importance 
of funding for ovarian cancer 
research. In 2018, these efforts 
helped OCA secure $2.9 million  
in federal government funding. 
WHY GIVE? 
The Integer Group, 
TBWA
The Integer Group, in support  
of Volunteers of America Colorado 
Branch, interviewed and photographed 
several men, women, families and 
veterans receiving assistance from  
VOA Colorado. Through their emotive  
images and stories, the storytellers 
communicated a more personal look at  
how generous donations benefit real people. 
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR27GEL FOR SHAME
DDB Warsaw, DDB
Aiming to free women of their shame and 
encourage them to get regular breast 
exams, DDB Warsaw collaborated with 
Avon to get people talking about a 
new “beauty” product. The new 
product was, in reality, just an 
ordinary ultrasound gel. The 
magazine and social media 
campaign reached more than 
25 million. 
JOHNSONVILLE’S 
BIG TASTE GRILL 
GMR Marketing, TBWA
In 2018, the Johnsonville Big Taste 
Grill raised nearly $100,000 for  
28 charities and supplied 9,000 
meals to victims, first responders and 
volunteers in communities hit by natural 
disasters. GMR staffed the traveling road 
crew, recruited local volunteers, handled  
media and social media, and created  
the grill itself!DREAMS
Harrison and Star, DAS
The Dream Foundation serves terminally ill 
adults and their families by providing end-
of-life dreams. Harrison and Star built a 
custom iPad app enabling attendees at 
the Foundation’s charity event to swipe 
through different “dreams” to find 
a touching story and then donate 
to that dream in a secure and 
seamless experience. 
BLINK  
TO SPEAK
TBWA \ India, TBWA
For patients with brain and 
spine injuries, communication 
is a challenge. To help overcome 
their struggle to speak, TBWA\ India 
conceptualized a simple and accessible 
solution: an eye language that everyone  
can learn free of charge. It was developed 
for the Asha Ek Hope Foundation and 
Neurogen Brain & Spine Institute. 
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR28LIGHT UP CHRISTMAS
OMD UK / OMG
NSPCC, fighting to end child abuse, wanted  
to show young people that they weren’t 
alone when it came to racial bullying.  
OMD UK, with Sky Cinema, created  
a campaign to engage potential 
donors by sponsoring Christmas 
light displays across the UK.  
The campaign reached  
35 million people through 
multiple channels and raised 
more than £1,000,000.
FROG DROPPER 
DDB Puerto 
Rico, DDB
After Hurricane Maria, Puerto 
Ricans did not have safe water. 
DDB Puerto Rico teamed up 
with Clorox to devise a dropper – 
inspired by the Coqui frog, Puerto 
Rico’s national icon – that dispensed the 
exact amount of bleach needed to make 
one liter of water safe. The dropper provided 
up to 4 million liters of safe water monthly. THE UNBALANCED SCALE
BBDO China, BBDO
BBDO China worked with the Shanghai Civil 
Affairs Bureau to create The Unbalanced 
Scale, a campaign to expand awareness 
of UN SDG 2: Zero Hunger. Attendees 
of Shanghai’s Charity Carnival were 
invited to stand on a scale equating 
their body weight to a number of 
starving children. They were then 
asked to donate to UNICEF.
INEQUALITY  
BALLS
Africa (Brazil), DDB
Africa (Brazil) with its client, 
espnW, highlighted women’s 
pay inequality in sports by putting 
evidence of the salary gaps on  
game balls. It then sent the balls  
to 50 influencers to help amplify. 
Developed with Netshoes and 
Change the Game, the campaign 
reached 15.3 million people and saw 
7.5 million social media interactions.
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR29MY SPECIAL AFLAC DUCK 
Marina Maher Communications, DAS
MMC spearheaded a campaign to launch and 
deliver My Special Aflac Duck, a social robot 
that uses interactive technology to help 
children cope with cancer. Aflac aims 
to provide a My Special Aflac Duck  
to every child newly diagnosed  
with cancer in the U.S.,  
ages 3-13, free of charge  
via participating hospitals.
BIG BLIND WALK
Porter Novelli, DAS
To drive vision and eye care 
higher up on the public health 
agenda, Porter Novelli followed 
Julian Jackson, who is blind, on 
his 1,000-mile fundraising walk. The 
campaign made front-page news and 
received broadcast and gold-tier media 
coverage promoting Julian’s cause, which 
helped him raise £45,000 to support sight. BOWEL CANCER FOUNDATION
TBWA\Auckland, TBWA
To build awareness of bowel cancer,  
TBWA\Auckland worked with New 
Zealand’s most popular soap opera, 
Shortland Street, to script a much-
loved character with a diagnosis 
of bowel cancer. New Zealanders 
were encouraged to talk about 
and recognize symptoms early 
on, increasing awareness to 
help save lives.
FROM 
“MISUNDERSTOOD”  
TO “MS, 
UNDERSTOOD”
FleishmanHillard, DAS
FleishmanHillard created a pop-up café 
that simulated multiple sclerosis (MS) 
symptoms, the most common neurological 
disease among Irish young adults. More 
than 2,000 unsuspecting patrons visited the 
café, the campaign reached more than 13 million 
and 12 parliamentary questions on improving access 
to MS treatment reached the floor in one month.  
For the first time in brand history, Aflac expanded the role of its iconic Aflac 
Duck to help provide young cancer patients comfort and joy when they need it 
most. We implemented a robust campaign to achieve four objectives:
Generate awareness and excitement surrounding the launch and 
delivery of My Special Aflac Duck and its role in supporting pediatric 
cancer patients and their families, while reaching broader consumers.
Position My Special Aflac Duck as a proof point of Aflac’s heritage 
in pediatric cancer , underscoring Aflac’s CSR commitments.
Connect Aflac’s CSR program with business success, measured 
by improvements in key business metrics, including sales and 
premium increases.
Create partnerships with organizations like Children’s Miracle 
Network Hospitals®and Children’s Oncology Group, utilizing their 
relationships with celebrities to generate top-tier media, driving 
hospital participation.1
2
3
4
3OVERVIEW
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR30MORE POWERFUL TOGETHER
FleishmanHillard, DAS
FleishmanHillard partnered with the UN’s 
HeForShe movement to shut down half 
the lights in 20+ iconic buildings, 
creating a visual metaphor of power 
lost without women. The campaign 
resulted in 30,000 commitments 
of support from male allies, a 
500% spike in web traffic, 560 
million media impressions and 
endorsements by governments 
in several U.S. states.
RONALD 
MCDONALD 
HOUSE CHARITIES
OMD, OMG
OMD supports Ronald McDonald 
House Charities’ in Italy with annual 
communication efforts to raise funds. 
These include charity golf tournaments 
and go-kart races as well as the 50-year 
Big Mac celebration and McHappy Days in 
2018, when some or all of the purchase price 
of McDonald’s products were donated to RMHC.A MAN LIKE YOU
GSD&M, TBWA
As a men’s grooming brand, Harry’s wanted to 
expand the traditional definition of masculinity. 
The short film, “A Man Like You”, created by 
GSD&M, challenged gender stereotypes 
by shifting the conversation around 
what it means to be a man today. 
Harry’s earned two Cannes Lions  
for this work: Bronze in Film  
and Bronze in the Glass  
Lion for Change.
#THROUGHTHENIGHT
TBWA\Singapore, 
TBWA
In response to an increasing 
number of calls from youth to its 
hotline, Samaritans of Singapore  
(SOS) worked with TBWA\Singapore 
on the #ThroughTheNight Instagram 
campaign during Suicide Prevention 
Awareness Week. The campaign invited 
Singaporeans to send messages of support,  
and musicians, artists and youth influencers  
hosted live midnight-to-3 a.m.sessions on their  
social channels. 
COMMUNITY  |  2019CR31Omnicom recognizes our responsibility to 
reduce the impact of our activities across our networks and agencies. In 2018, we established an Omnicom Group Environmental Policy to guide our actions and energy goals to keep us accountable. Under this framework, we empower our global teams to take action to increase efficiency and reduce waste in ways  that address environmental priorities in their  local environments.ENVIRONMENT32
ENVIRONMENT  |  2019CRWe view sustainability as an opportunity to 
promote innovation, increase efficiency and reduce waste. Omnicom’s environmental policy outlines our commitment to minimize our impact by focusing on:
•
 E
fficient use of space
•
 Pr
oactive energy management 
•
 S
mart travel and commuting
•
 W
aste minimization 
Recognizing the importance of action  
against climate change, we set goals  
in 2018 to reduce the energy we use and  
increase our use of electricity from renewable 
resources. In the table below, we report our  first year’s progress against these goals.SPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: 
ENERGY 
Agencies around the world are helping us reach 
our 2023 energy goals by reducing energy use and increasing energy efficiency. We highlight just a few of their efforts here: 
•
 BBDO Gr
eece retrofitted its electrical equipment 
and switched to efficient lighting.
•
 CPM 
UK upgraded boilers and air conditioning 
to ensure compliance with the latest environmental legislation and to improve efficiencies at its Thames site.
•
 TBW
A\Manchester installed motion-sensing 
lighting at its new, more efficient premises. 
•
 E
g+ Worldwide LLC set a goal for all finance  
and human resources operational data to be 100% electronic. 
195 Broadway is a unique and progressive retrofitted office space in a historic New York City building. It was created to Omnicom standards, incorporating reused materials, maximizing an inherited social space, and using shared IT and service facilities. 
2023 Goal 2018 Progress
Reduce energy 
use by 20% per person globally by 2023 using a 2015 baselineApproximately  
14% reduction  
per person  
globally per 2015 baseline
Increase use  
of electricity  
from renewable sources globally  
to 15% by 2023
  Appr
oximately 12% 
increase in use of electricity from renewable sources per 2015 baseline.Our Approach
Efficiently Using Spaces
According to the U.S. Green Building Council, buildings account for nearly 40% of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. In 2018, we continued to implement our strategy to reduce our office space footprint and to transition our global agency portfolio to shared spaces. We opened new offices in New York and Chicago and had work underway in our new office in Dallas. Our aim is to use the space we own and lease more efficiently, to reduce costs and environmental impacts, while also cultivating  
 a culture of collaboration and creativity across agencies. 
We are also building and retrofitting to our 
global planning standard, which includes efficient lighting, heating and cooling, and reduced material use in ceilings and flooring. Our new and retrofitted spaces drive ongoing energy and waste savings through shared conference centers and service areas, as well as state-of-the-art video conferencing, printing centers and virtual file storage. 
Numbers provided 
are estimates based on available data. 33Reducing Our Energy Footprint
In 2018, we continued to reduce our global energy footprint, using approximately 153,000 
megawatt hours (MWh) of energy, a reduction in excess of 10% compared to 2017. We also cut our electricity use by 8% in 2018. 
In addition, we reduced our company-wide greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 8% 
in 2018 compared to 2017; result of reductions achieved in business travel emissions and purchased electricity emissions. SPOTLIGHT ON OUR AGENCIES: 
PLASTIC
Single-use plastic is a significant environmental 
polluter. Agencies are cutting back and increasing recycling to reduce their impact: 
•
 DDB 
Health reduced bottled water 
consumption in the office by 50%  
in November 2018. They plan to  
further decrease their bottled water consumption in 2019. 
•
 DDB 
Hamburg collects and recycles 
high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene (PP) plastic caps used  
in plastic bottles and milk containers. Employees contribute the caps collected  
to the “Deckel drauf e.V” organization, supporting its “End Polio Now” campaign. 
•
 OMG MEN
A staff saved approximately  
21 tons of CO2 emissions by switching  
from bottled water to water-filtration dispensers in its Dubai headquarters. To help employees understand the link between plastic water bottles, carbon emissions and life-giving oxygen, the CSR team explained that more than 1,200 Ghaf tree seedlings would need to mature 10 years before the CO2 produced by a single year’s water bottle waste would be offset. As a start, OMG Mena planted more than 650 seeds in 2018 and transplanted the seedlings in early 2019. 
ENVIRONMENT  |  2019CR
*2017 Scope 3 and total GHG emissions have been restated due to a slight increase in the  
final calculations related to air-travel that were accessed after the 2017 report was published. 2018 2017 2016
Scope 1 30.6 23.9 39.7
Scope 2 65.4 77.4 73.9
Scope 3 144.1 158.8 176.0
Total GHG Emissions 240.1 260.2 289.6Global GHG Emissions (MTCO2e)*  
(Units represented in thousands)  2018 2017 2016
Total energy used  (MWh) 153.0 175.9 188.3
Total electricity used (MWh) 140.9 152.8 161.9
Total GHG emissions  (Metric Tonnes of CO2e (MT CO2e)) 240.1 260.2 289.6
2018 2017 2016
Purchased (MWh) 14.9 15.6 16.4
% of Total 10.6 10.3 10.1Global Electricity from Renewable Sources (MWh)   
(Units represented in thousands)Global Energy Footprint  
(Units represented in thousands) 34SPOTLIGHT ON  
OUR AGENCIES: 
TRAVEL
One-on-one connections  
between our  employees  
and clients are essential to  
our business success, and business 
travel is essential to this connectivity. We continue to upgrade video conferencing capabilities and quality across our operations and some of our agencies. This includes BBDO Group Germany GmbH, which is revising its business travel policies to incorporate its CO2 impact. In addition, agencies around the world are introducing transit incentives to encourage  
auto alternatives to their employees:
•
 TBW
A\Budapest encourages staff  
to use public transit in an effort to  
decrease taxi use and costs.
•
 Ener
gy BBDO opened a bike room  
in 2018 to encourage employees to  
bike to work. This feature is highlighted  
in new employee onboarding.  
•
 OMG Germany 
GmbH encourages 
employees to cycle to work by  
offering a bike-leasing program. 
•
 ICON International off
ers a shuttle  
to encourage employees to use public transportation.  
•
 CPM 
France signed on to a new  
car-pooling start-up. The app offers  
a commuting alternative by sharing  
a car with other employees from neighboring companies, as a driver  
or a passenger.As part of Omnicom’s strategy to reduce our carbon footprint,  
we derive a portion of our electricity needs from renewable sources. 
Our efforts in this area are spearheaded in the UK, where we control 
our electricity purchases and are buying green power through our 
purchasing agreements. In the United States, approximately 90% of  
our electricity spend is under the control of landlords in our leased spaces, 
leaving us with the opportunity to manage no more than 10% of our spend. 
In 2018, total electricity purchased from renewable resources increased  
12% from the 2015 baseline, increasing to 10.6% in 2018, and moving us 
toward our new goal to increase our use of electricity from renewable sources 
globally to 15% by 2023.
ENVIRONMENT  |  2019CR
34PARTNERING WITH THE UK  
GRID’S DEMAND SIDE RESPONSE
With its site-wide uninterruptible power supplies and backup 
generating facilities, Omnicom’s London headquarters is the perfect partner for the National Grid’s Demand Side Response (DSR) program. DSR supports the country’s transmission during times of high use, guaranteeing generation when margins between supply and demand are tight. As a partner, Omnicom is able to manipulate the amount of power it  draws from the grid when UK demand is high. Offering flexibility to the country’s transmission system  
to support grid balancing also provides us with  
an additional revenue stream. 
35
Title Bold Title LightGLOBAL CLIMATE  
ACTION SUMMIT 
FleishmanHillard, DAS
FleishmanHillard supported a coalition  
of 12+ organizations to communicate  
the negative impact of climate change 
on oceans and seek out solutions 
during the Global Climate Action 
Summit. The impact was 
immediate, generating more 
than 3,000 tweets related to the 
ocean-climate conversation 
and local and global media 
placements.
PARLEY FOR  
THE OCEANS
TBWA\NEBOKO
The latest adidas UltraBOOST 
running shoe’s upper knit is 
made of Parley Ocean Plastic™, 
a proprietary textile made 
from recycled plastic retrieved 
from coastal communities. TBWA\
NEBOKO partnered with Psyop and 
Golden Wolf to create a stop-motion 
animation in which the upper knit is used as 
a canvas to tell the UltraBOOST Parley story. DANCE OF THE STARS
DDB Group Hong Kong 
Hong Kong is so light-polluted that some 
people have never seen the stars. Green 
Sense commissioned DDB Group Hong 
Kong to bring the stars back. For one 
night, dancers turned polluting 
light displays in busy locations 
into starry night skies, grabbing 
the attention of thousands of 
passers-by and generating 
more than 3,500 social posts 
in just 48 hours.   
EARTH 2018 
CAMPAIGN 
MAL \ FOR 
GOOD, TBWA
To encourage Gen Z to vote  
in the U.S. midterm election,  
Climate Reality engaged MAL \ 
FOR GOOD to create an animated 
penguin named Earth, a congressional 
candidate running on an environmental 
platform. The campaign saw nearly 2 million 
social media impressions, approximately 14,000 
website visits and almost 1,000 voter registrations.  
ENVIRONMENT  |  2019CRClient Work for Environmental Impact36Omnicom has demonstrated a commitment to 
further strengthening our governance structure and related company-wide policies. We have built a board of directors with exceptional experience and diverse points of view to ensure that we are upholding the highest ethical standards across our networks and agencies.GOVERNANCE37African 
American  (2 Women & 2 Men)4Women6
CURRENT MEMBERS  
of our BOARD  
of DIRECTORS11
GOVERNANCE  |  2019CRDiversity in Our Board Composition and Leadership
Strong Independent Oversight
Our board, which is comprised of 10 independent 
directors out of 11, seeks to align our directors’ collective expertise with those skill areas most important to strong oversight of management. Accordingly, we periodically evaluate board composition to help inform board succession planning efforts, maintain close alignment between board skills and our long-term strategy, and promote board effectiveness. Our Lead Independent Director is elected annually and provides valuable, consistent board leadership. The board continually evaluates the scope and nature of our Lead Independent Director role, ensuring that the responsibilities are robust  
and, in fact, include those responsibilities typically associated with a board chair.  
In February 2019, the board most recently enhanced the already robust responsibilities assigned to this role to formally include the recruitment, mentoring and development of directors, and also the authority to call meetings of independent directors and oversee any conflicts of interests among directors. Omnicom believes that workplace diversity creates value for the company, enhances the 
quality of work we create for clients and is a cornerstone of our positive corporate culture. 
We know that a workforce reflecting the demographics of our society is better poised to 
create effective campaigns for our clients that resonate with a diverse population. With our 
global presence, we believe it is important that our workforce mirrors our global community. 
This commitment to diversity starts within the boardroom and encompasses diversity in 
its broadest sense, including persons diverse in gender and ethnicity as well as diversity of 
viewpoints, ages, and professional and life experiences. Our board includes six women and 
four African Americans, including Leonard S. Coleman, Jr., our Lead Independent Director. 
Board Refreshment
The board has made tremendous  progress on its refreshment initiative, which has been underway since  
2015. At our annual meeting in 2018,  our former chairman and two directors stepped down from the board. From  
March 2016 to February 2018, the board appointed four new independent directors. We have been focused on ensuring that our board is representative of all of our constituencies – our clients, employees  
and shareholders – and that through  
regular evaluation of director skill sets,  the optimal combination of expertise  
is represented on the board. The result  is a highly talented and diverse group of directors with the skills, backgrounds and experiences best suited to achieve our strategic objectives. Through our commitment, we have reduced our  
average board tenure by approximately  33% since 2015.  
38
Omnicom’s success doesn’t just come from 
our talent, our creativity or the work we do.  Our success also comes from the way we  work and the way we interact with others – with a solid commitment to integrity. 
Our Code of Business Conduct, which was 
significantly enhanced in 2018, underscores  our commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards. It spells out what we value, what we believe and the policies that Omnicom expects us all to uphold. The Code applies to everyone who works on Omnicom’s behalf, including employees, both full and part-time,  at every level, in every location around the world. It also includes everyone else who represents Omnicom, from contractors to  our board of directors. 
GOVERNANCE  |  2019CREthics and Integrity
We are on track to complete the goals we established in 2018:
•
 Establish business ethics and/or anti-
briber
y training for our full-time, regular 
employees worldwide.
•
 De
velop our Supplier Code of Conduct  
by the end of 2020.
Cybersecurity Training
We rely extensively on Information  
Technology systems at Omnicom and  
all our agencies. Cybersecurity threats  
and attacks, which are becoming both  
more frequent and sophisticated, may pose 
a risk to our systems and networks. We have systems and processes in place designed to protect against, detect, prevent, monitor, and respond to and mitigate cybersecurity incidents. Interactive cybersecurity training is offered in more than a dozen languages, every quarter.  We augment our training with a quarterly newsletter that covers various security  
topics and a phishing simulation campaign, where we deliberately send out a phishing message to employees to track and learn from click through and report rates, while increasing awareness amongst our employee population.
 
We implemented global 
policies to ensure our compliance with the EU’s Global Data Protection Regulation, which took effect on May 25, 2018.  This included general awareness training to our employees that have more exposure to personal identification information or related high-risk situations.   
39
Shareholder Engagement Human Rights
Engaging with our shareholders remains one of our top priorities and 
is a focus for the entire board. In 2018, we reached out to shareholders holding more than 60% of our outstanding shares and engaged with shareholders representing more than 40% of outstanding shares. Broad topics discussed included company strategy and performance; board composition, refreshment and leadership; management succession; executive compensation program; diversity and inclusion efforts across the organization; governance practices and sustainability initiatives.
In December 2018, the board amended our 
by-laws to reduce the ownership threshold required for shareholders to call a special meeting from 25% to 10% in response to a shareholder proposal that received 50.3%  of the vote at our 2018 Annual Meeting. At Omnicom, we recognize that we  
have the power to create positive change in society. While we are not a company that manufactures products, we seek to be employers of choice and to provide a safe working environment. As a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact, we are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and eliminating discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Our commitment to the highest ethical standards in the communities where we  do business is outlined in our Human  Rights Policy.
GOVERNANCE  |  2019CR40This report provides a high-level overview 
of Omnicom’s corporate responsibility commitments, activities and progress in 2018. The report is organized to reflect our four focus areas: Community, People, Environment and Governance. We have included some of the top case studies from our diverse network of agencies to characterize our impact on social and environmental issues around the world.ABOUT  
THIS REPORT41
ABOUT THIS REPORT  |  2019CRMaterial Topics Identification Stakeholder Engagement
ScopeIn developing this report, we consulted various global reporting frameworks 
– including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and G4 Media Sector Disclosures, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Marketing and Advertising sector guidelines, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals – and internal and external stakeholders to determine relevant material topics. 
We have identified our material topics as:
•
 Div
ersity and inclusion
•
 Emplo
yee attraction, development and retention
•
 Community engagement
 
•
 Envir
onment 
•
 Ethics and integrity
 
•
 Go
vernanceThe content of this report was developed 
through stakeholder interviews with  
Omnicom executives, subject matter experts and Omnicom agency employees. We also held conversations with some of our largest shareholders and consulted CSR reporting frameworks. As part of our process, we interviewed NGO partners, clients and investors to solicit feedback on our 2017 corporate responsibility report, inform our future reporting strategy and further stakeholder inclusiveness in our corporate responsibility efforts. Feedback received from these external stakeholders centered around furthering our role in the community, leveraging partnerships for talent acquisition and development, using our communications capabilities for the betterment of society and increasing our employees’ exposure to CSR.
The data in this report covers Omnicom’s  
global operations in FY2018 (from January 1  – December 31, 2018). Numbers throughout the report are estimates based on available data. Unless otherwise noted, data within the report reflects our United States operations. Our last report was published in 2017. We plan to continue publishing an annual comprehensive corporate responsibility report that references the GRI Standards and fulfills our commitment as a UNGC signatory to produce a Communication on Progress.
42
Omnicom UN Communication On Progress
ABOUT THIS REPORT  |  2019CR
42This report provides information on our corporate 
responsibility strategy and performance for FY2018 and covers the UNGC Communication on Progress requirements.
Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support  
and respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights; and
Principle 2:  make sure that they are not complicit 
in human rights abuses. Omnicom’s commitment to support and respect 
human rights is embodied in our Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct. The Code of Business Conduct covers our commitment  
to comply with all laws of the places where we do business, our prohibition against insider trading, our duty to advance our employer’s legitimate interest and our commitment to  
equal opportunity. The Human Rights Policy  
and Code of Business Conduct are available  
on our Corporate Governance website. For  
more information on our commitment to respecting human rights, see the Governance section of this report.
Labor
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 
Principle 4:  the elimination of all forms of forced 
and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination  
in respect of employment and occupation. Omnicom’s directors, officers and employees are 
required to comply with our Code of Business Conduct, which sets the foundation for how we should do business on a day-to-day basis. We are an equal opportunity employer and do not discriminate against employees or job applicants on the basis of race, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, pregnancy or any similar status or condition. For more information on  our commitment to fair labor, see the People section of this report. 
Environment 
Principle 7: Businesses should support a 
precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote 
greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and 
diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Omnicom is committed to promoting greater 
environmental responsibility, and regularly reports on environmental performance throughout our operations. Omnicom’s Environmental Policy outlines our approach to minimize our impact by encouraging our companies to consider their environmental footprint in terms of conscious design of office space; energy efficiency; travel and commuting; procurement; and recycling and waste management. For more information on our commitment to environmental sustainability, see the Environment section of this report. 
Anti-Corruption
Principle 10:  Businesses should work against 
corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 
Omnicom operates in an increasingly complex 
global environment, and our commitment to the highest ethical standards in the communities where we do business is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct. Omnicom directors, officers and employees are required to comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act of 2010, and any other local anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where we do business. For more information on our commitment to ethics and compliance, see the Governance section of this report.43GRI Standards Content Index
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR
 DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
General Disclosures
102-1 Name of the organization Omnicom Group
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2018 10-K , Page 1 (Our Business) 
102-3 Location of headquarters 437 Madison Avenue, New York, New York
102-4 Location of operations 2018 10-K , Page 8 (Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations) 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 10-K , Page 1 (Our Business), 7 (Item 5:  Market for Registrant’s Common 
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities)
102-6 Markets served 2018 10-K , Page 1 (Our Business), 2 (Our Clients), 8 (Item 7: Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) 
102-7 Scale of the organization 2018 CR Report, Page 4  (About Omnicom Group) 
 
2018 10-K,  Page 2 (Our Employees), 6 (Item 2: Properties), 7 (Item 6: Selected 
Financial Data)
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2018 CR Report, Page 4  (About Omnicom Group), 9 (Measuring Our Progress)
102-9 Supply chain 2018 CR Report, Page 17  (Emphasizing Supplier Diversity)  
 We work with thousands of suppliers, with many buying decisions made at the individual agency level in the context of the production of client products and campaigns and general business operations. We are currently developing a Supplier Code of Conduct that will set clear standards for our suppliers at both the agency and holding company level. 44
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and 
its supply chain2018 10-K , Page 11 (Acquisitions and Goodwill)
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Omnicom Environmental Policy  
 2019 Proxy Statement , Page 21 (Risk Oversight)
102-12 External initiatives CEO Action, Common Ground, Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality, The Valuable 500, UN Global Compact, UN Unstereotype Alliance
102-13 Membership of associations 4A’s Advertiser Protection Bureau, 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program, AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism, Ad Council, ADCOLOR, Advertising Research Fund, Girl Effect, GLAAD, Makers, Trustworthy Accountability Group, Theirworld, Time’s Up
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker
2018 CR Report, Page 3  (Letter from Our CEO)
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2018 10-K , Page 3 (Item 1A: Risk Factors) 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Omnicom Code of Business Conduct
2018 CR Report, Page 38  (Ethics and Integrity)
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethicsOmnicom Code of Business Conduct  Internal Control Line
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR45
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
102-18 Governance structure The Company’s Governance Committee works with management to adopt and 
make recommendations to the Company’s Code of Business Conduct, which includes economic, environmental and social topics.   See also: 2018 CR Report, Page 37  (Diversity in Our Board Composition and Leadership) 
 2019 Proxy Statement , Pages 25-29 (Board Leadership Structure)
102-19 Delegating authority 
2019 Proxy Statement,  Page 22 
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Omnicom’s leadership team oversees economic, environmental, social and governance initiatives. The leadership team includes our Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary, Chief Diversity Officer, Dean of Omnicom University and Chief Communications Officer.
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 
2018 CR Report, Page 41  (Stakeholder Engagement) 
 2019 Proxy Statement, Page 7 (Shareholder Engagement)
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 
2018 CR Report, Page 37  (Diversity in Our Board Composition and Leadership) 
 2019 Proxy Statement,  Pages 14-19 (2019 Director Nominees)
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 
2019 Proxy Statement , Pages 25-26 (Board Leadership Structure)
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2019 Proxy Statement , Page 20 (Shareholder Nomination Process), 21 (Majority 
Voting Standard for Election of Directors)
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2019 Proxy Statement , Pages 30-31 (Ethical Business Conduct)
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 2019 Proxy Statement,  Pages 21-22 (Board’s Role and Responsbilities) 
 Governance Committee Charter
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR46
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance 
bodySenior management (see Disclosure 102-20) presents to the Board of Directors on economic, environmental, social and governance topics. 
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 
2019 Proxy Statement,  Pages 12-13 (Qualifications of the Members of the Board)
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 2019 Proxy Statement,  Pages 21-22 (Board’s Role and Responsbilities) 
 Governance Committee Charter
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 
2019 Proxy Statement,  Pages 21-22 (Board’s Role and Responsbilities)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 2019 Proxy Statement,  Page 28 (Board Operations and Committee Structure)
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Reviewed by Chief Financial Officer.
102-33 Communicating critical concerns
2019 Proxy Statement,  Page 25 (Shareholder Communications with Board Members) 
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2019 Proxy Statement,  Pages 5-9 (Meeting Agenda and Voting Recommendations)
102-35 Remuneration policies 2019 Proxy Statement,  Page 8 (Executive Compensation Highlights), 32 (Director’s 
Compensation for Fiscal Year 2018), 37-65 (Executive Compensation)
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement,  Page 44 (Compensation Discussion & Analysis), 56 (Role of 
the Independent Compensation Consultant) 
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement,  Page 34 (Item 2: Advisory Resolution to Approve Executive 
Compensation) 
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2019 Proxy Statement,  Page 66 (Pay Ratio Disclosure)
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR47
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2018 CR Report, Page 41  (Stakeholder Engagement) 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 0% of Omnicom employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining 
agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2018 CR Report, Page 41  (Stakeholder Engagement) 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2018 CR Report, Page 41  (Stakeholder Engagement) 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2018 CR Report, Page 41  (Stakeholder Engagement) 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2018 10-K,  Exhibit 21 (Subsidiaries of the Registrant)
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2018 CR Report, Page 4  (About This Report)
102-47 List of material topics 2018 CR Report, Page 41  (Material Topics Identification) 
102-48 Restatements of information No material restatements. 
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018
102-51 Date of most recent report 2017
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR48
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 
GRI StandardsThis report references disclosures from the GRI Standards 2018 and the GRI G4 Media Sector Disclosures, as detailed in this index. 
102-55 GRI content index
2018 CR Report, Page 43  (2018 GRI Context Index)
102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured.
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2018 CR Report, Page 8  (Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion),  
15 (Developing Our People), 17  (Emphasizing Supplier Diversity),  
19 (Contributing to the Global Good), 21 (Engaging with Communities  
and Volunteering), 32 (Our Approach), 36-39  (Governance) 
103-2 The management approach and its components See Disclosure 103-1
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See Disclosure 103-1
Topic-specific Disclosures: Economic 
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
2018 10-K,  Page 7 (Item 6: Selected Financial Data), F3-F7  
(Consolidated Balance Sheets)
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 2018 10-K,  Page 6 (Item 1A: Risk Factors)
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2018 10-K,  Page F26-F28 (Defined Benefit Pension Plans)
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local communityPartially reported: The majority of our senior management at the Omnicom holding company level are hired from the countries they work in. 
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
2018 CR Report, Page 21  (Engaging with Communities and Volunteering) 
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR49
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2018 CR Report, Page 21  (Engaging with Communities and Volunteering), 22-30  
(Improving Lives Through Client Work)
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Most of Omnicom’s buying decisions are made at the agency level in the context of 
the production of client products and campaigns.
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption2018 CR Report, Page 42   
(Omnicom UN Communication on Progress: Anti-Corruption)  2018 10-K,  Page 5 (Item 1A: Risk Factors)
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
2018 CR Report, Page 38  (Ethics and Integrity) 
 Omnicom Code of Business Conduct
Topic-specific Disclosures: Economic 
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
2018 CR Report, Page 33  (Reducing Our Energy Footprint)
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2018 CR Report, Page 33  (Reducing Our Energy Footprint)
302-3 Energy intensity 2018 CR Report, Page 32  (Our Approach)
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2018 CR Report, Page 33  (Reducing Our Energy Footprint)
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page 33  (Reducing Our Energy Footprint)
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page 33  (Reducing Our Energy Footprint)
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page 33  (Reducing Our Energy Footprint)
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2018 Climate Change CDP Response
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2018 CR Report, Page X (Reducing Our Energy Footprint)
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR50
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
Topic-specific Disclosures: Social 
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time employeesThe percentage of part-time employees at the Omnicom holding company level is insignificant. Omnicom doesn’t track this information at the agency level. 
401-3 Parental leave Eligible full-time U.S. employees receive paid maternity leave depending on their tenure and the period of disability related to the pregnancy. Employees can supplement that time with paid time off (e.g. personal days, sick leave), as well as paid leave in accordance with the laws of various states and cities.
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
Partially reported: 2018 CR Report, Page 15  (Leadership Development) 
 Omnicom offers employees training related to cybersecurity, sexual harrassment, and ethics and integriy.
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
2018 CR Report, Page 15  (Leadership Development) 
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviewsEmployee performance and career development reviews are conducted at the agency level. 
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
2018 CR Report, Page 9  (Measuring Our Progress), 37 (Diversity in Our Board 
Composition and Leadership)
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Partially reported: 2018 CR Report, Page 39  (Gender Pay Gap)
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 2018 CR Report, Page 38  (Ethics and Integrity) 
 Human Rights Policy  
 Omnicom Code of Business Conduct
GRI INDEX  |  2019CR51
Title Bold Title Light DISCLOSURE 
▼ GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE
▼2018 OMNICOM RESPONSE
▼
413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and development programs2018 CR Report, Page 21  (Engaging with Communities and Volunteering) 
415-1 Political contributions N/A 
Topic-specific Disclosures: Media 
G4-DMA Portrayal of Human Rights Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area.   See: 2018 CR Report, Pages 19-20  (Contributing to the Global Good), 22-30  
(Improving Lives Through Client Work)
G4-DMA Cultural Rights
Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area.   See: 2018 CR Report, Pages 22-30  (Improving Lives Through Client Work)
M7 Media Literacy
Omnicom at the holding company level contributes to partners who empower audiences and society to develop skills.   See: 2018 CR Report, Page 19  (Contributing to the Global Good)
GRI INDEX  |  2019CRIf you have questions or comments regarding this report, 
please email Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com
Read more at csr.omnicomgroup.com2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
