Sustainability 
Report  
2021
A Clearer Image |  www.pgs.comIn this report
3 Letter from the CEO
4 Statement from the Board & CEO
5 Strategy & Risk Management
5 Strategy
7 Risk Management
10 Stakeholders
11 Commitment to the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)
13 Environment
15 Environment Compliance
16 Energy and Emissions
18 Biodiversity
20 Waste
22 Social
24 Occupational Health, Safety and Security
26 Employment and Labor Relations
28 Training and Education
29 Human Rights
32 Governance
33 Corporate Governance
35 Anti-corruption
37 Anti-competitive Behavior  
38 Looking Ahead
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
2
E
S
GThe world needs to take urgent action to avoid the most severe consequences of climate 
change and we believe PGS can play an important role in the transition to sustainable energy 
sources. Firstly, by ensuring that the world’s demand for fossil resources is met with the 
least possible impact on the environment. And secondly, that we position PGS to leverage 
our competence, technology, and assets in the pursuit of sustainable energy sources.
We have therefore embedded sustainability and energy transition in our strategy going 
forward. In 2021, we established the ‘New Energy’ business unit with clear mandates to 
pursue technologies and opportunities in the energy transition domain. Towards the end 
of the year, we secured contracts for seismic surveying of reservoirs intended for Carbon 
Storage (CS) and in early 2022 we a signed a letter of intent with a partner to co-develop a 
commercial scale carbon storage project offshore Australia. Our ambition is to develop our 
New Energy business into a significant revenue stream over the coming years.
Despite the challenges of the pandemic, we have been able to sustain our global operations 
without compromising the safety and wellbeing of our personnel. Our safety record remains 
strong, and we have had zero cases of COVID-19 transmission or outbreaks on our vessels. 
This a fantastic achievement that is close to unprecedented in the maritime sector.
Our commitment to sustainability, the ten 
principles of the United Nations Global Compact, 
and the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals remain strong. In this year’s report we 
disclose more information about how climate risk 
may impact our company, and more information 
on the goals and actions we have set for our 
sustainability indicators. Our ambition is to further 
improve and increase our disclosure to ensure that 
our strong commitment is evidenced in a credible 
and transparent manner.
Rune Olav Pedersen  
President and CEO  
March 31, 2022Dear Reader
2021 was another challenging year for the energy industry and 
our company. The seismic market was impacted by the ongoing 
energy transition leading to changing behaviors among energy 
companies and negative effects from a persistent pandemic.
E
S
G
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
3PGS is committed to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in 
the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. This is our 
fifth sustainability report shaped by the UN Sustainable Development Goals, 
introduced in 2015. The Board of Directors and the CEO actively ensure that the 
Company properly responds to sustainability and ESG challenges. 
During 2021, we have reassessed our materiality assessment and embedded 
sustainability and ESG as a core component of the Company’s strategy. The Board 
of Directors and the CEO have been actively involved in this process, as well as 
the assessment of the Company’s impact on sustainable development goals. The 
material topics on which this report is focused were discussed and selected during 
several Board and management meetings.
The Board and the CEO regularly discuss sustainability and ESG opportunities, 
risks and goals to ensure that they are integrated into the operations, culture, 
values, incentives and business practices of PGS. This report documents how PGS 
performed against the Company’s commitments and the way forward for 2022.Statement from the Board & CEO
Good management of sustainability and Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) opportunities and risks is 
essential to business success. It motivates employees, 
investors, customers, and other stakeholders on whom 
businesses rely to operate successfully and safely.
Oslo, March 2, 2022  
Board of Directors 
PGS ASA
Walter Qvam
ChairpersonAnne Grethe Dalane
Vice Chairperson Board MemberMarianne Kah Richard Herbert
Board MemberTrond Brandsrud 
Board Member
Rune Olav Pedersen
President & Chief Executive Officer Board MemberAnette Valbø 
Board MemberEivind Vesterås 
Board MemberGunhild Myhr
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
4
E
S
GPGS ASA and its subsidiaries (PGS or the Company) has adopted a three-year strategy cycle, which is 
aligned with our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework to ensure that strategic ambitions 
and direction remain resilient to changing risks and opportunities.
The strategy is based on an analysis of external risks and opportunities and projected changes in the 
global energy markets considering climate change and the energy transition. Market development 
scenarios are based on established climate change and energy market models, and our own data and 
insights on how the seismic exploration market reacts with changes to the supply and demand for oil 
and gas.STRATEGY & RISK MANAGEMENT
STRATEGY
Risks and 
opportunitiesMarket 
development 
scenariosStrategy 
developmentReview and 
approval by 
CEO and EXTReview and 
approval 
by BoDStrategy 
2021-2024
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
5
E
S
GMARKET DEVELOPMENT SCENARIOS
Delayed recovery of the market with margins trending 
towards historical average.LOW
Market recovery with improved margins, then 
trending down to historical average. Gradual shift in 
service mix to more near-field exploration, 4D surveys 
and CSS.BASE
Strong market recovery in the near term driven by 
high energy prices, underinvestment in exploration 
over several years and change in sentiment. Capacity 
reduction over time below what is required to supply 
energy demand.HIGHSignificant decline in the demand for frontier 
exploration, driven by a significant decline in the 
demand for oil and gas. Other services such as 4D 
surveys to remain stable for longer. With a significant 
growth in Carbon Capture & Storage (CSS), and other 
domains leading to new business opportunities.RAPID ENERGY TRANSITION
DATA SOURCES USED TO INFORM 
OUR ANALYSIS:
International Energy Agency 
(2021) : World Energy Model – 
Part of World Energy Outlook 
2021 (www.iea.org)
The Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (2022) : 
Climate Change Assessment 
Report 6 (www.ipcc.ch)
DNV (2021) : Energy Transition 
Outlook 2021 (eto.dnv.com)
Rystad Energy (2021) :  
Oil Market Analytics  
(www.rystadenergy.com)
Exploration and Production 
companies oil market analytics 
and energy outlook reports.
Historical analysis of the 
elasticity of the seismic 
exploration market with 
fluctuations in supply and 
demand for oil and gas.
In 2021, we have embedded sustainability and ESG as a core component of our business strategy with 
strategic objectives to ensure that we:
• Reduce the environmental footprint of our current operations.
• Develop New Energy into a significant business unit.
A comprehensive account of our chosen strategy is available in our annual report.Strategy & Risk Management
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
6
E
S
GMateriality Assessment and Context Analysis
We identify and assess actual and potential sustainability risks and opportunities through our 
materiality assessment and context analysis. This enables a two-way assessment that gives us 
confidence that we have identified the material issues for PGS.
In 2020, we conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment based on internal fact-finding and 
research, and a consideration of the expectations of our key stakeholders. Based on this we conducted 
individual scoring of issues with selected senior managers and the Executive Management Team (EXT). 
The consolidated results were thereafter reviewed by the EXT before a final review and approval by the 
Board of Directors (the Board).
We have also conducted an initial context analysis in accordance with the recommendations of the 
OECD and the requirements of the upcoming Norwegian Transparency Act. This has informed our 
reassessment of the materiality assessment, and we plan to finalize and publish the full context 
analysis later this year.
During 2021, we conducted a high-level reassessment and calibration of the materiality assessment 
with the EXT and the Board and made the following changes:
 • Energy and Emissions has been moved to a higher significance reflecting the increasingly   
  urgent need for addressing climate change combined with increasing stakeholder interest.
 • Waste has been included as a material topic to reflect the increasing stakeholder interest   
  related to circular economy, recycling, and responsible waste management.
 • Human Rights has been included as a material topic reflecting increasing stakeholder interest  
  and the adaptation of the Norwegian Transparency Act.
 • Economic Performance and Tax have been merged to a single topic that is disclosed through 
  our annual reports.
Our goal is to focus our efforts where we have the highest impact and can make the most difference. 
We will continue to deepen and broaden our understanding of our stakeholder universe, through dialog 
combined with monitoring of our economic, social, and environmental impact.Strategy & Risk Management
RISK MANAGEMENT
1
2
3
4
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
7
E
S
GStrategy & Risk Management
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
3
21
4Larger
Larger
IMPACT ON VALUE CREATIONHuman RightsEnergy & Emissions
Environmental 
Compliance
Training & Education
WasteOccupational Health, 
Safety & SecurityCorporate GovernanceEconomic 
Performance & Tax*
* Economic Performance & Tax is disclosed and discussed in the PGS Annual ReportBiodiversity
Employment & 
Labor RelationsAnti-competitive BehaviorAnti-corruptionSmaller
Smaller
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
8
E
S
GStrategy & Risk Management
Risks Opportunities Management Focus
POLICY AND LEGAL
• Increased pricing of GHG emissions
• Enhanced reporting obligations
• Mandates on and regulation of 
existing products and services
• Exposure to litigation• Use of supportive policy incentives
• Participation in carbon markets
• Use of lower-emission sources of energy• Monitor policy and regulatory developments
• Leverage digitalization to meet future 
reporting obligations.
• Robust governance and compliance 
framework in place.
• Target to reduce relative CO2 emissions by 
50% in 2030.
ACUTE
• Increased severity of extreme 
weather events such as cyclones 
and floods• Resilient assets and technology. • Investment in resilient assets and technology.
• Emergency response and contingency plans for 
all assets and locations.
CHRONIC
• Changes in precipitation patterns and 
extreme variability in weather patterns
• Rising mean temperatures
• Rising sea levels• Reduce dependency on assets 
in vulnerable locations through 
digitalization and cloud computing..• Moving data libraries and processing to the cloud.TECHNOLOGY
• Substitution of existing products and 
services with lower emissions options
• Unsuccessful investment in new technologies
• Costs to transition to lower emissions 
technology• Development and/or expansion of 
low emission goods and services
• Development of new products or 
services through R&D and innovation
• Use of new technologies• Investment in technology R&D and digitalization.
• Evaluation of emission reduction technologies.
• Evaluation of alternative fuels.
REPUTATION
• Shifts in consumer preferences
• Stigmatization of sector
• Increased stakeholder concern or negative 
stakeholder feedback• Improved reputation through open, 
transparent, and credible dialogue.• Ambition to deliver seismic exploration with 
least possible environmental impact.
• Attracting, developing, and retaining a 
competent and motivated workforce.
• Active engagement with our stakeholders.MARKET
• Changing customer behavior
• Uncertainty in market signals
• Increased cost of raw materials• Ability to diversify business 
• Access to new markets
• Use of public-sector incentives• Established the ‘New Energy’ business unit to 
develop services and solutions that support 
the energy transition.
PHYSICAL RISKSTRANSITION RISKSClimate Risk and The Energy Transition
The risks and opportunities associated with climate change and the energy transition are of a 
potential scale and nature that warrants additional scrutiny. We have therefore used the framework 
recommended by the Task Force on Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) and performed a high-level 
assessment of the transition- and physical risks related to climate change. The assessment is based 
on our reporting to the Climate Disclosure Project (CDP) and includes areas of high-level management 
focus related to the identified risks and opportunities. 
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
9
E
S
GStrategy & Risk Management
Key stakeholders
INVESTORS, 
SHAREHOLDERS, 
AND LENDERS• Economic performance of PGS over time.
• Resilience and preparedness for the energy transition.
• Regulatory compliance.
• Zero tolerance for corruption and anti-competitive behavior.• Monitor policy and regulatory developments
• Leverage digitalization to meet future reporting obligations.
• Robust governance and compliance framework in place.
• Target to reduce relative CO2 emissions by 50% in 2030.
EMPLOYEES • Job security and a motivating and rewarding work 
environment.
• Personal health and wellbeing.
• Development opportunities.
• Working for a company that makes a positive contribution to 
sustainable development.• Offer training and development opportunities.
• Employee engagement and motivation surveys.
• Health and wellbeing surveys.
• Insurance and access to health and wellbeing services.
• Sustainability embedded in the corporate strategy.
• Internal communication and awareness building.
CUSTOMERS • Environmental compliance.
• Respectful management of stakeholders.
• Health and safety performance
• Reduced carbon footprint of geophysical operations.
• Zero tolerance for corruption and anti-competitive behavior.• Comprehensive dialogue and planning for every project.
• Collaboration on sustainability issues in industry associations.
• Participation in our customer’s sustainability initiatives for their 
supply chain.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES 
AND INDIGENOUS 
PEOPLE• Respectful treatment and opportunity to be consulted.
• No impact on marine life and/or habitats of importance to 
their livelihood and sustenance.
• Job opportunities and economic development of the 
community.• Target to have zero conflicts with fisheries, local communities and/
or indigenous people.
• Careful consideration of potential interactions and impacts on local 
communities and/or indigenous people for every project.
• Dialogue and consultation through the project.
• Use of Fisheries Liaison Officer (FLO) and/or Community Liaison 
Officer (CLO) where required.
REGULATORS, 
KEY GUIDANCE 
ORGANIZATIONS 
AND INITIATIVES• Fully compliant with applicable regulations.
• Aligned with recognized sustainability standards, guidelines 
and best practices.
• Quantified sustainability targets with demonstrable progress 
over time.
• Complete, transparent and credible disclosure on all material 
topics.• Engage with regulators in the countries where we operate.
• Ensure compliance with applicable regulations.
• Align with the recommendations of the UN, OECD, TCFD, GRI, CDP 
and other key institutions.
MAJOR SUPPLIERS, 
BUSINESS PARTNERS 
AND THIRD PARTIES• Economic performance of PGS over time.
• Compliance with applicable regulations.
• Meeting PGS’ expectations.• Supplier Code of Conduct
• Supplier sustainability assessment
• Ongoing dialogue with key suppliers
MEDIA AND 
THE PUBLIC• Economic performance of PGS over time.
• Fully compliant with applicable regulations.
• Resilience and preparedness for the energy transition.
• Minimal impact on the environment.• Transparent and open reporting.
• Regular press releases, news stories and social media updates.
• Invitation to all stakeholders to engage with us on Sustainability 
Matters.
COMPETITORS • Professional and rational market behavior.
• Collaboration on sustainability issues.• Enforce strict discipline and professional market behavior.
• Active participant in industry associations and working groups.Our future business success depends on maintaining good relations with those who depend upon 
us and parties with whom we may interact through our activities. We aim to nurture stakeholder 
relationships through transparent, two-way communication, to increase mutual understanding and 
encourage positive relationships. Through our context analysis and materiality assessment we have 
identified our key stakeholders and their focus relative to our business and operations.STAKEHOLDERS
Their focus What we do
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
10
E
S
GStrategy & Risk Management
Goals
Promote education in 
geology, geophysics, 
mathematics, and 
digitalization.
Upgrade seismic 
operations through 
digitalization and 
innovation.
Identify and develop 
new sustainable 
business opportunities
Increase scientific 
knowledge by sharing 
oceanographic dataReduce relative CO 2 
emissions (t CO 2 per 
CMP km) by 50% 
compared to 2011 
within 2030Educational support to 
local communities in 
Angola and Ghana.
Embedded digitalization 
as a core enabler of our 
strategic objectives.
New Energy established as 
a dedicated business unit. 
Awarded two programs 
for characterization of CCS 
storage sites.
Live data feed of bathymetry 
data to Seabed 2030. Shared 
historical bathymetry data 
with the South African 
National Hydrographer.Revised our GHG inventory 
to meet future reporting 
requirements. Implemented 
real-time fuel consumption and 
energy efficiency dashboards 
for Titan-class vessels.Identify concrete initiatives and 
plans to expand our promotion and 
support of education.
Use digitalization to enable seismic 
exploration with a reduced GHG 
footprint.
Explore opportunities to use our 
technology, competence, and assets 
to support other domains within the 
energy transition
Increase promotion of our data 
sharing initiative and actively 
seek partners and collaborators. 
Evaluate feasibility of offering our 
fleet as ‘vessels of opportunity’ for 
additional data collection.Evaluate feasibility of alternative 
fuels for our fleet. Develop real-time 
monitoring of GHG emissions to 
enable detailed analysis of reduction 
alternatives. Report our emissions 
and progress towards target on a 
quarterly basis.This report represents our Communication on Progress to the United Nations (UN) and demonstrates 
how PGS integrates ESG practices into its business and strategy. Our ambition is to promote the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through concrete actions on goals that are relevant for our 
company activities and global presence.COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achieved
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
11
E
S
GENVIRONMENT
Environmental Compliance
Energy & Emissions
WasteBiodiversity
To fulfill our environmental ambitions, we are committed to reducing the risk of harm to the 
environment, complying with legal requirements and industry standards, and achieving a continual 
improvement in our environmental performance. Our management system has been certified 
according to ISO 14001 since 2012 and reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2010. A 
formal commitment to continual improvements in our environmental performance ensures that our 
management system and practices are in line with best practices.ENVIRONMENT
Key Environment Indicators 2021
 2018 2019 2020 2021
Energy     
     Vessels (GWh) 1236  1466 1128 946
     Offices (GWh)* 16  16 15 9
Air Emissions     
     CO2 eq (kT) 422  502 380 317
     SOX (kT) 3 3 <1 <1
     NOX (kT) 8 9 7 5
     PM (kT) <1  <1 <1 <1
Waste     
Vessels (1000 m3) 3.4  4.0 2.8  
     Delivered to shore** 2.6  3.3 2.3 2.0
     Incinerated onboard 0.7  0.6 0.4 0.3
     Organic waste to sea 0.1  0.1 0.1 0.1
Offices (t) 104  88 43 49 
     General waste 32  28 11 10
     Recycled waste 72  60 32 39
* Data for four main offices only.Environmental Performance Indicators
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
13
Energy Consumption Breakdown (GWh)CO 2 eq Emissions Breakdown (kTonnes)
* Does not include occasional use of charter flights. 2018 2019 2020 2021
Direct Emissions 345 408 314 263
     Seismic vessels 311 375 286 237
     Support vessels 34 33 28 26
Indirect Emissions 6  6 6 3
     Offices 6  5 4 3
Other Emissions 72  88 61 51
     Well-to-tank (WTT) Marine Fuels 62 74 57 48
     Business Travel 5 6 1 <1
     Crew travel* 5 8 3 3
Sum 423  502 380 317
CO 2 Emissions per CMP 63.1 65.1 60.0 5 7.4
 2018 2019 2020 2021
Fuel 1237  1467 1128 946
     HFO 715  812 558 463
     MGO 521  655 570 483
Electricity 16  16 15 9
     Offices 16  16 15 9
Sum 1253  1483 1143 955
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
14
Why is it important
We operate around the globe in a range of environments, from the tropics to the arctic, from mature oil 
provinces to frontier areas. During a seismic survey, the most significant impacts on the environment 
are emissions to air from the fuel we consume and emissions of underwater noise from the acoustic 
sources we use.
Our activities are generally subject to strict environmental regulations and a rigorous permitting 
process ahead of any seismic project. These regulations ensure that any actual or potential impacts to 
marine life, marine habitats and other users of the oceans are controlled and within limits that prevent 
any significant or long-term impacts. 
Regardless to where we operate, compliance with all applicable national and regional legislation is part 
of our license to operate.
Our approach
We are committed to strict compliance with all environmental laws and regulations that apply to our 
activities and our goal is to have zero non-compliance incidents. We have implemented strict policies 
and procedures to manage our compliance obligations and ahead of any seismic survey our project 
teams ensure we have identified all applicable regulations and permit conditions and implemented 
these in our project plans.
Our performance in 2021
In 2021, there have been no significant non-compliances with environmental regulations. We had five 
minor breaches of permit requirements and/or local regulations that were promptly reported to the 
relevant authorities and resolved without any further action against PGS.ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
Goal
Zero incidents of 
environmental 
non-complianceStrengthened our project execution 
model with sustained focus on project 
risk assessment and planning.Strengthen the non-compliance 
reporting process and share 
learnings more broadly.Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achieved
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
15
Why is it important
We recognize the impacts of climate change and the urgent need for a transition to sustainable energy 
sources to avoid the most severe consequences for the environment, society, the economy, and our 
business. The direct emissions from our fleet of seismic- and support vessels represent more than 
95 % of our total emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), and we are directly exposed to physical- and 
climate transition risks and opportunities that may impact the market and our ability to competitively 
operate a fleet consuming traditional marine fuels.
Our approach
Ensuring that PGS is resilient with respect to transition risks and well positioned for the energy 
transition is core to our strategy. Our ambitions are to both achieve an environmental transformation 
of our current business and develop new sustainable business opportunities that support the energy 
transition.
Our performance in 2021
In 2021, we managed to sustain our path towards a 50 % reduction in emissions per data unit. While 
this progress can be attributed to the actions we have taken so far, it is also highly dependent on the 
market dynamics, activity level, and fleet allocation. It is a priority for us to optimize our fleet allocation 
given the market at any time.
At the turn of the year, we were awarded two seismic projects for characterization of reservoirs for 
carbon storage. Our New Energy business unit has an ambition to develop a meaningful revenue 
stream for such services over the next few years.ENERGY AND EMISSIONS
Goals
Reduce kg CO2 eq per 
data unit (CMP km) by 
50 % compared to 2011 
by 2030.
Identify and develop 
new sustainable 
business opportunities.Revised our GHG inventory to meet 
future reporting requirements. 
Implemented real-time fuel 
consumption and energy efficiency 
dashboards for Titan-class vessels.
Established ‘New Energy’ – a dedicated 
business unit to support the energy 
transition. Awarded two acquisition 
projects to characterize reservoirs for 
Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS)Evaluate feasibility of alternative fuels for 
our fleet. Develop real-time monitoring of 
GHG emissions to enable detailed analysis 
of reduction alternatives. Report our 
emissions and progress towards target on a 
quarterly basis.
Explore opportunities to use our 
technology, competence, and assets to 
support other domains within the energy 
transitionActions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achieved
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
16
// Environmental
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 203090.4
85.4
80.2
66.176.2
69.673.5
62.4 64.2
59.0
57.4
45.2TARGETBASELINE
- 50%kg CO 2 per CMP
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
17
Why is it important
During a seismic survey, the most significant potential impact on biodiversity is the emission of sound 
from the vessels and acoustic sources we use to illuminate the subsurface. The sound is emitted from 
an acoustic source that is towed below the water behind the seismic vessel.
Near the acoustic source (meters to tens of meters), the sound intensity is such that animals – in 
particular marine mammals – may sustain injury if present. At greater distances however, there is no 
risk of direct injury, but the sound may still affect animals by being a nuisance that can lead to change 
in their behavior or make their communication difficult.
There is also a risk that our activities interfere with local communities and indigenous people that rely 
on local biodiversity for their sustenance and livelihood. Without careful planning upfront and dialogue 
during a survey, there may be actual or potential risks such as displacing local fisheries from their 
catch grounds, damaging fishing equipment, disturbing fish spawning, or disturbing the breeding or 
migration of whales.
A seismic survey is by nature a transient activity. The sound source is constantly moving and the 
underwater sound exposure ceases upon completion of a project.
Our approach
We exercise care and consider the potential impacts on marine life and habitats when we plan our 
work. We always use a gradual increase of intensity when we activate the source (‘soft-start’) to allow 
marine life to move further away. Where required we have protocols to shut down the acoustic source if 
a marine mammal is spotted within a certain perimeter (typically 500 m).
We are committed to respecting the rights and interests of local communities and indigenous people. 
Our goal is to have zero conflicts with fisheries and local communities. Where project locations are near 
fishing grounds, spawning grounds, breading grounds or migration routes we are generally required to 
undergo a rigorous process of impact assessments and consultations with local communities, fisheries, 
and indigenous people before we are granted a permit to do our work. In the absence of regulatory 
requirements, we ensure that these matters are addressed in our Project Risk Assessments for the 
area with appropriate mitigations implemented in our Project Plans.
Where we operate in or near areas of importance to local communities, fisheries and/or indigenous 
people we strive to ensure transparent and timely dialogue at an early stage in the project 
development. This allows planning for time or area restrictions in our work, establishes good 
communication lines between all parties allows us to account for local knowledge about the area in our 
planning. Equally important is to maintain this transparent and timely dialogue during the project and 
upon completion to ensure we can adjust our plans as we progress and capture relevant learnings at 
the end.
Our goal is to conduct seismic surveys with minimal acoustic impact and maximum efficiency. The less 
time it takes to complete a survey, the less acoustic exposure in the area in total. Our longstanding and 
sustained investments in modern vessels and seismic technology has resulted in less downtime during BIODIVERSITY
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
18
Goals
Minimal acoustic impact 
with maximum efficiency 
in acquisition projects
Zero conflicts with 
fisheries, local communities 
and/or indigenous people.
Support the  
‘Ghost-Net Initiative’Sustained focus on careful 
planning, operational efficiency, 
and minimal downtime.
Ensured robust planning, 
communication, and management 
of local fisheries in areas of 
potential conflict.
Removed more than 15t of 
abandoned fishing gear and marine 
debris during our surveys.Actions in 2021 Progress
Evaluate novel survey 
designs and configurations 
that increase efficiency.
Evaluate the use of drones, AUVs 
and sonars to aid scouting and 
monitoring of fishing activity and 
fishing gear in the area.
Ensure regular reporting of marine 
debris removal to the EnerGeoAlliance 
‘Ghost-Net Initiative’ .Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achievedproduction, less gaps in the seismic data coverage that needs to be re-acquired and less standby for 
weather and currents.
We support the Energeo Alliance ‘Ghost-net Initiative’ and have implemented robust protocols for 
removal and responsible disposal of abandoned fishing gear and marine debris that we encounter while 
conducting our work.
Our performance in 2021
In 2021, there have been no reported incidents of injury to marine life or habitats or significant conflicts 
with local communities, fisheries, or indigenous people. All projects have been conducted in compliance 
with applicable regulations, protocols and agreed mitigation measures. In total, we removed more that 
15 tons of abandoned fishing gear and marine debris during the year.
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
19
Why is it important
Wastes of all types is an issue of increasing concern globally. Firstly, because a range of potential 
and actual environmental, societal, and economic impacts may arise from its transport, processing 
and ultimate disposal. Secondly, because inability to reuse the materials in waste leads to increased 
demand for virgin materials.
We generate waste in our offices and on our vessels. In the office, regular municipal wastes (paper, 
cardboard, food etc.) are managed in accordance with local regulations and recycling schemes. On our 
vessels we generate a range of municipal, operational and hazardous wastes that are managed and 
disposed of according to robust policies and procedures.
Our approach
We have strict protocols in place to ensure the safe storage, handling, and delivery of our waste. Our 
fleet operates in compliance with MARPOL requirements and any applicable local legislation in the 
region and location where we operate.
Our performance in 2021
The total amount of waste generated in our offices increased slightly compared to the past year due 
increased office activity in the latter half of the year. The waste generation from our fleet has remained 
stable over the past years with no measurable decline. We have identified that we need to improve the 
quality and level of detail in our waste reporting to ensure we identify areas of improvement.WASTE
Goal
Minimal waste 
output with 100 % 
reuse or recycling.Set a corporate waste goal. Sold 
second-hand equipment from our 
fleet rather than scrapping.Improve the quality and detail of 
waste monitoring and reporting in 
offices and from our fleet.Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achieved
E  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
20
SOCIAL
Occupational Health, Safety & Security
Employment & Labor Relations
Human RightsTraining & EducationOur success depends on maintaining good relations with our employees and other stakeholders. 
We aim to nurture these through open dialogue, to increase mutual understanding and encourage 
positive relationships.
The materiality assessment has resulted in the following key social indicators:
• Employment and labor relations
• Occupational health and safety
• Training and education
• Human RightsSOCIAL
Key Employment and Labor Relations Indicators 2021
Total number 
of vessel 
employees334 2020
293 2021
% Vessel 
personnel 
under 55 years73% 2020
71% 2021% Female 
crew2% 2020
2% 2021Nationalities 
represented 
on vessels32 2020
32 2021British, Norwegian, Polish, American, Canadian, French, Swedish, Russian, Irish, Australian, Indian, Brazilian, 
Croatian, Malaysian, Nigerian, Belgian, Danish, Egyptian, Finnish, Indonesian, Italian, Filipino, Turkish, 
Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Dutch, German, Maltese, Mexican, Romanian, South African, Vietnamese
British, Norwegian, Polish, American, Canadian, French, Swedish, Irish, Brazilian, Indian, Russian, Australian, 
Croatian, Malaysian, Nigerian, Turkish, Belgian, Egyptian, Finnish, Indonesian, Italian, Filipino, Ukrainian, 
Bulgarian, Danish, Dutch, German, Maltese, Mexican, Romanian, South African, Vietnamese% Vessel 
personnel by 
nationality2020
202133% British, 17%  Norwegian, 13% Polish, 11% American, 4% Canadian, 3% French, 2% Swedish, 19%  Other
32% British, 16%  Norwegian, 12% Polish, 11% American, 5% Canadian, 3% French, 2% Swedish, 19%  Other
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
22// Social
Total number 
of office 
employees 
(year end)649 2020
601 2021
% Female 
office 
personnel30% 2020
28% 2021
% Office 
personnel 
under 55 years79% 2020
79% 2021Nationalities 
represented in 
offices44 2020
44 2021Norwegian, British, American, Egyptian, French, Brazilian, German, Angolan, Russian, Australian, Chinese, 
Malaysian, Dutch, Irish, Polish, Mexican, Swedish, Indian, Nigerian, Italian, Venezuelan, Canadian, Danish, 
Ghanaian, Japanese, Singaporean, Spanish, Tunisian, Finnish, Greek, Kazakhstani, Portuguese, South African, 
Azerbaijani, Belgian, Bhutan, Bulgarian, Colombian, Croatian, Iranian, Moroccan, Filipino, Serbian, Turkish
Norwegian, British, American, Egyptian, Brazilian, French, Angolan, German, Australian, Chinese, Russian, 
Dutch, Polish, Irish, Mexican, Nigerian, Italian, Swedish, Indian, Malaysian, Venezuelan, Canadian, Danish, 
Ghanaian, Japanese, Portuguese, Tunisian, Croatian, Finnish, Greek, Kazakhstani, Singaporean, South African, 
Spanish, Algerian, Azerbaijani, Belgian, Bhutan, Estonian, Iranian, Moroccan, Filipino, Serbian, Turkish
# Employees entitled to 
parental leave - by gender32 2020
23 males, 9 females
33 2021
24 males, 9 females
# Employees that returned 
to work in 2021 after 
parental leave ended32 2020
23 males, 9 females
27 2021
21 males, 6 females
# Employees that returned 
to work after parental 
leave ended that were still 
employed 12 months after 
their return to work29 2020
22 males, 7 females
25 2021
21 males, 4 females% Office 
personnel by 
nationality2020
202128% Norwegian, 18% British, 11% American, 6% Egyptian,  4% French,  
4% Brazilian, 3% German, 3% Angolan, 23%  Other
26% Norwegian, 18% British, 12% American, 6% Egyptian,  4% 
French,  4% Brazilian, 3% Angolan, 23%  Other
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
23// Social
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, SAFETY, AND SECURITY
Why is it important
Seismic operations encompass many high-risk activities and involve working in remote areas and 
locations. Our offshore crew is exposed to hazards like ropes and wires under tension, hydraulic- and 
electric equipment, working at height, crane- and lifting operations, working with hazardous chemicals, 
maintenance of seismic equipment from workboats and travelling through countries and regions with 
elevated health and security risks. 
The global COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in additional stress on our personnel. To ensure we protect 
them and our operation from COVID-19 we implemented a strict regime of quarantine and testing. 
While we have succeeded in keeping our fleet clean, the offshore personnel have been subject to 
weeks in isolation travelling to and from vessels, extended rotations offshore and often a high degree 
of uncertainty about when they will be returning home due to the in-country isolation and testing 
requirements where they reside.
The pandemic has also been challenging for our onshore employees, with extended periods of working 
from home, inability to work while caring for family members that were infected or in quarantine and a 
general lack of socialization as communities shut down to slow the transmission of the virus.
Our approach
The health, safety and security of our personnel is our top priority. Without offshore personnel to 
manage the seismic vessel and equipment we cannot operate, and without onshore personnel to 
process our data, work with our clients and drive improvements through digitalization and innovation 
we cannot deliver the high-quality product we aspire to.
We have a mature and robust health and safety management system in place. It is based on industry 
standards from the IOGP and the EnerGeo Alliance, and is certified against ISO 45001:2018. Our goal 
is zero injury to people and we are committed to preventing injuries and promoting good health and 
wellbeing.
We have implemented one of the most rigorous and robust quarantine and testing regimes in the 
industry for COVID-19 in our offshore operations. All crew were required to quarantine for a period of 
seven days prior to joining the vessel and can only join the vessel following a negative RT-PCR test at 
the end of the quarantine.
Our performance in 2021
Our health and safety performance in 2021 was on par with our best performance historically. The 
number of lost time injuries (L TI) was reduced from 3 to 1 compared to 2021 and the number of high-
potential incidents reduced from 2 to 1.
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
24// Social
Goals
Sustain and improve 
safety culture & 
employee wellbeing
Zero injury to peopleManaged the COVID-19 pandemic 
to ensure a clean fleet without 
significant compromise to 
people’s wellbeing or motivation.
Monthly- and quarterly HSE 
campaigns to sustain awareness. 
Developed digital solution to identify 
trends in leading indicators.Monitor the health- and wellbeing of 
our people to avoid post-pandemic 
impacts such as stress, depression, and 
other negative impacts on wellbeing.
Revise and update our HSE training 
catalogue. Continue our efforts to build 
a fully digital HSE management system 
that enable insight through data analysis.Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There AchievedWe had zero cases of COVID-19 transmission or outbreaks on our vessels. To understand the impacts  
of the pandemic on the wellbeing of our employees, we conducted health and wellbeing surveys 
for both onshore and offshore personnel. The results showed that despite the strain of isolation, 
quarantine, and uncertainty the vast majority of our employees remained resilient and motivated 
without significant negative impacts on their motivation.
INDICATOR 2018 2019 2020 2021
Lost Time Injury (L TI) 1 3 3 1
Restricted Work Case (RWC) 3 0 0 1
Medical Treatment Case (MTC) 2 2 0 1
# Total Recordable Incidents 6 5 3 3
High Potential Incidents 1 2 2 1
Man-hours (millions) 5.2 5.8 4.6 3.6
Lost Time Incident Frequency (L TIF)* 0.19 0.52 0.65 0.28
Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF)* 1.15 0.86 0.65 0.84
High Potential Incident Frequency (HIPO)* 0.19 0.35 0.44 0.28
Fatalities 0 0 0 0
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
25// Social
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOUR RELATIONS 
Why is it important
Our employees shape and improve our business. We believe that the best results are gained from 
inclusive and diverse teams that work in an environment free of any form of discrimination based 
on political conviction, religious belief, age, gender, sexual orientation, family status, disability, race, 
nationality, ethnic origin, or social origin or on any other unlawful basis.
Exclusion of people based on any of the above is not only unacceptable and detrimental to society, but 
it also represents a loss of opportunity for the Company. We are dependent upon differing perspectives, 
experiences, and opinions to ensure we arrive at the best possible outcome for our Company.
Our approach
PGS addresses equality, inclusion and diversity at both the corporate governance and operational level. 
This is reflected in several of our governing documents such as in our Code of Conduct, People Policy 
and People Standard.
The organizational responsibility for the oversight and follow up of PGS’ labor practices and human 
relations management lies with the Senior Vice President Global HR. This is enabled through a 
structure of regional responsible HR professionals located in our three main offices.
Diversity goals and equal opportunity are integral to our culture and our hiring practices. Upholding 
diversity and inclusion positively contribute to PGS’ working environment and innovative culture. We 
have set clear targets to ensure we improve the gender balance and compensation equity across all 
roles in PGS, including at management levels.
In addition to day-to-day communication with our people - offshore and in our offices - we carry out 
regular surveys to gather feedback and insights on employee wellbeing and the way we do business. 
We appreciate the importance of maintaining a good relationship with employees, trade unions and 
organizations. We regularly engage with these to discuss important topics.
PGS has employee participation at the Board level. As of December 31, 2021, three out of eight board 
members of PGS’ Board of Directors are employees elected directly by the PGS employees. Two of these 
board members serve on the Audit Committee while one serves on the Remuneration and Corporate 
Governance Committee.
A more detailed account of our employment and labor relations management can be found in our 
repository of ESG documents on our webpage www.pgs.com.
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
26// Social
Goals
Attract and develop a 
diverse workforce
Increase proportion of 
women in leadership roles 
and number of employees 
in 20s and 30sIntroduced a policy that all 
recruitment interviews shall include 
representatives from PGS of both 
genders and at least two different 
national or cultural backgrounds.
Mentoring program for high 
potentials where a representative 
number of women are included in the 
program. Coaching for leaders and 
future leaders where a representative 
number of women are includedFacilitate discussion on Diversity 
& Inclusion and increase learning/
awareness around the topic and 
its importance.
Ensure we have a diverse panel 
including a woman evaluating 
promotions to leadership roles.Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There AchievedOur performance in 2021
In 2021, our main focus was to manage the impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic and sustain our 
operations without any disruptions. We hired 37 employees and 57 employees left the company to 
seek opportunities elsewhere, and we were not in a position where a process of redundancies was 
required. Significant progress was made with the implementation of revised leadership principles and a 
modernized platform for employee development, performance management and training.
Gender Pay
The table shows the % difference between average female to male pay within each career band  
(A through F) and the proportion of female to male employees1.
CAREER BAND2A B C D E F
Female to male pay ratio 1.23 1.01 0.89 0.91 0.91 0.95
Proportion number of female to male employees 0.25 0.16 0.34 0.47 0.60 0.83
1  Data from Norway, USA and UK (representing 84% of PGS office-based employees)
2  The PGS Career Framework is a matrix consisting of 6 bands and two career tracks (Technical and Managerial). Band A to F   
 represents from most to less skilled/complex positions. 
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
27// Social
Why is it important
Our ability to deliver high-quality services to our customers, reach our strategic objectives and ensure 
our company is resilient for the future is dependent upon our people and their skills and competence. 
The energy transition will create opportunities and risks that can only be managed in the best interest 
of our company and key stakeholders if we ensure our employees have the right skills for the future.
Beyond ensuring we have the skills needed for the company in the future, we believe that personal 
development and learning is rewarding for our people and a key part of their motivation and pride in  
our company.
Our approach
We develop and identify employees’ talents and skills by evaluating and discussing potential at 
all levels of the organization including senior management. This we do through our Performance 
Management process, which is linked to and informs about our Development and Promotion processes.
Our employee motivation and engagement surveys provide PGS with deep insights to possible 
developmental and work environment issues at all levels and between groups.  All PGS employees 
regardless of their location have access to training through digital training portals, their manager 
and development programs, and using education in the societies where we operate. For more than a 
decade, PGS has cooperated with various local governments to help build skills and knowledge in the 
local population. Initiatives have included financial support for women doctorates in Ghana, financial 
support to students in Angola, and intern programs in Canada, Ghana and Brazil. 
Our performance in 2021
In 2021, 95 % of our employees had personal performance goals in place. We introduced a revised and 
modernized platform for learning and development that all our employees have access to.TRAINING AND EDUCATION
Goal
Our employees continue 
to develop critical  
skills and capabilities  
for the futureImplemented revised set 
of Leadership Principles. 
Launched new platform for 
performance management, 
learning, and development.Our Leadership Principles are integrated into our 
people processes to support development and 
learning Skills and capabilities needed for the 
future integrated into our competency assessment 
and learning and development processes Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achieved
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
28// Social
HUMAN RIGHTS
Why is it important
Working across the world in both developed and less developed regions, we may potentially be exposed 
to human rights infringements both in our own operations and indirectly through our supply chain 
through third parties we engage or suppliers we use. Human rights infringements such as child labor, 
forced labor, just working conditions, freedom of expression and association, and non-discrimination 
are major obstacles to an adequate standard of living for all people regardless of culture, race, religion, 
or beliefs.
Our approach
Our Code of Conduct and Corporate Responsibility Policy contain PGS’ overarching commitment to 
respect Human and Labor Rights throughout our global activities. Our commitments to Human and 
Labor Rights predominantly address our suppliers and the work force in our supply chain, but also our 
own work force, other business partners, and the local communities in the regions in which we operate.
Employees in PGS are made aware of the ways in which PGS respects Human and Labor Rights, and 
how this should inform their decisions and actions. PGS communicates its requirements through the 
Code of Conduct, onboarding training, regular compliance training and internal communication.
PGS regularly performs an assessment of Human and Labor Rights and identifies where potential 
salient or material issues may arise in PGS operations (directly from PGS’s activities or via its business 
relationships).
The table below presents a high-level summary of our initial assessment of where a Human and Labor 
Right violation has a more than remote possibility of occurring and the groups potentially affected.  
This serves as a starting point for our ongoing in-depth analysis that we aim to complete and publish 
before mid-year 2022.
HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTSPGS, Suppliers and 
Business Partners Others
Right to enjoy just and favorable conditions of work YES Local fishing communities* 
Rights of protection for the child YES  
Right to freedom of association, and to form and join trade unions and 
the right to strike YES  
Right to life and right to health YES Local fishing communities* 
Right to privacy YES Customers 
Right not to be subject forced labor and right to liberty and security of 
the person and freedom of movement YES  
Right to a family life YES  
Right to an adequate standard of living YES  
Right to non-discrimination YES Local fishing communities* 
Right to freedom of opinion and expression YES Local fishing communities* 
*  In reference to OECD engagement with indigenous peoples where they are present and potentially impacted by the enterprise’s activities, we have  
 identified that the salient issues relate to the ensuring consultation, ensuring a safe environment and ensuring appropriate compensation (in case of  
 disruption of work activities).
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
29// Social
Goals
Ensure that our 
operations do not cause 
any infringement of basic 
human and labor rights
Ensure all suppliers uphold 
the same sustainability 
standards as we doRevised our Code of Conduct. 
Conducted high-level 
assessment of our exposure.
Launched our Supplier Code of 
Conduct. Developed a Supplier 
Sustainability Assessment.Ensure compliance 
with the Norwegian 
Transparency Act.
Implement new Supplier 
Management platform with 
improved risk management 
and supplier assurance.Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There AchievedWe are determined that our suppliers shall adhere to our Human and Labor Rights standards. To this 
end, we have implemented our Supplier Code of Conduct which imposes obligations on all suppliers to 
respect salient Human and Labor Rights. Key suppliers will be required to confirm compliance with our 
Supplier Code of Conduct. PGS will also implement Human and Labor Rights lifecycle management in 
the supply chain. This lifecycle management includes supplier qualification, approval, monitoring, and 
remediation.
A more detailed account of our Human Rights management can be found in our repository of ESG 
documents on our webpage www.pgs.com.
Our performance in 2021
No breaches or human rights impacts involving rights of indigenous people or related to forced or  
child labor were identified as per end of 2021 within our own operations or through our supply chain.
PGS does not consider its operations to be at risk of violating employees’ right to freedom of 
association and the right to collective bargaining, and no specific concerns were identified as per  
end of 2021.
S  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
30GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Anti-corruption
Anti-competitive BehaviorPGS is committed to providing a positive, inclusive, and sustainable working environment. We are 
a contributing member to Transparency International Norway. We treat all individuals fairly. We 
adhere to the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) Core Conventions on Labor Standards, the 
United Nation’s (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights and applicable labor standards. We do 
not tolerate any breaches of these principles and work towards ensuring employees feel confident in 
raising concerns to management without fear of retribution.
The materiality assessment has resulted in the following key governance indicators:
• Corporate governance
• Anti-corruption
• Anti-competitive behavior
• Economic performance and tax*GOVERNANCE
Why is it important
Robust, open, and transparent corporate governance in full compliance with applicable regulations and 
in line with the expectations of our key stakeholders is the foundation of good corporate citizenship 
and responsible management of sustainability risks and opportunities.
Our approach
The Board keeps oversight over PGS’ sustainability management and performance. The Board approves 
the PGS corporate strategy, and sustainability goals embedded into the PGS corporate strategy. The 
Board has also approved the Code of Conduct, and The Board’s Audit Committee is mandated to 
monitor PGS’ sustainability efforts and to report back to the Board. 
PGS’ President & CEO (the “CEO”) proposes the strategic sustainability goals and implements PGS’ 
management of Human and Labor Rights. The CEO has appointed a head of sustainability who is 
mandated to develop and maintain appropriate policies and procedures. The head of sustainability 
engages with PGS Senior Management to ensure that PGS’ strategic sustainability goals are 
consistently embedded in the strategic goals for each business area in PGS. The Legal department 
assists with drafting policies and procedures as well as to keeping oversight of the governance model 
and compliance with legal requirements.
A more detailed account of our governance model can be found in the annual report and in our 
repository of ESG documents on our webpage www.pgs.com.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE* Economic Performance & Tax is disclosed and discussed in the PGS Annual Report
G  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
32Board of Directors
The Board is actively engaged in review, monitoring and discussion of sustainability issues and risks, 
including climate change and the energy transition. Sustainability is discussed in most of the ordinary 
board meetings, either as integral parts of strategy discussions or as separate topics. 
The Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committee (Remco)  is appointed by the Board and acts 
as a preparatory body in connection with the Board’s role with respect to certain matters, including 
Corporate Governance Policies and Procedures and Senior Executive remuneration.
The Audit Committee  acts as a preparatory body in connection with the Board’s supervisory role with 
respect to financial control and external audit. With respect to Sustainability, the Audit Committee 
shall oversee the Company’s execution and internal controls over:
• Establishing relevant Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for the Company’s defined  
sustainability goals
• The measuring of performance against the KPIs
• Compliance with the sustainability reporting framework, as selected by the Board of Directors
• The compilation and disclosure of the Company’s sustainability reports
• Review the Company’s sustainability reports and provide its recommendations to the Board of 
Directors before approval
In 2021, 8 board meetings were conducted including a review and approval of the sustainability report 
and materiality assessment in Q1, and a review of the Company’s revised strategy including strategic 
objectives for sustainability in Q3. Progress against sustainability goals and targets are reviewed mid-
year and at year-end.
Corporate Management
The CEO and is accountable for setting and executing the Company’s sustainability ambitions, and has 
made the Executive Vice Presidents (EVPs) accountable for managing relevant risks and performance 
within the respective Business Units (BU) and departments. 
The Company’s strategic objectives and goals for sustainability form the basis for annual goals that 
are reviewed and approved by the CEO as assisted by the EXT. Once approved, goals are cascaded down 
through the organization and progress is reviewed regularly. Sustainability goal achievement is included 
in the KPIs of the CEO and EVPs, as well as senior managers in the line organizations below and is tied 
to monetary reward through the Company’s bonus scheme.
G  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
33The responsibility for informing and guiding the Company’s response to sustainability and climate-
related issues is assigned to the Senior Vice President Sustainability, a role within the corporate 
support function that is a permanent member of the extended EXT reporting directly to the CEO. 
Sustainability issues are monitored through a variety of means including (but not limited to) 
monitoring of regulatory developments in key markets, stakeholder dialogue (e.g. with investors, 
clients or ESG rating agencies) and participation in industry- or sustainability associations and working 
groups such as The Energeo Alliance, The Norwegian Shipowner’s Association, UN Global Compact, 
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and through our membership in the Norwegian Chapter of 
Transparency International. The SVP Sustainability is responsible for coordination of such efforts and 
reporting to the Board, CEO and EVPs.
EXTBoard of Directors
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer
EVP New Energy
SVP Technology & 
DigitalizationEVP Sales and Services
EVP Operations
Corporate Support
SVP Sustainability
SVP HR
SVP Corporate Development
General Counsel
G  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
34Why is it important
Corruption undermines human and societal development. It diverts public resources away from 
the provision of essential services. It increases inequality and hinders national and local economic 
development by distorting markets for goods and services. It corrodes the rule of law and destroys 
public trust in governments and leaders.
Such activities are illegal and any organization engaging in such may face criminal charges, 
significant reputational damage and loss of business that will directly affect employees, clients  
and shareholder value.
Our approach
Compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, including anti-corruption laws applicable to the conduct 
of our business activities is a fundamental part of the PGS Code of Conduct. Our anti-corruption 
program reflects the Company’s promise to its shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders to 
operate legally and ethically. It is based on best practice and standards.
We perform stakeholder analysis, context analyses, and a group risk-assessment that address all 
PGS locations and activities on an annual basis. In addition, each year we do a global likelihood-of-
corruption-exposure assessment, by country. 
We perform risk assessments or pre-qualification assessments of our suppliers. Integrity due diligence 
is performed on business partners to provide pre-defined ‘exposing services’ where the assessed 
inherent risk is greater than low. Due diligence on certain existing business partners is repeated at a 
frequency defined by the assessed risk level.
At activity or transaction level, we use several processes to conduct risks assessments in advance of 
conducting an activity. Corruption risks are an integrated part of these.
We have a well-established system for communicating and training our stakeholders on our anti-
corruption program.  The PGS Audit Committee receive regular information, updates, and training 
regarding the anti-corruption program. In addition, each year the Board and all members of the EXT 
respond to questions about critical governance requirements, including anti-corruption.
Our performance in 2021
In 2021, through our group corruption risk assessment, we identified two inherently high risks to PGS 
linked to Interacting with government officials and use of agents.ANTI-CORRUPTION
Goal
Zero violations of anti-
corruption legislationStrengthen awareness and 
assurance in our supply chain.Revised our Code of Conduct. Launched Supplier 
Code of Conduct. Revised our risk assessments 
based on changes in country risk profiles.Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achieved
G  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
35// Governance
INDICATOR 2018 2019 2020 2021
Number of suppliers 2376 2229 1966 1856
Top 100 suppliers share of total spend 78% 78% 80% 81%
Number of supplier audits 5 6 12 4
Number of critical suppliers that have completed a supplier 
verification process* 39 36 30 21Number of 
Business 
Partners65 2021
Type of 
Business 
Partner2021 33 Ships agents, 8 Environmental consultants, 7 Sales agents and representatives, 7 Escort and support 
vessels, 7 Other
Business 
Partner by 
Region2021 16 Africa, 14 Asia, 4 Europe, 21 Global, 2 North America, 2 Oceania, 6 South AmericaKey Indicators
G  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
36// Governance
Why is it important
Anti-competitive behavior prevents or reduce free competition. Such behavior is illegal and may be 
detrimental to the long-term value creation of companies, their clients, and the economy. It may 
also be subject to criminal charges, loss of reputation and loss of business that will directly affect 
employees, clients and shareholder value.
Our approach
There is considerable focus on fair competition in the seismic industry, both from industry 
organizations such as the Energeo Alliance, governments, and clients. While PGS engages in joint-
ventures and collaboration projects with other companies within our industry, we only do so in 
compliance with applicable anti-trust/competition law.
PGS has developed policies and guidelines to ensure that these projects are conducted well within 
the boundaries of applicable anti-trust/competition law. The nature of such projects may differ. An 
example is joint seismic acquisition projects, which typically will yield more seismic data to the market 
at a lower cost to our customers.
Our performance in 2021
No legal actions pending or completed during 2021 regarding anti-competitive behavior or violations of 
anti-trust/competition law involved PGS as a participant.ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
Goal
Zero violations of anti-
trust and monopoly 
legislation.Sustain our disciplined and 
professional behavior.Strict enforcement of disciplined and 
professional behavior in historically small 
and competitive market.Actions in 2021 Progress Plans for 2022
Started In Good Progress Almost There Achieved
G  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
37Looking Ahead
Our stakeholders expect us to come up with smart 
and sustainable solutions to the challenges we face, 
especially when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions. We need to provide coherent communication 
on how we address climate change as a strategic priority.  
Access to reliable and affordable energy is essential 
for life on earth. We are committed to being part of a 
solution that will look at the best ways to provide such 
energy, while reducing risks to the environment. As the 
solutions are evolving, we have embarked on a mission 
to put ourselves at the forefront of the changing energy 
landscape and will continue to utilize our ESG reporting 
process to communicate our efforts at managing 
sustainability-related risks and opportunities to  
our stakeholders.  
Find out more: www.pgs.com/responsibility 
Contact us:  Sustainability@pgs.com
E
S
G
  |   PGS Sustainability Report 2021
38A Clearer Image |  www.pgs.comPGS Sustainability Report 2021