Responsibility Report 2013*
EVOLUTION
*Reporting year changed from 2014 to 2013, to align with the Annual reporting process and future Responsibility reports.PEOPLE
ENVIRONMENT
CONDUCT
STAKEHOLDERS
2014 2013 2012 2011
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
OUR EVOLUTION
Once again we invite you under the surface of our business, 
but this time we go deeper. The world’s need for oil and 
gas is not abating and finding new hydrocarbon resources  
is getting more demanding. This responsibility report 
tracks our growth as a corporate citizen and the changing 
challenges of the world in which we operate.
Oil and gas remain essential to the 
security and stability of modern society, both today and tomorrow. Seismic is a small cog in that great machine, but an important one to help identify new resources and monitor efficient production of the resources we  already have.
Finding new oil and gas reservoirs is 
getting tougher as exploration moves deeper, into more remote and often harsher environments. The structures that we seek to image are getting more complex. Projects and planning take longer and are more demanding than before. Each new frontier brings new challenges to our technology as well as our operations. These changes impact safety and security, and require heightened sensitivity to the world around us.
Our theme for this year’s report is 
‘Evolution’ – reflecting those changing challenges and tracking our growth  as a corporate citizen. In our second report, we have maintained a commitment to transparency with a focus on the organization and systems. We have made progress, but our journey is by no means complete.Our key achievements since the last report in 2011 include maintaining an outstanding health and safety record, strengthening our Anti-Corruption program, as well as our risk management process, securing our ISO 14001 environmental management system certification and reducing energy consumption. In December 2013, PGS signed the UN Global Compact – committing to ten principles in the spheres of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption.  We followed this up with a new PGS human rights policy in 2014.
An international corporation like  
PGS is built of many people across  many nations. Our business affects  and impacts on even more. If you are one of them, then I would be very interested to hear your views on how 
we can continue to improve – whether 
you are a PGS employee, customer, shareholder or other stakeholder.
Jon Erik Reinhardsen  
President and CEO
Contact corporate.responsibility@pgs.com
4   EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   5
The Big Picture6   EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
About this report
This report is our first ‘Communication on Progress’ 
in accordance with the UN Global Compact and 
details the progress we have made towards our 
business responsibility commitments during 2012 and 2013.
It is organized around four key areas:
Case studies, facts and figures cover our 
commitments, activities and performance on the issues that matter most to our business. 
PEOPLE
ENVIRONMENT
CONDUCT
STAKEHOLDERS7
Contents
PEOPLE 12
Our commitments 13
Engaging our global workforce 14
Managing our people 18
Valuing diversity 20 
Health and safety 22
ENVIRONMENT 30
Our commitments 31
Interaction with marine wildlife 34
Responding to climate change 36
Local environmental impact 39
CONDUCT 40
Our commitments 41
Code of conduct 42
Human rights 44
Anti-Corruption 45
STAKEHOLDERS 48
Our commitments 49
Investor relations 51
Engaging with customers 52
Managing a responsible supply chain 53
Building trust in communities 56
THE FUTURE 58
PEOPLE DATA 60
ENVIRONMENT DATA 648   EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
About PGS
In over two decades in the seismic business, PGS has evolved to become an  
industry leader – from two seismic vessels towing 960 recording channels in 1992,  
to 14 vessels towing 1.3 million channels in 2013. Despite employing over 2,500 
people around the globe, we operate around a ‘flat and wide’ structure with seven levels of hierarchy or less between our most junior employee and our CEO.  
We aim for a team culture of strong values, engagement and innovation. 
What we do
PGS offers a range of products and services to help oil companies find and extract offshore oil and gas reserves around the world. We use GeoStreamer® GS – our own unique imaging technology.
Our business model is focused on three key areas:
Marine contracts – exclusive contracts to provide high quality seismic data and 
images to help clients explore for new hydrocarbon accumulations, or monitor producing fields.
MultiClient surveys – our MultiClient data library includes over 425 thousand sq km 
of 3D and 294 thousand km of 2D data. It offers clients an effective and economic way to understand exploration potential, decrease risk and find oil faster.
Imaging & Engineering – delivering the clearest seismic images to support our 
customers’ success in exploration, appraisal, drilling and exploitation. Our research teams are developing the next generation technology, as well as improving towing technology and fleet efficiency, high-end imaging and automation, and towed streamer electromagnetic (“EM”) acquisition.45% 
45% 
10% MARINE 
CONTRACTS  
MULTICLIENT
SURVEYS
IMAGING & 
ENGINEERING
% of PGS business in 20139
To care
• For our employees
• For the environment and society at large
• For our customers’ success
To deliver productivity leadership
• Ramform platform and GeoStreamer R
• Reducing project turnaround time
To develop superior data quality
• GeoStreamer R business platform
• Imaging innovations
• Subsurface knowledgeTo innovate
• First multi-component streamer solution
• First with over 20 towed streamer capability
• Unique reservoir-focused solutions
To perform over the cycle
• Profitable with robust balance sheet
• Absolute focus on being the best in our market segmentOur Strategic Ambition10   EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
Our Core Values
94%  
of PGS employees
say our Core Values are an important part of their daily work
2013 PGS Core Values survey PGS is built on strong values that provide 
the foundation for all our goals, policies and actions. They offer clear guidelines on how we expect everyone at PGS to interact with their colleagues, suppliers, customers and the people we encounter in our day-to-day work. As part of an initiative to revitalize our Core Values in 2014, we asked all PGS employees for their opinions by electronic survey. The results were encouraging, with 94% agreeing that PGS Core Values are relevant to their daily work and 92% agreeing that their colleagues live up  to these values in their work. Over the last decade, we have incorporated these basic building blocks into the fabric of our company – through key processes such as HSEQ management, compliance and risk management, employee engagement, performance management and  people development.
The PGS Core Values survey 
demonstrated that they evoke pride and emotion, and that most employees agree they are fundamentally relevant for the way that we work today, our culture and our management priorities.
Leadership in Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) –  we aim for a best practice HSEQ culture throughout PGS. Our goal is zero injury to people and minimum harm to the environment. We work continuously to achieve this.
Initiative and innovation – we strive 
to put forward new ideas, break down boundaries and seek new solutions for PGS and our customers. People focus and integrity – we seek transparency in all our dealings and subscribe to a high standard of business ethics. We practice involvement, accountability and honesty. We respect and develop people – all of us are valued team members.
Delivery and reliability – we do our 
utmost to deliver what we promise to each other, to our clients, to our shareholders and society at large.
Leadership  
in HSE
Initiative  
and innovationDelivery  
and reliability People focus 
and  
integrity
We make a  
difference11
Corporate Governance 
Our future success depends on 
maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance for the way we conduct our business, deliver our services and create value for our shareholders.  Our corporate governance model is based on the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance.Our corporate commitments include:
•  To strive to be a responsible corporate citizen in all areas  
and aspects of our operations.
•  To maintain high standards of corporate governance,  personal and corporate conduct.
•  To provide a safe working environment for our employees.
•  To recognize that environmental impact is the collective responsibility  of individuals, governments, companies and society.
In order to meet these commitments, the PGS Board of Directors is responsible for establishing appropriate guidelines, monitoring, and ensuring that internal risk management systems are in place. We regularly review and update our governing documents to reflect changes in best practice and the evolving risks we face.12   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
PEOPLE13
Our commitments
People focus and integrity form the 
cornerstone of our values. We commit to respecting and developing our employees, 
which can only be done by listening and 
engaging with them through open,  two-way communication.
The safety and security of our employees
is our highest priority. This is reflected inour vision of achieving zero injuries to people.In 2014, we published our first Human Rightspolicy to re-emphasize our commitment
to our people in relation to equality,
non-discrimination, anti-harassment,health and safety, and labor rights. 14   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
ENGAGING OUR GLOBAL 
WORKFORCE
We understand that 
ensuring open and frequent 
communication builds trust 
and effective relationships 
with people, whether they 
are working offshore, in 
remote regions or onshore  
in any of our offices across the world.
Our employees shape and improve our 
future business. In addition to valuable day-to-day communication, we use tools such as our biennial Global People Survey and other targeted surveys to gather their feedback and opinions on the way we do business.Leadership and communication
Our leaders need to be visible and communicate clearly with the entire workforce to build commitment, motivation and performance. Our CEO and senior managers use a number of tools to engage with employees. We communicate the big picture about our business through CEO newsletters, webcasts, all employee meetings and during personal visits by managers to offices and vessels.
Building a strong team  
– onshore and offshore
Every 18 months, PGS offshore and 
onshore managers come together for a three-day meeting designed to build relationships and share ideas across the business. In 2013, Vessel Shore Support Managers were included for the first time. With a mixture of facilitated workshops and formal and informal dialogue, the emphasis is very much on open participation and two-way communication. This has greatly helped close gaps and build stronger working relationships between PGS onshore  and offshore teams. PGS Global People Survey
We measure satisfaction, motivation and loyalty among PGS employees through a biennial employee survey.
The results help us understand what 
we’re doing well and where we can improve. The company-wide results give us a useful snapshot of our overall business. As each of our business units has its own very specific challenges and 
expectations, we maximize the value we 
gain from the results by breaking them down into groups of five or more people. 
These reports provide invaluable 
feedback to managers on the specific issues that require their attention, as well as the development of their teams and their own personal development. Our last People Survey was completed  in August 2012.“Good people management is essential to PGS’ position  
as a global company. We need this to attract, engage  
and retain a motivated and skilled workforce with the  
right attitudes and behavior.” 
Jon Erik Reinhardsen
PEOPLE15
“While state-of-the-art equipment and the latest 
technology make a huge difference, operational excellence is 
about much more than that. PGS has the best fleet because 
of a thousand little things that our people do every day –  
by instinct and experience. By strengthening communication within our teams and across the organization, we share 
knowledge, gain common insight and grow stronger.”  
Magne Reiersgard, EVP Operations93.9%  
of PGS employees agree that 
they live up to the value of 
“People Focus and Integrity”  
in their daily work 
2013 PGS Core Values Survey 
91% HIGHLY RATED DEVELOPMENTOur 2012 Global People Survey headlines:
The response rate for our 2012 
survey (2,122 out of 2.339 people) was an outstanding 91%.The reputation of PGS, people’s daily work and their immediate manager were all areas that were particularly highly rated.Professional and personal development was highlighted as an area people would like to put more focus on.16   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
ENGAGING OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE17
In 2013, all of our 400 Oslo-based 
employees moved to a new, open-plan head office. As the lease expired, and our previous office was in need of a major upgrade, we wanted to re-think the way we work together to improve communication and cooperation across the organization.
Although the move didn’t involve any 
great distance, it was a big change to 
many – both in terms of where to sit 
and how to work together. PGS  went to great lengths to engage employees in the entire planning process, designing and implementing the move. Moving from cell offices to an open environment was a major change for many. We engaged a psychologist who facilitated over thirty workshops to help employees adjust to the change and to address the practicalities of the move. The new office has 100% open-plan seating with lots of private focus rooms, modern meeting facilities and well-used social areas around the building. Health and wellbeing were key considerations when designing the new canteen and gym facilities.
About a month after the move, we ran 
a survey to assess how well employees felt it had been done and to identify 
ongoing concerns. Overall satisfaction 
with new working spaces, focus rooms, training facilities and social areas was positive; 83% had similar or higher satisfaction levels compared to separate offices. About 83% were satisfied with the food served at the canteen. There are always areas of improvement, and in 2014 we will be working on changes requested by employees.
CASE STUDY:  Engaging employees in designing our new headquarters 
PEOPLE
18   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
MANAGING OUR PEOPLE
Our Performance Management process is designed to help people 
perform at their best by motivating them to achieve or surpass 
their goals. The process is designed to be fair, transparent and 
consistent, clearly linking reward to individual performance.
Each year every employee agrees 
their work and personal development goals with their manager, and agrees on specific measures of their own performance.
As a minimum, PGS commits that all 
PGS employees shall be:
• Participating in an annual formal 
performance appraisal with their manager to gain honest and open feedback on their objectives, performance, attitude and behavior.
• Seeing a clear link between their annual objectives and their performance evaluation.
• Having excellent performance recognized and rewarded.Developing talent
We identify our talented employees by evaluating their potential and discussing them at a senior level across business units.
Providing improved professional 
and personal development has been recognized as an important area from our Global People Survey results. To enhance our talent development 
opportunities we are taking the 
following actions:
• Coaching with managers and 
employees.
• Offering assignments to temporary roles to stretch peoples’ capabilities in their own offices or another office.
• Focusing on internal recruitment to fill vacancies.
• In some cases special services from outside consultants are offered to individuals and groups to ensure development towards meeting individual and collective business needs.Developing world class leaders
PGS aims to develop a ”world class” leadership development program that supports our growth strategy, strengthens our leadership and makes PGS a more interesting and engaging place to work.
In 2006, we partnered with Duke 
Corporate Education, the world’s top business school for customized 
leadership training according to 
publications such as the Financial  
Times and Business Week. Over 550 PGS managers have benefited from  this program.
In 2011, we reviewed our approach and 
launched a new program to help our senior managers develop the capability they need to lead our global strategy, develop high performing teams and manage complex projects. Over 150 managers have participated in one or more of these courses so far.19
Our onboard teams combine maritime 
crew, who are largely responsible for the safe operation of the vessel, and seismic crew who lead the planning and carrying out of seismic surveys.
We have a long-standing partnership 
with Wilhelmsen Ship Management, who supply the overwhelming majority of maritime crew for our vessels. Our seismic crew consists mainly of 
geoscientists, engineers and other 
technically qualified graduates who are direct employees of PGS.
The two teams need to work very closely 
together as one crew to ensure the safety of everyone onboard, and the quality of the data collected. 
 In 2013, we introduced a new program 
of initiatives to promote closer working relationships - known as One Culture. This has involved creating the concept of a ‘Vessel Management Team’ (VMT) – which comprises of the Captain, the Party Chief and the onshore Vessel Manager. The Management Team is now formally involved in operational decision making, and maritime Captains undergo the same performance management approach as PGS employees.
A series of workshops for Party Chiefs, 
Captains and onshore Vessel Managers have helped to implement the One Culture approach, and support them in their roles as leaders and role models.
PEOPLE91% 
of PGS employees said they 
completed a performance review  
with their manager in 2012,  
up 4% on 2010
2012 Global People Survey
CASE STUDY:  Developing One Culture – ship to shore20   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
VALUING DIVERSITY
PEOPLEPeople focus is about valuing all our employees, and  
the various skills they bring to our company. We aim to 
develop those talents and support them in developing their 
career with us. PGS employs a highly specialist and diverse 
international workforce, which needs to be capable of 
engaging with diverse communities. We encourage balance, equality and a culture of respect. This is part of what makes 
PGS a great place to work. 
Fair and accessible recruitment
Our goal is to attract the best talent 
that is available. We take steps to ensure there is no bias, including gender, race or age, in our recruitment campaigns and activities.
Whilst we are proud of the international 
content of our regional headquarters, our smaller offices have proven the success of investing in local 
employment.77% The average % of local staff 
per location (excluding the locations of our regional headquarters: Norway, USA, UK, Singapore)
74 21
nationalities are employed globallycountries with  PGS offices
 India 100%
 Nigeria 90%
 Indonesia 93%
 Malaysia 75%
 Brazil 86%
 Mexico 82%
 Egypt 94%
The map shows PGS offices with more than 10 employees and with local content higher than 80%
PGS Mumbai office
% local employment by country21
Promoting gender balance
Historically, the offshore oil and gas 
industry has been male-dominated, so achieving gender balance is a particular challenge.
At the end of 2013, four of the nine PGS 
Board of Directors were women. 23% of all PGS employees were women, and this was rather higher in Norway at 32%. 15% of office management positions globally 
were held by women.
Offshore, achieving gender balance is 
much harder. Currently, only 5% of our vessel crew are female. Our offshore crew, which accounts for around a third of our workforce, typically work a pattern of five weeks onboard, five weeks off. That can pose a challenge for people with family and other responsibilities, and it still seems more common for men to take these roles than women.Maintaining gender balance and equal opportunities help us attract the best people, so it is something we strive to promote, by:
• Advising managers and employees  
on gender neutral recruitment and staff development.
• Fielding female staff at recruitment events.
• Identifying high-potential women and minorities through our potential review process so we can support their development.
• Where possible, identifying alternative opportunities for employees who wish to change their working patterns, for example following maternity or paternity leave.
We are unique in our 
industry – four out of nine 
of the PGS Board members 
are women.41%
of new recruits in 2013  were women22   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
The safety of our people is one of the biggest risks we  
face and is central to everything we do. We want PGS to 
be best in class in Health, Safety, Environment and Quality 
(HSEQ), with zero injury to people – including employees, contractors,people visiting our sites and anyone else 
involved in our operations.HEALTH AND SAFETY 
To do this, we focus on three key areas:
•  Avoiding injuries – we believe  
that all incidents and injuries can  be prevented.
•  Reducing risk across our operations.
•  Improving employee awareness  and behavior.
Our offshore operations pose the greatest safety risk for our business, so this is where we have traditionally focused our attention. However, in recent years, we have increased our focus onshore, recognizing that a  strong health and safety culture starts at the top, and that it is vital that we develop our managers as role models and leaders.83% 
of employees say PGS takes 
health and safety seriously.
2012 Global People Survey 
Our approach 
Assessing, reducing and managing 
risk is at the heart of our HSEQ management system. Certified to OHSAS 18001 standards, our management system is designed to ensure we comply with international laws and regulations, as well as local legislation in the countries where we operate around the world. In addition, we follow industry standards which means we often operate beyond legislation and legal requirements.23
Our performance
We measure health and safety 
performance through a combination of lagging indicators (e.g. the number of reported incidents) and leading indicators (those that measure the proactive work we do to reduce risk  and injury to our people). 
Over recent years, we have significantly 
improved health and safety performance across the whole company.
•  Total Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 
dropped from 11 in 2011 to two in 2013.
•  Total Recordable Cases (TRCs) dropped from 17 in 2011 to 12 in 2013.
We continuously work on decreasing the number of incidents by focusing on our long-term key areas, including: HSEQ Leadership and Behavior, Risk Management and general improvement of our HSEQ Management System. 
During the last year, we’ve seen an 
increase in the recordable incidents.  To tackle this and decrease the number of incidents, we implement targeted initiatives, identified based on results from incident investigations and  trend analysis.Actively reducing risk
At PGS, we believe risk awareness is key to keeping people safe. Our risk management system helps us identify hazards, assess risk and introduce safety measures to improve our everyday operations. Even when we have taken all appropriate safety measures, we will always face a level of risk that we cannot eliminate.  Where an activity is deemed too risky, we simply don’t do it.
We also continuously improve our 
processes and learn from others to reduce the risks we face.
Since 2012, we have increased our  
focus on carrying out high quality risk assessments offshore. This has been part of our ongoing efforts to strengthen our risk and change management systems. During this period, we focused on project risk management, management of safety critical activities, and improving documentation practices.
LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency per million man-hours)
TRCF (Total Recordable Case Frequency per million man-hours)
0.17 0.93
0.66 1.440.16 
0.942012 2011
2012 20112013
2013
The number of Risk
Assessments completed 
on vessels increased by24%   
from 2012 to 2013
PEOPLE24   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
Safety leadership and accountability
There is no doubt the commitment 
of our leaders is central to creating ownership and securing the HSEQ behaviors we want in our workforce.
All our HSEQ activities are led from top 
down and our CEO and the executive team place great importance on engaging directly with employees.
Health and safety is a key focus when 
senior managers visit vessels and offices, and they encourage people to take individual ownership and responsibility for HSEQ.
At PGS, all employees are expected to 
take part in HSEQ meetings. We are increasingly delegating responsibility for HSEQ in general to strengthen ownership in the general workforce especially offshore.HEALTH AND SAFETY 
PEOPLE
HSEQ meetings held
HSEQ meetings include: Departmental Safety
Meetings, HSEQ Committee Meetings, HSEQGeneral Crew Meetings, HSEQ Ship to ShoreMeetings, HSEQ training/workshops
271 
523189 239
532 1,1342011
20112012 2013
2012 2013Offices
VesselsIn 2012 and 2013, we held over
2,000
HSEQ meetings25
 “I first became a Party Chief on the 
Beaufort Explorer in 2008, and I joined Ramform Explorer in June 2012.  I’d worked on PGS seismic surveys since 1996, but I’ve got a technical background in surveying and I had little HSEQ management experience.
Our work offshore is high-risk, so there’s 
a huge amount of safety information and procedures involved. It can be pretty 
overwhelming, especially as managing 
the day-to-day operation of a seismic ship leaves little time for sitting down and getting to grips with it all.
In 2011, I was invited to be a Field 
Support Manager in the HSEQ team in Oslo for a year – a role introduced to build the capability of Party Chiefs. There were four of us and we were responsible for giving presentations, doing audits and investigating incidents on vessels. The training we received was excellent, and we got the opportunity to understand HSEQ best practice as well as gain an in-depth knowledge of PGS procedures.
“Assessing risk became 
almost second nature,  
rather than a formal exercise 
I needed to stop and think 
about.”
When I returned to being Party Chief, I 
was so much more confident and better able to manage the safety of my team. I could focus on the things that really matter – the safety issues at hand – rather than having to think about the best way to apply policy and procedures. Assessing risk became almost second nature, rather than a formal exercise I needed to stop and think about. 
As far as I know, the PGS Field Support Manager Program is the only scheme of 
its kind in the seismic industry.  11 existing and six prospective PGS Party Chiefs have now completed the program at a cost of around $2.5 million.  I think that’s a great demonstration of how highly PGS rates the safety of its frontline teams.”
Jez Tate 
Party Chief 
PGS Core Values Survey90%
of PGS employees  
agree they live up to 
the value of “Initiative 
& Innovation” in their 
daily work
CASE STUDY:  Investing in frontline safety26   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
Making challenge and 
intervention the norm 
At PGS, we use a variety of management 
tools to drive health and safety awareness and behaviors. We also recognize that our frontline employees are in the strongest position to improve the way we do things, so we encourage them to challenge, intervene and communicate upwards to prevent unsafe acts. 
One of our biggest engagement tools 
has been the SAFE Card. This simple system allows employees, contractors and visitors to tell us about unsafe acts and conditions, report on positive acts, and provide suggestions for improvements. 
Since redesigning the SAFE cards in 
2009 to focus on direct intervention, we have received over 48 thousand completed SAFE cards. Over 17 thousand of these resulted in intervention, which involves directly challenging or raising concerns with another person.
Over 17 thousand  
recorded SAFE card interventions 
35%  
of all SAFE cardsHEALTH AND SAFETY27
PEOPLE
In this constantly changing world, 
security has become an increasingly significant risk facing the oil and gas industry, and our own business. PGS takes a proactive approach to managing the complex and evolving security threats facing the industry. Protecting our employees and business partners is our priority. 
In 2013, in recognition of the increased 
risk, we created a dedicated Security 
Risk Manager role to coordinate our strategic approach to security management. We have introduced a new security risk management system and carry out security risk assessments before engaging in any new project.“I took up my role as PGS’s first  Security Risk Manager in October 2013, coming straight from a posting as Commander of the NATO Shipping Centre – the hinge of communication and cooperation between the military and the international shipping industry. Much of my work there was focused  on anti-piracy measures for the  shipping industry. 
“The security challenges facing PGS 
are more diverse, but potentially no less acute, than those I have been used to dealing with. PGS has offices and vessels across the globe, with people travelling between them, both onshore and offshore. We have to maintain a threshold beyond which we do not go. People are our most valued asset and we have a duty to ensure their protection. Bringing this work ‘in house’ 
enables us to manage security risk 
consistently across all PGS operations – strengthening and developing our response to the constantly changing security landscape.”
Stein Olav Hagalid  
Security Risk Manager
CASE STUDY:  Developing our security systems28   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The new Ramform Titan
class vessels offer crew
a new class of offshore
entertainment and leisure.
Ball game court and gym,
swimming pool, video
rooms, TV rooms and saunas 
are all at the crew’s disposal to create a feeling of “a 
home away from home”.
PGS has always put 
itself at the forefront of 
technology – both for 
production efficiency and for improving the safety of 
our people. These strands 
of development don’t have 
to be mutually exclusive. 
Engineering out risk can also 
engineer in efficiency.
PEOPLE29
“In 2010, I was asked to look at how  
well PGS crews were handling unexpected back-deck situations, such as retrieval of survey equipment following a technical problem. 
Over the years, our operations have 
become more complex, while our equipment has become more efficient. People are now rarely exposed to these sorts of situations, and they have 
become less confident about how to 
respond. You can’t learn back-deck operations from a book. Simulator-based training seemed the natural solution for practicing safe and efficient operations. We contacted Kongsberg Maritime, one of the world’s leading providers of maritime simulators, to develop the simulator, and agreed a partnership with Vestfold University College (HiVe) to host it.
Our own teams put a lot of time into the 
technical design. The result is a cutting- edge system that simulates the retrieval of up to eight seismic cables and allows “It’s the world’s first  
man-on-deck simulator, as 
opposed to control-room 
based, maritime simulator.”
three employees to work on deck as  
a team. 
It’s the world’s first man-on-deck 
simulator, as opposed to control-room 
based, maritime simulator. Using the 
Kinect™ for Windows motion sensing device, each trainee can move around on a virtual back-deck and interact with their colleagues, while being provided with best practice and safety advice. 
Over 100 crew members have now been 
trained in the simulator. Their feedback has averaged 4.1 out of 5. It’s still early days for our simulator. We can see lots of potential for developing it for other unplanned situations where safety and efficiency is a priority.”
Einar Nielsen 
Vice President Special Projects
LOOKING AHEAD
We strive to evolve and continuously improve our systems and processes to meet new challenges head on. In 2014 our priorities will be:
• Continue to improve our safety 
culture, systems and processes to lead our sector in HSEQ.
• Embed the new Security Risk Management System to cover the whole organization.
• Engage employees and listen to their views on how well we are doing by conducting our 5th Global People Survey.CASE STUDY:  A world first in safety training30   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
ENVIRONMENT31
Our commitments
Every day, we are faced with the challenge of 
meeting global energy demand while avoiding climate change and reducing our impact on 
the environment. That is why one of our 
commitments is leadership in HSEQ. 
We aim to leave no stone unturned in 
our efforts to improve our environmental 
performance.32   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
ENVIRONMENT33
PGS’ vision is to be HSEQ leader in the worldwide 
geophysical industry. We are committed to:
•  Preventing harm to the environment by  
minimizing the impact of our operations.
•  Complying with all applicable legal and industry  
standards associated with our activities.
•  Achieving continual improvement in  
environmental performance.
Our main environmental impacts arise from our offshore 
operations. The fuel we consume to run our vessels is our 
most significant source of carbon emissions, and also a 
significant cost to our business. Our interaction with marine 
life during surveys is also a key concern for us. 34   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
INTERACTION WITH 
MARINE WILDLIFE
Prior to any survey, we carry out an 
Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) in the early planning stages and develop mitigation plans. In sensitive areas and where required, a more comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is carried out. Wildlife experts with local knowledge are engaged to identify the species present, their distribution and migration patterns and important feeding and/or breeding grounds. The survey plan then sets out to minimize contact with sensitive areas and to avoid times when species may be breeding  or migrating.  There is still more to be learnt about the effects of
exploration and production activities, such as seismic
surveys, on marine ecosystems. PGS works with the
industry to improve understanding, technology and  
practices to reduce impacts on marine ecosystems.
ENVIRONMENT35
Underwater sound and  
marine mammals 
Like seismic surveyors, marine mammals 
are utterly dependent on sound. They use sound to navigate, communicate and locate prey. Studies have shown that they are able to perceive sound from seismic exploration up to several kilometers away, and that can potentially affect their behavior.
Our research is helping us develop 
new technology that will reduce these potential negative impacts in the future. Until new technology is available, we will continue to take a number of practical steps during our surveys, including:
• A minimum 500m exclusion zone 
around the acoustic source, which is continually monitored by trained and independent marine mammal observers.  Working closely with our crews, they log any sightings and ensure compliance with guidelines to minimize disturbance to marine fauna.
• An immediate shutdown of the acoustic source upon sighting of any animal within the exclusion zone.
• Acoustic source soft-start where we gradually increase the sound intensity to allow marine mammals to vacate the area before we reach full intensity.
• Passive Acoustic Monitoring (PAM) to listen for mammals in addition to the visual monitoring as required. 
Impacts on fish and fisheries
Studies have shown that exposure to sound can cause fish to swim away from the source. This can potentially affect fisheries in nearby areas due to a temporary displacement of the fish.
We therefore take a number of 
proactive steps to reduce our potential impacts on fish including:
•  Consulting local communities to 
learn about their activities and to provide information about our planned activities.
•  Planning surveys to avoid breeding grounds during spawning in the area.
•  Employing a local Fisheries Liaison Officer (FLO) to communicate with local fishermen during the survey.
Over  48,000
hours spent watching for wildlife by Marine Mammal Observers* on PGS vessels during 2013
* Qualified Marine Mammal Observers are contracted to maintain a watch from our seismic vessels, 
logging sightings of marine fauna and working closely with our crews.36   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
RESPONDING TO  
CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change is one of the most serious threats to 
society, the environment and to our own business. We are 
committed to cutting CO2 emissions and maximizing the 
value we create for every tonne of carbon we emit. 
ENVIRONMENT37
In 2013, our total CO2 emissions 
remained at the same levels as 2012.
Our annual CO2 emissions depend on the 
size of our global project portfolio, so we 
focus on emissions per unit production.
In 2013, our emissions per produced unit 
for fleet of seismic vessels decreased by 8%. This is a clear demonstration of the success of our new Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans (SEEMP) (see next page).
PGS reports its annual greenhouse 
gas emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Our aim is to perform better than the industry average. In 2012, we scored 77 points of 100 possible, which is 10% above the industry average.
Since our last review, we have increased 
the scope of our CO
2 emissions reporting 
to include support vessels and business travel for all PGS employees.
In 2013, PGS launched the
groundbreaking Titan
Class Ramform vessel.
These vessels will takeour production efficiency
to unprecedented levels,
enabling us to cover morearea with high quality
imaging for every tonne of 
fuel we consume.
Total CO2 Emissions (ktonnes)
Energy performance per CMP km
CMP (Common Mid Point) describes the halfway point between source and 
receiver for each shot point (air guns firing) and is a metric for the amount of data acquired.
506
87505
802012
201220132013
8% 
decrease in CO2 emissions per unit 
produced by the PGS seismic fleet  
in 2013 38   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
Focus on energy efficiency
In total, 98% of the energy we  
consume is used to operate our seismic and support vessels. Through our new  Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans (SEEMP), introduced in 2013,  we have identified over 60 energy  saving initiatives.
We also use energy to cool and run our 
network of data centers. Reducing this consumption is also a priority. Our UK data center was named Europe’s most energy efficient data center in 2010, and we have worked hard to reduce power consumption and cooling demand in all our data centers around the world.Environmental Management
In 2012, we achieved ISO 14001 certification for our environmental management system. We have now completed our first major audit of the management system with no major findings. We did identify a number of opportunities to achieve tangible improvements in our environmental performance in coming years, and these will set the focus for our future efforts.RESPONDING TO  CLIMATE CHANGE
ENVIRONMENT39
Avoiding pollution 
PGS aims for zero oil spills. In 2013, we 
focused on oil spills and were proud to see no major spills (spill volume > 100 liters) in our operations. 
In 2013, we also started a company-wide 
effort to reduce our use of chemicals for maintenance, and to eliminate or substitute chemicals that are harmful  to health and the environment. 
Managing our waste
We aim to reduce our waste, and we take care to dispose of it in a responsible manner. No waste is disposed of overboard except organic waste, in accordance with international law and local regulations.
We recycle our redundant IT equipment 
to benefit local community projects.
In 2014, we will take further steps to 
ensure that the waste we deliver to shore is disposed of responsibly,  by implementing more rigorous auditing of our onshore waste contractors,  as per  the principles set out in the  UN Global Compact.LOOKING AHEAD
• In 2014, we will set up a cross-regional Environmental Compliance and Regulatory Affairs Network – to focus our efforts on identifying and mitigating the environmental impacts of our surveys.
• Energy efficiency and reduction in carbon emissions will continue to be a key priority and we plan to:
 – Cut our onboard energy use by considering best available technologies and options for alternative fuels in new vessels. 
 – Trial energy monitoring systems on selected vessels.
 – Introduce quantified annual energy efficiency and emission targets as part of our strategy to reduce our 
emissions.
• All our offices will introduce an 
environmental performance dashboard in 2014 to help identify areas for improvement.
0 
major spills  
(spill volume > 100 liters)
Onboard waste
Our operations work hard to maximize efficiency and that means vessel port calls are few and far between. Onboard recycling and garbage handling systems dramatically reduce the volume of refuse and waste management efforts required, both in transporting waste ashore and processing it once there.
LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT40   EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
CONDUCT41
Our commitments
Our future depends on our reputation  
and compliance with laws around the world. 
Operating internationally in the oil and  
gas industry exposes us to potential  corruption risk.
That’s why conducting our business with 
integrity and strong ethics is one of the PGS 
Core Values, and why we commit to a high  
level of accountability and transparency in all our business dealings.42   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
CODE OF CONDUCT
The PGS Code of Conduct sets out the framework 
for what we consider to be responsible conduct – 
ensuring all our people exercise good judgment, 
care and consideration in their work.
CONDUCT43
The PGS Code of Conduct is an 
integration of our Values, Principles and Business Practices. This is further supported by our Anti-Corruption Program.
Maintaining high ethical standards is 
a key element in our Code of Conduct.  Further elements from our Code of Conduct include, among others:
• Respecting laws and regulations  
and acting in compliance with company policies.
•  Utilizing good judgment and honesty in all our company dealings.•  Encouraging others to aspire  to high ethical standards.
•  Promoting open and honest communication.
•  Encouraging transparency  and timely information.
Our Code of Conduct, Core Values, Principles of 
Conduct and Business Practices are available on our website at www.pgs.com
 
Business Practices
A summary of the principal 
areas of law affecting our business and details of our related practices
Principles of Conduct
The corporate principles 
we apply to the way we do business
Core Values
Clear guidelines for how we 
interact with others in our day-to-day work
PRACTICESPRINCIPLES
VALUESCODE OF 
CONDUCT44   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
HUMAN RIGHTS
The countries in which we operate vary greatly in their 
stage of development when it comes to managing human 
rights. We recognize that PGS has a responsibility and an 
opportunity to make a positive impact – by ensuring our own ethical standards, and the standards we expect of others, in 
contributing positively to protecting human rights.
In 2013, we defined our ongoing respect 
for human rights in the new PGS Human Rights Policy. The policy sets out principles for how PGS will act to protect human rights – both of our employees and those who come into contact with our activities.
The PGS policy is based on the  
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labor Organization 
Core Conventions on Labor Standards. 
We are committed to uphold high standards in all our global activities,  and to sacrifice revenue when necessary to preserve our standards.The PGS Human Rights Policy includes:
• Ensuring the respect for dignity and 
rights of all people we work with.
•  Avoiding discrimination, harassment  or intimidation of any type.
•  Supporting freedom of opinion and association, and employee rights to collective bargaining.
•  Ensuring the health and safety of the people we work with.
•  Maintaining high standards of privacy and data security.
•  Prohibiting the use of forced or child labor in our direct operations and our supply chain.
CONDUCT45
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Corruption is one of the most serious risks we face.  
It’s a key concern for PGS and our customers, and we  
go to great lengths to manage the risks in a responsible  
and consistent manner. 
Our established Anti-Corruption 
Program ensures everyone knows the standards PGS expects them to abide by. It includes strict policy and procedures for the way we engage with people when we do business. In 2013, we updated the program to strengthen our focus on high-risk areas of our operations and our supply chain. The new program is compliant with all the latest and strictest international regulations and laws, not least the UK Bribery Act of 2010.
“PGS is continuously striving to improve our systems and 
culture in order to ensure that we live up to our policy of zero 
tolerance on corruption. We try to capture learnings as well 
as implement new requirements to our systems. We want 
Anti-Corruption to be embedded in our culture and values. 
Today, we do far more than what was reflected in the old 
system of 2005 and we continue to improve.” 
Jon Erik ReinhardsenOver 1,000
employees, contractors and 
representatives have completed face-to-face Anti-Corruption training since the program roll out began in November 201246   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
We follow strict due diligence 
procedures to assess corruption risk for all potential new representatives exposed to this risk. This includes an interview, questionnaire, vigorous background checks and final sign off by an Executive Vice President before business can commence.
A big part of the implementation of the 
new program has been about raising 
awareness amongst our employees. 
The roll out has involved training, including dilemma scenarios, to help people recognize risks and understand tools that can help them make the right decisions when situations occur. Specific improvements to our Anti-Corruption program include:
• An Anti-Corruption authorization 
matrix, which guides people to make the right decisions in terms of approvals for certain activities and transactions.• An e-learning package covering bribes, facilitation payments, gifts, entertainment, engaging third parties, charities and sponsorship, which all employees must complete.
• A database for logging all gifts and entertainment – to improve transparency and monitor compliance.
• Improvements to our Anti-Corruption intranet site for employees including the sharing of relevant corruption cases and packages of information for specific locations and situations.
• An Anti-Corruption leaflet for employees and external parties to explain PGS policy, rules and tips on how to handle difficult situations. 
LOOKING AHEAD
• We will continue our focus on ethical conduct, awareness and training, including new e-learning modules and face-to-face sessions to be rolled out in 2014.  
• We will strengthen continuous compliance monitoring, in addition to formal internal auditing. 
• We will strengthen our monitoring focus on higher risk areas of our business and our supply chain.
• We will continuously strive to identify the indicators of corruption risk, so we can take pre-emptive action before situations arise. PGS takes a risk-based approach to managing corruption
risk. Such risks are identified through various sources 
such as the International Corruptions Percentage Index by 
Transparency International.
CONDUCTANTI-CORRUPTION47
“As Regional President of Marine 
Contracts in Africa, corruption is an unfortunate reality my teams have to face in some African countries. It is something we need to be constantly aware of, and we do come across challenges from time to time – for example, when we have faced delays waiting on official documentation to import one of our vessels into a country. Whilst this wait is extremely frustrating, our employees know that we will continue to wait in a compliant manner, no matter the lost time incurred. In addition to being a breach of our values, the potential financial and reputational repercussions of any other course of action are simply not worth the risk.
It is one of my responsibilities to ensure 
that staff, agents and contractors understand exactly how they are expected to behave. It’s not always that black and white – in some cases giving hospitality or receiving a gift is acceptable, in others it’s not. It really depends on the context and what is involved, which is why senior management approval is required  for all transactions over the prescribed threshold. We need to provide the training and understanding that  will ensure our people make the  right decisions.
In 2013, we rolled out new Anti-
Corruption training, starting with employees and agents working in the highest risk locations. We’ve now extended the training to include all African region employees. Our active compliance department monitors progress with regular internal and third party audits.The fact PGS takes corruption so seriously, and has invested so much in addressing the day-to-day risk, means I can feel more confident in running my part of the business. We’ll never totally eliminate the risk, but I feel like we have the right balance to ensure our clients and stakeholders can trust in PGS.”
Simon Cather 
Regional President  – Africa Marine Contract
CASE STUDY:  Putting Anti-Corruption at the top of the agenda 48   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
STAKEHOLDERS49
Our commitments
PGS strives to be a responsible citizen in 
all aspects of its operations, not least in its 
relationships with stakeholders.
Our stakeholders include our owners, 
employees and employee groups, customers,
suppliers, industry organizations, localcommunities, non-governmental organizations 
and governments that may be affected by  
our work.50   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
Our future business depends on maintaining good relations 
with our stakeholders. We aim to nurture these with 
transparent, two-way communication, increasing mutual 
understanding and encouraging positive relationships. 
PGS has a number of established processes in place to
ensure we address stakeholder needs including:
•  An active investor communication program.
•  Consultation with communities and fishery bodies.
•  Our employee survey and dialogue with labor unions.
•  Customer feedback surveys during and at the end  
of each project.
•  Supply chain engagement to ensure our suppliers understand and meet the high standards of conduct  
we expect.
STAKEHOLDERS51
INVESTOR RELATIONS
The annual PGS Capital Markets  
Day, which was held on 18 December 2013, is an opportunity for current and potential investors to gain an insight into the general seismic market and  PGS in particular. Like our quarterly  and annual results presentations, the event is available as a webcast to maximize accessibility.
Our 20 biggest shareholders own 46.4% 
of our company and come from Norway, 
the USA, the UK, Belgium, Finland, Luxembourg and Kuwait. 
* The winner is quarantined from participation the two years immediately after winningAt PGS, we value close and interactive relationships with
our investors. We are bound by the rules and guidelines of
the Oslo Stock Exchange. This ensures information is shared
equally with all shareholders, analysts and other interested
parties. Our active investor relations communication program
includes public presentations, conference calls and webcasts,
senior management road shows, presentations at investor
conferences and one-to-one meetings.In 2013, PGS investors were distributed across 
Norway (36%), the USA 
(20%), the UK (17%) 
and other countries 
(27%). Our 20 biggest shareholders own 46.4% 
of our company.
Leading financial 
communications
The annual Stockman prize is awarded 
by the Norwegian Society of Financial Analysts to the companies that are judged to have delivered the best financial communications. Following our first place ranking in 2010*, PGS were placed third out of the 215 listed companies on the Oslo Stock Exchange in 2013.
52   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
ENGAGING WITH CUSTOMERS
To maintain close collaboration with 
customers throughout the lifecycle of a project, we hold regular dialog – from the initial survey planning meetings to final meetings at the end of the project. 
This means formal customer satisfaction 
survey results, collected during and after delivery of the final images, should provide no surprises. Our relationships with our customers determine the  
long-term commercial success of PGS. To understand the 
priorities and expectations of our customers, we engage 
in regular, open dialogue on issues of mutual interest or concern. This dialog is central to our sales process, our
operational risk management and our management of HSEQ.
STAKEHOLDERS53
MANAGING A RESPONSIBLE 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Our procurement processes aim to 
ensure we have a healthy and compliant supply chain. This includes sourcing strategy, selection of suppliers and engagement with suppliers. The PGS Global Procurement Policy and Code of Conduct govern the way we manage our supply chain, and all PGS standards of ethics, Anti-Corruption, health, safety, environment and quality must be adhered to.
The PGS supplier selection procedures 
are a key component of our risk management assessment approach, and all our suppliers are regularly evaluated for internal and external risk. We focus on a culture of two-way communications with our suppliers, and we meet with key strategic suppliers to align business plans, identify opportunities and drive supplier performance.Supply chain management has become increasingly 
important as globalization, regulatory pressures, supply 
market instability and society’s increasing expectations 
of corporate governance have gained pace. Managing our supply chain is an important discipline in the operational  
and strategic development of PGS.
Over 4,000
suppliers used in 2012
75%Top 200 suppliers  
(5%) covered
of the total spend  
in 201254   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
STAKEHOLDERS55
“PGS has been a major client of Sanco 
Shipping AS for a number of years. We supply PGS with two vessels, maritime crew and support boats, and we’ve got another vessel in the pipeline on its way to PGS. 
As HSEQ Manager at Sanco, my job is to 
ensure we meet the highest safety and quality standards with our clients. We depend on close working relationships between Sanco’s maritime crew and the client’s seismic crew to run safe, smooth operations. Clear communication and understanding of our own and our clients’ policy is vital. 
As a client, PGS stands out for being 
very clear about what it expects while having a strong culture of open, two-way dialog with suppliers to constantly improve standards. A good example of this was in 2013, when we were invited by PGS to attend a two-day HSEQ supplier forum in Oslo. We spent a day in conference discussing business and policy issues, followed by a day at the PGS headquarters looking at emergency response. The event was very useful for sharing information and relationship building. I think it is a very good initiative, and I very much hope PGS and others might repeat it in the future.” 
Lars B. Lødøen  
HSEQ Manager Sanco Shipping AS
CASE STUDY:   
Engaging with suppliers – a supplier perspective56   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
BUILDING TRUST WITH  
COMMUNITIES
Our interaction with local fishing 
communities is a key consideration when we plan and carry out surveys. In some parts of the world, this interaction is covered by law, but there are many areas where no regulatory framework exists. Our process is the same wherever  we operate:
• First we evaluate the potential  
for conflicting priorities with fisheries communities. 
• Then we check if responsibility for  this relationship is assigned to a specific party by the contract or relevant regulations. 
• If there is no clear responsibility for engaging with fishing communities, we step in to ensure their needs are managed and protected. PGS aims to be a good corporate citizen in the areas 
where we operate. This ambition drives our interactions 
with local communities. We evaluate how a community 
might be affected by our work, and then we strive for open 
communication and collaboration to identify and manage the 
impacts of our work on those around us. 57
STAKEHOLDERS
In 2012, PGS began planning a seismic 
survey off the coast of Lebanon, an area without fisheries coordination or regulation of seismic operations. 
Many fishing boats here do not have the 
benefit of radio or radar equipment.
We assessed the situation and decided 
we needed to employ a Fisheries Liaison Officer to help us engage with the local fishing community. 
We identified a local partner and  
provided training to help him understand what the survey would involve. He lived onboard our vessel Atlantic Explorer for several days to fully understand the challenges involved. Together with PGS he then put together a range of initiatives to protect local fishing interests including:
• Identifying, mapping and contacting 
the local fishing communities along the coast from Beirut to the southern Lebanese border where some 1,800 fishing boats are registered.• Producing an information pack in French and Arabic to explain how  we would operate and the location  of the planned project. 
• Producing a flyer in French and  Arabic to hand to fishermen encountered at sea.
•  Negotiating an agreement with the community where fishing boats would have access to the area during certain times and we would carry out our surveys outside of these hours.
The Lebanon survey was successfully completed in January 2013. Feedback from the community was positive, despite one regrettable incident where some fishing equipment was damaged. We negotiated a fair settlement with  the parties involved. Local media  reports publicly recognized our quick  and responsible approach to dealing  with the issue. 
CASE STUDY:   
Engaging with fishing communities in Lebanon58   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
THE FUTURE
PEOPLE
ENVIRONMENT
CONDUCT
STAKEHOLDERS
As we continue to respond to the evolving challenges 
we face, we will keep tracking our growth as a responsible 
citizen across these four key areas. Our next report on 
progress will be in 2015.
In the mean time, if you have any suggestions, comments 
or questions about our approach, please contact us at 
corporate.responsibility@pgs.com59
2018 2017 2016 2015 2019
60   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
PEOPLE
DATA
98
NORWEGIAN
18
SWEDISH
22
FRENCH
12
GERMAN
68
POLISH
184
BRITISH
87
AMERICAN
23
BRAZILIAN
15
CROATIAN
29
CANADIAN
11
RUSSIAN
12
AUSTRALIAN
less than 10 personnel per country
VESSEL PERSONNEL ARE  
REPRESENTED BY PEOPLE FROM40
NATIONALITIES5%
FEMALE CREW41%
OF 2013 NEW HIRES ACROSS
THE WORKFORCE WERE
FEMALEVessel personnel 
by nationality  
in 2013TOTAL NUMBER OF PGS ACTIVE  VESSEL PERSONNEL
65361
415
NORWAY
8
SWEDEN
3
RUSSIA
82
SINGAPORE
 26
INDONESIA
14
INDIA
56
MALAYSIA
17
JAPAN
6
CHINA
20
MEXICO
38
KAZAKHSTAN
32
AUSTRALIA
86
EGYPT
76
BRAZIL
329
UK
7
NETHERLANDS
25
NIGERIA
16
ANGOLA
3
OTHER
362
USA
69%
OF TOTAL NUMBER OF PGS
OFFICE PERSONNEL ARENATIONALS OF THE COUNTRY*
HIRED LOCALLY
* PGS REGULAR EMPLOYEES ONLY.  
EXCLUDES NON NATIONAL LOCAL RESIDENTSOFFICE PERSONNEL ARE  
REPRESENTED BY PEOPLE FROMMORE THAN
70
NATIONALITIES21
COUNTRIES 
WITH PGS OFFICESOffice personnel 
by location  
in 2013TOTAL NUMBER OF PGS 
ACTIVE OFFICE PERSONNEL
1,62162   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014    
PGS TOTAL 2011 2012 2013
LTI (Lost Time Injury) 11 2 2
RWC (Restricted Work Case) 3 3 5
MTC (Medical Treatment Case) 3 3 5
Total Recordable Incidents 17 8 12
HIPO (High Potential Incident) 5 1 4
FAT (Fatalities) 0 0 0
Man hours (millions) 11.8     12 12.7
LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) 0.93 0.17  0.16
TRCF (Total Recordable Case Frequency) 1.44 0.66 0.94
2011 292Risk Assessments
2012 361 348
2013 245 430
Offices Vessels
SAFE Cards
2011 (thousands) 4.2 12.2Resulting in intervention
2012 (thousands) 4.0 11.5
2013 (thousands) 4.3 12.5
Total safe cards submitted
Health and safety perfomance indicators
63
Vessels
2012 2013Offices 87%% Staff receiving performance review
85%
90% 80%
Offshore
2012 2013Offices 9.5%Exits
10.5%
7.9% 3.6%
Vessels 
Based upon 188.5 work days year
2011 2012 2013Offices
Oslo office 9.5%Sickness rate
2.4% 2.2%
N/A 1.2% 3.0%
PEOPLE
DATA64   
EVOLUTION   PGS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014   
ENVIRONMENT
DATA
Source 2011 2012 2013
Fuel (GWh) 1,505 1,694 1,680
HFO (GWh) 948 1,070 1,017
MGO (GWh) 554 619 659
Natural Gas (MWh) 1,208 1,576 1,494
Diesel (MWh) 1,684 2,756 2,244
Electricity (GWh) 35 38 40
Offices (GWh) 35 38 40
Source 2011 2012 2013
Scope 1 417 469 464
Seismic Vessels 416 436 437
Support Vessels 0 32 27
Offices 0.6 1 0.9
Scope 2 19 21 21
Offices 19 21 21
Scope 3 0  17 19
Business travel 0 17 19
Sum 435 506 505
Environmental Performance 2011 2012 2013
Energy
Vessels (GWh) 1,502 1,689 1,676
Offices (GWh) 38 42 44
Air emissions (ktonnes)
CO2 435 506 505
SOX 5 6 6
NOX 8 9 9
PM 1 1 1
GHG emission intensity
CO2 per production (t/CMP)*93.4 86.7 79.9
Waste
Vessels (1000 m3) 10 9 11
Delivered to shore (1000 m3) 8 6 8
Incinerated on board (1000 m3) 2 3 2
Organic waste to sea (m3)** 121 77 121
Offices (t)*** 130 57 130
General waste (t) 13 26 47
Recycled waste (t) 33 31 83
* CMP (common midpoint) describes the total area surveyed annual
** Discharged to sea according to MARPOL requirements
*** Waste data includes four main offices only. The increase in 
waste in 2013 was caused by the moving of the Oslo office65
GHG Inventory
Support vessels include 
vessels on longterm contracts only. We will work to expand the scope of reporting in coming years.
1. CO 2 Emissions (ktonnes )
2. Energy consumption
Source 2011 2012 2013
Fuel (GWh) 1,505 1,694 1,680
HFO (GWh) 948 1,070 1,017
MGO (GWh) 554 619 659
Natural Gas (MWh) 1,208 1,576 1,494
Diesel (MWh) 1,684 2,756 2,244
Electricity (GWh) 35 38 40
Offices (GWh) 35 38 40
Source 2011 2012 2013
Scope 1 417 469 464
Seismic Vessels 416 436 437
Support Vessels 0 32 27
Offices 0.6 1 0.9
Scope 2 19 21 21
Offices 19 21 21
Scope 3 0  17 19
Business travel 0 17 19
Sum 435 506 505CDP Score
We report our annual greenhouse gas emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and we aim to score better than the industry average every year.
2011 2012 2013
Industry Average = 70Maximum Score = 100
69 66 77Design: 7creative.co.ukWe are responsible for our people, our 
conduct and how our activities interact with the environment and our stakeholders.
