 
 
 
Level 8, 7 Macquarie Place, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia | GPO Box 2724, Sydney NSW 2001  
Telephone 61 2 9255 7500 | Investor Services 1300 726 700 | Facsimile 61 2 9254 5590 | Email invest@platinum.com.au | Website www.platinum.com.au  
Platinum Asset Management Limited ABN 13 050 064 287  
25 August  2021  
 
 
 
ASX Market Announcements  Office  
ASX Limited  
20 Bridge Street  
Sydney NSW 2000  
 
 
Platinum Asset Management Limited (PTM)  
Full Year Profit Announcement for the 12 months  ended 30 June 2021  
 
The following documents are attached for lodgement:  
 
       Appendix 4E  
 
       Annual Financial Report  
 
       Analyst Presentation  
 
       Appendix 4G  
 
       Corporate Governance Statement  
 
       Corporate Sustainability Report  Statement  
 
 
  
 
 
Authorised by  
Joanne Jefferies  | Company Secretary  
 
Investor contact  
Elizabeth Norman | Director of Investor Serv ices and Communications  
Platinum Asset Management Limited 
Tel:  61 2 9255 7500  
Fax: 61 2 9254 5555  
 Corporate Responsibility  
and Sustainability Report
FINANCIAL YEAR 2020-2021Platinum Asset Management Limited (ASX: PTM)1
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Founded in 1994, Platinum Asset Management is a Sydney-based funds manager specialising 
in international equities. From small beginnings with four investment professionals and a 
handful of support staff working from a makeshift office, Platinum has grown into one of 
Australia’s most trusted global equities managers with more than $23 billion under 
management (as at 30 June 2021).
Platinum’s business is managing clients’ money. We charge clients a fee for doing so and  
these fees are our chief source of revenue. We, at Platinum, have a simple core belief: if we 
responsibly and successfully look after our clients’ money, our business should prosper.  
A failure to understand and commit to this priority will not result in an enduring asset 
management business; marketing, commissions and other selling practices notwithstanding.
This belief has led Platinum to maintain a deep and consistent commitment to sustainable 
business practices and responsible investment management. In particular, we consider that  
the following themes are key to the long-term sustainability of our business:Building a Sustainable Business
This report will discuss our strategy and performance in addressing the opportunities and 
challenges associated with each of these themes. It will also consider our goals and initiatives 
against the framework of the United Nations (UN) 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 
as we seek to align Platinum’s future prosperity with that of the broader community.
Before publishing the CRSR (Report), a comprehensive review and sign-off process was conducted 
with relevant internal stakeholders to verify and validate the accuracy of the information, statements 
and data contained in the Report. Where data has been obtained from third party sources, this has 
been clearly stated in the Report. The Report has also been ratified by the Board of Platinum Asset 
Management Limited.Being a responsible money manager01
ESG considerations in investing02
Putting clients’ interests first – valuing independence and transparency03
Advocating for change and engaging with policymakers04
Engaging with our employees05
Contributing to the community06
Being environmentally responsible072
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021
The asset management industry in Australia has undergone significant changes over the past 
quarter century, driven by a combination of factors ranging from government policy to 
technological innovation. Superannuation – our national compulsory retirement savings 
scheme – has underpinned the sector’s steady and robust growth by providing a vast pool of 
institutional money, along with increasingly sophisticated self-managed super funds and 
individual investors. This has attracted numerous multinational fund management firms to 
enter the Australian market while a growing number of domestic boutique managers have also 
sprung up in the global equities space. More recently, the popularity of passive index funds 
(exchange-traded funds or ETFs) and a proliferation of intermediary products and platforms 
have also played a part in shaping and reshaping the funds management landscape.
Throughout this time, we have maintained a strong reputation and, indeed, strengthened 
our relationship of trust with our clients, particularly direct investors and financial advisers, 
by staying true to our central endeavour – to preserve and grow our clients’ capital over the  
long-term . We seek to do so throughout market cycles by diligently and responsibly applying 
our expertise, scouring around the world for overlooked, misunderstood and undervalued 
companies, and through in-depth research (complemented by quant analysis), contrarian 
thinking and an almost draconian emphasis on averting the psychological pitfalls that 
beleaguer most investors.
This clear focus has served us and our clients well. This is evidenced by the solid absolute  
long-term returns delivered by our funds, notwithstanding the recurrent market challenges 
that have punctuated Platinum’s history – the Asian monetary crisis of 1997-98, the tech 
bubble of 2000-01, and the global financial crisis of 2008-09. It was, indeed, during these 
periods of great market stress that our disciplined and index-agnostic approach set us  
apart from the crowd and afforded our investors much-needed protection and superior  
risk-adjusted returns. 
To us, that is what “being a responsible money manager” means and this is the single most 
crucial factor to Platinum’s long-term sustainability, as our success as an asset management 
business is wholly dependent upon achieving good absolute returns for our clients over the 
long-term, on a risk-adjusted basis.
Periods of turbulent performance can be both challenging and distracting for asset managers. 
The rise of ETFs and similar passive strategies over the last decade, coinciding with exceptionally  
high valuation dispersions across different parts of the stock market, has posed particular 
challenges for active managers. Net fund outflows, often driven by investors focused on relative 
performance (particularly over the short-term), can put pressure on an asset management 
business. However, it is imperative that we do not allow ourselves to be distracted by the blind 
pursuit of business growth or lose sight of our core objective.
We do our best to avoid chasing the crowd or straying from our investment philosophy or 
process. We view risk primarily as the prospect of losing our clients’ capital, rather than  
any short-term volatility or tracking error (i.e. underperformance relative to a benchmark).  
Central to our approach to risk management is our index-agnostic, bottom-up stock selection 
process and, in particular, our focus on identifying out-of-favour companies whose prices are 
already discounted relative to their intrinsic value. Read more about Platinum’s investment 
philosophy  and approach to risk management .01
Being a responsible 
money manager.
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS01 BEING A RESPONSIBLE MONEY MANAGER
Corporate Responsibility  
and Sustainability Report
FINANCIAL YEAR 2020-20213
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Platinum is a fundamentals-focused equity manager. We believe that private enterprise plays a 
central role in wealth creation and socio-economic advancement. It is also our belief that value 
creation for shareholders ought to be aligned with value creation for society at large. Platinum 
invests with a long-term outlook (typically around five years) and, as part-owners of the 
enterprises in which we invest our clients’ money, it is paramount to us that these companies 
maintain their social licence to operate. As such, we view social and environmental 
sustainability as well as sound corporate governance as vital to a company’s long-term  
viability, growth and profitability. 
Platinum’s approach is focused on identifying companies whose intrinsic value is  
under-appreciated by the market due to temporary drawbacks or irrational market sentiments. 
Material ESG trends and factors can directly and indirectly impact on a company’s financial 
performance and prospects, and when such externalities are not fully reflected in the 
company’s share price, it may create opportunities for the discerning, but may also pose 
investment risks for the unwary.
To assess a company’s true worth – the core of our mission – a nuanced consideration of the 
company’s operations and operating environment is essential, and the evaluation of material 
ESG issues and risks, like traditional financial and operational factors, is an integral part of 
this exercise. We believe, based on both our own experience and studies by third party 
researchers, that incorporating ESG considerations into the investment process can lead to 
more informed and holistic investment decision-making and, ultimately, better investment 
outcomes for our clients. 
To this end, we have adopted a Responsible Investment Policy  which affirms our commitment 
to responsible investing and outlines our approach to:
1. incorporating ESG considerations into our investment process. This is implemented 
through three key integration techniques:
• applying exclusionary screens to restrict investment in specific sectors or companies  
(e.g. tobacco and military weapon makers);
• generating investment ideas through the analysis of ESG trends and themes; and
• integrating the analysis of ESG issues and factors into our fundamental stock research;
2. engagement with portfolio companies; and
3. proxy voting.
The ESG factors that we may examine in our integrated analysis are wide-ranging and  
depend on the industry concerned as well as the geographic location of the particular  
business. Some examples include, but are not limited to:
• Environmental  – carbon footprint, resource depletion and waste management.
• Social  – working conditions and industrial relations, community resettlement  
(e.g. by mining companies or real estate developers), product safety and cybersecurity.
• Governance  – executive compensation, board independence and diversity, as well  
as having processes in place to prevent fraud and other malpractice.
These issues can have an impact on the environment and/or communities (including 
employees and consumers), but they also present regulatory, operational and economic risks  
to a company which may potentially have a material impact on its financial performance and 
hence investor returns. 
For a more detailed description of our approach to ESG, please refer to the Responsible 
Investment Policy . 
Given the above, in 2021, Platinum introduced a carbon emissions calculator that provides 
estimates of each of its Fund’s exposure to carbon emissions via their respective investment 
portfolios, per $10,000 invested. Investors may wish to utilise this information to consider 
ways in which they can offset the estimated carbon emissions generated by their investment  
in a particular Fund.
Please refer to the Carbon Emissions Disclosure and Offset for further detail.02
ESG considerations 
in investing. 
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS02 ESG CONSIDERATIONS IN INVESTING
4
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Losing the trust of clients, be it due to unethical business practices, prioritising a manager’s 
own interests over that of its clients’ in situations of conflict, or simply providing poor 
service, are in our view some of the greatest risks to the sustainability of an asset 
management business.
As outlined above, Platinum’s business has been built with a sole focus on responsibly 
preserving and growing our clients’ capital over the long-term, rather than the pursuit of  
sales targets or the indiscriminate accumulation of funds under management. From the outset,  
our founders-led team has been guided by a paramount sense of responsibility towards the 
clients who have entrusted Platinum with their savings. This ethos means that we put our 
clients’ interests first in everything we do.
Valuing integrity, independence and transparency
Independence and transparency are the core principles underpinning our approach to 
investing, product distribution, investor communications and all other aspects of our 
operations. After growing our business over 27 years, we have remained independent and 
unaffiliated with any other financial product manufacturer, financial adviser, dealer group or 
platform operator, other than through arm’s length commercial arrangements. In this way we 
minimise the potential for conflicts of interest to arise. These principles are strongly embedded 
in our business practices and policies. For example:
• we are not part of any vertically integrated financial services group;
• we transparently disclose our investment management fees;
• we do not charge investors entry or exit fees;
• we have never paid trail commissions to financial intermediaries or advisers; and
• we do not enter into fee sharing deals with platform operators or their related parties.
Platinum has always held high standards of integrity in all aspects of its operations and has  
in place robust policies and procedures aimed at preventing unlawful, unethical or improper 
conduct. Given the nature of our business, we are particularly mindful of the risks of insider 
trading and “front running” and have implemented our Business Rules of Conduct & Personal 
Investing Rules , Securities Trading Policy  and Whistleblower Protections Policy , which all staff 
must comply with. 
Focus on superior client service and communication
We continuously seek to improve the quality of our client service, including investing in 
technological infrastructure to better serve investor and adviser needs. Our public website has 
enriched features, design and content (such as product comparison tools, portfolio snapshots 
and a regular stream of articles and videos on various investment topics), as well as a secure 
site delivering enhanced functionality and improved security to clients.
Regular, meaningful communication with clients, generally via direct channels, has always 
been an essential feature of our business model. We view it as part of every asset manager’s 
core duties to keep its clients abreast of performance and portfolio positioning.
In addition to periodic performance reporting and portfolio updates, we endeavour to share 
with investors and advisers our perspectives on the companies we invest in and on investment 
themes more broadly, by:
• supporting financial advisers with quality presentations from dedicated investment 
specialists and members of the investment team;
• holding annual presentations for our direct investors and advisers;
• providing informative quarterly reports written by our portfolio managers;
• keeping investors updated on market trends and macroeconomic conditions and sharing 
our insights on key investment themes, through online publications across a range of 
mediums, including articles, videos and podcasts. See The Journal ; and
• publishing education-oriented materials covering the things such as the fundamental 
principles of investing, how to think about valuation and behavioural finance.  
See Investment Fundamentals .03
Putting clients’ 
interests first. 
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS03 PUTTING CLIENTS’ INTERESTS FIRST
5
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Over the last few years we have incrementally built a team of six investment specialists to 
strengthen our link with the adviser community (the retail arm of the team) and better service 
our institutional clients (the institutional arm). Some of our investment specialists are former 
investment analysts and have an intimate knowledge of our investment methodology, how the 
investment team operates, and what the portfolio managers are thinking. They spend a lot of 
time visiting advisers, to help them stay informed about our investment approach, performance 
and outlook.
In addition:
• our Co-CIOs and other members of the investment team present to direct investors  
in six cities around Australia each year;
• our investment specialists regularly present to advisers (and their clients) throughout 
Australia and New Zealand; and
• our investor services team responds daily to telephone and online enquiries from  
our direct investors.
Given our large retail investor base, the investor roadshow is a particularly important 
tradition for both Platinum and our clients. It gives our direct investors an opportunity to 
personally meet (pending Covid of course where we have moved to virtual presentations) 
with the portfolio managers who manage their money and to hear what they have to say 
about investing. Our clients have always embraced the occasion, and the event is equally 
meaningful for Platinum as these face-to-face meetings are a powerful reminder of the trust 
that our clients have placed with us and the weight of the undertaking that we have assumed. 03 PUTTING CLIENTS’ INTERESTS FIRST6
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-202104
Advocating for 
change and 
engaging with 
policymakers. 
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALSPlatinum views corporate advocacy as part of our social licence to operate and we selectively 
engage with industry and regulators on issues relevant to our business and clients. 
During 2019, 2020 and 2021, we made the following submissions: 
Submission on reforming the regulatory framework applicable to exchange 
traded managed funds that use internal market makers
On 30 July 2019 ASIC issued a media release requesting licensed market operators not to 
admit any new active ETFs performing internal market making functions, unless portfolio 
holdings were being disclosed daily. The media release was issued as a result of concerns 
regarding the potential for insider trading for these types of products. In response to the 
media release, Platinum together with a number of other active ETF issuers participated in an 
industry submission to ASIC setting forth technical legal arguments as to why internal market 
making (if done properly) does not give rise to insider trading issues. Platinum and a number 
of other active ETF issuers subsequently met individually with ASIC to help ASIC understand 
how their own internal market making functions were being performed.
On 11 December 2019, ASIC lifted its pause on the admission of new active ETFs with 
internal market making functions, following the completion of their internal review, and 
subsequently updated their Information Sheet (INFO 230) in April 2020 to set forth their 
expectations for licensed exchanges admitting exchange traded products. 
Submission on introduction of design and distribution obligations
Following the release of ASIC’s Consultation Paper 325 Product design and distribution 
obligations (CP 325) in December 2019, Platinum made a submission in March 2020, 
expressing concern that the draft regulatory guide could give rise to unintended 
consequences for issuers of actively managed exchange traded funds in respect of their 
on-market trading activities. In finalising guidance, ASIC undertook further targeted 
consultation with the industry on the application of the obligations to certain exchange 
traded products more generally, due to the unique circumstances of these products.  
This resulted in ASIC making a legislative ( ASIC Corporations (Design and Distribution 
Obligations—Exchange Traded Products) Instrument 2020/1090 ) to modify the obligations  
in relation to these products.
Improving reporting standards for Listed Investment Companies
Over the course of the 2021 financial year, Platinum has been an active member of an 
industry working group that is seeking to establish uniform standards for the reporting  
of investment performance by Australian listed investment companies. A draft proposal  
has been developed and is in the consultation phase as at the date of this report.04 ADVOCATING FOR CHANGE AND ENGAGING WITH POLICYMAKERS 
7
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Platinum is a service-oriented business and our sustained success depends first and foremost 
on the skills, expertise and dedication of our staff. Our people are our most important asset 
and the loss of human capital is a material risk to our ongoing sustainability, particularly in an 
environment where competition for talent is fierce. We are therefore always looking for ways in 
which we can provide a diverse and inclusive work environment, develop our people to fulfil 
their career potential and support our people in achieving greater personal well-being.
Workplace diversity, flexibility and inclusion
Platinum actively promotes a culture of meritocracy, fairness and equality at all levels within 
our organisation. We value the blend of skills, perspectives and personality traits that come 
with a diverse workforce and recognise that such diversity has contributed to our business 
success and sustainability. For example, our investment team includes not only economists  
and finance graduates, but also former scientists, engineers and programmers, bringing with 
them industry insights and specialist expertise.
At Platinum, we take a number of different factors into account when considering workplace 
diversity including but not limited to gender, age, ethnicity and cultural background.  
To promote workplace diversity, we have adopted a Diversity Policy  in addition to a  
Workplace Behavior Policy. We also have a policy on Flexible Working Arrangements to assist 
our employees in achieving the optimum balance between work, family and personal 
responsibilities. Since late 2020 we have been trialling a hybrid model of working leveraging 
the benefits of greater flexibility for all employees.
Platinum has set clear diversity objectives as part of our corporate governance practices,  
which include:
• building an awareness across the organisation of the value of diversity and inclusion  
in the workplace;
• building awareness and providing training and mentoring opportunities to employees 
across the organisation;
• ensuring that remuneration outcomes are equitable;
• exploring flexible working arrangements for staff; and
• ensuring diversity and inclusion are taken into account as part of Platinum’s recruitment 
and selection practices.
The following statistics (current as of 5 July 2021) reflect Platinum’s workplace diversity 
performance relative to Australian’s national average.05
Engaging with  
our employees. 
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
1 This data is current as at 5 July 2021.
2 Australian Institute of Company Directors, Board Diversity Statistics, July 2021.
3 Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA), Gender workplace statistics at a glance, July 2021.
4 WGEA, Gender workplace statistics at a glance, July 2021.
5 WGEA, Gender workplace statistics at a glance, July 2021.
6 WGEA, Gender workplace statistics at a glance, July 2021.
7 Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), Cat. 6291.0.55.001, Labour Force, Australia, Detailed, July 2021.
8 ABS, Cat. 2071.0, Census of Population and Housing: Reflecting Australia - Stories from the Census, 2016.
9 ABS, Cat. 6227.0, Education and Work, Australia, May 2018.
10 ABS, Cat. 2076.0, Census of Population and Housing: Characteristics of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians, 2021.05 ENGAGING WITH OUR EMPLOYEES 
Platinum1Australia  
national average
Women on the Board 33% (3 of 9) 33.6%2
Women in senior executive positions 29% (2 of 7) 18.3%3
Women in the workforce 38% (41 of 107) 47.2%4
Women in line roles 25% (5 of 20) 32.5%5 
Women employed on a part-time basis 31% (13 of 41) 21.4%6
Workforce over 55 years of age 11% (12 of 107) 14.7%7 
Workforce made up of people born  
outside Australia42% (45 of 107) 56.0%8 
Workforce made up of people with  
tertiary qualifications81% (87 of 107) 35.0%9 
Workforce made up of people identified as 
Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander people0% (0 of 107) 0.19%10 8
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021While Platinum has equalled and exceeded Australia’s national average in regards to female 
representation on the board and in senior executive positions respectively, we recognise that 
there is still much room for improvement with respect to our overall female participation rate. 
Even before the changes brought in by Covid-19, Platinum recognised the challenges that 
staff often face in balancing family life with professional responsibilities, and has been 
proactive in its efforts to facilitate flexible working arrangements where possible, including 
through part-time work, work-from-home arrangements, and adjustments to roles and 
responsibilities. It is worth mentioning that we equally encourage our male employees, 
including portfolio managers and investment analysts, to utilise parental leave with 
reasonable flexibility.
Platinum’s endeavours to promote diversity and inclusion within the workplace are ongoing,  
as demonstrated below:
It is pleasing to see that Platinum’s efforts to create an inclusive work culture have led to 
excellent retention rates. Platinum finalised its internal values exercise which involved all 
employees across the business. It was pleasing to see strong alignment across personal,  
current and desired future state values. 
Our portfolio managers have an average of 17 years of investment management industry 
experience (as at 30 June 2021), with 15 years at Platinum. Other members of the investment 
team on average have been with Platinum for more than seven years, while non-investment 
team employees have on average been with the organisation for more than six years.
Learning and development
In today’s knowledge economy, ongoing training and upskilling is crucial to each employee’s 
personal and professional growth. It is also extremely important for Platinum as an employer  
at a collective level in order for the company to stay competitive against industry peers. 
Platinum therefore has a number of programs in place to support staff development.
We routinely pay for employees to undertake training programs that are directly relevant to 
their role, be they technology boot camps for some of our IT staff, publishing and graphic 
design courses for members of the communications team, or analytics software workshops  
for those needing to enhance their data analytics skills. During the past few years, we have  
also partnered with external coaches to conduct a series of leadership development programs 
for our line managers to help them become more effective leaders and build stronger teams.
Platinum also has in place a separate scheme to support employees who undertake further 
education programs in their own time by reimbursing their course fees up to a pre-approved 
annual limit upon completion of the course. These courses may only be indirectly related to  
the employee’s day-to-day responsibilities at Platinum, but we believe that contributing to  
our employees’ overall professional development will be beneficial to Platinum’s long-term 
sustainable growth.05 ENGAGING WITH OUR EMPLOYEES 
PlatinumAs at  
13 Aug 2019As at  
5 Jul 2021Target for  
Jul 2022
Women on the Board 33% (3 of 9) 33% (3 of 9) 33%
Women in senior executive positions 25% (2 of 8) 29% (2 of 7) 25% (2 of 7)
Women in the workforce 32% (36 of 113) 38% (41 of 107) 30%
Women in line roles 19% (4 of 21) 25% (5 of 20) 25%
Women employed on a part-time basis 33% (12 of 36) 31% (13 of 41) N/A
Workforce over 55 years of age 7% (8 of 113) 11% (12 of 107) N/A
Workforce made up of people born  
outside Australia43% (49 of 113) 42% (45 of 107) N/A
Workforce made up of people with  
tertiary qualifications82% (93 of 113) 81% (87 of 107) N/A
Workforce made up of people  
identified as Aboriginal or Torres  
Strait Islander people0% (0 of 113) 0% (0 of 107) N/A9
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Health, wellbeing and engagement
Healthy and happy employees are key to the sustained success of every business. We have a 
number of initiatives to help our staff stay healthy and reduce absenteeism, such as providing a 
free annual flu vaccination service onsite at our office to all employees who wish to participate. 
Our Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) Committee includes representatives from different 
operational teams who not only track workplace injuries and illnesses but have also been 
proactively working to improve the safety and well-being of our employees. These include 
initiatives such as providing professional ergonomic assessments and training, arranging 
flexible workstation design and set-up to accommodate individual needs and preferences,  
as well as ensuring that safety precautions are taken during various renovation projects on  
office premises.
Given the nature of Platinum’s business, our employees’ mental health is particularly 
important. Investment markets can be volatile and being entrusted to manage large sums of 
money can be highly stressful. Not only do our portfolio managers and investment analysts 
face the relentless pressure to deliver good returns for our clients and protect capital during 
market downturns, our back-office staff also have enormous responsibilities such as ensuring 
the accuracy and timeliness of portfolio accounting and investor reporting. Platinum partnered 
with an experienced third-party professional organisation and launched an Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) to provide all of our staff and their immediate family members with 
free, confidential counselling and coaching services, including access to:
• in-personal or over-the-phone counselling to deal with a wide range of work-related and 
personal issues, whether it is stress management, bullying and harassment, or coping with 
domestic issues and mental health challenges;
• an online portal hosting hundreds of articles on health and wellbeing, self-assessment  
tools, online counselling, and digital learning programs;
• nutrition advice from qualified dietitians;
• financial counselling and resources in relation to money problems; and
• special confidential support to all managers and team leaders with advice and training  
to approach challenges in people management.
Platinum takes the opportunity to acknowledge a number of awareness days throughout  
the year such as World Mental Health, RUOK? Day etc to normalise the conversation and  
build awareness on such vital topics. In addition, the company has a staff-initiated Social 
Committee which organises regular social events and participation in sporting events,  
such as inter-corporate basketball competitions, which we believe contribute positively to  
our employees’ fitness and well-being.
Our goal for the next financial year is to continue to provide our employees with the above 
support programs, services and benefits. We do not set targets for utilisation rates of these 
programs as participation is completely optional.
Team cohesion and performance
In high performing teams, the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, and hence its about 
more than just hiring capable individuals. The connections between individual members of the 
team, how they work together and relate to each other also play a crucial role in the team 
achieving its potential, or not.
Since 2017 Platinum has partnered with Gain Line Analytics  to critically assess our own 
investment team on a regular basis, most recently in 2021. Gain Line Analytics was co-founded 
by Ben Darwin, a former Wallaby (Australian international rugby union player) who, after 
retiring from his professional sporting career, developed a statistical method to assess team 
performance based on a core concept, he calls cohesion . When studying the drivers of success 
or failure, conventional analysis tends to focus on talent and leadership. This tendency is 
particularly familiar in the asset management industry where there is an unhelpful obsession 
with individual star fund managers. We were drawn to Darwin’s research insight emphasising 
the importance of cohesion and particularly that derived from shared experiences, as a key 
determinant of team performance. We concluded that Gain Line’s analytics tools, developed 
using data from sporting franchises across a range of competitive sports over several decades, 
had a much broader application and that there were lessons for investment managers too. 
(Through our work with Gain Line Analytics, since 2018 we recognise excellence in Australasian 
Sport and donate annually to a charity on behalf of Australasia’s Best Sporting team).05 ENGAGING WITH OUR EMPLOYEES 10
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Led by Andrew Clifford, Platinum’s Co-Chief Investment Officer, we optimised the structure  
of the investment team during 2011-2013. The exercise improved the flow of ideas and the  
cut-through of investment analysis, but it was not an easy message to convey objectively to 
external stakeholders. We invited Gain Line in to look at our investment team in the same 
manner in which they had analysed hundreds of sporting teams, and the results gave us an 
objective confirmation that Platinum’s investment team had strong cohesion.
The conclusions  from Gain Line’s analysis were pleasing, confirming our intuition that we had 
a deep, experienced team, populated by analysts who typically joined without extensive prior 
professional investing experience and learned Platinum’s method and philosophy from the 
ground up. Two of the four founding members of the investment team from 1994 continue to 
serve our clients today by contributing investment ideas. Senior members of the team play an 
active role in mentoring newer members of the team and passing down Platinum’s values 
alongside the craft and know-how. Over the years we have seen analysts come and go – not 
everyone is suited to our investment style, nor destined to stay forever. But we have had plenty 
of talent coming through the ranks – all of our portfolio managers have been promoted 
organically from within. Members of our broad investment team have on average been with the 
firm for around seven years while the eight portfolio managers’ average tenure with the firm is 
15 years (as at 30 June 2021). Our recruitment process is focused on adding curious people 
that love business in order to replenish and grow the talent pool over time.
The longevity, continuity and cohesion of our team  give us confidence in the sustainability of 
Platinum’s business. These characteristics are not easy to replicate and are a core competitive 
strength against many peers. As Gain Line’s research has shown, putting together a group of 
intelligent and capable individuals is only the first step, but success as a team cannot be 
achieved overnight – it requires shared experience gained from, and working together over, 
lengthy periods of time.05 ENGAGING WITH OUR EMPLOYEES 11
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-202106
Contributing to  
the community. 
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALSAs a corporate citizen, Platinum aims to make a contribution to the broader community above 
and beyond achieving our core mission of providing our clients with responsible investment 
management services to improve their financial well-being.
Scholarships
One of the areas that we are passionate about focuses on both education and professionalism in 
the Australian financial advisory industry. Financial planners play an important role in helping 
Australians to achieve financial security. Yet, as the recent Royal Commission has revealed, it is 
an industry that is still finding its way to become a well-regulated profession with appropriate 
standards of qualification and conduct, rules on independence, disclosure and conflict 
management, and other relevant ethical norms and principles.
To play a small part in raising the professional standards of future planners from 2014-2018, 
Platinum and The Neilson Foundation funded scholarships to students majoring in Financial 
Planning across a number of Australian universities. Since beginning the scholarships in 2014, 
$1.5 million was awarded to financial planning students jointly by Platinum and The Neilson 
Foundation. In addition to the financial contribution, Platinum also offered a four-week work 
experience program to two of each year’s scholarship recipients.
We will continue to work closely with the industry as to how best we can support the needs  
of financial planners.
Sponsorship to other education programs
Platinum has been both a financial sponsor and a content contributor to the Portfolio 
Construction Forum (PCF) over the past four years. PCF is a specialist, independent provider 
of investment continuing education and certification for wealth management professionals,  
but in particular portfolio construction practitioners – those who design, build and/or manage 
multi-asset, multi-manager portfolios. We share the organisation’s core belief that “Better 
quality portfolio construction knowledge and skills result in better quality decisions – and, 
therefore, better quality investor portfolios and financial wellbeing”, and therefore have enjoyed 
taking part in the annual Markets Summit and Finology Summit held by PCF. Several 
members of our investment team, including Platinum’s founder and former CEO/CIO,  
Kerr Neilson, our current CEO and Co-CIO, Andrew Clifford, and Investment Specialists,  
Douglas Isles and Julian McCormack, have presented at these Summits on a range of 
investment topics, such as avoiding the abstraction and distraction of indices, cohesion is 
critical to investment management success, managing the psychological heuristics in investing, 
as well as the challenges of communication between asset managers and financial advisers. 
Some of the materials from past presentations have been made available to the broader 
audience on the Investment Fundamentals  sections of our website.
Corporate and employee fundraising
As a firm, Platinum has been a regular sponsor in a number of fund-raising events, including, 
among others:
• For the last seven consecutive years, Platinum has been the official partner sponsor of the 
Bobbin Head Cycle Classic, an annual event organised by The Rotary Clubs on Sydney’s 
North Shore to help raise funds for Lifeline, Women’s Shelter and other local charities. 
Several of our employees as well as their families and friends are ardent riders who have 
taken part in the event.
• Platinum and those keen runners among our staff are regular participants in the annual 
JPMorgan Corporate Challenge.
• Platinum sponsors a team of employees to participate in the annual City2Surf running  
event to raise money for various charities.
• Platinum has recently agreed to a three-year sponsorship of New Zealand’s Brook  
Waim rama Sanctuary. Platinum has a long-standing association with investors and 
advisers in New Zealand.06 CONTRIBUTING TO THE COMMUNITY 
12
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Climate action
Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing our generation. Extreme weather events 
and changing weather patterns are impacting on economies and communities around the 
world. While we believe that coordinated and effective government policy is the most impactful 
form of climate action, though it is currently lacking at both an international and national level, 
we recognise that corporate and private citizens should all do our part to collectively respond 
to the challenges of climate change.
Platinum considers the implications of climate change in both our investment and operational 
decisions. When selecting investments for our portfolios, environmental factors, including 
climate change risks and clean energy developments, are taken into consideration in our 
assessment of the competitiveness of the companies in question and their ability to generate 
sustainable returns for shareholders over the medium and long-term. Platinum is committed to 
transparent reporting and to aligning our climate change disclosure with The Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). Please refer to our Responsible Investment Policy  
for further detail on how environmental factors are integrated into our investment process.
More directly, in our day-to-day operations, Platinum is committed to running our business  
in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. We actively monitor and measure 
our carbon footprint and have been purchasing carbon credits to offset our emissions since 
PTM listed on the ASX in 2007. As part of our commitment to being transparent about the 
environmental impact of our operating activities, Platinum has been voluntarily participating  
in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2013 (which is an annual study of the greenhouse 
emissions and climate change strategies of the worlds largest companies. In 2020, we achieved 
a CDP climate change score of D). Our physical office premise is located at 7 Macquarie Place, 
Sydney. The building has a 5-star NABERS energy rating and a 4-star NABERS water rating.
Over the past four years, we have partnered with South Pole Carbon Asset Management Ltd 
(“South Pole”), an independent third party consultancy specialising in carbon reduction 
projects, to calculate and manage our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. South Pole applies  
a rigorous calculation methodology to comprehensively account for the GHG emissions from 
our operating activities, which extend from direct emissions from stationary and mobile 
combustion of fuels (Scope 1) to indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat and  
cooling (Scope 2) as well as other indirect emissions from fuel and energy related activities, 
business travel, consumption of paper, and waste management (Scope 3).11
PTM’s total GHG emissions (Scope 2 and 3) over the past five financial years are as follows:
11 The GHG accounting and reporting procedure applied by South Pole is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard Revised edition, which was developed in partnership between the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in 2004, and is the most widely used international accounting tool for 
governments and businesses.
12 For 2020 GHG emissions from operating activities, in June 2021 Platinum purchased from South Pole 1,273 GHG emission offsets from 
Siam Waste to Energy project https://www.southpole.com/projects/siam-cement-biomas-to-energy07
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALSBeing 
environmentally 
responsible. 07 BEING ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE
ScopeFY2015-16 
(tCO2e)FY2016-17 
(tCO2e)FY2017-18 
(tCO2e)FY2018-19 
(tCO2e)FY2019-20 
(tCO2e)
Scope 2 432.2 318.9 303.9 284.5 231.0
Scope 3 494.8 640.4 1,292.3 1698.7 1041.6
Total tonnes of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO2e)927.0 959.3 1,596.2 1983.2 1,272.61
GHG emissions  
offset tCO2e –  
South Pole projects(927.0) (959.3) (2,304.0) (1,984.0) (1,273.0)12
Net emissions - - (707.8) - -13
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Business travels undertaken by our staff continue to be the largest source of GHG emissions 
from Platinum’s operations, accounting for 58% in the past year. (To note, this refers to the 
period prior to Covid given there has been no overseas and limited domestic travel.)  
These trips are undertaken by our staff for the purposes of investment research, engagement 
with portfolio companies, and meetings with clients and prospective clients. A significant 
portion of the GHG emissions from business trips comes from air travel, which is a particularly 
carbon-intensive mode of transport. However, these trips form a necessary and important part 
of Platinum’s business as a global investment manager. Therefore, rather than reducing our 
carbon footprint generated by business travels, we seek to offset these emissions through the 
purchase of carbon credits (as outlined below).
Electricity consumption is the second biggest source of our overall GHG emissions, accounting 
for 18% in the past year. We have sought to reduce our electricity usage by replacing old 
lighting equipment with more energy-efficient LED lighting, and replacing old equipment  
and appliances (such as PCs, printers, scanners, fridges and dishwashers) with new equipment 
and appliances that have higher energy-efficiency ratings. Platinum also continues to pay a 
premium to our energy supplier to purpose power generated from renewable sources  
(Green Energy accredited under the national Green Power program).
Waste and paper usage form a very small part of Platinum’s overall carbon footprint and  
we have already implemented initiatives to further reduce the GHG emissions from these 
sources, including:
• Providing recycling bins throughout our office premises and raising employee awareness 
about the need to recycle;
• Encouraging employees to reduce printing and encouraging investors and shareholders  
to opt for electronic communications; and
• Using reusable cups and glasses throughout the office, for both clients and staff –  
(Platinum has always had a “no bottled water” policy).
As part of Platinum’s ongoing efforts to improve our environmental performance through 
operational efficiency and responsible consumption, we have set a target of reducing our 
average per-employee GHG emission by 5% in the next financial year. We will work towards 
the following environmental targets by seeking to reduce energy consumption through 
measures such as raising employee awareness, equipment upgrades to achieve higher  
energy-efficiency, as well as better travel planning.
Platinum is growing its business and expanding into overseas markets, which together with  
the opening of our London distribution office necessitates local and overseas travel by our 
employees. These business initiatives will likely increase our overall carbon emissions in the 
future. Our target reduction of GHG emissions per employee will use a science-based approach 
and take into consideration Platinum’s historical carbon footprint as well as future operational 
needs. We believe this target is both realistic and sustainable, and is in line with the generally 
accepted industry practice. Platinum will work towards the following environmental targets by 
seeking to reduce energy consumption through measures such as raising employee awareness, 
equipment upgrades to achieve higher energy-efficiency, as well as better travel planning.  
We will monitor and reassess our progress each financial year and ensure our business 
operations are conducted in an environmentally sustainable way. In addition, as part of 
emission management, Platinum will continue to offset GHG emissions, thus making our 
business carbon neutral. 
Activity2019-20 Actual Consumption  
(per employee)2020-21 Target Consumption  
(per employee)
Scope 2 2.16 2.05
Scope 3 9.73 9.25
Total (tCO2e) 11.89 11.3007 BEING ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE14
PLATINUM ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED (PTM) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • FY 2020-2021Partnerships for carbon credits
Even though the nature of Platinum’s business means that our operations are not carbon 
intensive, Platinum believes in the importance of climate action for the sustainability of global 
economic growth and the long-term viability of businesses throughout the world and across 
industries, including that of our own. We therefore have been voluntarily participating in 
carbon credit purchase programs to offset our GHG emissions and achieve carbon neutrality 
since PTM listed on the ASX in 2007.
When purchasing GHG emission offsets, we seek to partner with projects that not only  
provide verified and certified emission reductions, but also provide additional social and/or 
environmental benefits to local communities in areas such as infrastructure, employment, 
health and education. Working with South Pole, Platinum purchased 100% of our total 
emission offsets in 2019-20 from the following project:
• Siam Cement Group Biomass to Energy project provides renewable biomass fuel  
to power five Thai cement manufacturing plants. This decreases their reliance on fossil  
fuels and enables them to substantially reduce their carbon emissions – leading to 
environmental and socio-economic benefits for surrounding communities. 
 Thailand heavily relies on the burning of fossil fuels for its cement industries, even though 
cement production is an emission-intensive activity – making up an estimated 5% of all 
global man-made CO2 emissions. New infrastructure now enables the five cement 
manufacturing plants involved in this project to use alternative fuels and biomass residue, 
including rice husks, wood-processing residues and other agricultural waste. As a result, 
they have been able to reduce their dependence on fossil fuels such as the toxic mix of coal 
and lignite they previously used in their kilns.
 This project funds a range of social and environmental programs including health clinics  
to service the neighbouring communities, over 65,000 check dams for upstream forest 
conservation, school scholarships, mobile health clinics and the development of small-scale 
local industries. Farmers also now profit from a supplementary income and additional jobs 
have been created thanks to the project’s efficient supply chains and manufacturing 
processes for biomass fuels.07 BEING ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE
Copyright ©   2018 South Pole. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. South Pole shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.Visit www.southpole.com/contacts  to find your local office or call our Headquarters in Zurich on +  41 43 501 35 50 #READYFOR2020
in total invested in community services, 
ameliorating lives and contributing to 
sustainable development in rural Javainvested in local health 
services for communities invested in local educational 
services
The Gunung Salak project 
harnesses heat from deep 
within the Earth to generate 
clean geothermal power – a 
viable, renewable alternative 
to burning coalThe Context
There are over 150 active volcanoes in Indonesia, giving the archipelago nation 
huge potential for geothermal energy production. Indeed, 40 percent of the world’s 
geothermal reserves are located underneath Indonesia, but only about 6 percent have 
been developed. Setting up a geothermal power plant is costly and risky. On top of this, 
geothermal exploration was classed as a mining activity by the government until 2014. 
This made it near-impossible to pursue, as almost 80 percent of Indonesia’s geothermal 
locations are within protected national parks.
The Project
Located within Halimun-Salak National Park, the Gunung Salak Geothermal Energy project 
involves the capacity upgrade of three turbines at an existing geothermal power plant 
from 55 MW to 60 MW, significantly increasing its efficiency. This additional installed 
capacity of 15 MW allows the plant to generate more energy from the same source of 
geothermal steam. This helps service Indonesia’s growing energy demands with clean 
electricity, reducing the need for emissions-heavy fossil fuel burning power plants.
The Benefits
The project creates social benefits extending beyond simple emissions reduction. 
The project promotes sustainable development and supports regional educational 
programmes, running activities such as book donations at local schools. The Gunung 
Salak project also improves employment opportunities by offering vocational training 
classes in the garment industry to unemployed local community members, and improves 
local transport infrastructure through, for example, upgrading roads and bridges.
For more information on the UN Sustainable Development Goals, please visit: http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/  
Official name: Capacity Upgrade of Gunung Salak Geothermal Power Plant Project Indonesia  |  Registry link:  http://www.vcsprojectdatabase.org/#/project_details/144   |  Registry ID: 144IDR 372
million+ million+ million+IDR 55 IDR 366
of geothermal renewable energy 
generated on average annuallyMWh1,419,000
invested in biogas processing 
(transforming livestock manure into 
biogas and organic fertiliser)created in a remote region, 
boosting the local economyinvested in local bridge and road 
constructionIDR 51
million+ million+ jobs32 IDR 198
mitigated on average each yeartCo2e104,620
invested in education on, and conservation and regeneration of, 
surrounding Halimun-Salak National Park – protecting habitat for wildlife 
such as the West Javan gibbon, Javan eagle and Javan leopard, as well as 
tree nursery programs in some districts.IDR 1.1
billion+
