Sustainability Report
2017Brucejack 2009 Brucejack 2017Sustainability Report  
2017
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CEO Message  
Our Company, Our Project  
Our Sustainability Journey  
Creating Value Through Gold  
Corporate Governance  
Investing in People & Communities  
Safety by Choice, Not Chance  
Health and Wellness  
Protecting Air, Water, Land & Biodiversity  
GRI Index  2
4
6
8101220
22
2432
All financial estimates are provided in Canadian dollars, unless otherwise noted.CEO MESSAGE
From the earliest days of exploration and delineation drilling of the Valley of the Kings deposit, 
through advanced exploration, development and finally gold production at the fully operating Brucejack Mine, we have always placed a high priority on support for our people, local communities and the environment. Our efforts in these areas have grown hand-in-hand with our growth as a company to where we are today, an intermediate gold producer. A look at our sustainability journey from the past to the present tells the story. 
Our people have been the key to Pretivm’s success, and ensuring their safety is at the forefront of our 
thoughts. In this regard, we continue to strive for improved safety performance with “zero harm” our objective. In the early days, safety fell on the shoulders of our project managers, who wore a number of hats. As we have grown as a company, so too has the sophistication of our safety programs. We now have 15 safety professionals on staff who work to ensure safety remains the number one priority and is rooted into our culture. We also understand the sacrifices our employees make to work in a remote camp environment away from their families and friends. During the exploration era a rotation at Brucejack meant six weeks on and two weeks off; we now schedule a rotation of two weeks on and two weeks off. We have always focused on providing good meals and medical support, and have steadily improved accommodations as we have transitioned from grassroots exploration to production.
To support local communities, we hire locally and have sourced local supplies wherever possible. 
Over 50% of our employees are from northwest British Columbia, and we expect to increase this number as we mature as a gold producer. In order to advance this initiative, we have expanded our community efforts to include collaborative training and employment initiatives with local First Nations and regional community development offices with a focus on removing barriers to employment, supporting skills development and employment preparedness. We are also contributing to organizations that underpin communities and the families behind each of our workers: from support organizations to sports leagues, culture and youth programming. We recognize the role healthy communities contribute to our own success, and we are proud to play a role as a corporate citizen in northern British Columbia.
All of us at Pretivm, wherever we live - in cities or in the country - understand the importance of 
protecting the environment, for our outdoor activities, and for the benefit of our children and the generations to come. At Brucejack, we have the good fortune to work in a beautiful location that never fails to inspire newcomers to site. As we designed the Brucejack Mine, we incorporated a number of sustainability initiatives to reduce our impact on the environment. To reduce our carbon footprint, we built a transmission line so we can draw power from the British Columbia hydro grid and installed high efficiency lighting and variable frequency electric drives. To reduce our impact on water, we installed a state-of-the-art water treatment plant. Now with the Brucejack Mine up and running, we have a dedicated environmental group ensuring we do things right in the daily choices we make as an operator.
2 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Our commitment to operating sustainably has provided the foundation on which our success has been 
built. Looking ahead, we expect to be operating the Brucejack Mine for many, many years to come. In doing so, we will remain committed: to our people, striving for zero harm and providing fair working conditions; to local communities, increased local hiring and continued contributions to communities; and to protecting the environment, an enduring focus on minimizing our impact and acting as a good steward for the future.
Pretivm is proud to be a company Made in 
British Columbia, producing gold Made in British Columbia. I am pleased to share this—Pretivm’s inaugural Sustainability Report—so that readers can gain insight into our corporate culture and share in our success. 
Sincerely, 
Joseph J. Ovsenek, P . Eng., LLB 
President, CEO, and  Director of Pretium Resources Inc.
3 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Dease Lake
Iskut
Stewart
Gingolx
(Kincolith)
Laxg alts’ap
(Greenville)Gitanyow
TerracePrince
Rupert
Kitimat
HoustonKitwanga
Hazeltons
SmithersGitlaxt’aamiks
(New Aiyansh)
GitwinksihlkwTelegraph Creek
OUR COMPANY, 
OUR PROJECT
Pretium Resources Inc. (Pretivm) is a Canadian 
gold mining company headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia. Through the Brucejack Mine, wholly owned by Pretivm, we are creating value through gold – including value for our shareholders, neighbouring communities and First Nations, and for the economy of northwest British Columbia (BC). 
The Brucejack Mine includes underground mine works, on-site 
processing facilities, work camp accommodation, and other supporting infrastructure. The high-grade gold mine produced its first gold doré bars in the summer of 2017, making this year an important transition from construction to production. We are committed to the safe and successful operation of the Brucejack Mine and to creating benefits for the province and the communities near our operation.
BRUCEJACK MINE
Northwest BC
Location  
Northwest British 
Columbia, Canada  
Mine type  
Underground with mill on site 
Total gold reserves  
8.7 million ounces  
Current processing capacity  
2,700 tonnes per day  
Expected mine life  
18 yearsMining method  
Long-hole stoping  
Access 
Year-round, all-weather access road connecting the mine site to Highway 37 
Primary energy source  
BC Hydro electricity grid
4 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017“The commitment to operate sustainably 
shapes the strategies and systems across 
our business, at the Brucejack Mine and 
throughout the company.” George Paspalas  
Lead Director; Chair, Sustainability and Technical Committee  Dease Lake
Iskut
Stewart
Gingolx
(Kincolith)
Laxg alts’ap
(Greenville)Gitanyow
TerracePrince
Rupert
Kitimat
HoustonKitwanga
Hazeltons
SmithersGitlaxt’aamiks
(New Aiyansh)
GitwinksihlkwTelegraph Creek
Growth and Development
Now that we have reached steady-state production at Brucejack, we continue to explore potential 
opportunities for growth and expansion. In addition to brownfield exploration for reserve expansion at the Brucejack Mine, we began grassroots exploration on our Bowser Claim Group, adjacent to the Brucejack Mine, in 2015 in search of our next mine. From 2015 through 2017, we collected over 11,000 samples and completed regional mapping, prospecting, airborne geophysics, hyperspectral mapping, and data compilation. Through this program, we have identified a number of prospects that could through further exploration, develop into our next mine. There is much work to be done to understand the development potential of these prospects, but our efforts to date are helping us plan for future organic growth.Integrity
We are committed to 
the safety and well-
being of the people and 
environment impacted by 
our operations.Forthrightness
We act reliably and 
communicate with 
transparency.Innovation
We are results-oriented; 
we embrace challenges 
and approach them 
with an entrepreneurial 
spirit and independent 
thinking.Pride of 
ownership
We are each 
accountable for meeting 
the company’s objectives 
by being proactive and 
acting with a sense of 
urgency.Our Values
On behalf of Pretivm, Joe Ovsenek, David 
Prins, and Kevin Torpy received the E.A. Scholz Award for excellence in mine development from the Association for Mineral Exploration (AME) in BC. This honour is awarded to those who have made a significant contribution towards the development of a mining operation in BC and/or the Yukon Territory. Also in 2017, the Brucejack Mine received the Resource Industry of the Year award from the Terrace and District Chamber of Commerce.
5 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017* According to the GRI, 
material topics are those that “reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts or those that substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders”.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
JOURNEYAbout This Report
An important piece of developing our first Sustainability Report was to identify the sustainability issues that are most material to our business. We want to reflect on these issues so that we can monitor changes and identify successes and areas for improvement. 
Before preparing our 2017 Sustainability Report, we reviewed industry 
reporting trends and best practices and talked internally about what is most important to us as a company and to our stakeholders. This helped us to develop a list of the topics that are a top priority for our company at this time. This is our first annual Sustainability Report, and it has been prepared with reference to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)* and based on data for 2017. 
A Note on the Data in This Report
Because 2017 marked a year of transition for the Brucejack Mine, aspects of work on site changed significantly between the start and the end of the year. For example, there were approximately 1,100 workers on site in the first half of the year, engaged in construction and commissioning activities. While some construction activities continued through to the end of the year, operations officially commenced over the summer and the workforce has adjusted to reflect this change. 
Data provided in this report represents a hybrid of construction, operations, and the unique environment that 
is representative of a period of transition. Our first full – or baseline – year of mine operations will be in 2018, and will be showcased in next year’s report. Some performance data is not available, or meaningful, without a full year of data, in which case we have made efforts to describe our performance qualitatively.
We welcome feedback on our 2017 Sustainability Report. For additional information, 
or to provide comments, please email 
INFO@PRETIVM.COM  
6 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Our Priorities
Business ethics and governance
Economic performanceIndirect economic impacts
Compliance with 
environmental regulations
Water qualityClimate changeEnvironmental 
management at site
Impacts on ecology  
and biodiversity
Spill responseWaste management
Source control
Ongoing reclamation
Engaging communities 
Involving First Nations
Fostering economic opportunity
Encouraging diversity and equal opportunity
Attracting and retaining workers
Providing opportunities for training and 
career developmentFor workers, and for communitiesCommunity
Safety, security 
and health
WorkforceEconomic
SocialEnvironmental
7 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017CREATING VALUE 
THROUGH GOLD
Pretivm is committed to ensuring strong 
economic returns while investing in environmental stewardship, community relations, and health and safety. We see these responsibilities as interrelated and set high internal performance standards. The Brucejack Mine was planned and is operated in accordance with stringent federal and provincial requirements to protect our workforce, communities, and the natural environment while creating value for our shareholders and contributing to local economies.
Our economic contributions come in many forms. 
We pay taxes and royalties to provincial and federal governments, and are committed to hiring local people and working with local businesses. We make targeted efforts to recruit and train indigenous workers, and work closely with First Nations including Nisga’a Nation, Tahltan Nation, Tsetsaut/Skii km Lax Ha, and Gitanyow Hereditary Chiefs. At the end of the day, our prosperity depends on our workers, their families, and the communities they call home. We firmly believe that supporting local economic growth through training, employment, and business partnerships creates value for communities, the company, and our shareholders. For a full review of Pretivm’s 2017 financial performance, please refer to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements  and our 
Management Discussion and Analysis .
US$827.7 million
TOTAL CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS 
C$425.8 million
SPENT ON MINE CONSTRUCTION 
AND OPERATING ACTIVITIES IN 2017C$46.3 million
SPENT ON SALARIES AND BENEFITS IN 
2017, OF WHICH $18.1 MILLION WENT 
TO PEOPLE LIVING IN NORTHWEST BC
8 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017
9 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
All employees, contractors and subcontractors are required to sign 
off on the following corporate policies each year:
CODE OF BUSINESS 
CONDUCT AND ETHICSWHISTLE BLOWER 
POLICYCORRUPT 
PRACTICES POLICY
WORKPLACE BULLYING 
AND HARASSMENT POLICYINFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
SYSTEMS USE POLICYEthics and integrity are central to our business 
and are critical to the long-term success of our operations. Our corporate governance practices are consistent with all applicable Canadian regulatory guidelines and standards and Canadian corporate governance practices. Pretivm trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “PVG”. 
Pretivm’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  
describes our commitment to a number of ethical 
principles. The code covers topics including safety, environmental protection, human rights, financial responsibilities, and ethical business practices. Within our Board of Directors, the Sustainability and Technical Committee is specifically charged with reviewing sustainability matters and overseeing sustainability performance, as well as overseeing mining operations, exploration, and development. This committee reviews quarterly reports on the environment and health-and-safety performance, and ensures that appropriate actions are taken to manage sustainability risks.
10 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Rights, Diversity, and Inclusion 
We believe that every individual has the right to work in an environment that is free from discrimination 
and harassment, including sexual harassment. We are committed to providing a workplace that respects human rights, and are proud to operate in a country with economic and political conditions that support the protection of human rights. 
We understand and value the range of experiences and perspectives that a diverse workforce brings to our 
company, both at the mine site and in the boardroom. We are committed to providing all of our employees with a safe and respectful workplace, with equal opportunities for career development and advancement. 
Corporate Donations
We look for opportunities to support our neighbours and stakeholders through donations, sponsorship, or other forms of investment. Our contributions are guided by our Corporate Donation Policy , which ensures 
that funds are allocated in a manner aligned with our community relations strategy, principles, and ethics. Under this policy, we do not make donations to individuals, or to initiatives outside the area of our operations. As of 2018, we no longer make donations to political parties or political events. This helps us ensure that our donations have a greater impact on the people and communities closest to the Brucejack Mine.
11 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017INVESTING IN PEOPLE & 
COMMUNITIES 
The economic benefits of mining for northern communities can be numerous. Job creation, infrastructure 
development, and indirect economic impacts such as spin-off businesses contribute to the daily lives of people living in the region and throughout BC. At Pretivm, we are committed to creating shared value through the operation of the Brucejack Mine, and aim to deliver a legacy of prosperity beyond the life of the mine. 
Our Workforce
We believe in investing in people. This means providing jobs, supporting education and training opportunities, and engaging with youth to ensure they understand the range of opportunities available in the mining industry. We are also committed to hiring locally. Over the course of the last year, more than half of our workers were residents of northwest BC, while 92 percent overall call BC home.
Women in Mining
Although mining may be a male-dominated industry, at Brucejack women have been welcomed to the team since the early days of exploration when women in geology and camp support crews contributed to our extensive drill campaigns. At the end of 2017, about 17 percent of employees at the Brucejack Mine were female. Of those, all were BC residents and 87 percent were employed in permanent positions.Hiring Locally
Our commitment to hiring local and indigenous people is reflected in our recruiting efforts and our selection of contractors. We have a full-time community relations manager, based in Smithers BC, who works closely with indigenous groups to communicate job postings, provide information about required skills and experience, organize recruitment events, and to engage with prospective workers and their families. In 2017, indigenous workers accounted for more than a quarter of our direct workforce and more than 40% of our contracted workforce. 
12 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017437
PEOPLE DIRECTLY 
EMPLOYED AT THE 
END OF 2017478
PEOPLE EMPLOYED ON-SITE 
AT THE END OF 2017$46.3 million
TOTAL EXPENDITURES ON  
SALARIES/WAGES IN 2017Direct Workforce 
Highlights 2017On-Site Contractor 
Workforce Highlights 
2017
Brucejack Gold Mine Employment by Department, January 2018
Note: Numbers indicate number of employees, and are provided for Pretivm employees only; contractors are not included. “Relationships built during project exploration 
have helped us achieve one of the highest local and 
indigenous employment rates in the province.” Aldea Lavallie    
Community Relations  
Manager
92% 
Residents of BC
 50%  
Residents of northwest BC
 27% 
Indigenous75% 
Residents of BC
 53%  
Residents of northwest BC
 42% 
Indigenous
36%
Increase in our 
indigenous 
workforce 
between 2016 
and 2017  500
People will 
be employed 
annually over 
the mine life333
Full-time 
permanent jobs 
plus 101 full-time 
temporary jobs
13 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Access Road 1%Accounting 1%Administration 3%Camp Maintenance 3% Catering 7% Construction 4%Electrical 2%Environmental 5% Exploration 3% Health & Safety 6% Housekeeping 6% Mill Maintenance 6% Mill Operations 15%Mine Geology 2%Mine Maintenance <1%Mine Operations 1%Payroll <1%Supply Chain 4% Surface Maintenance 5% Surface Operations 21% Technical Services 5%Water Treatment <1%Turning Seasonal Opportunities 
into Full-time Employment
The challenging winter conditions at 
the Brucejack Mine create a variety of seasonal employment opportunities. Snow removal is a critical role that provides a unique opportunity for seasonal employment in an entry-level position. To promote these opportunities locally, Pretivm invested in a recruitment program aimed at rural communities in northwest BC. Pretivm’s Human Resources and Community Relations departments, along with a number of indigenous groups (including Tahltan, Gitanyow, and Nisga’a), and WorkBC participated in this recruitment program.
Although these were seasonal positions, our human resources and community relations teams worked with those hired to identify permanent positions within the company. In the end, 80% of those hired on temporary contracts for snow removal transitioned to permanent positions at the mine, such as mill and surface labour positions. 
130
RESUMES WERE 
REVIEWED105
INTERVIEWS WERE 
CONDUCTED72
CANDIDATES WERE 
INTERESTED AND 
AVAILABLE 47
PEOPLE WERE 
OFFERED 
EMPLOYMENT90%
OF INTERVIEWEES 
IDENTIFIED AS 
INDIGENOUS
14 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017INVESTING IN PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Our Contractors
We are proud to have worked with over 100 regional and indigenous 
businesses in 2017. We have had contracts with businesses in Terrace, Smithers, Stewart, Hazelton, New Hazelton, and other surrounding communities and with indigenous companies in the area. Road maintenance, transportation, medical response, electrical trades, environmental controls, drilling, and construction-related contracting are among the services we have sourced locally. Our company is committed to creating local economic benefits and will continue to look to local suppliers first.Procurement 
Highlights 2017
$235 million 
Invested in BC goods 
and services 
$78 million  
Invested in Northwest BC goods and services
Supporting Local Businesses: Wandering Bear Concession & Catering
Pretivm’s participation in local job fairs, conferences, and indigenous employment sessions led to a 
conversation with a Nisga’a entrepreneur named Kevin Febril, who had a passion for cooking and an idea for business. Kevin wanted to start a food truck business to provide bagged lunches for Pretivm’s crews travelling from Terrace to the Brucejack Mine. After meeting in person and understanding Kevin’s vision, Pretivm and Kevin agreed on a contract and Wandering Bear Concession & Catering began providing lunches to workers. 
Kevin equipped a food truck and hired two part-time Nisga’a employees to help with day-to-day 
food preparation. The first bagged lunches were served to the Brucejack Mine crew in February 2017. Kevin’s business later won the Best New Business award through Thrive North and regularly receives compliments and encouragement from the crews travelling to site.
15 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Training and Development
Hiring is only the first step of building our workforce. We also understand the importance of workforce training 
and development programs to ensure that our workers are able to grow and develop in their roles. We need to train people so that that they have the proper skills and knowledge to do their jobs safely and effectively. 
All workers at the mine site in 2017 attended site orientation training. In addition, we provided 37 different 
on-site training programs, ranging from specific training for heavy equipment operators and mill workers, to fall prevention and confined space awareness training, and more specialized training related to boating, rope rescue, and ice rescue. Daily safety briefings and on-the-job safety training is an important part of work at the mine site, and include topics such as first aid, cold weather safety, food safety, workplace hazardous materials, mine rescue, and avalanche training, just to name a few.
Skilled trades apprenticeships are another way that we can support the development of the regional labour 
force. In 2017, we had three apprentices working at the mine site, including one welder and two heavy duty machinery technicians. We maintain regular contact with the Industry Training Authority to expand and improve our on-site apprenticeship program.
392
PEOPLE ATTENDED SITE 
ORIENTATIONS IN 20172,140 
TOTAL HOURS OF 
ORIENTATION TRAINING6,677 
 ADDITIONAL HOURS OF 
SPECIALIZED AND JOB-SPECIFIC 
TRAINING AT SITE
16 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017INVESTING IN PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 
Heavy Equipment Intro
Aerial Work 
Platform
Overhead Crane
Confined Space 
Awareness
Rescue Rope 
OperatorSpill Response Training
WHMIS 2015
Drager BG4 level 2 Tech
Skidsteer
Propane Cylinder Filling
LockoutFall protectionTelehandlerMill Orientation ForkliftOtherSpecialized and Job-specific 
Training by Cumulative Hours per CourseCommunity Relationships
Pretivm is proud to be a good neighbor to the communities and families of northwest BC. We work to sustain 
mutually beneficial relationships that support a productive and profitable business while strengthening the long-term economic health of northern BC. We believe the success of our operations relies on these relationships. 
In order to foster strong community relationships, we 
make efforts to engage with, cooperate, and understand the needs and interests of our partners and stakeholders. Over the design, development, and construction of the Brucejack Mine, we built our business on extensive and ongoing communication with local community members, indigenous groups, the provincial and federal governments and other key stakeholders. We look to strengthen these relationships even further as the mine moves into the early years of operation.
“Collaboration is a powerful approach. When companies and community 
leaders can come together and identify shared objectives, we can pool 
experience and resources and really make a difference.”
Michelle Romero 
Executive Vice President,  Corporate Affairs and Sustainability
 “Maximizing the number 
of local people employed 
at the mine has been our 
focus since day one.” 
Joe Ovsenek    
President, CEO, & Director, PretivmBreaking Down Barriers
Pretivm’s community relations team is working hard, in collaboration with local First Nations, on programs 
supporting employment readiness. We recognize that even if opportunities for employment at Brucejack are available, many prospective employees face serious barriers to taking advantage of them. These barriers are all too common in the remote communities of northwest BC, and by working together with local community employment support societies and regional First Nations we can address challenges and explore solutions together for the benefit of the Brucejack workforce and regional social development. 
To date, our employment readiness initiatives have looked at these challenges from a number of different 
perspectives, in order to support people new to the workforce, as well as more experienced workers who may be unfamiliar with life at a mine site. In the end, we want to make sure everyone joining the Pretivm team is set up for a successful transition to the new job, and with room to grow and develop in the new role. 
Working at the Brucejack mine site can present a number of new 
challenges and opportunities. Most workers spend two weeks at the mine site, followed by two weeks off. This rotation means spending periods away from family and friends, and it can be challenging to balance work and family responsibilities, and to adjust to life at camp. At Pretivm, we want to make sure all workers are equipped to deal with these challenges, and to take advantage of the opportunities that the rotational schedule can also provide.
17 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Our Social Responsibility Policy  defines the principles that guide 
our relationships with First Nations, communities, and stakeholders. 
The policy clearly states our commitments to… 
•
 disclosing pr
oject information and pursuing meaningful 
dialogue about project effects over the life of the mine
•
 pr
otecting the health and safety of workers and communities
•
 fost
ering an ethical workplace that is safe, free from 
discrimination, and respectful of human rights
•
 w
orking with local communities and First Nations to build 
capacity and maximize long-term local benefits of the mine
•
 pr
otecting cultural and heritage resources, and 
•
 monit
oring our success and continually improving our 
environmental, social, health and safety programsWe have an Economic and Social Effects Mitigation Plan (ESEMP) that includes 
tactical strategies related to employment, training, procurement, transportation, 
and other socio-economic benefits. The 
ESEMP includes measures designed 
to maximize local benefits and 
minimize negative impacts on local 
communities. We also have an Aboriginal Consultation Plan. This document outlines our plans for 
engagement with local indigenous groups over the life of the mine, including communication of project updates, sharing annual socio-economic and environmental monitoring reports, and our commitments to two-way dialogue about the mine’s impacts and benefits. 
We have an office in Smithers, BC. This is our base for engagement with First Nations and communities in northwest BC. The office is open to the public, including people looking for more information about the mine, jobs, and business opportunities.
Come visit us at 
2965 Tatlow Road, 
in Smithers!
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY  
POLICY
18 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017INVESTING IN PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 
ESEMP
Every year, 
we report our performance 
in terms of recruitment, hiring, training, 
procurement, and other indicators through 
the ESEMP Annual Report. This analysis is an 
opportunity to reflect on what’s worked, what can be 
improved, and to share this information with 
local First Nations and communities.ABORIGINAL CONSULTATION PLANOur Community Relations Manager 
organizes events in communities , often in 
collaboration with local First Nations. These events are an opportunity for people to learn about potential job opportunities at the mine site, ask questions, and get feedback about skills and training requirements.We know that making jobs available is not enough: we need to ensure that local people have the skills and experience to succeed in these jobs. Our Employment Readiness 
initiatives are developed in partnership with local First Nations and employment support agencies to improve the accessibility of jobs at the Brucejack Mine, and to help people succeed once they have a job. 
Our community investment program is designed to support our workers and their families and communities. Supporting the communities our workers call home is a win-win business. We work closely with local First Nations and communities to understand their needs, while also introducing them to the mining industry through education and relationship building. Pillars of Community InvestmentOur full-time Community Relations Manager  is based in the Smithers office. 
She is the key point of contact for our relationships with First Nations and communities in the region, and works with them on initiatives related to employment, training, procurement, and ongoing engagement. When she is not in Smithers, she spends time travelling to the communities in the region to meet with people in person. 
She also engages with local 
schools and training institutions 
to prepare relevant programs and 
apprenticeships. 
In 2017, we provided 
donations and sponsorships 
to sports teams, education 
organizations, local health and 
medical organizations, career fairs, 
community Christmas dinners, 
and food banks. 
We also provided funds to 
support the development of a 
new recreation center in a local 
community.
The Community 
Relations Manager works 
closely with other Pretivm 
departments, including people 
responsible for hiring and 
training.
We also work with 
our contractors to make 
sure they are hiring locally, and to 
jointly develop programs to get local 
and First Nations workers into 
mining-related jobs.
Culture, 
Arts & 
RecreationHealth & 
Wellness
Education
Environment
19 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017SAFETY BY CHOICE,  
NOT CHANCE 
We are committed to the health and safety of our employees, contractors, and the general public. We believe 
that safe operating practices are a shared responsibility among our management, employees, contractors, and community visitors. Therefore, our Health and Safety Policy is applicable to all of our operations, contractors, and subsidiaries. 
The Brucejack Mine is remotely located in an area with challenging weather and landscape conditions. Careful 
planning is required for safe work, and we need to be self-sufficient in our ability to address and respond to safety risks. We look to achieve our goal of “zero harm” through safety leadership, accountability, and a proactive approach to risk recognition which along with personnel training are the foundation of our safety programs. Safety awareness education is conducted at Brucejack on a daily basis to develop proactive risk identification among our employees and contractors. 
Incidents and near misses are reported, investigated, and analyzed to direct corrective action and minimize the 
risk of recurrence. The majority of injuries in 2017 were slips, trips, and falls linked to the challenging landscape at site and weather conditions. Our Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) was 3.47.
Safety initiatives in 2017 included site safety inspections, toolbox meetings, and global hazard assessments. Our 
Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee supports workers and contractors and ensures that health and safety issues are raised with management.
Mine Rescue Competition
In June 2018, the Brucejack Mine rescue team competed in the 63rd Annual Provincial Mine Rescue and First 
Aid Competition , held in Kimberley BC. Although this was the team’s first competition, they won accolades 
in two categories: Travis Murphy won the USWA Mine Mill Trophy for Best Underground Coordinator, and the team won Best Underground Firefighting.
The competition, which has been held 
annually since the 1950s, provides mine rescue teams with an intensive learning opportunity and a chance to test their emergency response capabilities against one another. The event helps to ensure that British Columbia’s mine rescue teams are trained to the same high standards, and highlights the region’s commitment to health and safety best practices. 
20 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Week-long 
firefighting 
courseFive-day 
rope rescue 
courseTwo-day 
first aid 
coursesSpill 
response 
trainingIce rescue and 
swift-water 
rescue training
“We must all be committed to the implementation of 
health and safety practices to ensure our own personal 
safety and the safety of our fellow employees.”
Health & Safety Policy
21 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Emergency Response Team
The remote location of the Brucejack Mine makes it critical that we have a sound emergency response 
program in place. We maintain a skilled and trained emergency response team (ERT) including 77 team members based at the mine site and at the Knipple camp. 
Over the course of 2017 the ERT team engaged in weekly practice sessions and training on a variety of topics 
to ensure they are skilled and ready to respond to a range of situations. ERT members received a cumulative 7,642 hours of training related to rescue practices, firefighting, and first aid, including:HEALTH AND WELLNESS
“Working with the Brucejack Mine has been an example of how 
health care and industry can work together to coordinate services 
while minimizing the impacts of industrial development on the 
health services of small communities. We hope their leadership 
can be a model for other organizations involved in industrial 
development and work camps in the North.” 
Ciro Panessa,  
COO of the Northwest, Northern Health Authority Health Services
At our remote site, our goal is to manage incidents, injuries, and health concerns on-site so that we are able 
to respond quickly and to reduce potential strains on community medical services. To this end, the Brucejack Mine has two ambulances and a helicopter equipped to evacuate employees in case of an emergency. We also maintain regular communication with the Northern Health Authority and meet monthly with health industry stakeholders to discuss our health services at site, emergency response plans, and opportunities for continuous improvement.
Pretivm partners with Iridia Medical Inc., based in Vancouver BC, to ensure that all employees and contractors 
have access to preventative and emergency medical care at the mine site. The primary care clinic at the Brucejack Mine opened in 2016. The clinic is staffed with a paramedic and a nurse, and physician support is available remotely. On average, about 250 workers visit the on-site clinic each month.
22 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017 “Pretivm is the first mining company to develop such a robust health 
and wellness program at a mining camp in British Columbia.” 
Allan Holmes,  
Director of Iridia Medical $1.2 MILLION
ANNUAL INVESTMENT IN HEALTH AND 
WELLNESS SERVICES10
STAFF EMPLOYED IN THE DELIVERY 
OF HEALTH AND RECREATIONAL 
PROGRAMS TO WORKERS AT SITEWellness Programs
In addition to safety and primary health care programs, Pretivm fosters a culture of worker well-being by 
providing an array of wellness programs for our direct and contract employees. This includes mental health support, sexual health awareness, vaccination clinics, auditory testing, and lead monitoring. At Pretivm, we want to have a positive impact on the wellness of our workers – and their families and communities – whether they are at home or at work.
To keep our operations safe for our workers, their families, and neighboring communities, Brucejack is a drug 
and alcohol-free mine site. Our Fitness for Duty Policy  prohibits the consumption or possession of alcohol or 
drugs on site. All employees and contractors working at site, as well as employees in Smithers and Vancouver, are trained and required to acknowledge the policy. 
23 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017PROTECTING AIR, WATER, 
LAND & BIODIVERSITY
The overall footprint of the Brucejack Mine is 
comparatively small since the mine infrastructure is located underground, and we do not have a traditional tailings pond. Combined with early planning and investment in environmental management, our small footprint also means that we have minimized surface disturbance which will decrease the amount of work required to reclaim the site following mine closure. Over 2017, we were progressively reclaiming some of the areas disturbed during the construction period. This includes measures designed to reduce erosion and sedimentation. Native plants, such as alder, were collected and planted. While we make efforts to reduce the amount of land that is disturbed overall, we have also stockpiled soil and organic material from disturbed areas so that we can use these materials for reclamation later on. 
21 PEOPLE
WERE EMPLOYED IN ENVIRONMENTAL 
ROLES IN 2017
With the help of Woodmere Nursery in Telkwa, BC, we are growing alder saplings to use for revegetation of disturbed land.
24 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017
Regulatory and Environmental Compliance
We rely on technically proven approaches to protect the environment. The Brucejack Mine was developed 
in accordance with stringent federal and provincial requirements to protect the natural environment, and we continuously evaluate our mitigation and management activities to make sure they are effective, and to improve them if we can.  
More importantly, we aim to conduct our business 
in a manner that goes beyond simply complying with regulatory requirements. We strive to use the best available information, research, and technology in the development of our programs, facilities, and management plans. In doing so, we look to innovation and tactical problem solving to pursue the industry’s best practices and technical solutions. 
Our Environmental Policy  describes our commitment to sustainable resource development. All employees, 
suppliers, and contractors are required to act in accordance with our Environmental Policy to demonstrate a 
commitment to protect the natural environment.
Our Environmental Management System includes 25 management plans. These plans detail the management of water quality, air quality, spill response, aquatic effects, metal leaching, acid rock draining, wildlife, vegetation, waste management, and heritage resources. Additionally, we have plans for safety management including emergency response, avalanche hazards, chemicals and materials storage and handling, and traffic.“We use the regulations as a benchmark - we comply with all of the provincial 
and federal regulations and then ask ourselves: Is this good enough?” 
Robin McCall  
Assistant Environmental Manager, Pretivm
25
ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT PLANS7,559
PAGES OF ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT
25 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Energy and Climate Change
Climate change is one of society’s most pressing challenges. We believe climate change is influenced by 
human activity and requires purposeful action by all of us. We have a responsibility to produce gold as efficiently as possible and the high-grade nature of the Brucejack gold deposit makes this a very achievable goal. 
One of the most tangible near-term opportunities to reduce our impact on climate change has been through 
the efficient development, design, and operation of our facilities. This includes investing in construction of a transmission line to connect the mine site to the provincial power grid, thereby reducing the need for on-site diesel consumption to generate power. 
Managing our emissions is one way we can manage our contributions to climate change. Conversely, it is 
also important to recognize how factors related to climate change can impact our operations. This could include increased frequency of extreme events such as high precipitation causing flooding, warm temperatures contributing to wildfires or flooding from rapid snowmelt, and the annual freezing of Brucejack Lake. These and other factors were carefully assessed throughout the planning and design of the mine. 
Glacier Crossing
Changing environmental factors are especially important given the unique location of the Brucejack Mine. Workers and material are brought to and from the mine site using an access road that includes a 12-kilometer traverse of the Knipple Glacier. To ensure safety while minimizing our impact on the glacier we monitor the condition of the glacier surface and development of crevasses on a daily basis. We also work with a glaciologist who conducts surveys that measure the vertical melt and retreat of the Knipple Glacier and other nearby glaciers, providing insight as to the integrity of the ice.
To ensure safety while minimizing our impact on the glacier, we do not apply sand, dirt, or salt to the glacier. 
Instead, we rely on grading techniques to create a level surface on the ice in the summer. In the winter, we groom the road and fill in crevasses.
26 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017PROTECTING AIR, WATER, LAND & BIODIVERSITYEnergy Efficiency
Energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction efforts were a significant focus during the design and 
construction of the Brucejack Mine, including:
37,113 
GIGAJOULES OF ENERGY USE OVER 9 
MONTHS (SINCE ELECTRIFICATION OF 
TRANSMISSION LINE) OF ENERGY USE16,881
TONNES CO2 OF GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
Investing in Renewable Power Supply
Construction of the 57-kilometre transmission line connecting the Brucejack Mine to the BC Hydro power grid began in 2015 and was completed on March 21, 2017. The line was energized on March 31, 2017. The transmission line provides low cost, green energy to power the site including the mill and underground operations, and reduces the use of diesel power generators and associated emissions.
Connection to the BC 
Hydro electricity gridUse of electric heaters 
in place of traditional 
propane heatersInstallation of variable 
frequency electrical drives 
to increase the efficiency of 
the mill facility
Installation of pebble 
crusher to further grind 
ore in order to increase 
efficiency of the SAG millInstallation of LED lighting 
in the mill buildingSourcing employees, 
vendors and contractors 
and services locallyInstallation of a state-of-
the-art water treatment 
facility
27 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Watershed Management
A natural fish barrier 20 kilometers downstream of the Brucejack Mine prevents fish from travelling further 
upstream. Because of this, there are no fish in Brucejack Lake or other nearby waterbodies. However, even though the nearest fish are 20 kilometers downstream, we are committed to avoiding impacts on the quality of water downstream of our site. 
Unlike many gold mines, the Brucejack Mine does not use cyanide as part of its processing and gold extraction 
process. This provides a significant advantage by eliminating a source of environmental impact that is often associated with gold mining. 
At the Brucejack Mine, we monitor the water quality and flow levels of surface water and groundwater from a 
number of monitoring stations in the area. The mine site operates on a closed-loop water system. This means that all water that comes into contact with the site is collected and treated before it is returned to the natural environment. Water is treated to a water quality standard that experts and regulators have determined is safe so that environmental impacts are avoided. We have also built diversion channels around the site in order to minimize the amount of water affected.
Potable water for the camp is provided from a groundwater well; 30,230 cubic metres were drawn in 2017.  Camp 
waste water is processed in an advanced treatment facility and meets BC Ministry of Environment’s discharge quality limits.  The mill process water is sourced from underground water entering the mine (580,310 cubic metres in 2017) supplemented by surface rainfall and snow melting on the mill site and water from Brucejack Lake (153,460 cubic metres in 2017). All water from the mill process is treated to remove metals and fine silt and then recycled; ultimately 451,516 cubic metres of treated water was discharged to Brucejack Lake in 2017.  
Approximately 70% of the mine site 
annual precipitation is snow which accumulates from September through April and melts in late April through May.  Snow melt on the mill site is directed to the mill for process water requirements.  Snow melt uphill of the mine site is diverted around the mine facilities in two diversion channels, totaling 1,253 metres in length, which are designed to prevent fresh water from interacting with disturbed ground and equipment. 7
SURFACE WATER 
MONITORING 
STATIONS18
GROUNDWATER 
MONITORING 
WELLS2
SNOW 
MONITORING 
STATIONS3
WEATHER 
MONITORING 
STATIONS1,196
WATER AND OTHER 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
SAMPLES 
ANALYZED IN 2017
28 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017PROTECTING AIR, WATER, LAND & BIODIVERSITYWaste Management
Mine Waste
As with any mining operation, mine waste products (including 
tailings and waste rock) must be safely disposed and stored using approved and environmentally responsible methods. Because the Valley of Kings is a high-grade gold deposit the amount of waste rock produced per ounce of gold is low in comparison to lower-grade deposits, and tailings are thickened to reduce their volume. However, tailings and waste rock must be safely stored in the long-term, in a way that minimizes risks to the environment. Pretivm is committed to not only reducing effects on the environment in the present, but also to ensure the integrity of the environment is maintained long after closure.
As there are no fish in Brucejack Lake, the environment created an opportunity for Pretivm to avoid the need 
for a conventional tailings pond and tailings dam. Instead, tailings and waste rock are used as backfill in the underground mine, and the remainder is submerged in Brucejack Lake.  This approach eliminates the risk of pond failure and greatly reduces requirements for environmental remediation. The quality of water in Brucejack Lake and downstream water bodies is monitored. 
Refuse and Recycling
At the Brucejack Mine, we separate waste from the mine site into several different streams for recycling and disposal. This includes waste from kitchens and offices, workshops, maintenance yards, and other facilities. Waste streams include general refuse, cardboard, plastics, metals, burnable wood, non-burnable wood, electronics, and hydrocarbons. Staff are trained in the waste management program so that they know how different products should be handled and disposed.
Reducing Food and 
Beverage Waste
Pretivm treats water at the mine site to provide 
potable water to all workers. All new employees and contractors receive a re-useable water bottle after completing their site orientation, so that we can reduce our consumption of disposable plastic bottles at the site.
29 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017Waste rock that that would otherwise be designated 
for the waste rock dump is used to create stope containment barriers in advance of paste backfilling.Spill Prevention & Response
We provide spill response training to all of our employees. As a matter of good practice, we document 
and report all spills no matter the size. To reduce risks while trucks and equipment are being refuelled or serviced, we use absorbent materials, secondary containments, and other measures to ensure that products are contained and do not come into contact with the natural environment. We are required to document and report any spill over the reporting threshold (which varies depending on the product) to the Canadian government. 
Part of our commitment to spill response and environmental protection involves ensuring that everyone 
on site is appropriately trained and able to prevent and manage spills. Nearly 2,000 hours of spill response training was provided to staff and contractors in 2017. Our spill response plan details the steps to follow if and when a spill occurs: the first step is always to ensure safety, followed by clean up, and reporting. Over the year, there were 18 reportable spills, none of which resulted in an impact to water or wildlife. 
Biodiversity
The Brucejack Mine sits above the tree line in alpine tundra at an elevation of 1,400 meters. On an environmental scale, the area was only recently de-glaciated. As such, the land is rocky, and there is not a lot of soil to support vegetation or animal habitat around the mine site, although the access road travels through lower elevations in areas with mature vegetation and wildlife. We have worked with a number of regulatory agencies, governments, and indigenous groups to develop our biodiversity program and the various Wildlife Management Plans which detail our effective conservation measures and continual monitoring efforts. 
As with any place of human activity, we risk 
attracting animals through the presence and improper handling of our garbage. To keep wildlife and people safe, our employees are trained to keep the site clean of attractants, drive at safe speeds, and report any wildlife observations or incidents. All garbage is stored indoors – or outdoors in bear-proof containers – so that it will not attract or be accessible to wildlife.In 2016, we established a Wildlife Advisory Committee with representatives of the Nisga’a Nation, Tahltan Nation and the Tsetsaut/Skii km Lax Ha to discuss the effectiveness of mitigation measures, wildlife mortalities, accuracy of impacts to wildlife, and potential additional mitigation measures. Though wildlife mortalities are low, they are closely monitored, and are a subject for discussion with indigenous groups through the Wildlife Advisory Committee. Retaining the area’s natural biodiversity is a key objective of our progressive reclamation efforts. We have stockpiled natural seed stock and topsoil to use in reclamation efforts, which are already underway. We work to operate in the most environmentally sound manner possible. We also know that our efforts today will reduce our total impact and extent of reclamation efforts required once the mine closes.
30 Pretivm Sustainability Report 20171,983 HOURS 
NUMBER OF HOURS OF SPILL RESPONSE 
TRAINING DELIVEREDPROTECTING AIR, WATER, LAND & BIODIVERSITYWildlife Management Plans
Our Wildlife Management Plans  comply with provincial and 
federal legislation including the BC Wildlife Act, Migratory 
Birds Convention Act, Species at Risk Act, Forest and Range Practices Act, BC Environmental Assessment Act, and the BC Mines Act. The plans were developed based on the environmental assessment for the project which considered potential impacts on biodiversity and wildlife habitat.
Tunnels for Toads
To avoid impacting the seasonal migration of the Western Toad, a yellow-listed species in BC, we have built six tunnels under the mine’s access road. This infrastructure was designed to ensure western toads are able to migrate from one side of the road to the other. We have engaged a number of scientists to monitor phases of the migration before, during, and after so we can know when to expect the toads and give them the best chance possible.
Boxes for Bats
Pretivm’s environmental coordinators are tasked with the continual monitoring of the provincially blue-listed northern long-eared myotis bat and the federally listed little brown myotis bat. These bats are known to roost in the furrows of cottonwood tree bark in the vicinity of the access road. To support a healthy bat population, we have installed 10 bat boxes along the access road and transmission line. Each box is capable of housing 300 bats and is expected to support the continued habitation of bats in this area.
31 Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017GRI INDEX
32
Pretivm Sustainability Report 2017
No. Description Location
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102 Name of the organization Page 4
102 Activities, brands, products, and services Page 4
102 Location of headquarters Page 4
102 Location of operations Page 4
102 Ownership and legal form Page 4
102 Scale of the organization Page 4
102 Information on employees and other workers Pages 12-15 
102 Precautionary Principle or approach Page 25
102 Statement from senior decision-maker Pages 2-3
102 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Pages 5, 10-11
102 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 10
102 Governance structure Company website
102 Delegating authority Company website
102 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topics Company website
102 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Pages 17-19
102 Composition of the highest governance body and its 
committees Company website
102 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Company website
102 Conflicts of interest Company website
102 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 
values, and strategyCompany website
102 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Company website
102 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Company website
102 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impactsCompany website
102 Remuneration policies Company website
102 Process for determining remuneration Company website
102 List of stakeholder groups Company website
102 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Company website
102 Approach to stakeholder engagement Company website
102 Key topics and concerns raised Company website
102 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Pages 6-7
102 List of material topics Page 7 
102
Reporting period Page 6
102 Date of most recent report Page 6
102 Reporting cycle Page 6
102 Contact point for questions regarding the report Page 6
102 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI StandardsPage 6
102 GRI content index Page 32No. Description Location
MANAGEMENT
103 Management approach Pages 8-31
ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
201 Economic performance Page 8
203 Indirect economic impacts Pages 8, 14-19, 27
204 Procurement practices Page 15
205 Anti-corruption Page 10
ENVIRONMENT
302 Energy Page 27
303 Water Pages 28, 30
304 Biodiversity Pages 24-25, 30-31
305 Emissions Page 27
306 Effluents and waste Page 29
307 Environmental compliance Page 25
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 
401 Employment Pages 12-15
403 Occupational health and safety Page 20
404 Training and education Pages 12, 16-17
405 Diversity and equal opportunity Pages 10-11
406 Non-discrimination Pages 10-11
413 Local communities Pages 18-19
415 Public policy Page 11Pretium Resources Inc.
2300 - 1055 Dunsmuir Street
Four Bentall Centre, PO Box 49334
Vancouver, BC V7X 1L4
Toll Free: 1-877-558-1784
info@pretivm.com
www.pretivm.com 