Qualcomm Corporate 
Responsibility Report
Our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance in 20212021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | T able of Contents2
Message from Our CEO   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03
About Qualcomm   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04
Qualcomm for Good   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06
Our Corporate Responsibility  
Governance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 07
Our Approach to 
Stakeholder Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . 08
Our Goals  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Our Awards and Recognitions  . . . . . . . . 11
Key Accomplishments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Purposeful Innovation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Responsible Business   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Our People  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
STEM Education  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33ESG Performance Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Progress on Our Goals  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Global Reporting Initiative  
Content Index  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Sustainability Accounting  
Standards Board Index  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
T ask Force on Climate-related  
Financial Disclosures Index  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Our Alignment with the  
United Nations Sustainable  
Development Goals   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
About This Report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Table of 
Contents2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Message from Our CEO3
What an extraordinary time to step into the role of 
CEO at Qualcomm! The need for our technologies 
and products has never been more apparent. Our 
innovations are transforming industries, improving 
billions of lives and addressing some of society’s 
biggest challenges. We are enabling a world 
where everyone and everything can be intelligently 
connected while promoting sustainable economic 
growth to help shape a better future for everyone. 
This year we continued to face global challenges, 
including poverty, access to education, digital 
inclusion, racial and social injustice, the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic and the environmental, social 
and economic impacts of climate change. That’s 
why it’s more important than ever to embrace 
the tremendous technology opportunity before 
us and provide innovative solutions to society’s 
biggest challenges. 
At Qualcomm, we continue our long history of 
philanthropic and community involvement when 
and where it’s needed the most. 
We’re building on our legacy of sustainable 
innovation and using our technologies to enrich 
underserved communities and inspire tomorrow’s 
workforce. In 2021, we celebrated 15 years of 
strategic corporate social impact programs, 
including Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™ and our 
partnership with FIRST®. 
Bringing advanced wireless technologies to people 
and communities who need it most, Wireless Reach 
has impacted more than 24 million people, with 
over 132 projects across 49 countries—a testament 
to how our leading-edge innovations can accelerate 
sustainable and inclusive development across 
the globe. Our long-standing collaboration with FIRST has 
actively contributed to the development of science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
programs for thousands of young people around 
the world, engaged hundreds of our employees and 
brought talent into our workforce pipeline and the 
ecosystem at large, enabling the students of today 
become the inventors of tomorrow. 
We also pledged to help India—where so many 
of our fellow employees and friends call home—
fight the pandemic through critical hospital 
infrastructure, medical equipment and supplies. 
I am especially proud of our employees for their 
steadfast dedication, whether working from 
home or supporting the continuity of our business 
operations onsite. Our accomplishments are the 
result of a world-class organization of innovators 
who are collaborative, resilient and focused on 
the future. Your health and safety remain our 
top priority. 
We continue to foster diverse, inclusive teams and 
ensure our programs and policies promote diversity, 
equity and inclusion. In 2021, we published our 
Global Inclusion and Diversity Policy and publicly 
confirmed that worldwide, we provide equitable pay 
to our employees. We also introduced the Racial 
Justice Giving Initiative to listen more and involve 
our employees in our support of organizations 
driving systemic change in racial justice and equity 
in the U.S. We are proud to be named on Forbes’ 
Best-In-State Employer and Best Employers 
for Diversity lists, Human Rights Campaign’s 
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality list and 
Glassdoor’s Best Places to Work list, among 
others, recognizing that our efforts are having 
a tangible impact. At Qualcomm, we believe we can help address 
the environmental, social and economic impacts 
of climate change by working together across 
numerous sectors of society. We set new, ambitious 
climate goals, including reaching net-zero global 
greenhouse gas emissions for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 
2040 and committed to the Science Based T argets 
initiative’s (SBTi) Business Ambition for 1.5°C. 
With this report, we also mark 15 years of annual 
corporate responsibility reporting and are proud to 
be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North 
America Index, which is comprised of companies 
that are leading in ESG performance and disclosure, 
and to be ranked among Newsweek’s list of 
America’s Most Responsible Companies for the 
third consecutive year. 
We have what it takes to continue making the 
impossible possible—the best and most talented 
team in the industry, proven technology leadership 
with a strong heritage in wireless communications 
and high-performance, efficient computing and 
a relentless drive to make a positive difference in 
the world. We will continue to invest in our leading 
product and technology roadmap to empower 
people, transform communities and protect the 
planet for years to come. I am proud to serve as 
Qualcomm’s CEO and excited for the future ahead 
of us.
Cristiano Amon 
Chief Executive Officer
Message from Our CEO
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm4
About 
Qualcomm5
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm
Qualcomm* is the world’s leading wireless 
technology innovator and the driving force behind 
the development, launch and expansion of 5G.
When we connected the phone to the internet, the 
mobile revolution was born. T oday, our foundational 
technologies enable the mobile ecosystem and are 
found in every 3G, 4G and 5G smartphone. With 
our one technology roadmap we bring the benefits 
of mobile to new industries at the connected 
intelligent edge, including automotive, edge 
networking and the Internet of Things (Io T), and  
are leading the way to a world where everyone  
and everything is intelligently connected. 
Throughout our history, we’ve made the 
“impossible” possible. The expansion of 5G is just 
one example, inspiring new inventions that help 
enable our customers and partners to create 
technologies we’ve yet to imagine. When we break 
through, the ecosystem leaps forward and the world 
benefits by the competitive options that emerge.
Our products are revolutionizing industries beyond 
mobile, including automotive, computing and the Io T. 
They’re enabling connections between millions of 
devices in ways never imagined. Our inventions are 
helping create a renewed livelihood for many people 
and allowing us the honor of enriching lives. Our Qualcomm CDMA 
T echnologies (QCT) 
Production Model 
Other than for our RF front-end modules and RF 
filter products (described below), QCT utilizes a 
fabless model, which means that we do not own 
or operate foundries for the production of silicon 
wafers from which our integrated circuits are 
made. Therefore, we primarily rely on third parties 
to perform the manufacturing and assembly, 
and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits 
based primarily on our proprietary designs and 
test programs. Our suppliers are also responsible 
for the procurement of most of the raw materials 
used in the production of our integrated circuits. 
The majority of our foundry and semiconductor 
assembly and test suppliers are located in the  
Asia-Pacific region.
QCT primarily uses internal fabrication facilities to 
manufacture certain RF front-end modules and RF 
filter products, and its manufacturing operations 
consist of front-end and back-end processes. 
The front-end processes primarily take place at 
manufacturing facilities located in Germany and 
Singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate 
wafers with the structure and circuitry required 
for the products to function (also known as wafer 
fabrication). The back-end processes include the 
assembly, packaging and test of RF front-end 
modules and RF filter products and their preparation 
for distribution. The back-end manufacturing 
facilities are located in China and Singapore. Qualcomm CDMA T echnologies 
QCT is a leading developer and supplier 
of integrated circuits and system 
software based on 3G/4G/5G and other 
technologies for use in wireless voice 
and data communications, networking, 
computing, multimedia and global 
positioning systems products. 
 
Other revenues included revenues 
from non-reportable segments and the 
release of a variable constraint against 
revenues not previously allocated to our 
segment results. Revenue in Fiscal 2021
QCT
Other$27.0b
 Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives 
QSI makes strategic investments primarily 
through our Qualcomm Ventures arm that 
are focused on expanding or opening new 
opportunities for our technologies as well 
as supporting the design and introduction 
of new products and services (or enhancing 
existing products or services).QSI$45m Qualcomm T echnology Licensing 
QTL grants licenses or otherwise  
provides rights to use portions of our 
intellectual property (IP) portfolio.QTL$6.3b
$182mAbout Qualcomm
* References in this presentation to “Qualcomm” may mean Qualcomm Incorporated, Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc., and/or other subsidiaries or business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable. Qualcomm Incorporated includes our licensing business, QTL, and the vast majority of our patent portfolio. 
Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, along with its subsidiaries, substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, and substantially all of our products and services businesses, including our QCT semiconductor business.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm6
Qualcomm for Good is our commitment to being a 
responsible corporate citizen. It’s about integrating 
sustainability into our business and using our 
breakthrough technologies to make the world 
a better place. 
The success of our business is fundamentally 
connected to the well-being of our people, the 
planet and the world. As we push what’s possible 
and relentlessly ask “What if?” , we work to ensure Our priorities include four areas where we believe 
we can make the greatest impact and ensure the 
long-term success of our business.
Purposeful Innovation: We invent breakthrough 
technologies that enable life-changing products 
and experiences.
Responsible Business: We uphold the highest level 
of integrity and privacy protection with responsibly 
designed products, respect for human rights and 
managing environmental impact.
Our People: We promote equality to make 
Qualcomm an inspiring and inclusive workplace that advances the development of 
leading-edge technologies.
STEM Education: We inspire the next generation 
of innovators to develop the workforce in 
STEM-based careers.
These corporate responsibility priorities integrate 
our key focus areas: Purposeful Innovation, Inclusion 
and Diversity, Ethics and Governance, Sustainable 
Product Design, Privacy and Security and Public 
Policy and Regulation.Qualcomm for Good
that our innovations are helping shape a better 
future while also positioning our Company for 
sustained commercial success. 
The world is becoming increasingly connected. 
We have an unprecedented opportunity to build 
on our legacy of sustainable innovation and use 
our breakthrough technologies to tackle global 
challenges, inspire tomorrow’s workforce and  
make a positive difference for decades to come.7
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm
Everyone is responsible for Corporate Responsibility 
at Qualcomm. We’ve integrated corporate 
responsibility throughout our Company, from  
our daily operations to our executive leadership  
and our Board of Directors (the “Board”). 
Our governance structure exists to facilitate 
accountability, transparency and the ongoing 
improvement of our programs.
The Governance Committee of the Board 
provides oversight on corporate responsibility 
matters, including ESG topics. Also, the HR 
and Compensation Committee of the Board 
provides guidance to management on policies, 
programs and initiatives focusing on diversity 
and inclusion. Our Corporate Responsibility 
Leadership Committee reports at least annually 
on the Company’s corporate responsibility and 
ESG policies, programs, initiatives and reporting 
to the Governance Committee of the Board. Our 
Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee is 
composed of executives and senior management 
from across the Company, including human 
resources, legal, government affairs, supply 
chain, ethics and compliance, investor relations, 
operations and finance. Our Leadership Committee 
provides guidance on global corporate responsibility 
issues that are most important to Qualcomm and 
our key stakeholders so that corporate responsibility 
remains a central and visible component of our 
business strategy. Our Corporate  
Responsibility Governance
Our Corporate Responsibility Governance 
Committee implements directives from the 
Leadership Committee into company-wide 
programs, measures progress on our goals and 
reports accomplishments and challenges. This 
Committee includes managers and other subject-
matter experts from across our Company such 
as investor relations, supply chain management, 
inclusion and diversity, STEM education, 
environmental sustainability, health and safety  
and legal, among others.Diversity of our Board of Directors 
Our Board values insights brought through a broad range of perspectives, including diversity 
in professional experience and competencies, and diversity in gender and racial, ethnic 
and national backgrounds. Our Board will continue to contribute extensive financial, digital 
transformation, technology, marketing and international expertise among others, as well 
as fresh perspectives, to our boardroom.
The Governance Committee of the Board is responsible for reviewing the appropriate 
skills and characteristics required of Board members in the context of prevailing business 
conditions and the composition of the Board. Diversity with respect to gender, race and 
ethnicity, including individuals from underrepresented communities, is one of the criteria 
considered in the selection of director nominees. Additionally, as part of its efforts to create 
a diverse Board, the Governance Committee will include, and instruct any search firm it 
engages to include, women and individuals from underrepresented communities, in the 
pool of candidates from which the Governance Committee selects director nominees. 
Recognizing that Board composition may be affected by departures, including from 
unexpected circumstances, in 2021, the Board added a new composition target: Board of Directors
Governance Committee
Corporate Responsibility 
 Leadership Committee
Corporate Responsibility 
Governance Committee“The Board aspires to maintain a diverse composition in which, 
generally, at least three of its members are women and at least  
three of its members are from underrepresented communities. ”2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm8
Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement 
Stakeholder How We Engage Examples of Engagement in 2021
Communities  
(including  
Civil Society  
and NGOs)• Corporate citizenship partnerships and programs
• Qualcomm Foundation and philanthropic events, 
including employee volunteering
• Corporate website and social media 
• Participation in conferences and forums
• Strategic engagement and consultation on  
specific issue areas
• Neighbor relations officers at our three 
manufacturing facilities Launched the COVID-19 Community Relief Fund 
Developed a virtual employee volunteering portal to help employees safely continue  
to be active in their communities
Held a Racial Justice Giving Initiative for NGOs and non-profits across the U.S. 
Sponsored research in partnership with students and educators and  
promoted invention, IP and patent development through our Qualcomm®  
Thinkabit Lab™ program
Convened a roundtable with local stakeholders on the co-location plan for our  
multi-use space in a local Munich neighborhood
Customers • Business unit direct engagement and meetings
• Customer satisfaction surveys 
• Participation in conferences, customer product 
launches and trade shows
• Product launch events Hosted Automotive Redefined: T echnology Showcase, a digital event showcasing  
the very latest advances and trends in connected car technology
Met with customers to confirm that we are addressing customer needs and challenges
Reached out via surveys to over 1,250 respondents in companies across 28 countries  
to gain customer insights and feedback
President and CEO Cristiano Amon gave a powerful keynote speech on 5G’s impact on 
society in the coming decade at the 2021 Mobile World Congress
Employees • Employee engagement surveys 
• Quarterly All Hands Meeting with executives, 
including a live Q&A session
• Human Resources (HR) Hub portal
• Employee Networks
• Business Conduct HotlineSought input, through employee surveys, from every employee at least once during 
the year
Introduced the Work+Well, Live+Well program to provide practical tools in support of 
work from home and work-life balance
Provided professional development through mentorship programs and educational 
training opportunities
Integrated employee perspective in our fourth materiality assessment to guide our 
related activities and reporting
Supported the growth of our eight employee networks, promoting the professional 
growth of our employees and fostering inclusion and diversity at QualcommConversations with our key stakeholders 
are essential to assuring that our corporate 
responsibility strategy, priorities and efforts  
align with the current needs of our business and 
meet the expectations of the people, organizations 
and communities that have an interest in our 
Company. Our primary stakeholder groups are 
our employees, investors, customers, suppliers, 
governments and communities where we operate, 
including civil society and non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs). 
We are committed to transparency in our 
engagements with stakeholders to develop  
trusted and constructive relationships. We 
consistently seek ways to better communicate  
and obtain feedback on a variety of topics.
The following chart is meant to provide illustrative, 
not exhaustive, examples of our stakeholder 
engagement practices and topics in 2021.9
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm
Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement (continued)
Stakeholder How We Engage Examples of Engagement in 2021
Governments 
and Regulators• Meetings with elected officials, heads of state  
and relevant policy-influencers
• Leadership in trade associations and  
industry groups
• Attendance and presentations at forums  
and conferences
• Participation in U.S. government  
educational hearings Provided expert testimony at a congressional hearing of the U.S. House 
Communications & T echnology Subcommittee on spectrum and 5G adoption
Commissioned research from the Institute for Women’s Policy Research on how to 
overcome the gender and racial patenting gap to drive innovation
Organized 5G technical trainings in collaboration with the US T elecommunications 
T raining Institute (USTTI) catering to regulators from Africa and the Middle East 
Actively participated in multiple international organizations, such as the 
International T elecommunication Union (ITU), World Economic Forum and 
World Semiconductor Council
Maintained CEO-level leadership position in the Semiconductor Industry of America  
and The Business Roundtable, among others
Investors and  
Shareholders• Annual Stockholder Meetings
• One-to-one meetings on specific topics
• Responding to surveys from ESG research  
and rating agencies 
• Quarterly earnings conference callsConducted individual outreach to our top investors by offering meetings to discuss  
our performance, including on ESG issues, with an integrated team composed of  
Chair of the Board, Chair of the HR and Compensation Committee, and a member  
of our management team
Completed an Investor Perception Audit to better understand investor ESG priorities 
and preferences on how we communicate our progress
Engaged in discussions with several investors specifically on our performance  
and approach to ESG management
Suppliers • Supply Chain team direct engagement through 
various means (meetings, email, etc.)
• Surveys
• Webinars, workshops and trainings
• Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) analysis tools 
• RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audits
• Supplier Code of Conduct
• Business Conduct Hotline Held quarterly quality review meetings with primary manufacturing suppliers, covering 
a range of topics including supplier sustainability 
Engaged directly with a supplier who had an environmental priority non-conformance 
identified during an RBA VAP audit to discuss the root cause and ensure thorough and 
prompt corrective action
Continued our support of the Qualcomm T aiwan Sustainability Collaboration Project  
to promote renewable energy development across the semiconductor supply chain
Maintained our Supplier Diversity Program, which promotes participation of small  
and diverse businesses when sourcing suppliers, including minority, disadvantaged, 
woman-owned, veteran-owned, disabled-owned, businesses situated in a HUBZone, 
and all other related socio-economic subsetsIn addition to meetings, perception surveys and 
other direct and indirect engagement practices, 
we have several online channels that provide 
opportunities for different stakeholders to provide 
us with valuable and ongoing input about our 
corporate responsibility efforts. 
Our corporate responsibility webpage provides 
additional information not found in this annual 
report and allows all external stakeholders to 
ask direct questions of our team. We respond 
to messages on a wide range of issues related 
to our corporate responsibility strategy 
and overall performance. You can reach us 
at qsr@qualcomm.com.
We also receive and respond to messages and 
feedback through our social media channels.  
Follow @QualcommforGood on:
      Twitter          LinkedIn          Facebook          Instagram
Stakeholder Engagement Through 
Materiality Assessments 
We regularly engage expert, third-party firms  
to conduct materiality assessments, which  
identify and prioritize the corporate responsibility  
impacts, risks and opportunities we address to  
help ensure long-term business success. As part  
of the materiality assessment process, Qualcomm 
systematically engages stakeholders through 
interviews and surveys to capture a wide range of 
perspectives. Recognizing that stakeholder priorities 
shift over time, we closely monitor our top issues for 
emerging developments and adjust reporting and 
programmatic efforts accordingly. 2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm10
2025 GoalsOur Goals
* Leadership is defined as individuals at the Principal and above level in technical roles, and Director and above in non-technical roles.
** For technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Native American. For non-technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, American Indian or Native American, and Asian.
*** Given equivalent features.
Snapdragon is a product of Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.2030 and 2040 GoalsEnrich the lives of 27 million people 
by continuing to bring technology 
to underserved communities 
around the world through 
Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™.Ensure 100% of our primary 
semiconductor manufacturing 
suppliers are audited every 
2 years for conformance to the 
Supplier Code of Conduct.Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
emissions by 30% from our global 
operations compared to a 2014 
base year.
Continue to inspire the next 
generation of inventors by 
engaging 1.5 million students 
and teachers across the globe 
in our strategic STEM initiatives: 
our home-grown Qualcomm® 
Thinkabit Lab™, our collaboration 
with FIRST®, and our STEM 
community partnerships.Increase Representation of Women  
in Leadership* by 15%.
Increase Underrepresented Minorities 
(URM**) Leadership representation  
by 15%.
Increase overall URM representation  
by 20%.Reduce power consumption 
by 10%, every year*** , in our 
flagship Snapdragon® Mobile 
Platform products.
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 
from a 2020 base year.Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG 
emissions by 25% by 2030 from a 
2020 base year.Reach net-zero global GHG 
emissions for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 
by 2040.11
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About Qualcomm
Our Awards and Recognitions
• 3BL Media 100 Best Corporate Citizens: 2021
•  Newsweek, America’s Most Responsible Companies: 2022, 2021, 2020
• Fortune, Change the World List: 2020, 2019
• Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index: 2021
•  Disability:In, Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion: 2020, 2019
•  Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), North America: 2021, 2019
• Fast Company, Most Innovative Companies: 2021, 2020, 2019
• Forbes, Global 2000: 2020, 2019
• Forbes, World’s Best Employers: 2020, 2019
• Forbes, T op 100 Digital Companies: 2020, 2019
• Forbes, America’s Best Employers: 2020, 2019
• Forbes, America’s Best Employers for Diversity: 2021, 2020, 2019
• Forbes, America’s Best-In-State Employers: 2021
• Glassdoor, Best Places to Work: 2022, 2021
• Investor’s Business Daily, Best ESG Companies: 2021
• Io T Breakthrough Awards: 2021
• Women Engineer Magazine, T op 50 Employers: 2021, 2020, 2019 
•  Working Mother & Avtar Best Companies for Women in India &  
Most Inclusive Companies Index: 2020, 2019
• Fortune, World’s Most Admired Companies: 2020, 2019
• FierceWireless, Rising Stars in Wireless: 2020, 2019• Derwent, T op 100 Global Innovators: 2020, 2019
•  Athena San Diego, Pinnacle Awards, Individual in T echnology: 2020, 2019
•  National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE),  
Chairman Award Diversity and Inclusion: 2020, 2019
• CES, Innovation Awards: 2021, 2019
• T elecomLead, Innovation Leaders Award: 2020
• Thomson Reuters, T op 100 Global T echnology Leaders: 2020
•  Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), Star Award for Diversity: 2020
• San Diego Women of Influence Award: 2020
• Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award: 2020
•  San Diego Business Journal, Most Influential Women in Finance: 2020
•  GSMA, Global Mobile (GLOMO) Awards, Disruptive Device Innovation award: 2020
• Mobility 100, 30 Coolest Mobile Hardware Companies: 2019
• Forbes, World’s Most Innovative Companies: 2019
• GSMA, GLOMO Awards, 5G Leadership Award: 2019
• Compass, Intelligence Award: 2019
• Women in T echnology Leadership Awards: 2019
•  Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE),  
Women in Engineering Award: 2019
• San Diego Business Journal, CEO of the Y ear: 2019
• LinkedIn, T op Companies Where India Wants to Work Now: 2019The following are select awards and recognitions that we have received during the last three years (2021-2019).
In a time when our breakthrough 
technologies are the foundation for  
life-changing products, experiences 
and industries, we believe we have a 
significant opportunity to positively 
change the world. But how we do this 
is what truly defines us. Qualcomm 
has a long-standing reputation for 
conducting business with unquestioned 
integrity, being a great place to work, 
developing solutions for a sustainable 
world and much more. The awards 
and recognitions we obtain reflect our 
steadfast commitment to continue to 
advance on our path to achieving our 
2030 Vision.12
 2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments
Key  
Accomplishments
What follows is a summary of the progress we made during 
fiscal year 2021 on our corporate responsibility priorities, as 
well as key accomplishments toward achieving our goals.13
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Purposeful Innovation
Purposeful Innovation
Inventing technological breakthroughs that are taking on some of 
the world’s biggest challenges.
We invent foundational technologies that 
transform how the world connects, computes 
and communicates. With a long-standing R&D 
focus, $73.1 billion in cumulative research and 
development spend, over 140,000 patents and 
patent applications, and more than 35 years 
of innovation in chipsets, software, services 
and integrated platform solutions, we create 
foundational technologies that revolutionize 
the way people connect. 
We design platforms, tools and services that help 
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and 
developers bring those technologies into products 
and create experiences that change the way we live 
and work. And we do this at scale – empowering 
technologically advanced, in-demand end products 
across a range of industries – from automotive to 
healthcare, from smart classrooms to smartphones 
to smart cities, and everything in between.
These breakthroughs have profound impacts –  
from helping bring healthcare directly to the patient 
and making education more accessible, even for those living in remote areas, to helping improve 
global infrastructure so our cities, transportation 
hubs and factories can work smarter and more 
efficiently – greater connectivity benefits the  
greater good. 
Transforming Connectivity
We believe that 5G is the connectivity fabric that 
will weave everything and everyone together. 5G 
will generate significant economic growth and 
resilience, drive numerous industry transformations 
and sustainability benefits through digitization, and 
ultimately enrich lives across the globe. 
5G’s outsized overall impact is predicated on its 
revolutionary technical capabilities, which include 
three major advances over previous generations of 
cellular connectivity. The first is enhanced mobile 
broadband. It makes our smartphones faster, more 
reliable, and enables applications like augmented 
reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR). Next are  
mission-critical services such as automated vehicles 
or remote intensive care units that utilize the In This Section:
Transforming Connectivity – How Our T echnologies Enable  
Sustainability Benefits
• Economic Benefits of 5G
• Sustainability Benefits of 5G
Transforming Industries – How Our T echnologies are Revolutionizing  
Entire Industries 
• Smart T ransportation
• Smart Cities
• Smart Agriculture
• Smart Healthcare
Transforming Education – How Our T echnologies are Making Education  
More Accessible 
• Remote Education
• Bridging Divides 
Wireless Reach has impacted a cumulative 24 million people, with over 132 projects 
across 49 countries. 5G’s full economic effect will likely be realized across the globe in 2035 –  
supporting a wide range of industries and potentially enabling up to $13.1 trillion  
in global sales activity.1
1  The 5G Economy in a Post-COVID-19 Era2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Purposeful Innovation14
improved reliability and low latency of 5G for remote 
control of critical infrastructure, vehicles and medical 
equipment. And, finally, we’re using 5G innovation 
to enable massive Internet of Things (mIo T) that 
seamlessly connects virtually everything from smart 
home devices to smart cities. Best of all, a defining 
capability of 5G is that it is designed for forward 
compatibility – the ability to flexibly support future 
services that are unknown today. Despite the global economic turmoil caused by 
COVID-19, technological innovation is contributing 
to a timely economic recovery and we believe will 
continue to drive prosperity in a post pandemic era. 
5G is vital to this evolution. 
According to the landmark 5G Economy study 
published by IHS Markit, 5G’s full economic 
effect will likely be realized across the globe in 
2035 – supporting a wide range of industries and 
potentially enabling up to $13.1 trillion in global  
sales activity.1
The study also revealed that the 5G value chain 
(including OEMs, operators, content creators, app 
developers and consumers) could alone support up 
to 22.8 million jobs. And, because there are many 
emerging and new applications that will still be 
defined in the future, only time will tell what the 
full “5G effect” on the economy is going to be.
Furthermore, mobile technologies at large deliver 
sustainability benefits. 5G networks are more 
energy efficient per traffic unit than 4G networks, 
helping reduce carbon emissions from mobile 
networks by 50% over the next 10 years.2 For 
instance, network architectures with centralized 
functions (e.g., via open RAN technology) allow 
locating the network functions at centralized sites 
with easier access to renewable energy sources, as 
well as better resource multiplexing/pooling. 5G can 
also help to reduce pollution. For example, a 5G 
drone using artificial learning and machine learning 
to perform targeted weed eradication can reduce 
pesticide and herbicide usage by 50%.3 And a 5G enabled intelligent transportation system can lead 
to 15% less traffic and as a result pollution emitted 
by vehicles.4
Because 5G enabled devices are developed to 
have a longer battery lifetime compared to previous 
technologies, they contribute to increases in 
energy efficiency and productivity, which not only 
delivers sustainability benefits, but cost benefits 
too. In agriculture, 5G sensors equipped with long 
battery life and the ability to connect remote 
locations can monitor many types of equipment 
and conditions such as, tank levels, soil moisture 
and chemical content. This can then reduce truck 
roll expense related to replenishment and can 
optimize schedules for watering and the application 
of fertilizer.5
Nowhere is this better demonstrated than in our 
Snapdragon Mobile Platform – one of the more 
widely used in the world. Between Snapdragon 
850, 855 and 860 generations, we improved 
the modem’s power efficiency by 20% with each 
iteration, more than overcoming the jump in power 
demanded by the underlying radio technology. The 
efficiency and power-savings advances in each 
processor functional block add up to considerable 
potential battery run time savings: 
• Connectivity – Smartphones powered by 
Snapdragon are always connected6 while 
minimizing power consumption. In any given 
smartphone powered by Snapdragon, there 
are various Qualcomm T echnologies wireless 
solutions designed to allow you to access the internet, your Internet of Things (Io T) devices 
at home, GPS, and other devices. That means 
a single Snapdragon platform can deliver 
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth®, location, and of course, 5G 
connectivity – in most cases, all day long.7 
What’s more impressive is that we’ve been able 
to scale throughput speeds and technological 
advances (i.e., 3G, 4G and now 5G) with minimal 
negative impacts to battery life. 
At the heart of our latest Snapdragon connectivity 
solutions is the 5G Modem-RF System. We are in 
our 4th generation 5G Modem-RF technology – 
after many years of inventing, standardizing and 
refining 5G technology. We have a comprehensive 
5G Modem-RF System in which baseband, RF 
transceiver, RF front-end and millimeter wave 
antenna modules work together to implement 
advanced techniques that not only are designed 
to deliver superior cellular speeds and coverage, 
but also cutting-edge power-efficiency so your 
battery can last an entire day. 
Also inside Snapdragon is the Qualcomm® 
FastConnect™ subsystem, supporting Wi-Fi 
and Bluetooth connectivity. With Wi-Fi, we’re 
embarking on speeds that are unprecedented 
and utilizing tri-band technology (Wi-Fi 6 and 6e) 
to free up network congestion. With the latest 
Bluetooth 5.2 specification, a Snapdragon device 
can connect to the many accessories people carry 
with them (smartwatch, earbuds, headphones, 
etc.) quickly and provide long-lasting battery life.
1 The 5G Economy in a Post-COVID-19 Era
2 The Impact of 5G on the European Economy
3   Croplife International Stewardship Guidance for use of Unmanned Ariel Vehicles (UAVs) for Application of Crop Protection Products 
4 Alibaba Cloud: ‘City Brain’ Lowers Traffic Congestion Rate by 15% in Sichuan Province 5  O2 reveals vision for a greener, connected future: 5G to play key role in building a greener economy 
6 Requires network connectivity
7  Battery life varies significantly with settings, usage, and other factors.
15
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Purposeful Innovation
8 IDC Mobile Phone T racker, 1Q2019  
9  Support study for impact assessment of cooperative intelligent transport systems
Qualcomm Adreno, Qualcomm AI Engine and Qualcomm C-V2X are products of Qualcomm T echnologies Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.• Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) – Qualcomm® 
Adreno™ GPU is one of the most power-efficient 
graphics IPs in the mobile industry. This year, our 
Adreno GPU achieved the biggest year-on-year  
leap in graphics-rendering performance 
with a 35% improvement in performance 
while focusing on sustainable and usable 
performance, and adding new cutting-edge 
features. T o date, we’ve shipped over 2.5 billion 
Adreno GPUs and have powered a new breed 
of gaming smartphones.
• Artificial Intelligence (AI) – AI augments many 
smartphone capabilities, operating behind the 
scenes to make your experiences natural and 
virtually seamless. It recognizes your voice and 
fingerprint to unlock your device. It helps you 
take better pictures and select the best one. 
It helps you to message faster by predicting 
your next words. It translates text and audio 
to different languages in real time for smooth 
communication. In short, AI has become an 
important feature over the years for smartphones, 
and the need for additional AI processing that 
consumes less energy is growing. 
We invested early in AI R&D, and today, our  
AI technology enables more than one and a half 
billion devices.8 Our system approach allows us to 
zero in on energy efficiency here too, by optimizing 
across AI hardware, software and algorithms to 
help reduce power consumption. Currently, we’re 
on our 8th generation Qualcomm® AI Engine, 
which offers the highest TOPS performance on 
mobile at ultra-low power consumption. With AI 
processing demands rapidly increasing, we’re 
relentlessly rethinking the way AI workloads 
can achieve higher performance without 
sacrificing power.Transforming Industries
The need for connectivity in every facet of society 
has never been more pressing than it is right now. 
More than just imagining new possibilities, people 
all over the world are now working beyond the  
office, learning beyond the classroom and 
experiencing healthcare beyond the traditional 
doctor’s office or clinic.
Smart Transportation
Designed specifically for transportation, Qualcomm® 
Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (C-V2X) solutions, 
which include vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V), vehicle-to-
infrastructure (V2I), vehicle-to-pedestrian (V2P) 
and vehicle-to-network (V2N) communication, 
can complement use of 5G networks and provide 
short-range connectivity for low-latency, safety-
critical and mobility-benefiting applications. 
T ogether, these communications technologies can 
reshape the transportation sector by decreasing 
road incidents for safer travel and improving traffic 
efficiency for lower greenhouse gas emissions. 
Many within the automotive industry believe that 
the widespread use of C-V2X could potentially 
save thousands of lives and prevent hundreds of 
thousands of collisions every year by supporting 
safety applications for drivers, pedestrians, cyclists 
and roadway workers. For example, Red Light 
Violation Warnings (RLWV) that notify drivers when 
their vehicle is likely to run a red light have been 
shown to reduce fatalities and injuries on urban 
roads by 3.8% and 7.0%, respectively.9
Additionally, crashes and other non-recurring 
incidents account for about half the congestion 
problem in some parts of the world. Hence, there 
is a direct line between safety and sustainability. 
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Purposeful Innovation16
Once vehicles are connected to everything around 
them, transportation systems may be able to 
support new services that could help improve 
trip planning, mode choices and traffic efficiency 
– enhancements that can lower emissions and 
reduce fuel consumption, for example:
• Dynamic route planning for better decision 
making in situations where traffic congestion 
can be avoided
• Real-time sharing of local data between 
infrastructure and vehicles (for instance,  
HD maps) to improve traffic flow and parking 
for a more efficient journey
• Smart traffic management systems that  
use sensor data and modeling to manage 
real-world traffic and mitigate congestion
• Sensor data sharing between vehicles  
and the infrastructure for more predictable 
and coordinated driving while enhancing  
road safety
Making cities and regions more sustainable will take 
more than just smarter, more efficient transportation 
systems, it will also require connected mobility 
solutions that support more informed, personalized 
travel options. Whether it’s a business operating 
freight trucks during off-peak hours or an individual 
choosing an alternate route to shorten travel 
times, services that come from connected, 
digitized transportation systems can inform better 
choices that can lead to even greater reductions 
in emissions and energy usage. In an environment 
where all road users and traffic management 
systems are connected, every use case that helps to 
improve efficiency is an incremental step toward a 
more sustainable future.Smart Cities
Designed specifically for logistics, construction 
and smart city spaces, Qualcomm® Smart Cities 
Accelerator Program and Qualcomm® Io T Services 
Suite enable ecosystem members to create and 
deploy smart applications in these verticals. Smart 
Cities and Spaces as-a-Service can deliver solutions 
for smart lighting, signage, parking and more for 
the accelerated development of smart cities and 
smart spaces. Construction Management as-a-
Service prioritizes construction safety and digital management of construction sites, focusing on 
worker safety. Logistics as-a-Service enables digital, 
end-to-end logistical chain management from teams 
to inventory. 
T o exemplify our Smart Cities Io T as-a-Service, 
we launched the Qualcomm Smart Campus in 
San Diego, which exhibits a real-life use case of 
commercially available, end-to-end solutions. 
Replicating a city environment in a campus, the 
Qualcomm Smart Campus includes a 5G network 
and a variety of intelligent capabilities, including smart parking, lighting, transportation, logistics, 
trash cans and edge-AI cameras for security. 
The Qualcomm Smart Campus is equipped with 
intuitive end-user applications and corresponding 
command and control center that serves as the 
“nerve center” of the campus, providing complete 
operational visibility across entire networks of 
connected sensors and Io T devices in real-time – 
viewable from a comprehensive dashboard. These 
solutions can be reimagined and replicated across 
multiple industries to address challenges and needs 
for particular spaces and communities.
Qualcomm Smart Cities Accelerator Program is a program of Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries. Qualcomm Io T Services Suite is a product of Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.17
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Purposeful Innovation
Smart Agriculture
At Qualcomm, we collaborate with NGOs, 
governments and other public and private 
organizations to demonstrate how mobile 
technology can improve social and economic 
development in underserved regions. We support 
smart agriculture programs that showcase the 
power of technology to help end hunger, improve 
food security and nutrition, promote sustainability 
and improve livelihoods.The agricultural industry is central to China’s poverty 
elimination efforts and its rural revitalization strategy. 
As part of our ongoing support of these strategic 
initiatives, Wireless Reach is collaborating with the 
China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) on 
a smart agriculture program. We’re bringing together 
Io T, mobile internet and cloud computing technology 
to help traditional agricultural cooperatives compete 
in the digital age, which is intended to drive industrial 
and rural revitalization in four impoverished counties.The intelligent system uses sensors and other 
equipment powered by our technology to monitor, 
collect and analyze farm-specific data that farmers 
can use to inform their production and quality 
control decisions. Cooperative associations and 
farmers can access the data through a mobile app. 
Having accurate, precise, real-time data about air 
temperature, humidity, soil quality and insects at 
their farms helps farmers determine the best times 
to plant and harvest and how to irrigate and fertilize 
more efficiently. The expected results: increased 
crop yields, reduced environmental impact and 
income growth for farmers and agricultural 
cooperatives. As of April 2021, the smart system has 
been deployed at a mango farm and red rice field in 
two rural counties.
The 5,000 farmers who are projected to participate 
in this program will also be provided with training 
to improve their skills in e-commerce operations, 
marketing and promotion, brand building and 
supply chain management.
Similarly, farmers in India are using the Wireless 
Reach funded FarmPrecise mobile app to improve 
various aspects of their farming operations, help 
reduce risks to their crops related to climate change 
and weather uncertainty and increase their 
incomes. Developed by Watershed Organisation 
Trust (WOTR), this mobile app empowers farmers 
with personalized information for making decisions 
that are appropriate, timely and beneficial for their 
specific farm, crops, business and the environment. 
The objective of the mobile app is to help reduce 
costs, increase crop yield, mitigate risks from erratic 
weather and promote farming practices for long 
term environment and livelihood sustainability.
Farmers enter information about their crops, soil 
and sowing dates into FarmPrecise. The app 
then uses that information to generate advisories 
tailored to each farmer’s crops and farm-specific 
conditions. Advisories provide guidance for good field management and environmentally friendly 
practices from irrigation to pest management 
to which fertilizers to use and recommended 
doses. FarmPrecise provides five-day weather 
forecasts to help farmers plan, and it responds 
to changes in weather conditions with updated 
weather-based advisories. 
Among the app’s most popular features are a diary 
for accurately tracking income and expenses, a 
community forum to ask questions and commodity 
prices from various agricultural markets that enable 
the farmer to decide when to sell their produce to 
obtain the best price. The user-friendly features are 
driving engagement and usage has increased over 
two-fold in a year.
FarmPrecise is currently deployed in three states 
in India — Maharashtra, T elangana and Madhya 
Pradesh — is available in four languages, provides 
advisories for 25 different crops and has been 
downloaded more than 48,000 times.
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Purposeful Innovation18
Smart Healthcare
At Qualcomm, we invented the foundational 
technologies that makes connected healthcare, 
in all its forms, possible. T o power the exponential 
growth of telehealth and telemedicine, Qualcomm 
Connected Healthcare collaborates with industry-
leading healthcare companies to innovate and 
develop scalable end-to-end technologies for a 
variety of healthcare services in order to enhance 
virtual interaction across the medical infrastructure. 
This collaborative approach helps to break 
down barriers by making it more cost effective 
for hospitals and care providers to implement a 
connected health solution. Our technology solutions feature advanced connectivity, low-power compute 
capabilities, the flexibility to implement a variety of 
AI use cases, as well as the ability to utilize input 
technology in camera/video applications and voice/
audio technologies. 
Our products are integrated in healthcare solutions 
such as remote patient monitoring and medication 
monitoring, chronic disease management, prevention 
and wellness, aging in place, connected imaging, 
patient re-admission management, at-home 
medical and tele ICU. 
Also, security-rich 5G connectivity can empower 
doctors and healthcare providers to do more for their patients remotely than has ever been 
possible. The use of 5G connectivity to diagnose 
and treat people who need care remotely can have 
tremendous impacts on access to health care and 
help narrow the urban-rural divide. 
Within the healthcare space, our technology is 
also used to provide a reliable solution for the safe 
and timely delivery of vaccines in low- and middle-
income countries. The COVID-19 pandemic has 
shed light on important cold chain management 
requirements for vaccines, previously mostly known 
only to the scientific community. Most vaccines 
must be continuously stored at cold temperatures 
to maintain their potency. Some COVID-19 vaccines 
have specific cold chain requirements, starting with 
the temperature of the storage unit at the vaccine 
manufacturing plant and extending all the way 
through transport and delivery, storage, handling 
at the provider facility and vaccination.
Developed through close collaboration between 
Nexleaf Analytics and VVDN T echnologies with 
additional expertise provided by Qualcomm 
engineers, ColdT race X is an innovative wireless 
solution designed to equip countries to monitor 
their cold chain systems effectively and protect 
the potency of life-saving vaccines. It provides a 
robust and affordable solution for governments to 
have real-time visibility into how their cold chain is 
performing. A widely cited WHO/UNICEF statement 
found 55% of cold chain equipment in low- and 
middle-income countries is poorly performing or 
non-functional.10 This innovation is particularly 
valuable now to safely distribute COVID-19 vaccines 
and for routine infant immunizations for diseases 
like measles, polio and pneumonia. 
ColdT race X uses temperature sensor nodes, 
Bluetooth and cellular technology to continuously 
monitor temperatures inside vaccine refrigerators 
and cold rooms, send SMS alerts when 
temperatures move out of the required range and collect high-quality data that can be used to 
remotely diagnose refrigeration problems, arrange 
for maintenance and verify repairs. The system’s 
base station offers battery life that lasts up to 
seven days, ensuring continuous operation in the 
event of a connectivity or power disruption and the 
ability to store data for several months. T raining is 
provided for cold chain handlers to ensure that they 
understand and can use the data and analytics 
generated by the system. Currently, data from 
several devices is being used in conversations 
around COVID-19 vaccine storage and logistics. 
Transforming Education
Another important sector that stands to benefit 
from the promises of the new generation of wireless 
technologies is education. The COVID-19 pandemic 
exposed the depth of a digital divide that’s long 
existed in education, put a halt to traditional 
classroom education and accelerated the urgency 
for equitable solutions. 
Many of these digital divide challenges evidenced 
during the COVID-19 pandemic arise from a lack 
of reliable access to broadband, especially in 
underserved or rural communities, resulting in 
impacts on students’ abilities to learn, communicate 
and develop the skills they need for future success. 
While these challenges are mounting, 5G is 
designed to directly address the root of the problem, 
and it’s Qualcomm 5G breakthroughs paving the 
way for transformation in education.
Remote learning rose to the challenge – making 
it possible to deliver quality education to students 
around the world. Through Qualcomm Smart 
Cities Accelerator Program, members can provide 
education as a service which allows school districts 
globally direct access to ecosystem members 
that work to enable smart classrooms and hybrid 
learning settings. We’re working with partners to 
10  WHO/UNICEF Joint Statement on Achieving immunization targets with the comprehensive effective vaccine management (EVM) framework.19
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Purposeful Innovation
offer interactive whiteboards and digital podiums 
designed for live collaboration, where teachers 
can work with students in the classroom and in a 
virtual environment – allowing the students the 
ability to easily annotate on the same whiteboard 
regardless of whether they are present in the 
classroom or connecting from their homes. These 
types of solutions also allow both students and 
teachers to engage in seamless collaboration and 
communication. Furthermore, it facilitates greater 
content management opportunities, a better  
digital experience and online training opportunities 
for educators. 
Through our accelerator program members’ 
service offering in the education space, we look 
at accelerating the Io T deployment for schools, 
universities and skills development for smart 
cities. T o address the digital divide in urban areas, 
cities can implement private 5G networks and Io T 
technologies to help bring connectivity to all parts 
of the city, while helping support costs through 
offering different revenue generating services. In today’s digital world, where nearly every career 
requires digital literacy, computers are still an 
unaffordable luxury for many children across 
the globe, particularly in rural areas. In Vietnam, 
Wireless Reach collaborated with The Dariu 
Foundation to bring educational laptops with 
mobile network connectivity to schools in Vietnam. 
More than 900 “Always On, Always Connected 
PCs” (ACPCs) powered by Snapdragon compute 
platforms were distributed to teachers and students 
at 30 schools in rural communities across five 
provinces. For the 2021-22 academic year, over 
700 additional ACPCs will be distributed to new 
schools in rural communities in the northern and 
central highland regions of Vietnam. The program 
has already equipped over 30,000 students with 
the foundational digital skills to succeed in online 
and blended learning environments. The program is 
also designed to help ensure continuity of learning 
whether students are at home or in the classroom.These ACPCs are equipped with mobile L TE 
capabilities to enable a continuous connection 
to the Internet. Pre-installed with a Microsoft 
Windows 10 operating system, they are ultra-thin 
and lightweight while offering fast performance, 
powerhouse multimedia capabilities and multi-
day battery life. These features make the devices 
extremely portable, enabling students to extend 
learning time outside the classroom and to access 
vital learning tools anytime and anywhere. 
The Dariu Foundation provides professional 
development for teachers and trains them to deliver 
in-class lessons that equip students with STEM 
skills, including coding, computer science and cyber robotics. Currently, students ages 9 to 15 are using 
the ACPCs in a computer lab format. A selected 
number of students are taking the devices home to 
work on collaborative coding assignments. 
The program reflects Qualcomm’s priorities as part 
of the Global Education Coalition. The coalition 
aims to meet the urgent and unprecedented need 
for education continuity considering school closures, 
caused by the shift to remote learning and the 
interruption of teaching and learning brought about 
by the COVID-19 pandemic.
20
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Responsible Business
Ambition for 1.5°C and the United Nations’ Race to 
Zero. Specifically, adding on to our existing 2025 
greenhouse gas reduction goal, we set three new 
ambitious, long-term targets:
T o reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 50% by 2030 from 2020 
base year
T o reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions 
by 25% by 2030 from 2020 base year
T o reach net-zero global operational GHG 
emissions for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2040
Balancing these ambitions while also growing 
a global company demands forward thinking. 
Our three-part emissions mitigation strategy 
to meet these targets includes transitioning 
to renewable energy top operational footprint 
regions via long term Power Purchase Agreements 
(PPAs), decarbonizing our operations through the 
replacement of high global warming potential 1
2
3We believe that the best breakthroughs are 
sustainable. That means we’re committed to 
creating products and managing our operations in 
ways that do not harm people or the environment. 
We uphold human rights in our operations, supply 
chain and communities; protect privacy and secure 
data; act ethically and respect our customers, 
business partners and each other; and responsibly 
participate in the political process.
Expanding our Environmental 
Commitments
We believe that climate change is a serious 
environmental, social and economic threat that 
calls for immediate and concerted action among all 
sectors of society. That’s why, in 2021, we expanded 
our commitment to reducing our operational 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our value chain 
and ensured our new targets were aligned to the 
latest climate science by committing to and joining 
the Science Based T argets Initiative’s Business Responsible Business
We work to protect people and the planet by sustaining the 
environment, safeguarding data, respecting human rights and  
acting with integrity.
In This Section:
Expanding our Environmental Commitments
• Net-zero and water commitments
Sustainable Product Design
• Supply chain management and sustainable manufacturing 
Data Protection, Privacy and Cybersecurity
• Privacy principles, data protection and cybersecurity
Human Rights 
• Due diligence and protecting human rights
Ethics and Compliance
• Enhancements to our Global Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and  
Anti-Corruption practices
Public Policy and Regulation
• Our policy positions and Invent T ogether initiative
Our Commitment to Net-Zero: 
Committed to the Science Based T argets initiative’s Business Ambition for 1.5°C with 
2040 net-zero and 2030 interim science-based emissions reduction targets.21
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Responsible Business
gases in our manufacturing processes and reducing 
natural gas usage at our San Diego, California 
headquarters, and a minimal amount of  
Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and carbon 
offsets for residual emissions. 
We’ve already begun implementing this strategy. 
In 2021, we signed a 10-year renewable energy 
agreement with Shell Energy North America (US), 
L.P . (Shell Energy). The deal provides for us to 
secure approximately 115,000 megawatt-hours 
of 100% renewable energy annually to power our 
headquarters campus in San Diego, reducing our 
Scope 2 GHG emissions.
Further, as part of our efforts to reduce our direct 
GHG emissions, we successfully completed the 
test phase of a Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor 
Deposition (PECVD) chamber clean project. The 
project, conducted at our German manufacturing 
facility, replaces high global warming potential 
gases used in our processes, such as sulfur 
hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3), 
with a Fluorine-based gas mixture that has a 
global warming potential of zero, thereby greatly 
reducing our direct Scope 1 GHG emissions. With 
the test phase complete, we plan to implement the 
gas replacement in all chamber clean processes 
at our German production site by the end of 2022.
While we have set longer-term goals, we are 
continuing to make progress on our path to 
achieving our 2025 GHG reduction goal. Through 
2021, we’ve reduced our Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by approximately 20%, and we achieved 
The Climate Registry’s (TCR) Climate Registered™ 
Platinum status for our annual verified GHG 
emissions reporting. 
As water sources around the world become 
increasingly stressed, we are acutely aware of  
 the need to treat water as the precious resource 
it is. Primary uses of water in our direct operations 
include: 1) employee use for sanitation and hygiene; 
2) industrial use in cooling towers and chilled 
water systems to provide air conditioning to office 
buildings, labs and data centers; 3) irrigation for 
drought resistant and other landscapes; and 
4) manufacturing processes. We prioritize regularly 
monitoring our water footprint, finding new ways  
of conserving water and achieving our water  
reduction goals. 
With the acquisition of RF360 Holdings 
Singapore Pte. Ltd. (RF360), which included three 
manufacturing facilities, we saw an increase in 
water withdrawals for the Company. In response, 
we conducted water audits at each manufacturing 
facility to improve our knowledge and map how 
water is used throughout the facilities. 
In our non-manufacturing facilities, we make our  
greatest gains in water conservation by using 
recycled water instead of potable water for  
irrigation and our cooling plant systems whenever  
possible. In fact, we decreased our freshwater 
dependency at our San Diego headquarters by  
58% from 2016 to 2021 by expanding our  
recycled water system. These improvements  
help reduce our dependency on potable water  
and increase resiliency in our operations. We are 
also implementing recycled water solutions at  
other facilities.
In our value chain, recycled water offers an 
important pathway for reducing water intensity 
in semiconductor manufacturing operations. A 
significant amount of water that our suppliers use in 
their operations is ultra-pure water (UPW), which is 
water that is thousands of times purer than drinking 
water. The primary use of UPW in manufacturing is 
for water cleaning, rinsing and surface conditioning.We expect our manufacturing suppliers to 
reduce water waste and to treat wastewater 
according to regulatory standards prior to any 
discharge or disposal. Because semiconductor 
processing is water intensive, we work closely 
with the suppliers that make our integrated circuit 
products to promote efficient water use. We ask 
our key semiconductor manufacturing suppliers to 
report their water use via the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) Water Disclosure Survey or the RBA 
Environmental Reporting Initiative and 100% of 
these suppliers have clear goals and/or programs 
for reducing water withdrawal.
Sustainable Product Design
We want our products to be distinguished not 
only by their capabilities but also by the care and 
attention we put into producing them. Because 
we primarily utilize a fabless production model, 
this means working closely with the foundry and 
assembly suppliers that manufacture our products 
to regularly assess risks and monitor performance. Regularly assessing and monitoring suppliers 
allows us to minimize potential harm to individuals, 
communities and the environment, as well as create 
more resilient supply chains.
Collaboration with our suppliers is augmented 
by our participation in the RBA. As a Full Member 
of the RBA, we require all our semiconductor 
manufacturing suppliers to adopt either the RBA 
Code of Conduct or a similar code. The RBA Code 
of Conduct, which serves as our Supplier Code of 
Conduct, and The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of 
Business Conduct, have been cornerstones of our 
commitment to the RBA and responsible supply 
chain management for many years. By leveraging 
RBA tools and resources to complement our supply 
chain management program, we can focus on 
driving our suppliers to conform to high standards 
in relation to labor issues, health and safety, the 
environment, ethics and management systems.
As part of our risk-based approach, we require all 
our semiconductor manufacturing suppliers to 
22
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Responsible Business
complete the RBA Self-Assessment Questionnaire 
(SAQ) at least annually. These SAQ results 
have indicated that 100% of our semiconductor 
manufacturing suppliers (representing the 
top 90% of total product-related spend) have 
all low-risk manufacturing facilities.
In addition to completing the SAQ, our suppliers 
also receive RBA Validated Assessment Program 
(VAP) audits and/or customer managed audits. 
We set a 2025 goal of ensuring 100% of our primary 
semiconductor manufacturing suppliers are audited 
by third-parties at least every two years. As of 2021, 
78% have received audits. Further, our supply chain 
management team maintains RBA Lead Auditor 
trained personnel who conduct on-site audits of 
selected suppliers for their adherence to our Supplier 
Code of Conduct and other corporate responsibility 
requirements, including product environmental 
governance and conflict minerals. 
For our three internal fabrication facilities, located 
in Germany, China and Singapore, our approach 
to due diligence includes audits, internationally 
certified management systems (ISO9001 quality 
management system, ISO45001 occupational 
health and safety management system, ISO14001 
environmental management system, and IATF 
16949:2016 automotive quality management 
system), and a robust code of practice to protect 
employees, contractors, visitors and communities. 
In 2021, our China facility successfully completed 
an RBA VAP audit and achieved the Platinum 
level recognition. VAP audits of our Germany and 
Singapore facilities are planned for 2022. 
Data Protection and Privacy
Privacy is a leading concern for people and 
governments around the world today. Qualcomm 
considers data protection and privacy to be critical 
not only for maintaining business continuity but also for upholding the trust that customers place 
in us when they purchase and use our products 
and services. 
Information collected from our devices helps 
improve our ability to invent better technologies, 
products and services. We believe that the 
collection of information should promote trust, 
respect individuals’ privacy and be based upon 
a foundation of responsible security and privacy 
practices. Our Qualcomm Privacy Policy provides 
information about how we collect, use, process and 
transfer personal data.
Our best-in-class product security features protect 
personal data, among other assets owned by 
multiple stakeholders, along the value chain of our 
products. The Qualcomm security mechanisms 
protect against adversaries attempting to access 
their targets through various means. For example, 
our Cellular Connection Security (CCS) solution 
protects against an attacker operating a faked 
cellular base station and our T rust Management 
Engine (TME) allows sensitive assets (users, 
OEM’s) to be protected in a fully isolated internal 
environment with strictly enforced access rules. The 
CCS and TME are just examples of various such 
Qualcomm security mechanisms aimed at raising 
the security bar and lowering the commercial 
viability of an attack.
We provide annual training on privacy and data 
protection to employees whose roles include the 
processing of personal data.
In 2021, we trained 3,180 targeted employees in our 
privacy training sessions. The sessions covered our 
relevant internal policies and procedures as well as 
topics such as lawful basis, transparency, privacy-
by-design, data subject rights, information security, 
contracting requirements, international data 
transfer restrictions, breach notice obligations  
and accountability. We provide all new employees with privacy and 
data protection awareness training as part of the 
new employee onboarding experience. In 2021, we 
also hosted a series of awareness-raising events on 
privacy and security for our employees, which we do 
each year as part of Data Privacy Day.
Our privacy team meets monthly with two 
committees to educate the Company on changes in 
privacy and data protection law and to coordinate 
the Company’s compliance program and training 
activities. Our Privacy Steering Committee is 
focused on customer and consumer privacy 
and data protection issues, and is comprised of 
relevant stakeholders from Engineering, Product 
Management, Marketing, Government Affairs, 
Public Relations and Legal. Separately, our Internal 
Privacy Committee is focused on employee privacy 
and data protection, and includes representatives 
from HR, IT, Payroll, Physical Security, Stock 
Administration and others.
We prioritize working with business partners and 
suppliers who view data protection and privacy 
as critical to their business. In 2021, we performed 
cybersecurity and privacy assessments for hundreds 
of our vendors and key suppliers based on risk and 
total spend.
Qualcomm sees value in ongoing external 
engagement on privacy issues. We are members 
or sponsors of many organizations that work 
on advancing responsible privacy and security 
practices. These include the International 
Association of Privacy Professionals (through 
which we have a number of employees certified 
as Information Privacy Professionals), Cyber 
Information Sharing and Analysis Centers, Future 
of Privacy Forum, Centre for Information Policy 
Leadership, Information Systems Audit and Control 
Association and the San Diego Cyber Center 
of Excellence. We also engage with subgroups 
of industry associations focused on privacy and security issues, such as the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce, Information T echnology Industry 
Council, Digital Europe, 5GAA and others. 
Our participation and, in some cases, leadership in 
these groups allows us to listen and advocate for 
privacy and data protection standards that pertain 
to our business and the semiconductor industry. 
Our approach to implementing and enabling 
responsible privacy and data protection are 
informed by the following six guiding principles:
Transparency in the collection, use and 
sharing of personal information
Providing or enabling meaningful 
choices over the collection, use and 
sharing of personal information
Providing or enabling value to consumers 
when using their personal information
Safeguarding personal information from 
existing and emerging threats
Maintaining the accuracy, quality and 
integrity of the data we collect
Responsible stewardship of personal 
information including limiting our 
collection, use, sharing and retention 
of personal information3
4
5
62123
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Responsible Business
Cybersecurity
The world has seen a sharp increase in cyber-
attacks and high-profile security breaches in recent 
years. These incidents can affect individuals, 
corporations and other organizations. Qualcomm 
places a high priority on cybersecurity, not only to 
protect our employees, customers and business 
partners, but also to protect our intellectual 
property, operations and products. 
Qualcomm’s Cybersecurity Program is based on 
the National Institute of Standards and T echnology 
(NIST) Cybersecurity Framework, and is customized 
to meet our specific needs. We implement a 
comprehensive set of security policies and technical 
controls that seek to protect and defend Qualcomm 
from cyber-attacks. Our Cybersecurity Program is 
periodically reviewed for maturity and effectiveness 
by independent third-party firms and is subject 
to internal audits on a regular basis. We regularly 
conduct penetration tests to simulate attacks 
against our network to validate the efficacy of our 
security controls.
We evaluate our cyber-risk profile through 
continuous assessment of the cyber-threat 
landscape and the operation of our cyber 
vulnerability management program. We use our 
evaluation of our cyber-risk profile to determine 
our Cybersecurity Program priorities. We track and 
measure the Program priorities using an associated 
cyber risk register, which is updated frequently as 
new risk information becomes available. 
While we seek to protect our IT applications and 
infrastructure against cyber-attacks, we recognize 
the importance of maintaining a comprehensive 
cyber incident response process. Our cyber incident 
response process is supported by an internal team 
of cyber-security experts and integrated with 
business and senior management. We test our 
cyber incident response processes through table-top exercises and penetration testing and include action 
items reporting for the identification of continuous 
improvement opportunities.
Our supplier community is critical to Qualcomm’s 
success, and we believe in working with our 
suppliers to ensure they are protected against 
cyber threats. We operate a supplier cybersecurity 
assurance program, which is integrated with our 
procurement processes, to assess and remediate 
cyber risks across our supplier community. We 
partner with our suppliers to help them improve 
their security posture, providing benefits to them 
and to Qualcomm.
We conduct mandatory cybersecurity training 
for all employees worldwide to help them better 
understand cybersecurity threats and our 
Company’s policies, actions and approach to 
managing this type of risk. We report on this  
training in the ESG Performance Summary  
of this report. 
Qualcomm takes security vulnerabilities in our 
products very seriously, and we strive to address any 
security-related issues quickly and appropriately. 
We educate our developers on secure software 
design and development lifecycle practices and 
have implemented a range of security controls to 
detect and address security vulnerabilities across 
our products. We operate a vulnerability rewards 
program for invited security researchers designed 
to improve the security of the Snapdragon family of 
processors, 5G modems and related technologies 
and software. We believe in providing robust 
security features to our customers, and our Secure 
Processor capability is certified to the Common 
Criteria (CC) Evaluation Assurance Level (EAL) 4+.
We have a global team of internal experts 
dedicated to protecting the enterprise from cyber 
threats. Key elements of our Cybersecurity Program 
– including key cyber threats and risks – are overseen by our Vice President of Cybersecurity, 
senior management and the Audit Committee of 
the Board of Directors through regular reporting 
and review. 
Notably, Qualcomm did not experience any 
material information security breaches or 
cybersecurity incidents in 2021. We attribute this 
success to our strong Cybersecurity Program and 
supporting risk management activities. We annually 
report the number of material information security 
breaches and/or other cybersecurity incidents in the 
ESG Performance Summary of this report.Human Rights
Our Company has long been strongly committed 
to respecting human rights throughout our value 
chain. This commitment is articulated in The 
Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct, 
our Supplier Code of Conduct and our Human 
Rights Statement. We believe human rights are 
fundamental rights, freedoms and standards 
of treatment to which all workers are entitled, 
including without limitation, women, temporary, 
migrant, student, contract and direct employees. 
24
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Responsible Business
As part of our human rights due diligence efforts, 
we regularly conduct human rights impact 
assessments, both for our operations as a whole 
and at the market level. These assessments help 
us identify our salient human rights issues – those 
human rights at potential risk of negative impact 
through our Company activities and business 
relationships. We also require all employees 
to complete training and certification on The 
Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct, 
including the subsection on human rights. 
Because we primarily rely on third parties to 
perform the manufacturing, assembly and most 
of the testing of our integrated circuits, we do not 
generally encounter issues with child labor, forced 
labor or human trafficking in our direct operations. 
Indirect salient human rights risks exist primarily 
in our supply chains and with local community 
members. Although we may not have direct control 
over or causal relationships with these risks, we are 
committed to raising awareness of our expectations 
and working toward mitigating any potential link or 
contribution to these risks. Because of our reliance 
on suppliers, our Company has placed emphasis on 
and taken specific steps to prevent human rights 
abuses in our supply chain through our engagement 
with the RBA. 
Qualcomm’s internal Human Rights Working 
Group focuses on strengthening our management 
of human rights risks. This cross-functional team 
includes representatives from departments 
including Legal, Procurement, Corporate 
Responsibility, Government Affairs, Environment, 
Health and Safety, Security, Inclusion and Diversity, 
Supply Chain, Ethics and Compliance, Privacy and 
Cybersecurity. The working group is responsible 
for implementing, improving and supporting our 
adherence to our human rights practices and for 
engaging external stakeholders on our human  
rights approach.Ethics and Compliance
We believe ethical conduct is a culture imperative 
and strive to follow the letter and the spirit of 
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business 
Conduct, understanding it in the context of our  
core Company values: Purposeful Innovation, 
Passionate Execution, Unquestioned Integrity and 
Collaborative Community. And we see positive 
results: based on our internal ethics investigation 
trends, less than 1% of our approximately  
45,000 employees are involved in misconduct 
reports annually. 
T o gauge ethical culture and comfort in raising 
legal or ethical concerns, we included ethics-related 
questions in company-wide Climate and quarterly 
Pulse Surveys from 2018 through 2021. Survey 
trends illustrated an 11% average year-over-year 
improvement in employee sentiment relating 
to ethical Company culture and organizational 
justice. The survey results are analyzed to identify 
opportunities for continued focus and transparency to improve employee perceptions of Company 
culture and how concerns are addressed in different 
areas of the business.
Compliance with global anti-corruption laws 
continues to be a top priority for the Company.  
T o this end, our Global Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA) and Anti-Corruption Policy procedures 
and training content are reviewed and assessed 
by a third-party expert every two years to ensure 
the content is relevant, leverages current best 
practices and reflects the needs of our business. 
In 2021, we refreshed the look and feel of the 
Policy and company-wide online Policy training 
and certification. The Policy content has been 
streamlined by 60% to focus on the key concepts 
and risks that are most relevant for our business and 
to make it more understandable for our employees. 
The online Policy training course is more interactive 
to increase employee attention and engagement. 
Further, we published the Policy on our external 
Company website to increase transparency around 
our global approach to anti-corruption compliance. 
With the majority of employees continuing to 
work remotely, 2021 brought a challenge for our 
Ethics and Compliance team: how to raise the 
visibility of ethical conduct in our ongoing virtual 
environment. One approach was to broaden the 
reach of our current “Lead the Way” program, a 
recognition initiative to celebrate those employees 
that exemplify The Qualcomm Way, and who 
take personal responsibility to lead with honesty 
and integrity in all they do. Through improved 
virtual collaboration, peer recognition and multiple 
engagement campaigns throughout the year, 
program members were better equipped to 
proactively advocate for the program with peers 
and regularly interact with one another and with 
the Ethics and Compliance team. In fact, following our annual Compliance Week 
event in November 2020, nominations for new 
program members increased 260% compared to 
two years ago. 
We require our employees and temporary workers to 
complete a policy training and certification process 
every 12-24 months covering our Code of Business 
Conduct and our Global Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA) and Anti-Corruption Policy and program. 
In addition, 69 instructor-led training sessions on 
Qualcomm’s Global FCPA and Anti-Corruption 
Compliance program were offered and attended 
by 3,603 employees in externally facing business 
functions (Sales, Business Development, Marketing, 
Government Affairs, Ventures and Procurement) and 
assurance partners (Legal, Finance, Accounting, HR 
and Internal Audit) in 2021. 
Qualcomm’s Open Door culture is designed to 
empower employees and other stakeholders to 
voice any concerns they may have about our 
Company without fear of retaliation. We promptly  
respond to reports of misconduct. Concerns  
may be submitted anonymously (where permitted 
by law) through our Business Conduct Hotline or via 
phone or email to other reporting channels such as 
HR, Legal and Compliance.
Concerns raised via our Business Conduct Hotline 
are reviewed by a cross-functional investigative 
team comprised of seasoned Internal Audit, 
Employee Relations, Ethics and Compliance, 
Information T echnology, Global Security and  
Legal personnel. Case outcomes and remedial 
action plans for incidents that are substantiated  
are reviewed and approved by our Corporate  
Ethics Committee. 
Business Conduct Hotline data, including number 
of cases and issue types, can be found in our ESG 
Performance Summary and website.
25
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Responsible Business
Public Policy and Regulation 
Qualcomm has been a committed partner to 
countries around the world for more than 30 years, 
supporting policies that encourage innovation, 
fostering the proliferation of mobile technology and enabling business-friendly environments 
globally. With each new generation of mobile 
communications, Qualcomm creates shared 
success in collaboration with lawmakers and 
regulators, creating new opportunities for local 
industries and communities.Mobile networks have become the biggest 
technology platform ever. As of 2019, there were 
an estimated 12 billion connections on cellular 
networks, in a world with 7.7 billion people. This 
figure is expected to grow with the global adoption 
of 5G to approximately 24.6 billion connections by 
the end of 2035.1
The benefits of mobile technology, in the U.S. 
and around the world, are profound. Our ability to 
connect and share information has forever changed 
just about every facet of our lives, from the ways we 
communicate with loved ones to the ways we learn, 
manage our resources, receive medical care and, 
of course, work. Public policy plays a critical role 
in ensuring that the benefits of mobile reach every 
corner of the world.
Our Positions:
5G
5G is a unified connectivity fabric that will 
transform industries, create jobs and usher in an 
estimated $13.1 trillion in global sales activity in 
2035.2 T o achieve these benefits, governments 
must adopt policies that support a comprehensive 
5G rollout plan.
Invention and Intellectual Property
Innovation is a core driver of economic growth and 
competitiveness. Without a robust patent system 
and strong global protection of intellectual property, 
innovation would not be possible.
Spectrum
The benefits of mobile broadband depend upon the 
availability of adequate and appropriate spectrum. 
Qualcomm believes in freeing new spectrum in a 
responsible way to meet the demands of consumers 
and businesses.Privacy
Qualcomm believes that cultivating consumer 
trust through a foundation of security and privacy 
practices helps drive broader adoption and more 
personalized wireless technology offerings.
Immigration
Highly skilled talent, especially in the areas of math, 
engineering and the sciences, is vital to the success 
of Qualcomm and to the future of technological 
innovation around the world.
T axation
Qualcomm supports policies that drive 
innovation and enable us to compete in today’s 
global marketplace. 
Participation
We engage in policy discussions with 
governments, organizations and 
industries around the world to advocate 
for policies that promote innovation as 
well as protect and foster new ideas 
in mobile communications. We are 
committed to helping policymakers at 
all levels understand our business model 
and role as an ecosystem enabler.Responsible Governance
We abide by all applicable laws 
and regulations regarding political 
contributions and expenditures and our 
contributions are subject to the approval 
of our senior management with oversight 
by the Governance Committee of our 
Board of Directors.
Transparency
We publicly disclose all political 
contributions made by Qualcomm 
and Qualcomm’s Political Action 
Committee with the Federal Elections 
Commission and abide by all laws under 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.Policy Guides
Qualcomm carefully monitors and 
evaluates developments that affect 
the world of wireless communications. 
Choose a topic and find out where 
we stand.Our approach to public policy:
1  The Mobile Economy 2020
2  The 5G Economy in a Post-COVID-19 Era26
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Responsible Business
Patent Diversity
At Qualcomm, we believe that the U.S. patent 
system should reflect the diversity of this country, 
and if we can diversify who is inventing and 
patenting, we can create jobs, boost the U.S. 
economy, close wage and wealth gaps and ensure 
the U.S. remains a global leader in innovation. 
We are actively working to create more equitable 
opportunities for women and people of color in 
innovation, externally and in our own business. 
In 2020, Qualcomm became a founding partner 
of Invent T ogether, a campaign supported by 
organizations, universities, companies and other 
stakeholders dedicated to understanding the 
gender, race, income and other diversity gaps in 
invention and patenting and supporting public 
policy and private efforts to close them.
Invent T ogether is advocating for the Inventor 
Diversity for Economic Advancement (IDEA) Act, 
which would direct the United States Patent and 
T rademark Office (USPTO) to collect inventors’ 
demographic data on a voluntary basis and make 
this information available in the aggregate for 
research. Qualcomm previously championed 
the passage of the SUCCESS Act in 2018, which 
required the USPTO to study and report on the 
number of patents applied for and obtained by 
women, minorities and veterans and to make 
recommendations for legislative and executive 
actions to reduce disparities in patenting.
In 2021, we continued our efforts to educate 
policymakers, corporations and the public about 
the patent gaps and the benefits of patent diversity. 
We have also supported new research by leading 
academics and think tanks on quantifying patent 
gaps and how to fix them. Organizations like 
the Institute for Women’s Policy Research have 
published research that drives action across the 
entire innovation ecosystem.In collaboration with other Invent T ogether member 
organizations, we have promoted public and 
private sector initiatives to institute best practices 
for patent diversity, and shared stories of diverse 
inventors to raise awareness. 
Invent T ogether’s partners include:
• AnitaB.org 
• Association of American Universities 
• Association for Women in Science 
• AUTM, formerly the Association of University 
T echnology Managers 
• Boston University 
• Collaboratory 
• Columbia T echnology Ventures 
• Emory University 
• Future Forward
• Institute for Women’s Policy Research 
• Lemelson-MIT 
• The Ohio State University 
• Project Invent 
• Society of Women Engineers 
• University of Oregon Women’s Innovation 
Network 
• VentureWell 
• Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation 
• Women in Engineering ProActive Network
27
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Our People
Our People
Empowering a diverse global workforce.
Our Company’s success is rooted in the hard work, 
dedication and diversity of our workforce. We’re a 
melting pot of varied backgrounds, experiences, 
perspectives and ideas. Our diversity helps us 
increase our global awareness and is crucial to our 
ability to innovate.
Inclusion and Diversity
We strive to be a community that reflects the world. 
We work to enable innovation at every level in our 
Company and industry to advance society and 
make the world a better place.
We innovate and accelerate progress by employing 
a diverse workforce and building an inclusive 
and equitable environment where everyone feels 
welcome, respected, valued and part of the team. 
We’re proud to be recognized as a leader in inclusion 
and diversity (see pp. 28). We’ve published our 
Global Inclusion and Diversity Policy to highlight 
our commitment to sustaining a work environment 
that is inclusive, respectful and free of harassment, discrimination and retaliation. The policy also 
highlights our Company’s effort to cultivate 
innovators who have varying backgrounds, ideas 
and points of view. 
Our commitment to inclusion and diversity includes 
providing equitable pay to our employees. 
T o that end, in 2021, we publicly confirmed that 
worldwide, we pay female employees 100 cents  
on the dollar in the aggregate when compared to 
male employees, taking into account rewards group, 
time in level, geographic area and job family.1 While 
we do not track race/ethnicity outside the U.S.2, in 
the U.S., we pay our non-white employees 100 cents 
on the dollar in the aggregate, when compared  
to our white employees, taking the same factors 
into consideration.
As part of the annual employee review process, 
we train our managers on job-related performance 
assessment and bias avoidance, broadly gather 
feedback from managers and co-workers for 
annual performance evaluations, calibrate ratings 
across managers and provide performance In This Section:
Inclusion and Diversity
• Hiring and recruiting diverse talent
• Promoting inclusion and diversity in our workforce and beyond
T alent Development 
• Career programs
• Building employee skills and capabilities
Employee Engagement and Wellbeing
• Listening to our employees
• Creating a healthy work environment
Safe Reopening Measures
• The Future of Work
Corporate Citizenship
• Employee volunteering
• Engagement on racial justice
• COVID-19 community relief
Our People by the Numbers: 
We have approximately 45,000 employees represented by 117 nationalities working 
across 170 offices in more than 30 countries. We speak 92 languages.
1 Based on base pay, annual bonus and annual review (AR) stock awarded in the most recent Annual Rewards cycle.
2 Some laws outside of the U.S. bar collection and/or reporting of race information.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Our People28
and compensation feedback to our employees. 
Our open-door policy encourages employees to 
ask questions or voice any concerns they may 
have regarding their performance assessment or 
their compensation.
Hiring and Recruiting Diverse T alent
Innovation is at the core of our business and is thus 
imperative to our continued success. Diverse teams 
– built around different perspectives, demographics, 
experiences and skill sets – fuel creativity and 
innovation. We’re continuously building a pipeline 
of diverse talent to help us meet the needs of 
diverse customers worldwide, now and in the future.
Our focused approach to finding top talent and our 
use of training and development as key recruitment 
tools have helped us increase our hiring rate for 
women and URMs while also reducing attrition 
within both groups.Highlights of our efforts in 2021 to diversify our talent 
pipeline include:
• Over 30 successful partnerships with 
organizations such as Reboot Representation, 
AnitaB.org, Disability:IN, Fairygodboss, Society 
of Professional Hispanic Engineers, Rallypoint, 
National Society of Black Engineers, GEM 
Consortium and National Center for Women  
and Information T echnology, among others.
• Continuing to ensure that all our recruiters are 
trained on inclusive hiring techniques.
• Launching the Pathways Program, which provides 
employment opportunities for non-traditional 
experienced and early career talent. The global 
program is comprised of several focus areas 
such as a returnship program for technical 
professionals who have taken career breaks 
and are looking to re-enter the workforce, hiring 
of active military and spouses transitioning to the civilian workforce and hiring neurodiverse 
technically trained talent. 
• Being selected to join WORK180 as an Endorsed 
Employer for All Women in the United Kingdom 
(UK). WORK180 is a jobs board that helps 
women confidently apply to workplaces with a 
proven commitment to diversity, inclusion and 
gender equality. 
• Launching the Quantum Leap Program through 
Qualcomm India, which aims to help women 
who are re-entering the workforce restart their 
journey and build skill sets for a successful career. 
T o date, more than 300 women have applied to 
the program. 
• Founding the Qualcomm Women Entrepreneur  
India Network (QWEIN) 2.0, a mentorship 
program in partnership with Qualcomm Ventures 
that supports female entrepreneurs in India 
from sectors including healthcare, Io T, robotics, 
cleantech, agritech, XR and logistics.
Promoting Inclusion and Diversity 
in Our Workforce and Beyond
We expect every employee to help create and 
maintain a work environment that is inclusive, 
respectful and free of harassment, discrimination 
and retaliation.
All U.S.-based employees are required to complete 
harassment prevention training at their time of 
hire and thereafter every two years. We conduct 
mandatory training for new hires on inclusion 
and diversity as part of the employee onboarding 
process. We also provide access to hundreds of 
online and in-person trainings on interpersonal 
topics ranging from soliciting feedback to creating 
an inclusive work environment.
Our collaborations with organizations that 
champion inclusion and diversity in the workplace and beyond, are vital to our success in providing 
additional training and capacity-building 
around diversity. 
• We partnered with the Network of Executive 
Women Leadership, Better Up Coaching and 
Athena Leadership Academy to provide unique 
training and development opportunities for 
women employees.
• The Equal Justice Initiative, McKinsey 
Management Accelerator, McKinsey 
Black Executive Leadership Program and 
Mana de San Diego provided training and 
development opportunities for underrepresented 
minority employees.
• Four Block, Out and Equal, Disability:IN and 
the ACLU provided training and development 
opportunities for other protected groups. 
• Qualcomm donated over $1 million to racial 
justice causes including the NAACP Legal 
Defense Fund, Asian American Advancing 
Justice and Community Advocates for Just and 
Moral Governance. 
• Qualcomm T reasury invested $200 million in 
Empowering Change, a government money 
market fund distributed by four banks that serve 
minority communities.
We increased global awareness and understanding 
of our Company’s inclusive and diverse culture by 
hosting diversity events all over the world and by 
expanding our inclusion and diversity programming 
and activities. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
many of these events – including the large events 
that we normally hold to celebrate Black History 
Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Asian American 
and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, International 
Women’s Day, Pride, Memorial Day and other 
heritage months and days of remembrance 
and achievement – moved to a virtual format 
in 2020/2021. The new format allowed us to 
29
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Our People
engage more employees worldwide and increase 
attendance for these events. For example, 
attendance at our Black History Month events 
increased by over 700% in 2021. 
Our Global Inclusion and Diversity (GID) team 
organizes, hosts and encourages employees to 
participate in community events that align with our 
initiatives focused on racial/ethnic diversity; gender 
equity; and people with disabilities, gender identity 
and veteran status. In 2021, GID invited employees 
to participate in the Virtual Disability:IN Inclusion 
Works meeting and an Institute for Women’s Policy 
Research (IWPR) event in which IWPR and Invent 
T ogether presented new research on the challenges 
inventors face based on gender and race and how 
to overcome them. 
In response to increasing violence against 
Asian American and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) 
and #stopasianhate, we hosted “A Community 
Conversation to Counter Anti-Asian Sentiment and 
Violence. ” More than 1,300 employees attended 
our company-wide forum to discuss some of the roots of anti-Asian sentiment and how we 
can all work together to build more cohesive 
communities, strengthen inclusion and address 
racism. Additionally, Qualcomm Ventures partnered 
with other venture capital firms (in an effort led by 
GGV Capital) to support the fight against anti-
Asian violence and hate crimes, with over 180 firms 
donating more than $5 million.
In 2021, our Qualcomm Women employee 
network partnered with the GID team to present 
Qualcomm’s first-ever Women’s Conference. 
More than 1,000 employees globally participated 
in this exciting and inspiring two-day virtual event. 
More than 60 speakers – including members 
of Qualcomm’s Board of Directors, Company 
executives, industry experts and colleagues – 
shared insights and their personal experiences. 
Session topics covered fostering innovation, male 
allyship, encouraging empowerment and navigating 
non-linear careers, among other things.
We also used social media and traditional media 
to raise awareness of Qualcomm’s impact in historically underserved communities, particularly 
in relation to mentoring, academic support and 
scholarships. For example, we reach students 
and educators by highlighting our Thinkabit Lab 
programming which is designed to inspire female 
and URM students to explore careers in engineering 
and other STEM-related fields.
T alent Development
We begin our planning each year by conducting 
a global needs assessment on training to better 
understand and address employee development 
needs. The assessment is designed to identify 
top themes across professional, leadership and 
technical domains. In the 2021 survey, managers 
and leaders expressed great interest in developing 
their skills around motivating and engaging 
employees, influencing others, and coaching and 
mentoring. Engineers highlighted 5G as a top 
technical training focus area. Having this insight 
enables us to provide employees with immediate 
resources for their self-identified development  
needs and design new programs that matter  
most to them.
Through all our development opportunities, 
we encourage employees to follow a 70-20-10 
approach to professional development: challenging 
assignments and learning on the job (70%), 
developmental relationships such as mentoring 
(20%) and coursework and training (10%). 
We prioritize training and development that keeps 
our engineers aligned with technology evolutions 
in our industry and ramps up their skills in relevant 
domains. In 2021, we surveyed our engineers to 
identify their detailed learning requirements and 
then used the findings to create a strategic skills 
development program. We culled resources and 
content from inside and outside our Company and 
engaged third-party best-in-class subject matter Our far-reaching inclusion and diversity 
efforts have earned our Company 
prestigious external recognition. Qualcomm 
is regularly named on many best places to 
work lists, including Forbes’ America’s Best 
Employers for Diversity and Best Employers 
for New Grads, Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index, Disability:IN’s 
Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion, 
Woman Engineer Magazine’s T op 50 
Employers, Working Mother and Avtar’s 
Best Companies for Women in India and 
Most Inclusive Companies Index, and many 
others. Qualcomm was recently named 
the United Negro College Fund’s Regional 
Corporation of the Year in San Diego. We 
were one of only 15 employers to receive 
the 2020 Secretary of Defense Employer 
Support Freedom award.
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Our People30
experts to provide additional information and 
documentation. Delivered via instructor-led online 
training sessions and self-paced learning modules, 
the training quickly enables our engineers to keep 
pace with new and evolving technologies and 
architectures that are of strategic importance for 
our Company’s product roadmaps. 
Qualcomm’s Accelerate Program helps first-time 
managers and new leaders at Qualcomm to 
develop skills and knowledge that accelerate their 
readiness to manage and lead. Launched in 2021, 
the program is provided through a foundational 
eLearning module with content grounded in 
Qualcomm’s Manager Expectations; in-person 
courses and live webinars on topics such as 
communication, performance management and 
recognition; and opportunities to apply the learning 
and practice conversations that they’ll encounter 
as a manager. Accelerate is globally available and 
customized locally to ensure that each region’s 
unique elements are addressed. We have seen a 
very positive response and impact from the over 
1,100 global managers that have participated in the 
Accelerate program, with 95% of attendees saying 
that they would recommend the course to other 
new managers.
Mentoring is a vital component of career 
development at Qualcomm. Our Mentoring 
Matters program, which launched in 2021, enables 
mentors and mentees to create powerful mentoring 
experiences as part of their career journey. The 
program includes an interactive, self-driven 
eLearning course and practice forums to build 
mentor and mentee capabilities. The program also 
provides resources such as mentor and mentee best 
practices and systems and platforms for managing 
the relationship.Additional resources support Human Resources 
professionals and leaders at the director level 
and above to create organization-level mentoring 
programs, such as a step-by-step playbook for 
creating a mentoring program and discussion 
forums to increase collaboration. With over 1,900 
employees who have viewed the resources to date 
and 1,600 employees who have participated in the 
mentor and mentee forums, the Mentoring Matters 
initiative has positively contributed to an increased 
number of mentoring relationships at Qualcomm. 
Both mentors and mentees have expressed that 
engaging in mentoring greatly benefited their 
career growth. 
Our Qualcomm Wireless Academy (QWA) is 
a robust program that offers training on the 
latest wireless technologies, ensuring all of our 
employees have the knowledge they need to help 
our Company lead. The extensive 5G training 
course catalog includes courses for every level of 
learner, from non-engineers and business support 
to seasoned wireless engineers. The training 
is based on 3rd Generation Partnership Project 
(3GPP) standards and is developed and delivered 
by our internal technology experts. It is provided 
in a variety of formats, including instructor-led, 
eLearning and course books.
Employee Engagement 
and Wellbeing 
Our employees are committed to inventing solutions 
to complex problems and making the world a better 
place. We believe that supporting their holistic 
wellbeing, inclusive of physical, mental, social and 
financial wellbeing, helps them live their best life 
both at home and work.
Through our social wellbeing programs, our 
employees can pursue their interests and hobbies, connect to volunteering and giving opportunities, 
enjoy unique recreational experiences with family 
members and communicate directly with our senior 
leadership. These programs support our employees’ 
lives inside and outside work and empower them 
to influence the morale, culture and practices of 
our Company.
Through our annual Climate Survey, quarterly Pulse 
Surveys and global focus groups, we listen to our 
employees and how they are feeling. We use the 
results to continually improve our culture and create 
an inspiring and inclusive workplace. Based on 
the results of our 2021 engagement surveys, we’ve 
introduced additional programs, resources and tools 
to help employees achieve balance and wellbeing:
• Work+Well is a new global initiative that 
provides a collaborative platform, resources and 
information to help employees improve their 
productivity, build meaningful connections across 
the Company and enhance their mental and 
physical health while working. Individuals can use 
the site to gather tips and best practices, share their tips and recommendations and recognize 
others who champion the Work+Well culture. 
In support of this initiative, Qualcomm added 
four paid holidays to our global holiday calendar 
in 2021 to provide employees extra days to 
disconnect and recharge.
• meQuilibrium is a personalized resilience system 
that helps employees build resilience in areas 
such as positivity, focus, self-confidence, stress 
management and more. MeQuilibrium was 
already available to U.S.-based employees, but 
due to the additional wellbeing challenges that 
the COVID-19 pandemic has brought, we are 
currently piloting an expanded offering of the 
benefit to our employees outside the U.S.
• Our Live + Well Wellbeing program provides 
wellness resources and, in some cases, incentives 
to help employees achieve real wellbeing. Key 
enhancements in 2021 include one-on-one 
coaching to improve nutrition, physical activity 
or manage chronic conditions as well as a 
number of tools to improve financial wellbeing for 
U.S.-based employees.
31
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Our People
Safe Reopening Measures 
Due to the COVID-19 crisis, on March 12, 2020, we 
moved to a global required work from home policy 
for employees who were able to perform their job 
remotely. For employees whose work required them 
to be onsite, we took appropriate measures – as 
recommended by leading public health authorities 
– to ensure that the work environment was safe and 
the risk of the virus spreading in our facilities was 
reduced as much as possible.
Among our efforts to support employees’ new and 
evolving needs, we provided personal protective 
equipment for onsite employees and employees 
working from home; implemented paid leave for 
employees with symptoms or who may be high 
risk, need to care for a family member or assist 
a child with school; provided options to take 
office equipment home; and provided additional 
IT equipment support. In the U.S. and India, 
we provided resources to employees and their 
dependents for immediate COVID-19 testing on campus, held large-scale vaccination events on 
campus and provided quarantine support. 
Many employees adapted well to working remotely, 
and we saw increased productivity. However, we 
heard that many employees also missed connecting 
in-person with their colleagues and teams. As we 
planned our return to campus and our work model 
for the future, we focused on creating a global 
framework that provides flexibility while maintaining 
our strong culture of innovation, collaboration, 
openness and camaraderie – serving current 
employees and helping to attract future talent.
We took a carefully planned phased approach to 
welcoming employees back to the office in 2021. As 
we continued to see positive trends in vaccination 
rates across the U.S., and the continued easing of 
restrictions, we moved into Phase 2. As of July 2021, 
employees can work onsite as many days as they 
choose, provided they comply with all onsite safety 
protocols and requirements.
“We have been working to determine the best hybrid work approach 
for our unique culture. Our goal is to create a global framework that 
provides flexibility, while maintaining our strong culture of innovation, 
collaboration, openness and camaraderie – serving both our current 
employees and helping to attract future talent. ”
– Heather Ace, Chief Human Resources Officer2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: Our People32
Corporate Citizenship
We engage with local community leaders and 
organizations through our corporate citizenship 
programs to focus on areas where we can have the 
greatest impact.
Our corporate citizenship initiatives are designed to: 
• inspire the next generation of inventors by 
investing in programs that advance STEM 
learning and expand access to STEM education; 
• promote and prioritize inclusion and diversity by 
engaging with organizations that closely partner 
with underrepresented communities to build a 
pipeline of diverse talent;
• encourage and support leading-edge research at 
universities, individual professors and students on 
innovation projects; and
• leverage our innovative technologies to 
help drive human and economic progress 
in underserved areas. 
Giving back to the communities where we live, work 
and do business is central to our culture. We engage 
our employees in supporting and enriching our 
communities through volunteering and community 
outreach efforts. In 2021, we supported more than 
1,600 nonprofits through our employee-driven grant 
programs – matching grants, community service 
grants and board service grants. And through our 
employee-directed local giving committees, which 
are in more than 25 locations globally, employees 
get a voice in determining how our philanthropic 
funds are distributed in their communities.
Racial Justice Giving Initiative 
We are committed to supporting racial justice. 
In 2021, we introduced the Racial Justice Giving 
Initiative (RJGI) and formed the RJGI Committee to support nonprofit organizations in the United States 
that are working to drive systemic change in racial 
justice and equity. The Committee is comprised 
of diverse employee volunteers from across 
the Company.
T o prepare Committee members for their role 
as decision-makers, we hosted a consultant-led 
workshop where they learned how to advance 
and promote equitable grantmaking and offered 
a similar workshop for other employees across the 
Company who act as decision-makers around our 
grantmaking efforts. 
The RJGI afforded employees the opportunity 
to nominate nonprofit organizations that were 
addressing racial justice to receive funding from 
Qualcomm and the Qualcomm Foundation. 
The RJGI committee reviewed all nominations 
and selected ten organizations to each receive a 
$50,000 grant – a total allocation of $500,000. 
Five of the selected organizations, in partnership 
with their employee nominators, presented 
at a TED T alk-style event attended by over 
450 Qualcomm employees to build awareness 
around the issues of racial justice and equity. 
Continuing Support for Those 
Affected by COVID-19 
Our employees are passionate about many causes 
and embrace opportunities to make a difference. 
T o support employee volunteerism during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, we created an online portal 
for them to find virtual volunteer opportunities more 
easily. We also hosted virtual volunteer activities 
for employees and their families, such as making 
inspirational cards for older adults who would 
benefit from friendly connections during this deeply 
isolating time.In 2021, Qualcomm and the Qualcomm Foundation 
donated over $6.5 million to initiatives combating 
the impact of COVID-19 around the world. 
This included over $3.5 million in donations to help 
provide relief to communities in India experiencing 
a devastating second wave of the COVID-19 
pandemic. This funding was designated for 
initiatives to support India’s medical community, 
with an emphasis on addressing the shortage of 
supplies and lifesaving equipment. 
Our COVID-19 relief contributions also included 
$3 million in support of various organizations working in the areas of community health, 
education, economic recovery, food and housing 
in Brazil, India, Indonesia, Italy, the Philippines, 
Portugal, Spain, the United States and Vietnam.
We also matched employees’ personal donations  
to qualifying organizations addressing the impact  
of COVID-19. 
In China, we were honored that the Red Cross 
Society of China awarded us the “China Red Cross 
Medal of Love” in 2021 in recognition of our prompt 
support for epidemic prevention and control.
33
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: STEM Education
STEM Education
Inspiring the next generation of inventors. 
Science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) is the foundation for everything we do. It 
supports the brainpower behind the breakthrough 
technologies and inventions we bring to life. As 
technology leaders and a Company of inventors,  
we are committed to nurturing and equipping future 
innovators with the skills and knowledge to solve 
global challenges. We work to foster a diverse and 
inclusive workforce by advancing STEM education 
for students at all levels and from all backgrounds. 
A steady, diverse pipeline of STEM professionals 
is vital for Qualcomm’s continued leadership in 
technologies such as 5G and beyond.
We invest in initiatives that:
• Bridge the STEM skills gap among  
students globally
• Build STEM capacity among teachers  
and educators• Engage women and underrepresented minorities 
in STEM fields
• Leverage our employees as STEM ambassadors  
in our communities
Our 2025 goals serve as milestones to our long-term 
success, and STEM education is a key part of these 
efforts. Our 2025 STEM goal is to continue to foster 
the next generation of innovators by inspiring 
1.5 million students and teachers across the globe 
through our strategic STEM initiatives. 
This past year, we made great progress in this  
area. In 2021, we reached 561,063 students and 
12,817 teachers through our social investments in  
the future workforce, such as our Thinkabit Lab 
summer programming, our alliance with FIRST and 
numerous other key collaborations across the globe. In This Section:
Thinkabit Lab impact 
• Summer camp expansion with American Association of University Women (AAUW)
• 5G Academy and pathway to invention 
STEM community partnerships across the world
• Our collaboration with FIRST
• Promoting diversity in STEM through VentureWell and Million Girls Moonshot
• Digital Give Back Campaign 
• Shanghai Youren Foundation 
In 2021, through our social investments in the future workforce, we reached  
561,063 students and 12,817 teachers. 
Since its creation in 2014, our home-grown Thinkabit Lab program has inspired over 
85,000 students in the U.S. to be the next generation of inventors.
Enabled FIRST to provide 23,580 students in 13 countries with opportunities to innovate 
and drive solutions to real-world problems.
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: STEM Education34
Thinkabit Lab 2021 Impact
Our Thinkabit Lab program shows students from 
all cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds that 
they can be part of inventing the wireless world 
of the future. Learners of all ages explore careers 
available at Qualcomm and other technology 
companies. They engage in fun and unique 
engineering projects, culminating in the design of 
an Io T-themed invention that addresses a problem 
in their community and the world around them. 
The program relies heavily on hands-on activities 
to learn about coding, sensors, circuits, patents, Io T, 5G and more. These activities help students 
understand where they see themselves in the future 
workforce and how they could use technology to 
help make the world a better place. 
We launched our Thinkabit Lab program in 2014 
at Qualcomm’s headquarters in San Diego. We 
have evolved and expanded the program yearly 
to broaden our reach and create greater impact. 
As of 2021, our program has inspired more than 
85,000 students across the U.S. to become the next 
generation of inventors and helped them to create 
more than 24,000 of their own inventions. Through 
collaborations with public, private and nonprofit 
organizations, we now have a celebrated network 
of 22 Thinkabit Lab collaborators and more than 
56 trained educators and instructors at schools, 
universities, non-profits and libraries in eight  
states nationwide.
We also expanded our program with new online 
and virtual learning experiences, including virtual 
summer STEM camps that have enabled many 
more future inventors to participate. In 2021, to 
maintain the momentum and build on the terrific 
success of our virtual camps implemented the 
previous summer during the COVID-19 pandemic, 
we resumed in-person camps at select sites within 
our national network and continued offering virtual 
camps. Collectively, we provided 37 weeklong camp 
sessions with over 1,200 elementary, middle and high 
school students including nine all-girls sessions.
T o further inspire camp participants, we added 
engaging new content, such as our Path to 
Invention and 5G Academy. The Path to Invention 
aims to spark the spirit of innovation among 
students, while facilitating greater understanding of 
the route of invention – from idea to development 
to obtaining a patent and all the way through 
to production and sales. Because we believe 
that patents are vital to innovation, students 
showcased their final projects in the form of 
patent presentations as a culminating camp activity. These video presentations included 
components such as the name of their inventions, 
invention schematics and an abstract of their 
creation. The 5G Academy is comprised of a 
website and field guide that explain the ins and 
outs of 5G, Qualcomm’s role in developing this 
fifth generation of wireless technology and why 
the world will be a better place because of this 
transformative advancement. We leveraged the 
5G Academy to add a new 5G activity for students 
participating in all of our camps. 
Our online Learning Center continues to provide 
educators, librarians, youth organization leaders 
and other adult community members nationwide 
with access to a variety of fun and free coding 
activities and other educational resources that 
can be downloaded for use in their classroom, 
home or organization. Activities range from writing “I learned that I am good with 
circuits and enjoy doing it. It  
was also fun to program code 
into inventions. ”
–  High School Participant,  
Ag T ech Camp (Porterville, CA), Co-Ed, 202135
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: STEM Education
code to introductory engineering games and tools 
to exploring future careers in technology. These 
materials help Thinkabit Lab collaborators and 
participants engage in STEM learning even outside 
of our formalized programs.
We’ve continued to tap into Qualcomm employees’ 
passion and commitment to inspire future inventors.  
We engaged employees for our new summer 
speakership opportunity. As volunteers, they 
represented both engineering and non-engineering 
roles and the diversity within our workforce. 
Collectively, they volunteered over 90 hours of their 
time to speak to aspiring young inventors about 
working in the tech industry and offer insight as they 
navigate their future STEM education and careers. 
We formed new partnerships and built on existing 
collaborations to further expand our reach and 
amplify our impact. Part of our unprecedented 
student participation this year is attributed to 
our expansion through AAUW. In addition to 
our existing relationship with AAUW T ech T rek 
California, three other states joined our network – 
Florida, New Mexico and Washington. T ogether, “I discovered I was more creative than I thought I would be, and I learned 
that even if I had no idea why something wouldn’t work, I was able to 
keep working hard and persist until I found the problem. I also learned 
that I am actually interested in engineering. ”
–  Middle School Participant, AAUW Wearable T ech Camp (New Mexico), All-Girls, 2021
over 650 girls were engaged in the Thinkabit Lab 
Wearable T ech project which required each student 
to program and build an automated wearable tech 
invention that represents their strengths, interests 
and values. 
The Thinkabit Lab summer camp expansion was a 
resounding success:
• 60% growth in national presence
• 150% growth in the number of organizations 
offering our invention-based camps
• 124% increase in the number of teachers trained to 
teach the activities
• 200+ AAUW adult volunteers trained to 
implement the program
• Close to 400% more students participated in 
the program and were inspired to be the next 
generation of inventors
• More than 50% of students were girls who 
participated in all-girl camp sessions2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: STEM Education36
“This challenge has opened my eyes to this new world of innovation, 
engineering and entrepreneurship that I never really saw myself pursuing  
in the past. I now see myself as more than just a female in this male- 
dominated field, but as an effective contributor and innovator in STEM. ”
–  Rachel Quach, Absolute Value, student participant in Innovation Challenge‘s FRC team 867
In 2021, FIRST programs, mentorship and 
competition remained largely virtual due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. In an effort to keep students 
engaged in STEM learning throughout the 
season, we collaborated with FIRST to expand its 
innovation programming to also include middle 
and high school students in the FIRST T ech 
Challenge and FIRST Robotics Competition for 
the first time. The virtual format of the new FIRST 
Innovation Challenge presented by Qualcomm 
helped enable FIRST to provide 23,580 students 
in 13 countries with opportunities to innovate and 
drive solutions to real world problems. Through the 
Innovation Challenge, teams identified a problem 
or opportunity connected to the season’s sports 
and fitness theme, designed a solution, created 
a business model and pitch and advanced their 
skills by using technology as part of the process. 
Examples of teams’ innovations included the Walk 
Assistant, which aims to provide a hands-free 
solution for patients suffering from Parkinson’s 
Disease; PATHWAYS, a mobility tool for the visually 
impaired; and FIGLOVE, a vibrating strip placed 
in the palm of the hand that reduces pain during 
exercise for people with fibromyalgia. In addition to helping ensure the continuity of the 
2020-2021 FIRST season, the virtual programming 
made it possible for Qualcomm to maintain its 
high level of employee engagement in FIRST 
programs. Employees across the Company donated 
thousands of hours of their time to engage students 
virtually. In 2021, we also expanded program 
support and employee engagement to FIRST in 
Singapore. Program funding in Singapore helped 
teams from under-resourced communities and 
engaged nearly 1,000 students from across the 
region. Qualcomm employees from four countries 
supported the event by serving as virtual judges  
for the competition.
Looking ahead, we are excited to be the presenting 
sponsor for the 2021-2022 youth robotics season, 
FIRST FORWARDSM presented by Qualcomm. 
The season theme focuses on the future of 
transportation – inspiring and empowering FIRST 
teams to collectively reimagine innovative solutions 
for faster, reliable, more sustainable transportation 
in urban and rural areas alike.STEM Community 
Partnerships
FIRST
Our ongoing collaboration with FIRST (For  
Inspiration and Recognition of Science and 
T echnology) is another important way that we’re 
increasing access to STEM education and investing 
in the development of our future workforce.
FIRST is the world’s leading youth-serving non-profit 
organization advancing STEM education. FIRST 
engages students in grades PreK-12 in hands-on, 
mentor-based robotics programs to help them 
become science and technology leaders and  
well-rounded contributors to society. 
Qualcomm has been a proud supporter of FIRST  
since 2006. As a FIRST Strategic Partner, Qualcomm 
directly supports FIRST events, programs and 
thousands of teams globally via direct funding and 
time donated by hundreds of employees.Million Girls Moonshot
Million Girls Moonshot is a transformative, 
nationwide initiative that’s re-imagining who can 
engineer, who can build and who can invent. It 
aims to inspire and prepare the next generation of 
innovators by engaging one million more girls in 
STEM learning opportunities through after-school 
and summer programs by 2025. The Moonshot 
aligns with our Company’s goal to increase diversity 
of talent in the STEM workforce pipeline. 
Through a collaborative funding model, the 
Moonshot provides grants to every state in the 
country through the 50 State After-school Network 
to help them support equity-focused, hands-
on STEM learning experiences to students in 
after-school programs. Qualcomm’s support of 
the Moonshot’s inaugural year during a global 
pandemic was instrumental in building a successful 
foundation towards empowering one million girls 
with an engineering mindset.
Highlights of the Moonshot’s first-year  
impact include:
• Connected nearly 400,000 students, including 
more than 160,000 girls, in 20,990 after-school 
STEM programs to the Moonshot curricula
• Engaged 612 new state network level partners
• Provided resources and experts to STEM-related 
conferences hosted by 43 state networks, 
reaching 11,000 after-school and summer  
leaders and providers
• Awarded $1.3 million to all 50 State  
After-school Networks
As we look ahead to year two, Qualcomm will 
continue to support the Moonshot’s efforts to 
provide STEM programming in the 50 State 
After-school Networks. Additionally, we will look 
to focus our support in a few key areas including 
37
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Key Accomplishments: STEM Education
empowering STEM leadership in young women, 
amplifying female inventors and education.
#DigitalGiveBack Campaign
In 2020, when schools were forced to shut their 
doors in response to COVID-19, educational 
leaders and families were challenged with making 
the transition to virtual learning. However, many 
students lacked the tools, devices and connectivity 
necessary to access virtual learning, putting  
them at risk of falling behind academically. In 
fact, a recent study in San Diego County showed 
that an estimated 22% of students did not 
have the equipment necessary to participate in 
online classes.1
In response, Qualcomm jumped into action with 
Computers 2 Kids San Diego to host a device 
donation drive. Computers 2 Kids San Diego recycles and refurbishes used computers, laptops 
and tablets, and delivers them to local families in 
need. Each recipient also receives a webcam, Wi-Fi 
adapter, education, training and technical support. 
Computers are loaded with an educational software 
package designed for K-12 users and their families  
to ensure a successful home learning environment.
During our Company’s two-month #DigitalGiveBack 
campaign, Qualcomm employees, customers, 
vendors and community partners stepped up and 
generously donated more than 770 computing 
devices, including desktops, laptops and 
tablets; 170 monitors or screens; and more than 
4,000 pounds of other hardware to help ensure  
that no student was left behind. 
“We are so thankful to have a resource like 
Computers 2 Kids available to our community, ” said 
Cierra Williams, a local parent. “The systems and tools we picked up helped my kids keep up with 
virtual learning during this difficult time. ”
The environmental impact of the donation drive 
was also significant. In total, the assets that were 
donated equated to enough electricity to power  
110 U.S. households for one year.
VentureWell
At Qualcomm, we believe that bringing talent  
and diversity together is key to unleashing creativity, 
innovation and breakthrough technologies. As part 
of our efforts to grow the innovation economy, we’re 
collaborating with organizations like VentureWell 
to create a pipeline of diverse inventors and 
patent holders.
VentureWell is a 25-year-old nonprofit organization 
that helps cultivate the entrepreneurial skills 
and creativity of university students who are 
passionate about solving the world’s biggest 
challenges. In 2021, Qualcomm proudly supported 
the VentureWell E-T eam program, which supports 
diverse student teams from across the nation who 
are aiming to bring their innovations out of the lab 
and into the market. This three-stage program 
provides training to E-T eam participants that 
explores essential topics such as business model 
development and validation, customer discovery 
and intellectual property. Throughout the program, 
students learn what it takes to launch and scale a 
venture from VentureWell’s experienced program 
team. Additionally, students have access to 
expert mentors, like Qualcomm employees, guest 
speakers and thought leaders in social impact 
entrepreneurship and technology innovation. 
With Qualcomm’s support of the E-T eam program, 
VentureWell was able to train 190 diverse early-
stage innovators from across the U.S. During this 
time, we also collaborated on efforts to advance diversity, equity and inclusion. For example, the 
VentureWell team updated program pre-work to 
establish individual and team values, and enhanced 
focus on individual reflection to create safe and 
more inclusive virtual spaces. We also participated 
in a community discussion focused on addressing 
underrepresentation of diverse innovators in the 
patent system.
As we move into 2022, we look forward to 
expanding our collaboration to focus on 
supporting individuals from underrepresented 
groups, identifying and deepening strategies to 
advance equity and inclusion within the program, 
and collaborating on efforts that highlight the 
importance of alleviating barriers and broadening 
access to innovation. 
Shanghai Y ouren Foundation
Qualcomm continues to collaborate with the 
Xiaomi Corporation and the Shanghai Y ouren 
Foundation on an initiative supporting equal access 
to job opportunities for people with disabilities. 
Under this program, participants receive training 
in AI data tagging and are re-skilled for higher 
paying jobs. T o equip program participants with 
the necessary skills, Qualcomm supported highly 
specialized training and data tagging system 
optimization for the Shanghai Youren Foundation. 
After participants receive training, Xiaomi hires 
participants to perform AI data tagging for some 
of their products. By 2021, 42 participants joined 
the program and are now trained with relevant 
technical job skills that we believe will empower 
them for years to come. 
1 Beyond the Hotspot: Supporting Equitable Distance Learning in San Diego County 2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary38
ESG Performance 
Summary
Our performance metrics gauge our progress over the past 
three fiscal years and enable us to report more transparently 
across a variety of ESG topics.39
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary
Our Company Units 2021 2020 2019
T otal Consolidated 
Revenues by SegmentT otal Dollars (in millions) 33,566 23,531 24,273
QCT (Qualcomm CDMA T echnologies) Dollars (in millions) 27,019 16,493 14,639
QTL (Qualcomm T echnology Licensing) Dollars (in millions) 6,230 5,028 4,591
QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) Dollars (in millions) 45 36 152
Other1Dollars (in millions) 182 1,974 4,891
T otal Consolidated 
Revenues by Country2T otal Dollars (in millions) 33,566 23,531 24,273
China (including Hong Kong) Dollars (in millions) 22,512 14,001 11,610
Ireland Dollars (in millions) 1,160 867 2,957
Other foreign Dollars (in millions) 6,120 4,570 4,532
South Korea Dollars (in millions) 2,368 2,964 2,400
United States Dollars (in millions) 1,406 1,129 2,774
T otal Capitalization T otal capitalization - stockholders' equity Dollars (in millions) 9,950 6,077 4,909
Our Products and Suppliers Units 2021 2020 2019
Privacy and Security Certified information privacy professionals # of 10 8 8
Privacy training hours # of 1,463 1,309 125
T argeted employees trained in privacy3# of 3,180 NR NR
T argeted cybersecurity training campaigns # of 4 9 9
Employees trained in cybersecurity # of 41,329 38,320 30,281
1  Other revenues included revenues from nonreportable segments and certain revenues (and reduction to revenues) that were not allocated to our segments in our management reports because they were not considered in evaluating segment results.
2  We report revenues from external customers by country based on the location to which our products or services are delivered, which for QCT is generally the country in which our customers manufacture their products, and for licensing revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. As a result, the revenues by country 
presented herein are not necessarily indicative of either the country in which the devices containing our products and/or intellectual property are ultimately sold to consumers or the country in which the companies that sell the devices are headquartered. For example, China revenues could include revenues related to 
shipments of integrated circuits for a company that is headquartered in South Korea but that manufactures devices in China, which devices are then sold to consumers in Europe and/or the United States.
3 Includes employees whose role requires the handling of personal data, as well as employees in countries where privacy training is required by law.NR in a given year, indicates that this metric was not reported.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary40
Our Products and Suppliers Units 2021 2020 2019
(continued)
Privacy and SecurityRequests for customer information received from government/law enforcement agencies4# of 0 0 0
Complaints (breaches of customer privacy) received from outside parties and substantiated by Qualcomm5# of 0 0 0
Complaints from regulatory bodies6# of 0 0 0
Information security breaches involving customers’ personally identifiable information7# of 0 0 0
Information security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents8# of 0 0 0
Amount of fines/penalties paid in relation to information security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents Dollars 0 0 0
Supplier Metrics9Suppliers who completed the RBA SAQ10% 100 100 100
Suppliers with all low-risk manufacturing facilities per RBA SAQ % 100 100 100
Suppliers who have completed an RBA VAP11 audit in the last two years % 78 78 78
Suppliers who have completed an RBA VAP audit in the last two years, total non-conformances found # of 52 60 NR
Priority non-conformances # of 2 0 NR
Major non-conformances # of 32 33 NR
Minor non-conformances # of 18 27 NR
Suppliers who have completed an RBA VAP audit in the last two years and have achieved silver, gold or platinum 
recognition on one or more audits12% 100 NR NR
Suppliers who provided us with greenhouse gas emissions data13% 100 100 100
Suppliers who provided us with water use data13% 100 100 100
Suppliers who have an ISO 14001 Certification14% 100 100 100
4  Limited to formal subpoenas, court orders or similar obligatory document or information demands regarding end-user consumer personal information issued by governmental or law enforcement.
5  Customer privacy is defined as end-user consumers of a Qualcomm technology.
6 Refers to formal legal proceedings initiated by regulatory bodies pertaining to privacy and/or data protection compliance related to end-user consumers of Qualcomm technology.
7 Limited to instances involving end-user consumers of Qualcomm technology and requiring disclosure in company SEC filings.
8 Limited to instances requiring disclosure in company SEC filings.
9 Suppliers represent top 90% of total product-related spend. 2021 metrics represent fiscal year data. 2020 and 2019 represent calendar year data. 
10 Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ).
11 Validated Assessment Program (VAP).
12 Through verified closure of nonconformances identified in RBA VAP audits. 
13 Previous calendar year data.
14 International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 is the international standard for environmental management systems (EMS).41
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary
15  Amount represents prior-year calendar year data as of January 31, 2021.
16  Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP).
17 U.S. only.
18 U.S. only. Increased spending on U.S. government subcontract work directed at diverse business in fiscal year 2020 was a result of purchasing IT equipment for one-time lab build-up.
19 Annual avoided emissions of CO2e due to cumulative investments made for energy and water efficiency for global facilities.
20 2021 and 2020 amounts represent fiscal year data for global facilities. 2019 amounts represent prior-year calendar data for global facilities.
21 As of 2020, we expanded our reporting of Scope 3 emissions. Amount reported in 2019 represents estimated employee business air travel, business car rental and employee commuting.
22 In 2021, we revised our methodology for calculating purchased goods and services. Supplier emissions data represent previous calendar year.
23 Fiscal year 2020 data included. Fiscal year 2021 data forthcoming. Our Products and Suppliers Units 2021 2020 2019
Conflict Free Minerals15RMAP-Conformant processing facilities16# of 241 258 248
RMAP-Conformant processing facilities16% 98 81 83
Supplier Diversity T otal diverse suppliers registered17# of 627 844 791
Spending on U.S. government subcontract work directed at diverse businesses18% 23 43 23
Our Environment Units 2021 2020 2019
Energy and Air Quality Electricity avoided as a result of our energy saving initiatives19megawatt hours 61,408 59,577 53,878
Emissions avoided as a result of our energy saving initiatives tons 19,032 16,495 15,214
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
EmissionsCO2 per gross square foot of facilities space (Scope 1 & 2)20CO2e metric tons 0.0224 0.0247 0.0172
T otal scope 1 - direct GHG emissions by weight (includes purchased carbon offsets) CO2e metric tons 106,659 112,479 75,290
T otal scope 2 - indirect GHG Emissions by weight (market based: emission factors where available,  
onsite solar energy and purchased International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs))CO2e metric tons 187,447 203,047 114,060
T otal scope 3 - other indirect GHG emissions by weight21CO2e metric tons 3,649,499 2,705,344 112,252
Scope 3 - purchased goods and services22CO2e metric tons 1,997,221 1,539,355 NR
Scope 3 - capital goods CO2e metric tons 327,969 181,607 NR
Scope 3 - fuel- and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2 CO2e metric tons 68,769 66,222 NR
Scope 3 - upstream transportation and distribution CO2e metric tons 30,4482330,448 NR
Scope 3 - waste generated in operations CO2e metric tons 1,253 1,465 NR
Scope 3 - business travel CO2e metric tons 2,451 10,369 80,928
Scope 3 - employee commuting CO2e metric tons 27,028 27,650 30,3242021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary42
Our Environment Units 2021 2020 2019
(continued)
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
EmissionsScope 3 - downstream transportation and distribution CO2e metric tons 242424 NR
Scope 3 - use of sold products CO2e metric tons 1,194,284 848,167 NR
Scope 3 - end-of-life treatment of sold goods CO2e metric tons 51 36 NR
Direct Energy 
Consumption by  
Primary SourceNatural gas (facilities) MMBtu 1,276,002 1,258,346 1,268,903
Jet fuel (aviation-related) gallons 197,741 315,101 740,002
Vehicle gasoline (shuttle/test vehicles) gallons 29,204 29,204 45,307
Diesel fuel (cars/trucks) gallons 5,278 5,278 8,466
Diesel fuel (generators) gallons 48,251 62,691 50,136
Propane vehicle-truck gallons 0 0 131
Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) gallons 8,116 8,116 6,520
Renewable energy - onsite generation (owned) megawatt hours 253 253 430
Carbon offsets (purchased) CO2e metric tons 0 5,000 3,000
Indirect Energy 
Consumption by  
Primary SourceNon-renewable electricity (purchased) megawatt hours 375,788 403,638 246,675
Renewable energy - power purchase agreements (purchased) megawatt hours 55,006 26,268 12,331
Renewable energy - International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs) (purchased) megawatt hours 65,683 21,862 12,000
Indirect heating (purchased for leased sites) megawatt hours 31,348 31,764 21,168
Significant Air 
Emissions25NOx tons 19.86 9.87 8.6
SOx tons 6.91 0.33 0.34
VOC tons 2.09 9.34 0.69
24  Fiscal year 2020 data included. Fiscal year 2021 data forthcoming.
25  All NOx, SOx and VOC data includes manufacturing sites.43
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary
Our Environment Units 2021 2020 2019
Waste Management T otal non-hazardous waste metric tons 2,301 2,948 3,767
Non-hazardous waste recycled metric tons 1,118 1,564 1,699
Non-hazardous waste to landfill metric tons 1,070 1,384 2,068
T otal hazardous waste metric tons 982 693 37
Hazardous waste recycled metric tons 487 234 31
Employee Engagement 
EventsPersonal paper shredding collection events for employees26tons N/A 0.5 1.5
Personal e-waste collection events for employees27pounds N/A 975 5,689
E-Waste Collection E-waste collection pounds 366,548 413,590 523,887
Water Management T otal water withdrawals28million gallons 773 635 171
Potable water withdrawals - water utilities million gallons 667 551 99
Reclaimed water withdrawals- water utilities million gallons 106 84 72
Water consumed million gallons 152 218 86
Water discharged million gallons 621 417 85
Ultrapure water usage million gallons 0 NR NR
Our Workplace Units 2021 2020 2019
Workforce T otal workforce # of 45,575 40,905 37,200
Regular employees % 91  92 91
T emporary employees % 9  8 9
26  San Diego only. 2021 personal paper shredding collection event for employees postponed due to COVID-19. 
27  San Diego only. 2021 personal e-waste collection events for employees postponed due to COVID-19.
28 2021 and 2020 water data represent global operations. 2019 data represents both owned and leased facilities in San Diego, San Jose and Santa Clara, California.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary44
Our Workplace Units 2021 2020 2019
(continued)
WorkforceEmployees by region - US % 34  37 NR
Employees outside of US by region - Americas29% 1 1 NR
Employees outside of US by region - APAC30% 22 21 NR
Employees outside of US by region - EMEA31% 9  9 NR
Employees outside of US by region - India % 34  32 NR
Employees that are foreign nationals % 12  13 NR
Turnover and Employee 
EngagementEmployee involuntary turnover rate % 1.3 1.0 4.0
Employee voluntary turnover rate % 6.8 4.7 7.0
Employees responding to employee survey32% 47 60 80
Employees who feel proud to work for Qualcomm33% 90 NR NR
Employees who are confident in Qualcomm's future33% 91 NR NR
Business Conduct 
HotlineT otal business hotline cases # of 122 141 78
Business hotline cases - identified # of 46 36 19
T otal business hotline cases - anonymous # of 76 105 59
Business hotline allegations by issue type34
Issue type - accounting and auditing matters % 1 1 NR
Issue type - antitrust, competition or regulatory compliance % 3 1 NR
29  Countries included in Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Canada and Mexico.
30  Countries included in APAC: Australia, China (PRC), Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, T aiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
31  Countries included in EMEA: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United Kingdom. 
32  2021, 2020 and 2019 surveys were company-wide surveys (full census).
33  Based on employee survey results.
34  Percentages may not total 100 due to rounding.45
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary
Our Workplace Units 2021 2020 2019
(continued)
Business Conduct 
HotlineIssue type - ask a question % 20 16 NR
Issue type - conflict of interest % 6 6 NR
Issue type - discrimination or harassment % 16 23 NR
Issue type - falsification of contracts, reports or records % 2 3 NR
Issue type - misconduct or inappropriate behavior % 23 28 NR
Issue type - misleading sales, marketing or advertisement % 1 1 NR
Issue type - misuse of intellectual property % 3 1 NR
Issue type - theft % 1 3 NR
Issue type - other/unknown % 21 17 NR
Inclusion and Diversity35Nationalities represented36# of 117 109 117
Languages spoken36# of 92 74 74
Women on the Board of Directors % 29  25  25 
Women overall36% 22.6  22.3 19.7 
Manager and above % 17.3  16.9 16.0 
T echnical % 18.0  17.3 16.4
American Indian/Alaska Native - overall % 0.2  0.2  0.2 
Manager and above % 0.2  0.2  0.2 
T echnical % 0.2  0.1  0.1 
Asian - overall % 61.7  60.9  60.0 
Manager and above % 51.1  49.5  49.1 
T echnical % 66.8  66.1  65.6 
35  Unless otherwise indicated, inclusion and diversity data is for U.S. only.
36  Global.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary46
Our Workplace Units 2021 2020 2019
(continued)
Inclusion and Diversity37Black/African American - overall % 1.5  1.5  1.5 
Manager and above % 1.3  1.3  1.3 
T echnical % 1.3  1.4  1.3 
Hispanic or Latino - overall % 4.8  4.7  4.6 
Manager and above % 4.0  4.0  3.9 
T echnical % 3.8  3.7  3.6 
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander - overall % 0.2  0.2  0.3 
Manager and above % 0.2  0.2  0.2 
T echnical % 0.2  0.2  0.2 
Two or more races - overall % 2.1  2.0  1.9 
Manager and above % 1.5  1.6  1.4 
T echnical % 1.6  1.6  1.5 
People with disabilities % 2.6  2.7  3.0 
Veterans % 2.1  1.9  2.4 
Employee Training  
and DevelopmentClassroom training course enrollments # of 97,452 69,988 74,166
Instructor-led training courses offered # of 1,401 1,763 1,303
Online training courses offered # of 16,965 16,320 14,945
Average training and development hours per full time employee hours 18 NR NR
Average amount spent per full time employee on training and development Dollars 210 NR NR
37  Unless otherwise indicated, inclusion and diversity data is for U.S. only.47
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary
Our Workplace Units 2021 2020 2019
(continued)
Employee Training  
and DevelopmentT raining by employee group: individual contributor hrs/employee 18 13 13
T raining by employee group: management hrs/employee 17 14 16
T raining by employee group: executive hrs/employee 10 8 6
Employees receiving training with mandatory programs % 100 95 100
Employees receiving training without mandatory programs % 83 74 75
Workplace Safety Lost Time Incident Rate (L TIR) Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.02 0.01 <0.01
T otal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.12 0.171 0.34
Work-related fatalities # of 0 0 0
Our Community Units 2021 2020 2019
Corporate Citizenship Employees participating in employee grant programs # of 3,099 2,739 2,910
Nonprofit organizations helped by employee grant programs # of 1,711 1,544 1,659
Annual corporate citizenship contribution - total38Dollars 39,110,391 NR NR
Charitable giving39% 44 NR NR
Community investments40% 52 NR NR
Commercial initiatives41% 4 NR NR
38 T otal contributions from Qualcomm and the Qualcomm Foundation. 
39 Refers to one-off or occasional support to good causes in response to the needs and appeals of charitable and community organizations, requests from employees or in reaction to external events such as emergency relief situations. These are often thought of as traditional philanthropy or grant-making. 
40 Refers to long-term strategic involvement in, and partnership with, community organizations to address a limited range of social issues chosen by the company to protect its long-term corporate interests and enhance its reputation. 
41 Refers to business-related activities in the community, usually undertaken by commercial departments to directly support the success of the company, promoting its corporate and brand identities and other policies, in partnership with charities and community-based organizations.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | ESG Performance Summary48
Our Community Units 2021 2020 2019
Wireless Reach Stakeholders42# of 699 674 655
Programs since 200642# of 132 126 119
Active programs43# of 35 NR NR
Countries42# of 49 48 47
Beneficiaries42# of 24,335,693 22,961,434 18,484,769
STEM Education Student beneficiaries44# of 561,063 NR NR
T eacher beneficiaries44 # of 12,817 NR NR
Thinkabit Lab collaborators # of 22 NR NR
STEM community partnerships # of 20 NR NR
Employee Thinkabit Lab volunteer hours45# of 92.5 NR NR
Employee involved as volunteers of Thinkabit Lab45# of 34 NR NR
Employee FIRST volunteer hours # of 2,204 15,735 12,361
Employees involved as volunteers of FIRST # of 110 206 259
42  Cumulative data since 2006.
43 Programs that are currently using Qualcomm Wireless Reach funds.
44 Includes STEM community partnerships and Qualcomm Thinkabit Lab. 
45  Thinkabit Lab summer STEM programs only.49
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Progress on Our Goals
Progress on  
Our Goals2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Progress on Our Goals50
* Leadership is defined as individuals at the Principal and above level in technical roles, and Director and above in non-technical roles.
** For technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Native American.  
For non-technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, American Indian or Native American, and Asian.
*** Given equivalent features.Progress on Our Goals
Goals 2021 Progress
Enrich the lives of 27 million people by 
continuing to bring technology to underserved 
communities around the world through 
Wireless Reach by 2025. In 2021, we launched six new projects and, since 2006, 
have enriched the lives of over 24 million people.
Ensure 100% of our primary semiconductor 
manufacturing suppliers  
are audited every 2 years for conformance  
to the Supplier Code of Conduct by 2025. As of 2021, 78% of our primary semiconductor 
manufacturing suppliers have received audits for 
conformance to the Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions by 30% 
from our global operations compared to a 
2014 baseline by 2025. We've reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions by approximately 20%, and we achieved 
The Climate Registry's (TCR) Climate Registered™ 
Platinum status.
Continue to inspire the next generation of 
inventors by engaging 1.5 million students and 
teachers across the globe in our strategic  
STEM initiatives: our home-grown Thinkabit 
Lab, our collaboration with FIRST® and our 
STEM community partnerships by 2025. In 2021, through our social investments in the  
future workforce, we reached 561,063 students and 
12,817 teachers. 
Since its creation in 2014, our home-grown Thinkabit 
Lab program has inspired over 85,000 students in the 
US to be the next generation of inventors. 
Qualcomm has been a proud supporter of FIRST 
since 2006. In 2021, we collaborated to expand 
its innovation program to also include middle and 
high school students in the FIRST T ech Challenge 
and FIRST Robotics Competition for the first time, 
enabling FIRST to provide 23,580 students in 13 
countries with opportunities to innovate and drive 
solutions to real-world problems.Goals 2021 Progress
Increase Representation of Women in 
Leadership* by 15% by 2025. 
Increase Underrepresented Minorities (URM**) 
Leadership representation by 15% by 2025. 
Increase overall URM representation by 
20% by 2025.We continue our focused approach to finding top 
talent and our use of training and development as 
key recruitment tools to increase our hiring rate for 
women and URMs while also reducing attrition within 
both groups. 
In 2021, we leveraged over 30 successful partnerships 
with different organizations that focus on the 
promotion and hiring of diverse candidates across 
the technology and engineering pipeline. We 
launched the Pathways Program, which provides 
employment opportunities for non-traditional 
experienced and early career talent. We continued to 
ensure that all our recruiters are trained on inclusive 
hiring techniques.
Reduce power consumption by 10%, every 
year***, in our flagship Snapdragon Mobile 
Platform products by 2025.Year over year, we reduced power consumption by 
at least 10%*** in our flagship Snapdragon products 
when averaged across all use cases.
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
by 50% by 2030 from a 2020 base year.This goal was set in 2021. We will provide our first 
progress report in 2022.
Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions by 
25% by 2030 from a 2020 base year.This goal was set in 2021. We will provide our first 
progress report in 2022.
Reach net-zero global GHG emissions for 
Scopes 1, 2, and 3 by 2040.This goal was set in 2021. We will provide our first 
progress report in 2022.51
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
Global Reporting 
Initiative Content 
Index2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index52
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
General Disclosures
Organizational 
Profile102-1 Name of the  
organizationQualcomm Incorporated
102-2 Activities, brands, 
products and servicesWe are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments. We conduct business primarily through our QCT 
semiconductor business and our QTL licensing business. QCT develops and supplies integrated circuits and system software based on 3G/4G/5G  
and other technologies, including RF front-end, for use in mobile devices, automotive systems for telematics, connectivity and digital cockpit and Io T 
including wireless networks, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices and industrial devices. QTL grants licenses or otherwise 
provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture 
and sale of certain wireless products. Our QSI reportable segment makes strategic investments. We also have nonreportable segments, including 
Qualcomm Government T echnologies (QGOV), our cloud AI inference processing initiative and other technology and service initiatives.
102-3 Location of  
headquartersSan Diego, California
102-4 Location of  
operationsWe have employees in 33 countries. Our headquarters and certain research and development and network management hub operations are located 
in San Diego, California, USA.
We also operate leased manufacturing facilities in Germany, China and Singapore; and we own and lease properties around the world for use as 
sales and administrative offices and research and development centers, primarily in the United States, India and China. Several other owned and 
leased facilities are under construction totaling approximately 960 thousand additional square feet, primarily related to the construction of new 
facilities in India and T aiwan.
102-5 Ownership and  
legal form We incorporated in California in 1985 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1991.
We operate our businesses through our parent company, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries. We have developed 
our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operational and other matters. Substantially all of 
our products and services businesses, including QCT, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by 
Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc. (QTI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of QUALCOMM Incorporated, and QTI’s subsidiaries. QTL is operated by QUALCOMM 
Incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Neither QTI nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any 
licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by QUALCOMM Incorporated.53
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
(continued)
Organizational 
Profile102-6 Markets served Our technologies and products are offered in more than 100 countries. 
We are a global leader in the development and commercialization of foundational technologies for the wireless industry. Our technologies and 
products are used in mobile devices and other wireless products, and are sold across industries and applications beyond mobile handsets, including 
automotive and Io T (which includes the industries and applications of consumer, industrial and edge networking), among others. Our inventions have 
helped power the growth in smartphones, which have connected billions of people. We are a leader in 3G (third generation), 4G (fourth generation) 
and 5G (fifth generation) wireless technologies. We derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products, including our Snapdragon® 
family of highly-integrated, system-based solutions and licensing of our intellectual property, including patents and other rights. 
The foundational technologies we invent help power the modern mobile experience, impacting how the world connects, computes and communicates. 
We share these inventions broadly through our licensing program, enabling wide ecosystem access to technologies at the core of mobile innovation 
and through the sale of our wireless integrated circuit platforms (also known as integrated circuit products, chips or chipsets) and other products. We 
collaborate across the ecosystem, including manufacturers, operators, developers, system integrators, cloud providers, tool vendors, service providers, 
governments and industry standards organizations, to enable a global environment to drive continued progress and growth. 
A small number of customers/licensees historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. In fiscal year 2021, revenues 
from Apple, Samsung and Xiaomi each comprised 10% or more of our consolidated revenues.
102-7 Scale of the organization In Fiscal Year (FY) 2021:
T otal number of employees: 45,000 
T otal number of operations: We have employees in 33 countries.
T otal consolidated revenues: 33,566 million USD 
T otal capitalization: 9,950 million USD
Quantity of products: We offer over 1,000 different semiconductor products, including processors, modems, RF systems, 5G, 4G and legacy 
connectivity solutions and optimized software.
102-8 Information on employees 
and other workersT otal number of permanent employees, by gender:
Male: 32,073
Female: 9,386
T otal number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region: 
Americas: 15,335 regular; 797 temporary 
APAC: 9,592 regular; 374 temporary 
EMEA: 3,904 regular; 169 temporary 
India: 12,628 regular; 2,776 temporary
T otal number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender: 
Male: 31,944 full-time; 129 part-time 
Female: 9,299 full-time; 87 part-time2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index54
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
(continued)
Organizational 
Profile(continued)
102-8Information on employees 
and other workersEmployment data is as of October 1st, 2021. 
We collect gender data for permanent employees only.
Countries included in Americas: United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada and Mexico
Countries included in APAC: Australia, China (PRC), Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, T aiwan,  
Thailand and Vietnam
Countries included in EMEA: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Russian Federation,  
South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and United Kingdom
102-9 Supply chain Other than for our RF front-end modules and RF filter products (described below), QCT utilizes a fabless model, which means that we do not own 
or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Therefore, we primarily rely on third parties 
to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test 
programs. Our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. 
We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers 
are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular 
or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third parties for manufacturing services such as wafer 
bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. The primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, 
RF and PM integrated circuits are Global Foundries, Samsung Electronics, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), T aiwan 
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and United Microelectronics. The primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are Advanced 
Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor T echnology, Siliconware Precision Industries and STATSChipPAC. The majority of our foundry and semiconductor 
assembly and test suppliers are located in the Asia-Pacific region. 
QCT primarily uses internal fabrication facilities to manufacture certain RF front-end modules and RF filter products, and its manufacturing 
operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. The front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in Germany 
and Singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate wafers with the structure and circuitry required for the products to function (also known as 
wafer fabrication). The back-end processes include the assembly, packaging and test of RF front-end modules and RF filter products and their 
preparation for distribution. The back-end manufacturing facilities are located in China and Singapore.
102-10 Significant changes to 
the organization and its 
supply chainNo significant changes to the organization's size, structure, ownership or supply chain have occurred during the reporting period.
102-11 Precautionary Principle  
or approachWe practice the “precautionary principle” of identifying and taking preventative measures regarding chemicals, including in circumstances in which 
there is a high degree of scientific uncertainty regarding potentially hazardous chemicals. Our own policies are often more stringent than applicable 
law. We continuously monitor opportunities to improve our products and make them as sustainable as technically and economically feasible.55
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
(continued)
Organizational 
Profile102-12 External Initiatives The externally-developed charters, principles, and other initiatives to which the company subscribes or endorses are covered in the relevant sections 
of the 2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report. 
102-13 Membership of 
associationsOur Memberships and Industry Affiliations 
Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior 
decision-makerA letter from our CEO is included in our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Ethics and 
Integrity102-16 Values, principles, 
standards and norms  
of behavior Qualcomm values are Purposeful Innovation, Passionate Execution, Collaborative Community and Unquestioned Integrity. 
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct serves as a guide for our everyday work, helping us through ethical challenges and offering 
reminders and best practices along the way. It aims to build integrity into everything we do as a company. Our Code of Ethics promotes honest and 
ethical conduct; full, fair accurate, timely and understandable disclosures; holds all employees and members of our Board of Directors accountable 
for compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations; prompt internal reporting of violations of the Code; and accountability for 
adherence to the Code.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is the RBA Code of Conduct, provides standards and guidelines with regard to labor, health and safety, 
environment, ethics and management expectations of our suppliers.
102-17 Mechanisms for  
advice and concerns 
about ethicsWe have a formal, third-party operated grievance and remedy mechanism through our Business Conduct Hotline. The hotline is a comprehensive 
and confidential reporting tool available for anyone, external or internal, to raise concerns, ask questions or seek guidance anonymously, to the extent 
permitted by local law. 
Our Open Door Philosophy encourages everyone to speak up and raise concerns. In addition to the Business Conduct Hotline, concerns can be raised 
to direct managers, any member of management, the Human Resources Department, the Legal Department and the Office of Compliance.
More information on this can be found in our FCPA and Anti-Corruption Policy. 
Governance 102-18 Governance structure The highest governance body is the Board of Directors (the "Board”) of Qualcomm Incorporated. The present standing Board committees are: the 
Audit Committee, the HR and Compensation Committee and the Governance Committee. 
The Governance Committee of the Board provides oversight on corporate responsibility matters, including ESG policies, programs and initiatives, and 
the HR and Compensation Committee of the Board provides oversight on our workforce diversity and inclusion programs and initiatives. 
The Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee, composed of executives and senior management, provides guidance on global corporate 
responsibility issues. The Corporate Responsibility Governance Committee implements directives from the Corporate Responsibility Leadership 
Committee, measures progress on achieving our goals and reports to management on accomplishments and challenges.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index56
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
Stakeholder 
Engagement102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our key stakeholders include our employees, investors and stockholders, customers, suppliers, government officials and regulators, communities and 
representatives of NGOs, among others. 
102-41 Collective bargaining 
agreementsNone of our United States employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Outside the United States, less than 50% of our employees are 
covered by collective bargaining agreements. We are compliant with all collective agreements regarding significant operational changes as required 
by country laws and regulations.
102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholdersOur approach to identification and selection of stakeholders includes consideration of people, organizations and communities that can affect or 
be affected by our Company's operations, products or services. These include our employees, investors and stockholders, customers, suppliers, 
government officials and regulators, communities and representatives of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), among others. 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement Conversations with our key stakeholders are essential to assuring that our corporate responsibility strategy aligns with the current needs of our 
business and meets the expectations of the people, organizations and communities that have an interest in our Company. We consistently seek ways 
to better communicate with stakeholders and obtain their feedback on a variety of corporate responsibility-related topics. 
We provide more detail on our approach to Stakeholder Engagement in our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report.
102-44 Key topics and  
concerns raisedThe materiality assessments described in Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities incorporated key issues raised through stakeholder 
engagement. Our response to these issues is contained on our Corporate Responsibility website and in our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in  
the consolidated  
financial statementsWe operate our businesses through our parent company, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Substantially all of our products and services businesses, including QCT, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, 
are operated by QTI, a wholly-owned subsidiary of QUALCOMM Incorporated, and QTI’s subsidiaries. QTL is operated by QUALCOMM Incorporated, 
which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Neither QTI nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or 
other rights under or to any patents owned by QUALCOMM Incorporated.
102-46 Defining report content 
and topic BoundariesWe strengthen our approach to corporate responsibility by undertaking regular, third-party materiality assessments. These exercises include research, 
interviews with key leaders from across the Company and engagement with stakeholders. The findings help us prioritize the corporate responsibility 
issues that are most important to our business and our key stakeholders. By identifying our top corporate responsibility priorities, we can then focus 
our resources, programs and reporting on these core topics.
We worked with external consultants from BSR, a global nonprofit business network dedicated to sustainability, to conduct materiality assessments 
approximately every three years since 2013.
102-47 List of material topics Purposeful Innovation, Diversity and Inclusion, Ethics and Governance, Sustainable Product Design, Privacy and Security, Public Policy and Regulation
102-48 Restatements of 
informationNone57
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
(continued)
Reporting Practice102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries.
102-50 Reporting period This report covers our 2021 fiscal year: September 28, 2020 to September 26, 2021. In some instances, data is collected and reported on a  
calendar rather than a fiscal year basis. Such exceptions, as well as any other exceptions to the reporting period, are noted within the report.  
Financial data is reported in U.S. dollars. The information and data in this report includes Qualcomm Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, 
unless otherwise stated.
102-51 Date of most  
recent reportOur 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report covers events and highlights occurring in our 2020 fiscal year: from September 30, 2019 to 
September 27, 2020. 
102-52 Reporting cycle Since our founding in 1985, Qualcomm has been committed to bettering the societies where we live and work. We have been producing an annual 
sustainability/corporate responsibility report since 2006. 
102-53 Contact point  
for questions  
regarding reportWe welcome comments and feedback at qsr@qualcomm.com.
102-54 Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the  
GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index Our GRI Content Index is included in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report and on our Corporate Responsibility website.
102-56 External assurance Use of external assurance is noted in our Corporate Responsibility Report for the elements where it has been received. The report as a whole has not 
received external assurance from an independent reviewer.
T opic-Specific Standards
Qualcomm Material T opic: Purposeful Innovation
103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and  
its BoundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Purposeful Innovation
See 102-50, 102-54, 102-56 (above)
103-2 The management 
approach and  
its componentsOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Wireless Reach
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index58
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
203-1 Infrastructure 
investments and  
services supportedWireless Reach brings advanced wireless technologies to underserved people and communities. These programs demonstrate pioneering uses of our 
Company’s mobile innovations to help drive human and economic progress in underserved areas globally. 
203-2 Significant indirect 
economic impactsOur Wireless Reach programs have benefited more than 24 million people in 49 countries on five continents since 2006 through the application of our 
technology across education, entrepreneurship, healthcare, public safety and environmental sustainability. 
Qualcomm Material T opic: Ethics and Governance
103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and  
its BoundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities 
Ethical Governance
See 102-50, 102-54, 102-56
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
componentsOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities 
FY21 Annual Report on Form 10-K
FY21 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance 
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
Code of Ethics
RBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
205-1 Operations assessed for 
risks related to corruptionAt least annually, we evaluate our Company for risks related to corruption. We also assess additional risk areas on a case-by-case basis. 
205-2 Communication and 
training about  
anti-corruption policies 
and proceduresQualcomm requires our employees and temporary workers to complete a policy training and certification process every 12-24 months covering our 
Code of Business Conduct and our Global Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Anti-Corruption Policy and program.
As of September 30, 2021, 99% of Qualcomm employees, temporary workers and interns completed the 2020 Code of Business Conduct T raining and 
Certification requirement, which is assigned to all employees and temporary workers, and to all new employees upon hire. In addition, 69 instructor-
led training sessions on Qualcomm's Global FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance program were offered and attended by 3,603 employees in 
externally facing business functions (Sales, Business Development, Marketing, Government Affairs, Ventures and Procurement) and assurance 
partners (Legal, Finance, Accounting, HR and Internal Audit) in FY21.
205-3 Confirmed incidents  
of corruption and  
actions takenNone59
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
206-1 Legal actions for  
anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust and 
monopoly practicesInformation about legal and regulatory proceedings can be found in our FY21 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
419-1 Non-compliance with 
laws and regulations  
in the social and 
economic areaNone
Qualcomm Material T opic: Sustainable Product Design
103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and  
its BoundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Sustainable Product Design 
Human Rights
See also 102-50, 102-54, 102-56
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
componentsOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
RBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
Human Rights Statement
UNGC Communication on Progress
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws  
and regulationsQualcomm received no significant monetary fines and no non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulations in 2021.
308-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using 
environmental criteriaAll new suppliers representing the top 90+% of total product-related spend were screened using environmental criteria.
308-2 Negative environmental 
impacts in the supply 
chain and actions takenAll suppliers representing the top 90+% of total product-related spend were screened for environmental impacts. In 2021, no suppliers  
were identified as having significant actual or potential negative environmental impacts.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index60
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
407-1 Operations and suppliers 
identified in which the 
right to exercise freedom 
of association and 
collective bargaining 
may be violated or at 
significant riskQualcomm is unaware of any operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and/or collective bargaining are at significant risk. 
408-1 Operations and suppliers 
identified as having 
significant risk for 
incidents of child laborQualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a significant risk for incidents of child labor. 
409-1 Operations and suppliers 
identified as having 
significant risk for 
incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. 
414-1 New suppliers that  
were screened using 
social criteriaAll new suppliers representing the top 90+% of total product-related spend were screened using social criteria.
414-2 Negative social impacts 
in the supply chain and 
actions takenAll suppliers representing the top 90+% of total product-related spend were screened for social impacts. In 2021, no suppliers were identified as having 
significant actual or potential negative social impacts.
416-1 Assessment of the 
 health and safety 
impacts of product and 
service categoriesQualcomm addresses the sustainability of our products through our Environmental Management System and various hazardous-substance 
elimination programs. We strive to apply the “precautionary principle. ” We take preventative measures regarding certain chemicals, even if science 
hasn’t indicated clear environmental or health hazards. Our own requirements are often more stringent than applicable law.
Health and Safety
416-2 Incidents of non-
compliance concerning 
the health and safety 
impact of products  
and servicesNone61
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
Qualcomm Material T opic: Public Policy and Regulation
103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and  
its BoundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Public Policy
Ethical Governance
See also 102-50, 102-54, 102-56
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
componentsOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
FY21 Annual Report on Form 10-K
FY21 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
Code of Ethics
RBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
415-1 Political contributions Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy
Disclosures Under Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy
The Governance Committee of the Board oversees our political activity and contributions to ensure consistency with our business objectives 
and public policy priorities, including reviewing our Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy annually and reviewing reports on our political 
contributions and expenditures no less than annually. 
Qualcomm Material T opic: Privacy and Security
103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and  
its BoundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Privacy and Security
See also 102-50, 102-54, 102-56
103-2 The management 
approach and 
its componentsOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Privacy Principles
Privacy Policy
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
RBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index62
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Privacy and Security
410-1 Security personnel 
trained in human rights 
policies or procedures100% of security personnel are trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that  
are relevant to operations.
418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and 
losses of customer dataWe did not receive any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or data in 2021 or in the three years prior.
Qualcomm Material T opic: Diversity and Inclusion
103-1 Explanation of the 
material topic and  
its BoundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Global Inclusion and Diversity
Also see 102-50
102-54
102-56
103-2 The management 
approach and its 
componentsOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action
Supplier Diversity Policy
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
RBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities63
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
GRI  
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure Title Response
405-1 Composition of 
governance bodies  
and employeesQualcomm Board of Directors: 
% male: 71
% female: 29
% over 50 years old: 100
% minority: 29
Qualcomm Employees (Manager and above):
% male: 82.7
% female: 17.3
% under 30 years old: 0.3
% 30-50 years old: 71.4
% over 50 years old: 28.3
% minority: 7.3
Qualcomm Employees (T echnical):
% male: 82 
% female: 18
% under 30 years old: 27.0
% 30-50 years old: 61.3
% over 50 years old: 11.6
% minority: 7.1
Minority on the Board of Directors is defined as non-white and/or LGBTQ. 
Minority data is United States only.
Minority in manager and above category and technical employees is defined as American Indian/Alaska Native, Black/African American, 
Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander or two or more minority groups.
406-1 Incidents of 
discrimination and 
corrective actions takenQualcomm has never been found by a court to have unlawfully discriminated against any of our employees.64
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
Sustainability 
Accounting 
Standards  
Board Index65
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Greenhouse 
Gas EmissionsTC-SC-110a.1 (1)  Gross global Scope 1 
emissions
(2)  amount of total 
emissions from 
perfluorinated 
compounds
Metric tons (t) CO2e(1) T otal gross Scope 1 emissions for Qualcomm globally is 106,659 tCO2e
(2) T otal emissions from perfluorinated compounds are 32,367 tCO2e
Greenhouse 
Gas EmissionsTC-SC-110a.2 (1)  Discussion of long-
term and short-term 
strategy or plan to 
manage Scope 1 
emissions, 
(2)  emission reduction 
targets, and 
(3)  an analysis of 
performance against 
those targets
Discussion & analysis(1) Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions.
Other than for our RF front-end modules and RF filter products, our QCT semiconductor business utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we 
do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Because we are primarily fabless, our Scope 
2 emissions are more significant than our Scope 1 emissions. Thus, our GHG goals represent a company-wide absolute target related to both Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions. 
We believe that climate change is a serious environmental, social and economic threat that calls for immediate and concerted action among all sectors 
of society. That’s why in 2021, we expanded our commitment to reducing our operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to our value chain and ensured 
our new targets were aligned to the latest climate science by committing to and joining the Science-Based T argets Initiative. Specifically, adding on to our 
existing 2025 greenhouse gas reduction goal, we set three new ambitious, long-term targets: 
• T o reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 from 2020 base year 
• T o reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions by 25% by 2030 from 2020 base year 
• T o reach net-zero global operational GHG emissions for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2040
We also maintain our 2025 GHG reduction goal, consistent with science-based reductions required to keep global warming well below 2°C, to reduce 
absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 30% compared to a 2014 base year. 
Balancing these ambitions while also growing a global Company demands forward thinking. Our three-part emissions mitigation strategy to meet these 
targets includes transitioning to renewable energy in top operational footprint regions via long term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), decarbonizing our 
operations through the replacement of high global warming potential gases in our manufacturing processes and transitioning our cogeneration plants at our 
San Diego, California headquarters to back-up power, and a minimal amount of Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and carbon offsets for residual emissions. 
(2) emissions reduction targets 
Type: Absolute T arget 
T arget coverage: Company-wide
Scope(s): 1+2 (market-based)
T argeted reduction from base year (%): 30% 
Timelines: Base year: 2014; Start year: 2015; T arget year: 20252021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
% of target achieved: 20%
Base year emissions covered by target (metric tons CO2e): 368,547 tCO2e
Scope 1: 121,977 tCO2e
Scope 2 market-based: 246,550 tCO2e
T arget status: Underway66
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
T opic SASB Code Metric Response
(continued)
Greenhouse 
Gas EmissionsTC-SC-110a.2 (1)  Discussion of long-
term and short-term 
strategy or plan to 
manage Scope 1 
emissions, 
(2)  emission reduction 
targets, and 
(3)  an analysis of 
performance against 
those targets
Discussion & analysis(3) an analysis of performance against those targets
We are on track to meet our 2025 GHG goal and achieved a reduction of approximately 20% in fiscal year 2021. One of the ways we are achieving our GHG 
reduction is by designing energy efficiencies into our facilities infrastructure. As part of these efforts, we have successfully completed the test phase of a 
Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition (PECVD) chamber cleans project. The project, conducted at our German manufacturing facility, replaces high 
global warming potential gases used in our processes, such as SF6 and NF3, with a Fluorine-based gas mixture that has a global warming potential of zero, 
thereby greatly reducing our direct Scope 1 emissions.
In 2021, we signed a 10-year structured renewable energy agreement with Shell Energy North America (US), L.P . (Shell Energy). The deal enables us to secure 
approximately 115,000 megawatt-hours of 100% renewable energy annually to power our headquarters campus in San Diego, reducing our Scope 2 emissions. 
The agreement includes an annually increasing portion of renewable power and RECs generated from resources located in California. It also supports the 
further development of the Shell Maverick 4 and Maverick 7 solar installations which will improve the mix of green energy sources flowing into the California 
Independent System Operator (ISO) grid.
Additionally, our manufacturing facilities in China, Germany and Singapore have been International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 
(Environmental Management System Standard) certified since 1999 and ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety standard) certified since January 2021. 
Our facility in Germany has obtained ISO 50001 (Energy Management System standard) certification since 2014 and we plan to expand this certification to our 
Singapore and China facilities by 2023.
Qualcomm’s strategy for complying with regulatory carbon trading systems in both California and the EU is to follow all applicable guidance and directives 
issued by the California and EU systems. Qualcomm has also proactively collaborated with regulators to ensure compliance; for example, by determining 
which of our California operations are subject to Cap and T rade (Ca T) regulations, in consultation with regulators, and which are exempt.
We continue to deploy activities and invest in programs that support our advancement in the reduction of our emissions. We intend to continue to opt, where 
possible, for the generation of clean energy and the deployment of new technologies to reduce our environmental impact, among other measures. We are 
committed to taking action and making a positive contribution in the fight against climate change. 
For more information on Qualcomm’s environmental responsibility efforts, please see: 
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design/environment
Energy 
Management in 
ManufacturingTC-SC-130a.1 (1)  T otal energy consumed, 
(2)  percentage grid 
electricity 
(3)  percentage renewable 
Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)For our manufacturing sites, 
(1) T otal energy consumed is 692,344GJ; this includes 
(2) 65% of grid electricity and 
(3) 35% from renewable energy sources67
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Water 
Management in 
ManufacturingTC-SC-140a.1 (1) T otal water withdrawn, 
and
(2)  total water consumed, 
% of each in regions 
with High or Extremely 
High Baseline Water 
Stress
Thousand cubic meters 
(m3), Percentage (%)(1) T otal water withdrawn is 2,087.25m3, 
(2)  T otal water consumed is 219.79m3. Our manufacturing facility in Wuxi, China is located in a high baseline water stress region based on the information  
by the World Resources Institute (WRI) Water Stress Map. 22% of our water consumed in manufacturing is from Wuxi.  
Waste 
Management in 
ManufacturingTC-SC-150a.1 (1)  Amount of hazardous 
waste from 
manufacturing, and
(2)  percentage recycled
Metric tons (t), Percentage 
(%)For our manufacturing sites, 
(1) T otal hazardous waste is 758 metric tons;
(2) 35% recycled.
Employee 
Health & 
SafetyDescription of efforts 
to assess, monitor and 
reduce exposure of 
employees to human 
health hazardsEmployee Health and Safety
Workplace health and safety is one of Qualcomm’s highest priorities. We integrate environment, health and safety (EHS) principles and practices into our 
everyday operations, ensuring a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors, visitors, and communities. 
Our EHS Policy highlights our commitment to proactively manage workplace health and safety risks while continually improving our established 
management system. We maintain compliance with applicable legal and other requirements, regularly monitor and improve EHS performance, mitigate 
hazards and risks, and incorporate industry best practices. The policy also provides a framework for setting and reviewing EHS objectives.
Our EHS governance framework and global EHS management system, which are overseen at the highest levels of the Company, enable us to effectively 
manage risk, ensure regulatory compliance and address the health and safety needs of our employees and contractors. Starting with our Policy as the 
foundation, our EHS management system (code of practice) comprises of a series of globally applicable Core Principles, Standards and assurance processes 
that are structured using the ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 frameworks as a foundation.
The EHS Code of Practice serves as a guide for developing a broad range of programs for the protection of workers and the environment into our  
day-to-day business management systems. It provides the framework to establish an overall strategy, and an organizational structure for managing 
Qualcomm EHS program. 68
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index68
T opic SASB Code Metric Response
(continued)
Employee 
Health & 
SafetyDescription of efforts 
to assess, monitor and 
reduce exposure of 
employees to human 
health hazardsQualcomm requires all its worldwide offices, labs, and manufacturing sites to apply the EHS Code of Practice to avoid, mitigate and manage  
health and safety risks. The EHS Code of Practice is periodically reviewed and updated to maintain alignment with industry best practice and ensure 
continuous improvement.
Qualcomm sites are required to conduct self-assessments as part of our annual compliance assurance process. Lab management and local EHS engineers 
conduct more frequent spot checks and inspections to assess compliance. In addition, we require regular internal EHS audits to verify the effective 
implementation of our EHS programs, as well as periodic external audits to verify the compliance status of country-specific regulatory requirements.
For more information on Qualcomm’s Environment, Health and Safety Code of Practice:
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design/environment/health-and-safety
For more information on Qualcomm’s Environment, Health and Safety Policy: 
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/media/documents/files/environment-health-and-safety-policy.pdf
Product Responsibility
At Qualcomm, we address the sustainability of our products through the Company’s Environmental Management System and various hazardous substance 
elimination programs. We strive to apply the “precautionary principle. ” We take preventative measures regarding certain chemicals, even if science has not 
indicated clear environmental or health hazards. Our own requirements are often more stringent than applicable law. 
Qualcomm has been proactive in removing lead from our products since 1999. We introduced lead-free flip-chips in 2010. Since then, we have been 
incorporating a lead-free design into our new integrated-circuit products whenever technically and economically feasible. Regulations do not prohibit the  
use of all brominated and chlorinated compounds in our products. Nevertheless, we’ve been proactive in eliminating them because of the potential hazards 
they pose. 
For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner, please see our Sustainable Product Design webpage:  
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design
Employee 
Health & 
SafetyT otal amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with employee health 
and safety violations(1) $0 in Fiscal Year 202169
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Recruiting 
& Managing 
Global 
and Skilled 
WorkforceTC-SC-330a.1 (1)  Percentage of 
employees that are 
foreign nationals and
(2)  Percentage of 
employees that are 
located offshore(1) 12% of employees globally are foreign nationals. 
(2) Employees in the US: 34% 
Employees outside of the US by region - Americas: 1%
Employees outside of the US by region - APAC: 22%
Employees outside of the US by region - EMEA: 9%
Employees outside of the US by region - India: 34%
Implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product 
innovations. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to innovate which includes our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified 
employees. Highly skilled talent, especially in the areas of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) is vital to the success of our industry and to the 
future of technological innovation around the world. Thus, the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive.
Finding top engineering talent is key to our success at Qualcomm. More than two-thirds of our employees are engineers. T o ensure that we can attract top 
talent, we must be able to hire the best engineers, regardless of their country of origin. Beyond fierce competition for talent across our industry and with our 
competitors, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign nationals, making the pool of available talent even 
smaller. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. Additionally, increased competition to recruit highly skilled and 
talented individuals can increase costs.
At Qualcomm, we address this risk by supporting existing and future employees through a dedicated team of talent acquisition specialists, including 
immigration specialists. We also have experts in immigration law across our legal team and an outside legal firm that support our Company’s hiring and 
recruitment efforts and help our in-house immigration team.
Qualcomm has been a committed partner to countries around the world for more than 30 years, supporting policies that encourage innovation, foster 
the proliferation of mobile technology and enable business-friendly environments globally. We engage in public policy efforts to support regulations that 
are aligned to today’s economic reality. Our Government Affairs team participates in diverse advocacy efforts that contribute to helping us ensure that 
immigration laws support our Company’s ability to develop leading edge technologies specifically and our innovation-based, global economy in general. 
Our advocacy efforts, as they relate to immigration laws and recruiting a global workforce, are generally implemented through collaborations with trade 
associations and diverse coalitions of employers.
For more information on our public policy efforts around immigration, please visit Qualcomm’s public policy webpage:
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/public-policy
For more information on risk factors related to retaining and attracting talent, please visit our latest 10-K:  
https:/ /investor.qualcomm.com/sec-filings/annual-reports70
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Product 
Lifecycle and 
ManagementTC-SC-410a.1 (1)  Percentage of products 
by revenue that 
contain IEC 62474 
declarable substances(1) products representing 2.14% of our revenues contain IEC 62474 declarable substances. 
For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner, please see our Sustainable Product Design webpage:
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design
Product 
Lifecycle and 
ManagementTC-SC-410a.2 (1)  Processor energy 
efficiency at a system-
level for servers, 
(2)  Processor energy 
efficiency at a system-
level for desktops, and 
(3)  Processor energy 
efficiency at a system-
level for laptops We do not disclose single percentages for these product categories as defined by this metric. Due to the numerous and diverse types of products in our 
portfolio, as well as the continued release of new products to the market, we believe it is more relevant to report on our efforts around product efficiency in 
performance and discuss our sustainable product design efforts. 
For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner, please see our Sustainable Product Design webpage: 
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design
For more information on Qualcomm® Quick Charge™ technology, which allows charging of smartphones and devices up to 10 degrees C cooler, up to 4X 
faster, and up to 70% more efficiently than with previous solutions, please see our Quick Charge 5 webpage:
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/products/features/quick-charge#:~:text=Qualcomm%C2%AE%20Quick%20Charge%E2%84%A2,one%20method%20for%20
fast%20charging.&text=Quick%20Charge%205%20is%20world’s,%2C%20accessories%2C%20and%20safety%20features. 
For more information on our Artificial Intelligence (AI) related products and power efficiency as a primary area of AI research and development, please see our 
Artificial Intelligence website: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/invention/artificial-intelligence
For more information on Qualcomm’s efforts around 5G Io T, including Qualcomm T echnologies latest 212 L TE Io T modem, the world’s most power-efficient, 
single mode, NB2 Io T chipset, please see our 5G Io T webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/invention/5g/internet-of-things
Qualcomm Quick Charge is a product of Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.71
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Materials 
SourcingTS-SC-440a.1 (1)  Description of the 
management of risks 
associated with the 
use of critical materialsQualcomm is aware of concerns that minerals mined in conflict areas in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries may be 
making their way into the electronics industry supply chain and may be fueling human rights violations and environmental degradation in the DRC 
region. Qualcomm strives to provide DRC conflict free products. We support industry-wide efforts to drive transparency in the supply chain. As part of our 
commitment to sourcing excellence, we’re working to ensure that the minerals in our products were not mined in ways that contribute to human rights 
violations in the DRC region. We expect our suppliers to obtain materials from environmentally and socially responsible sources, including conflict free sources 
within the DRC and adjoining countries.
Our conflict free minerals policy communicates the expectation that our direct suppliers obtain materials from environmentally and socially responsible 
sources, including conflict free sources within the Covered Countries. Our due diligence measures have been designed to conform, in all material respects,  
to the framework provided by the OECD Guidance.
More information about our conflict free mineral efforts, including more details on our due diligence process as well as measures we performed for the 
reporting period to exercise due diligence on the source and chain of custody of our necessary conflict minerals that may have originated in the Covered 
Countries, can be accessed in our conflict free minerals webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/sustainability/products/conflict-free-minerals.
And conflict free minerals report: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/media/documents/files/2020-conflict-minerals-report.pdf
IP Protection 
and 
Competitive 
BehaviorTS-SC-520a.1 (1) T otal amount of 
monetary losses 
as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with anti-competitive 
behavior regulationsInformation related to litigation and legal proceedings is disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. This 
documentation is publicly available through our Investor Relations website and on SEC.gov.
FY21 10-K Annual Report:
https:/ /investor.qualcomm.com/sec-filings/annual-reports/content/0001728949-21-000076/0001728949-21-000076.pdf (pp. 43, pp. F-14)
Investors Relations Website 10-Q Forms:
https:/ /investor.qualcomm.com/sec-filings/all-sec-filings?form_type=10-Q&year=2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index72
T ask Force on 
Climate-related 
Financial  
Disclosures Index73
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
Governance: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
a) Describe the board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks and opportunities.The Governance Committee of the Board of Directors (the Board) provides oversight on ESG matters, including climate-related issues. The 
Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee is composed of executives and senior management from across the Company, 
including Human Resources, Legal, Government Affairs, Supply Chain, Ethics and Compliance, Investor Relations, Operations and Finance.  
This Committee reports at least annually on the Company’s ESG policies, programs, initiatives and reporting, including climate change and  
water-related issues, to the Governance Committee of the Board.2021 CDP Climate 
Change Survey
Questions C1.1a and C1.1b
b) Describe the management’s role 
in assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) reports directly to the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The CFO provides overarching guidance on 
ESG matters, including climate-related issues and has these responsibilities because they hold the highest management-level position on the 
Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee and are part of Qualcomm’s Executive T eam.2021 CDP Climate 
Change Survey
Question C1.2a
Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.
a) Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short, medium 
and long term.
b) Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy 
and financial planning.Qualcomm defines short, medium and long-term time horizons as follows: 
Short-term: 0 – 5 years 
Medium-term: 5 – 10 years 
Long-term: 10 – 15 years 
Climate-related Risks Impact: 
T o date, we have not identified any inherent climate-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on our 
business. We plan to continue to monitor for climate-related risks on a regular basis.
Climate-related Opportunities: 
Opportunity type and driver: Products and services.
Primary potential impact: Increased revenues through access to new and emerging markets.
Description: Our 5G breakthroughs are helping transform industries, like telemedicine and remote education, and driving efficiencies with always-
connected mobile PCs, smart cities and smart factories. These innovations can have profound effects - from the positive impacts for human and 
machine productivity, to maximizing performance while using less power, to ultimately transforming industries and enriching lives around the world. 
Through smart infrastructure, we’re helping to reduce hazards, complications and costs associated with water and lighting, for example, by enabling 
cities and regional governments to better maintain and manage city infrastructure and efficiencies. Cities are preparing to use 5G to monitor 
air and water quality in real time, while also utilizing connected-car technology designed to minimize traffic jams and reduce emissions while 
improving safety.2021 CDP Climate 
Change Survey 
Questions C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3b, 
C2.4, C2.4a2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index74
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
(continued)
a) Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short, medium 
and long term.
b) Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy 
and financial planning.Opportunity type and driver: Development of new products or services through R&D and innovation.
Primary potential impact: Increased revenues resulting from increased demand for products and services.
Description: Qualcomm is developing technologies that will improve energy efficiency in mobile devices and other applications. For example,  
the Snapdragon 5G Mobile Platforms feature a comprehensive modem-to-antenna system solution for 5G multimode devices, designed to 
intelligently work together to consistently deliver high cellular speeds, superior coverage and outstanding power efficiency across numerous 
applications. Similarly, Qualcomm T echnologies Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (C-V2X) technology continues to become the preferred technology  
for vehicles to communicate with one another and with their surroundings and to promote improved safety, traffic efficiency and support for 
automated vehicles. This technology allows vehicles to work closely with traffic signal controllers, ensuring reduction in carbon emissions and 
optimization of traffic efficiency.
Opportunity type and driver: Resources efficiency through the use of more efficient production and distribution processes.
Primary potential impact: Reduced indirect (operating) costs.
Description: Recognizing the growing importance of efficient, low-emission operations, Qualcomm has implemented a number of more efficient 
building systems across its facilities portfolio.
c) Describe the potential impact 
of different scenarios, including a 
2⁰C scenario, on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy and  
financial planning.In 2020, we conducted our first company-wide climate scenario analysis (CSA). Our qualitative evaluation included 1.5°C, 2°C, and 4°C warming 
scenarios. Under the 4°C scenario, global warming reaches 4°C by 2100, relative to pre-industrial temperatures, and climate policy is less ambitious. 
In the 2°C scenario, global warming reaches 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and climate policy is more aggressive compared to the 4°C policy. In 
the 1.5°C scenario, global warming will be limited to rising well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century, and it is generally 
assumed that society acts rapidly to limit GHG emissions. We assessed a limited set of risks: price of carbon (transition risk), coastal flooding, high 
heat days, water stress, extreme cold days, average temperature and air pollution (physical risks).
As we evaluated the possible impacts to our Company under these three scenarios, we focused on the potential for increased operating 
costs and increased business interruption across our operations. We leveraged standardized, third-party climate modeling data, such as the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs), and applied internal data sources such as 
our global GHG emissions, water use and facilities data.Information on our 
climate scenario analysis 
can be found on our 
Corporate Responsibility 
Website and in our  
2020 Corporate 
Responsibility Report.75
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
(continued)
c) Describe the potential impact 
of different scenarios, including a 
2⁰C scenario, on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy and  
financial planning.Potential Impacts:
• Water stress in India, China, Germany, Singapore and the United States, where high-value operations are located, could pose an escalating risk 
of business interruption and increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario.
• An increased number of high heat days in the United States, Singapore and India could pose an escalating risk of business interruption and 
increased operating costs in both 4°C and 2°C CSAs but could occur earlier and be greater in magnitude in the 4°C CSA.
• An increase in average temperatures in the United States and Germany could pose an escalating risk of business interruption and increased 
operating costs in both 4°C and 2°C CSAs but could occur earlier and be greater in magnitude in the 4°C CSA. 
• Coastal flooding and sea level rise threaten host cities in T aiwan, China, India, the United States and the United Kingdom with an escalating risk 
of business interruption and increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario.
• Workforce exposure to air pollution in the United States, China and India could continue to pose a moderate risk of business interruption and 
increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario.
• The risk of increased operating costs due to the price of carbon primarily occurs for facilities in Germany and China in the 4°C CSA and the 2°C 
CSA. This risk is greater in magnitude in the 1.5°C CSA for high emissions facilities in India, China and the United States.
Based on the results of this analysis, we don’t recognize any current material risks and, therefore, have not initiated any immediate mitigation 
pathways. We plan to continue to monitor these assessments on a regular basis to stay ahead of any emerging risks.
Risk Management: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks.
a) Describe the organization’s  
process for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks.
b) Describe the organization’s 
processes for managing climate-
related risks.
c) Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organization’s overall risk 
management.T o determine which risks and/or opportunities could have a substantive financial or strategic impact, potential risks are classified either as 
company-level, when evaluated during the materiality assessment process (see below), or asset-level, when evaluated through Qualcomm’s 
Business Continuity Program.
Company-level risks: Qualcomm regularly conducts materiality assessments to determine which corporate responsibility impacts we consider to 
be substantive at the corporate level. During the materiality assessment process, risks are evaluated based on a combined score from two indices 
of importance: importance to business success and importance to stakeholders. Importance to business success includes considerations such as 
impact on manufacturing and operations, technology and innovation, revenue and cost. Importance to stakeholders includes considerations such 
as governmental regulations, environmental agreements and corporate responsibility-related investment decisions. Materiality is determined by 
combining a risk’s scores on a variety of business and environmental indices according to a proprietary weighting formula. A risk is considered to 
be material in part if it has a significant impact in any of these categories, and the magnitude of corporate responsibility risks (including climate-
related risks) are considered with equal weight as the risk’s importance to business success. 
Note: The definition and use of “materiality” above is not the same as the Company uses for U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission purposes. 2021 CDP Climate 
Change Survey 
C2.2, C2.2a2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index76
76
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
(continued)
a) Describe the organization’s  
process for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks.
b) Describe the organization’s 
processes for managing climate-
related risks.
c) Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organization’s overall risk 
management.Asset-level risks: Qualcomm’s Business Continuity Program utilizes a risk/hazard assessment process to identify and evaluate such risks on a 
regional basis. The risk/hazard assessment process ranks man-made and environmental risks (including climate-related risks) using quantifiable 
resources to determine the likelihood of occurrence. Consultation with site leads are completed to rate the potential size and scope of specific 
impacts. This process is completed on a recurring basis, and the outputs are presented to the regional business continuity management teams. 
Qualcomm manages risks based on the outcome of the risk analysis conducted. The Business Resilience Program helps document recovery 
guidelines and procedures to allow Qualcomm to continue critical business functions in the event of disaster. Disasters include local incidents 
like building fires, regional physical incidents like earthquakes, or national incidents like pandemic illnesses, including impacts based on climate 
change. The output is presented to the regional business resilience management teams. Those management teams utilize the risk assessment 
process to mitigate, insure or accept asset risks. In addition to risk management through the Business Resilience Program process, Qualcomm also 
uses the results of annual sensitivity analyses around each identified risk to inform its strategic planning.
Metrics and T argets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.
a) Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate- 
related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk-
management process.
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and the related risks.
c) Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.CO2e  
Metric T ons 
2021CO2e  
Metric T ons 
2020*CO2e  
Metric T ons 
2019**
T otal Scope 1 – Direct GHG Emissions by Weight (includes purchased carbon offsets). 106,659 112,479 75,290
T otal Scope 2 – Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight (market-based: emission factors  
where available and purchased International Renewable Energy Certificates and 
Emission Reduction Credits)187,447 203,047 114,060
T otal Scope 3 – Other Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight 3,649,499 2,707,344 112,252***Our climate-related metrics and 
targets can be found on our  
Corporate Responsibility 
Website and in our  
2020 Corporate 
Responsibility Report.77
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
(continued)
a) Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate- 
related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk-
management process.
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and the related risks.
c) Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.     * In 2020, we expanded our reporting of Scope 3 GHG emissions to include upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, fuel- and 
energy- related activities not included in Scopes 1 and 2, waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting, use of sold 
products and end-of-life treatment of sold products. 
  **Amount represents prior-year calendar data.
***Amount represents estimated emissions across business travel and employee commuting. 
We continually look for ways to reduce our global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Our GHG reduction goals are as follows:
1. T o reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 30% by 2025 from a 2014 base year
2. T o reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50% by 2030 from 2020 base year
3. T o reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions by 25% by 2030 from a 2020 base year
4. T o reach net-zero global GHG emissions for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2040
We’ve reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by approximately 20%.2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | United Nations Sustainable Development Goals78
Our alignment with the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Qualcomm’s 2030 Vision is our roadmap to inform big-picture thinking on corporate responsibility issues that are most important to our 
Company, and will help us identify where we can collaborate with key stakeholders to create sustainability solutions.
Our 2030 Vision
Develop transformative 
mobile technologies 
that are widely 
adopted in support of 
a sustainable world.Employ a workforce that 
more closely reflects the 
demographics of the 
communities in which we 
do business.Be recognized as a global 
leader in business conduct 
and ethics.Maintain adherence to our 
supplier code of conduct in 
our extended supply chain.Ensure that respect 
for human rights is 
integrated into all key 
business decisions.Ensure sustainable and 
transparent management 
of our climate and water 
impacts across our 
value chain.Actively engage 
stakeholders in 
our corporate 
responsibility programs.
2021 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report | About This Report79
Boundary and Scope
This report covers our 2021 fiscal year: September 28, 2020 to September 26, 
2021. In some instances, data is collected and reported on a calendar rather  
than a fiscal year basis. Such exceptions, as well as any other exceptions to  
the reporting period, are noted within the report. Financial data is reported  
in U.S. dollars. The information and data in this report includes Qualcomm 
Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
Disclosure and Assurance
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option.
The content of this report was developed using the GRI’s “principles for 
defining report content”: materiality, completeness, stakeholder inclusiveness 
and sustainability context. Our use of the materiality principle encompassed 
our whole value chain, both within and outside the Company, but it is not 
the same materiality principles relevant for U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission purposes.
Our energy, air quality and GHG emissions data have been third-party verified. 
The report as a whole has not been externally assured. 
Additional information about our operations and financial statements is  
available in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Additional information about corporate responsibility at Qualcomm is available 
at https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility.
About This 
Report
Since our founding in 1985, Qualcomm has been 
committed to bettering the communities where 
we live and work. We have been producing an 
annual corporate responsibility report since 2006.
We welcome your  
comments and feedback  
at qsr@qualcomm.com
© 2019-2021 Qualcomm Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
Qualcomm, Snapdragon, Wireless Reach and Thinkabit Lab are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated, 
registered in the United States and other countries. Other products and brand names may be trademarks or 
registered trademarks of their respective owners.
References in this presentation to “Qualcomm” may mean Qualcomm Incorporated, Qualcomm T echnologies, 
Inc., and/or other subsidiaries or business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable. 
Qualcomm Incorporated includes our licensing business, QTL, and the vast majority of our patent portfolio. 
Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, along with its subsidiaries, 
substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, and substantially all of our products and 
services businesses, including our QCT semiconductor business.
Qualcomm Headquarters
5775 Morehouse Drive 
San Diego, CA 92121 
Phone 858-587-1121 
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/ 
company/corporate-responsibility