2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
Sending a 
Strong Signal
Stepping up, reaching out and making  
responsibility quintessentially Qualcomm.
Full ReportSending a Strong Signal 2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
Building responsibility  
into everything we do
Full SectionOur CompanyOur CompanyBuilding responsibility into everything we do
You might say a "responsibility chip" has been embedded in our Company from day one. Just as our technology isessential to connecting people worldwide, responsibility is essential to who we are. It’s reflected in our corporategovernance, our code of ethics and our ongoing efforts to make products that are more socially andenvironmentally responsible. At Qualcomm, innovation has made us successful. Acting responsibly will ensure westay that way.Section HighlightsDr. Paul E. Jacobs talksabout social responsibilityat Qualcomm.
A Message from Our Chairman and CEO
Read the letter.Integrating socialresponsibility into ourcorporate structure.
New QSR Governance Structure
Read how.More than 25 years ofturning value into action.
25-Year QSR Timeline
View the timeline.How we navigate theethical and legal landscapeof our complex business.
The Qualcomm Way
Read more.We are continuouslymonitoring ways toimprove our products.
Product Responsibility
Read how.Strong relationships arekey to how we provideresponsible products.
Supply Chain Management
Read more.Our CompanyBuilding responsibility into everything we do
You might say a "responsibility chip" has been embedded in our Company from day one. Just as ourtechnology is essential to connecting people worldwide, responsibility is essential to who we are. It’s reflectedin our corporate governance, our code of ethics and our ongoing efforts to make products that are moresocially and environmentally responsible. At Qualcomm, innovation has made us successful. Actingresponsibly will ensure we stay that way.Section HighlightsDr. Paul E. Jacobs talksabout social responsibilityat Qualcomm.
A Message from Our Chairman and CEO
Read the letter.Integrating socialresponsibility into ourcorporate structure.
New QSR Governance Structure
Read how.More than 25 years ofturning value into action.
25-Year QSR Timeline
View the timeline.How we navigate theethical and legallandscape of our complexbusiness.
The Qualcomm Way
Read more.Product ResponsibilitySupply Chain ManagementWe are continuouslymonitoring ways toimprove our products.
Read how.Strong relationships arekey to how we provideresponsible products.
Read more.A Message from Our Chairman and CEO
Sending a strong signal since 1985
At Qualcomm, we’ve built our success upon our ability to innovate, develop strong industry partnerships and
execute on our strategies. But underlying everything we do is our unwavering commitment to integrity. For twenty-
five years, our ideas have been transforming the lives of people across the world. And as we’ve expanded our
reach and impact, we’ve always remained mindful of our responsibilities—to our many stakeholders, to the
communities where we do business and to our environment.
 We want the world to know that social responsibility is as integral
to Qualcomm as our technology is to revolutionizing the wireless
industry.
In 2010, through actions large and small, we continued to send a clear signal that we are a company that takes its
responsibilities seriously—one built on time-tested values that are the foundation of Qualcomm. We recognize that
our success will always be dependent on doing the right thing in every facet of our business. As such, we continue
to demonstrate each year that our values are more than just words; they are an inseparable part of who we are.
Perhaps our most far-reaching social responsibility achievement in 2010 was the implementation of our Qualcomm
Social Responsibility (QSR) organizational structure . This new structure, embedded within our greater corporate
structure, enables us to better inform, assess and guide our social responsibility efforts. Composed of people from
across Qualcomm—including members of our executive leadership—our QSR structure provides for greater
accountability and transparency and for ongoing improvement of our social responsibility efforts. It integrates
responsibility considerations even more deeply in every part of our Company and ensures that our intention to be
an engaged and exemplary corporate citizen is factored into every decision we make. Heading this new structure
is our QSR Leadership Committee, which guides us on key global citizenship issues and reports annually to the
Governance Committee of our Board of Directors. Their leadership and access to our Board ensures socialresponsibility issues will be weighed at the highest levels of our Company and treated as an essential component
of our business strategy.
In 2010, we also worked with a respected ethics consultant to complete a top-to-bottom evaluation and revision of
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct . I am proud of the result. Our enhanced Code is a clear,
comprehensive and unequivocal statement of the regulatory and ethical compliance expected of every Qualcomm
employee, executive and director. It serves as a compass to guide us in our daily work and a symbol of our
commitment to doing the right thing.
I’m proud of Qualcomm for many reasons—and seeing our employees make a real, meaningful difference year
after year is high among them. Our employees volunteer in the communities where we do business. They find
innovative ways to make our products more sustainable. They recycle, promote inclusion and comply with
regulations—in short, they do all the things that make responsibility a defining part of our culture. Our goal is for100 percent of our employees around the world to make a contribution to our record of responsibility and
citizenship.
Overall, our accomplishments in 2010 continued to send a clear message about our commitment to social
responsibility. We want the world to know that social responsibility is as integral to Qualcomm as our technology is
to revolutionizing the wireless industry. This report is one way we send that signal loud and clear. Thank you for
reading it.
Dr. Paul E. Jacobs
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer25-Year QSR TimelineMaking a difference through the decadesFor more than twenty-five years, we’ve wanted to make a difference—through our innovative products and throughour conduct as a company. We’ve maintained a safe, rewarding work culture that attracts the best and brightest.We’ve sought to be transparent and fully accountable in our governance. We’ve given our time, money and know-how to help improve communities. And we’ve worked to minimize our impact on the environment. We seeresponsibility as a never-ending journey, and we are proud of our progress to date. Here are some of themilestones we’ve passed along the way.1980199020002010Choose a decade:
1985Our founders plant the seeds of anexceptional workplace.It happened when seven people rented their first space inan unassuming office park in La Jolla, California. Today, weemploy more than 17,500 employees in over 139 locationsworldwide. And we still maintain a fair, progressive andrewarding culture that has won numerous accolades anddrawn outstanding people from around the world.Read about our workplace today.
1991Qualcomm goes public. And ourgovernance goes transparent.With our initial public offering, 4 million shares were madeavailable for sale on the NASDAQ Stock Market, and weformulated what would become our current governancepolicies.Learn more about our corporate governance today.
1991Our risk-management programcrosses the (state) line.Ironically, we chose to mitigate risk by opening an office inLas Vegas—our first office outside California. It was our wayof protecting against disaster at our San Diego facilities. Ourdisaster-planning efforts have grown more sophisticatedever since.Read more in our Global Emergency Management section. 1994We begin installing dark fiber.It’s not a health food—it’s a way of shrinking energyconsumption by reducing the number of circuits in our ITinfrastructure. Since then, we’ve expanded our green ITinitiatives by employing energy-efficient data centers,enhancing server virtualization and more.See our latest Green IT initiatives.
1996We win San Diego’s Waste Reductionand Recycling Award.We’ve since won this recognition from the city eight moretimes. Our Company is growing, and our effort to minimizewaste is growing right along with it.Read how we are reducing waste today. 1997Employees sound off in our firstCorporate Climate Survey.We wanted to know what our employees thought aboutworking at Qualcomm. So we asked them. And we’ve askedon a regular basis since. Engaging with employees andother stakeholders is a hallmark of our culture.See how we are connecting with our stakeholders.
1998QCares begins.Our employee volunteer program grew out of our inherentcommitment to community involvement. To date, employees—including 100 percent of our current leadership team—have given thousands of off-the-clock hours to help improvethe communities where we live and work.Read more in Our Community section. 1999FORTUNE names us one of its “100Best Companies to Work For inAmerica.”And we’ve made the list every year since.See a list of our current memberships and awards.
2002California names us a Climate ActionLeader.As a charter member of the California Climate ActionRegistry, we earned the distinction of “Climate ActionLeader” for our early voluntary reporting of greenhouse gasemissions. We’ve received the honor every year since.View our commitment to cleaner air.
2003We introduce lead-free chip-scalepackage products.We were driven to this innovation by the simple belief thatless lead in the soil, water and air is a good thing. In 2010,we overcame significant technical challenges to introduceseveral lead-free flip-chip integrated circuit products.Learn more about our efforts toward socially andenvironmentally responsible innovation. 2004Our charitable giving surpasses $50million.Sometimes donating money to a worthy charitableorganization is the most effective way to make an impact.As of the end of 2010, we’ve contributed more than $165million through our corporate giving and employeeengagement programs.Read more in Our Community section.
2005We install our first solar panel.Capacity? 100,000 watts. Today, solar provides our facilitieswith over 830,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity and is just onepart of our overall renewable energy strategy.See how we are cutting our energy use as we cut costs. 2006We reach out with Wireless Reach™.By teaming with other organizations to bring the benefits ofwireless to people around the world, we’re helping to bridgethe digital divide. Today, we’re working with more than 200organizations on 66 projects in 29 countries.Learn more about our Wireless Reach program.
2007We build our first LEED-certifiedproject.The building on our W Campus in San Diego was certifiedLEED Gold. In 2010, we took LEED global.See how we are designing and operating our facilities today. 2007We launch Snapdragon, extendingbattery life and saving energy.Our game-changing mobile processing platform broke thegigahertz barrier. It delivered an unprecedented combinationof mobile data processing, multimedia performance and 3Gwireless capabilities. And it offered the lowest levels ofpower consumption for all-day battery life. In fact, it stilldoes.Read more about our efforts toward socially andenvironmentally responsible innovation.
2009Our employee cafeterias are certifiedas Green Restaurants™.We call them cafés. The Green Restaurant Association callsthem sustainable. We earned that distinction by completinga rigorous 18-step certification process requiring us to installenergy-efficient cooking equipment, buy local and organicand much more.Read more about our sustainable kitchen practices.
2010We embed social responsibility in ourCompany structure.Responsibility has always been part of our DNA. Now it’sofficially part of our organization. Our new QSR structureensures accountability and makes responsibility part of thestrategic thinking at the highest levels of our Company.See the new structure.
Governance
Setting the tone at the top
Responsibility begins with our leadership. Our Board of Directors, executive team and management make
transparency and accountability their paramount concern as they oversee and guide our Company. And while
social responsibility considerations have always influenced our business strategies, we’ve implemented a new
internal structure for planning, executing and reporting social responsibility initiatives that will help our leadership
factor responsibility considerations into daily decision-making.
 Our ultimate aim is to integrate social responsibility into our
corporate structure even more thoroughly than it is integrated
today.How we’re governed
As a publicly held company, we are governed by a 13-member Board of Directors , which sets high standards for
our executive leadership  and all of our employees as it acts in the best interests of our stockholders. Our directors
serve as a prudent fiduciary and oversee our Company’s management. Board members are expected at all times
to act in accordance with our Code of Ethics .
Eleven of our 13 directors are independent, meaning they are not employees, have not been employees within thelast three years and do not have any business or consulting arrangements with Qualcomm. The Board includes a
presiding director who is independent. The presiding director presides at all meetings of the Board at which the
chair is not present, including executive sessions of the independent directors.
The Board has four standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Finance and Governance. Members of all
committees except Finance are composed of independent directors. The presiding director serves as chair of one
of the three independent committees.
The positions of chairman of the board and chief executive officer are combined and are currently held by Dr. Paul
E. Jacobs, who has served as chairman of the board since 2009 and as chief executive officer since 2005. The
Board elects the chairman of the board and chief executive officer based on the criteria that it deems appropriate
and in the best interests of the Company at the time of election.
Detailed information about our governance structure and policies is available 
on our corporate website .
New QSR governance structure
In 2010, we took our commitment to social responsibility to a new level by creating a Qualcomm Social
Responsibility (QSR) governance structure dedicated to advancing and reporting our responsibility initiatives.
Heading the new structure is the QSR Leadership Committee, which provides guidance on key global citizenshipissues and reports annually to the Governance Committee of our Board of Directors. Four QSR committees—
Company, Workplace, Community, and Environment—include experts from across our Company who have front-
line knowledge of how we integrate social responsibility initiatives in our daily operations. These representatives
are tasked with implementing the QSR Leadership Committee’s directives as companywide practices broadly
shared with our stakeholders through various communication channels and annual reporting efforts.
A new organizational structure dedicated to responsibilityOur new QSR structure increases Qualcomm’s accountability on social responsibility issues by making senior
management responsible for key initiatives. It increases transparency by providing a framework for more thorough
and accurate reporting. And by providing a system for generating ideas and assessing current initiatives, it will
enable continuous improvement of our social responsibility efforts.
Our ultimate aim is to integrate social responsibility into our corporate structure even more thoroughly than it is
integrated today. It is our intention that, eventually, all Qualcomm employees will be engaged in our social
responsibility efforts in some way. Whether it means volunteering in the community, biking to work, improving
product safety, reducing the adverse environmental effects of our products, conserving resources or helpingsafeguard the integrity of our Company, we want to make responsibility part of everyone’s job description.
Protecting against risk by acting responsibly
As the number of people using mobile technology has grown, so has our Company. With growth comes not only
reward but also risk, opportunity and impact, both positive and potentially negative, on our stakeholders. OurBoard, executives and management work daily to minimize risk, capitalize on strategic opportunities and remain
mindful of the various impacts of our work. Our social responsibility initiatives are a key part of that effort. Here are
just a few examples.
Global economic conditions could decline, affecting demand for our products and reducing our revenues.
By investing in the places where we do business through our community involvement programs, we’re helping to
bolster communities against the effects of economic downturns. By hiring locally, we’re providing jobs and
stimulating local economies. Meanwhile, by acting as a prudent fiduciary for our Company and our stockholders,our Board of Directors seeks to protect the Company from adverse economic effects.Intense competition and the rapid evolution of technology in our industry could leave us at a
disadvantage.  By recruiting the best minds in the industry and building a workforce characterized by a diversity of
perspectives; by promoting a workplace culture that has been recognized as being among the best in the world;and by treating employees fairly and rewarding them well, we help ensure access to the innovators who will define
and lead our industry in coming years. Further, by making our products ever more sustainable and safe, we
continue to achieve an imperative for any company that hopes to set the agenda for the industry.
Our business could suffer in the event of a disaster or systems failure.  Our Global Emergency Management
team works daily to mitigate the potential effects of a wide range of natural and human-made catastrophes. We
currently have plans in place for business continuity in response to an emergency or catastrophe, which are
updated on a consistent basis.
In the United States and abroad, we are subject to an array of government regulations pertaining to our
environmental impact, safety, corporate governance, employees and more.  Through our clear,
comprehensive corporate code of conduct as well as ongoing employee training, we make ethical and regulatoryrequirements clear and reduce the risk of noncompliance, corruption or ethical breaches. Similarly, our Qualcomm
CDMA Technologies (QCT) business unit’s Supplier Code of Conduct  helps ensure regulatory compliance and
ethical behavior among our integrated circuit manufacturing suppliers. Also, our ongoing efforts to make our
products increasingly safe and sustainable reduce the likelihood that we will violate environmental and safety
regulations.
For additional discussion of risks related to our businesses, please refer to 
our most recently filed 10-Q and 10-K
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  under the heading “Risk Factors.”Ethics and Integrity
Drawing a clear line between right and wrong
The global wireless industry is fast-paced, complex and ever-shifting. But one thing never changes: our
expectation that every one of our employees, executives and directors will meet nothing less than the highest
ethical standards. From a new code of business conduct to our ongoing anticorruption efforts, here’s how we put
our commitment into action in 2010.
 One hundred percent of our business units are evaluated for risks
related to corruption.Implementing a new code of business conduct
We completed a comprehensive, 12-month process of assessing and updating our code of conduct. The result? A
fully revised, comprehensive corporate code of conduct we call The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business
Conduct .
By unequivocally describing obligations under the law as well as our responsibilities to our Company, our
stockholders and our communities, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct  helps all of us navigate
the ethical and legal landscape of our business. It makes our values and ethical boundaries clear and providesreporting instructions for employees, suppliers and any Qualcomm stakeholders who have concerns about ethical
matters within our Company. All employees are required to acknowledge Our Code of Business Conduct  online,
through a compelling presentation designed to help them better understand the content. We also encourageemployees to refer regularly to The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct  as a tool to help them do
their jobs day to day.
Preserving our anti-corruption record
Every year, our internal audit department evaluates 100 percent of our business units for risks related to
corruption. We also assess additional areas on a case-by-case basis. All employees in positions where corruptionmay be a risk are required to regularly review and certify compliance with our anticorruption policies. Due in large
part to this practice, there has never been any legal case for corruption brought against our employees or our
Company.
It is our policy to comply with anticorruption laws, including the 
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act  (FCPA), other
applicable U.S. laws and the anticorruption laws and regulations of the countries where we do business. It is also
our policy to obey all laws, including those that regulate our conduct in the marketing of our products, services and
technologies in the international marketplace.
We expect employees, agents, consultants and representatives deemed relevant to anticorruption concerns and
FCPA-type risks to review, understand and follow our FCPA policy. These individuals annually certify that they
understand our policy and are not aware of any violations of it. In the most recent certification process, we
identified active employees who might expose Qualcomm to FCPA-type risks—about 40 percent of our workforce.Of those employees, 99.7 percent certified their compliance with the policy.
Protecting customer privacy
We’re committed to protecting the privacy and personal information of the consumers who benefit from our
innovations. Respect for privacy helps us maintain the trust of our business partners and customers, distinguishesour products and services in the marketplace and helps ensure legal compliance.A cross-divisional privacy steering committee helps set our privacy policy. Due in part to this team’s work, we did
not receive any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or data in 2010 or in the two
years prior.Public Policy
Where we stand on public policy
We participate in the creation of public policy and advocate for certain policy positions on issues that affect our
business. We take measures to be transparent and accountable in all of our policy work. Following is a brief
summary of some of our policy positions.
 As a California-based company, we support strengthening
California’s R&D credit by bringing it into conformity with positive
aspects of the federal R&D credit.
Mobile broadband:  As a wireless innovator, we have a significant stake in policies that promote mobile
broadband. We’re helping to raise awareness of mobile technology as a tool for advancing economic inclusion andentrepreneurial development in emerging economies. Through our collaboration in our 
Wireless Reach™  projects
and participation in the U.S. Telecommunications Training Institute , The World Economic Forum , The ITU
Taskforce on Broadband  and other forums, we are also helping to educate the next generation of leaders in
emerging regions on wireless technology’s transformative power.
In addition, we work to educate policymakers around the world about the need to make more spectrum available,
given the explosion in wireless data usage. In the United States, Qualcomm strongly supports the National
Broadband Plan , which was released by the Federal Communications Commission  (FCC) in 2010. The FCC’s plan
calls for substantially more spectrum for mobile broadband—500 MHz to be made newly available for mobile
broadband use within the next 10 years, of which 300 MHz between 227 MHz and 3.7 GHz should be made
available within five years.
Intellectual property and patent reform:  As a technology developer, we rely on strong intellectual protections
and on patent systems that promote innovation and reward companies whose business models are patent-
dependent. We support patent reforms that improve patent quality and patent office operations. We also support
policies on standards and government funding/procurement that promote competition and catalyze ongoinginnovation.
Competition:  As a global company, we support open and competitive markets. With more than 100 antitrust
agencies in existence, all with different enforcement experience, legal systems and procedural requirements, we
advocate that government regulators of competition adhere to common principles in order to minimize legal
divergence and economic distortions across borders and promote commercial diffusion of technology and
consumer welfare.
Trade:  We support new agreements to open markets for trade and investment. We support an ambitious, pro-
growth trade policy and urge ratification of pending bilateral free trade agreements with Korea, Panama andColombia. We encourage the completion of the World Trade Organization Doha Round Trade Pact  and support
other trade initiatives, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership .
Education:  We fund education programs  and advocate for polices that improve education, particularly in the areas
of science, technology, engineering and math. Through our Wireless Reach  program, we specifically focus on the
role of mobile broadband in improving education.
Taxes:  We support tax policies that allow us to compete effectively in a global economy. At the federal level, we’ve
advocated in favor of policies that encourage research and development (R&D), including extension of the U.S.
R&D tax credit. We have also encouraged policymakers to consider proposals, such as a repatriation incentive,
that would allow U.S. multinationals to return offshore cash to the United States at a reduced tax rate to spur
investment and innovation.
As a California-based company, we support strengthening California’s R&D credit by bringing it into conformity with
positive aspects of the federal R&D credit. We have also been supportive of the single sales factor, which
apportions a business’ income based solely on sales, which encourages companies that sell to customers outside
of California to house their employees and property in California.
Workforce:  We advocate for a full supply of highly educated professionals, both U.S. citizens and foreign
nationals, to drive innovation, fuel economic growth and create business and job opportunities in the United States.
We have advocated in favor of reforms to U.S immigration laws that currently restrict our ability to hire and retain
foreign nationals who are qualified for jobs for which there is often a shortage of qualified U.S. workers.
We also monitor policy proposals that affect our ability to continue to offer best-in-class health care coverage and
other critical employee benefits. And we support policies that encourage diversity in the workplace, including
enactment of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act.
Political contributions
Through Qualcomm’s political action committee, QPAC, our employees make legal contributions to support
campaigns of federal candidates. Consistent with federal law, we pay the administrative costs of maintaining
QPAC, but all contributions to QPAC are from employees on a voluntary basis. Information regarding contributions
by QPAC is publicly reported and available on the website of the Federal Election Commission .
At the state level, we contribute to candidates, ballot initiatives and political parties. Records of our contributions tostate candidates are available at the website of the 
California Secretary of State . At the local level, Qualcomm has
made contributions to local parties and ballot initiatives.
In addition, Qualcomm adheres to the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act  (HLOGA), a U.S. law
prohibiting any registered lobbyist, or any organization that employs a lobbyist (such as Qualcomm), from
providing certain gifts to congressional employees. HLOGA requires companies that employ lobbyists to certify
semiannually that they have read the gift rules and that no gifts that were known to be in violation of the
Congressional gift rules have been given.
Employees may participate in political activities of their choice on an individual basis, with their own money and on
their own personal time, subject to all applicable laws and company policies.Product Responsibility
Making our products more sustainable
We continuously monitor opportunities to improve our products and make them as sustainable as is technically
and commercially possible. Through our environmental management system (EMS) and various hazardous
substance elimination programs, we address the environmental, health and safety effects of all our products. One
hundred percent of our products are subject to our EMS and/or our hazardous substance elimination programs.
Across our business units, we practice the “precautionary principle” of identifying and taking preventative
measures regarding chemicals, even in circumstances in which there is a high degree of scientific uncertainty
regarding potentially hazardous chemicals. You can read more about our efforts toward socially and
environmentally responsible innovation here.
 As of January 2009, all of our IC products incorporate
bromine/chlorine-free package design.Introduction of our lead-free flip chip
In 2010, we overcame significant technical challenges to introduce several lead-free flip-chip integrated circuit (IC)
products. Legislation in the United States and Europe does not specifically prohibit lead in solders used tocomplete a viable electrical connection between semiconductor die and carrier within IC flip-chip packages. But we
believed creating an alternative to lead solders was prudent from both an environmental and regulatory
perspective.
Our effort to remove lead from our products has a long history. We began exploring the removal of lead from our
IC products in 1999—long before the European Union’s (EU) 
Restriction on Hazardous Substance (RoHS)
Directive  became effective in 2006. In 2003, we became one of the leading IC manufacturers to introduce lead-
free chip-scale package products.
Ongoing removal of hazardous substances
In 2003, we began prohibiting the use of various hazardous substances in our IC product designs. We currently
prohibit the use of 22 substances in addition to those subject to the EU REACH Substances of Very High Concernrequirements.
Some brominated and chlorinated compounds (e.g., brominated flame retardants and PVC) have been widely
used in electronic devices, but are linked to environmental or health concerns. Although legislation does not
require complete elimination of brominated and chlorinated compounds from our products, we have been proactive
in eliminating them.
We began eliminating brominated and chlorinated compounds from our products in 2003, starting with
incorporation of bromine-free mold compounds. As of January 2009, all of our IC products incorporate the
bromine/chlorine-free package design. In 2010, we converted a number of high-volume legacy products to
bromine/chlorine-free designs. These include single-chip solution and MSM7xxx Series products.
We have extended our bromine/chlorine-free design to our non-IC products as well, including our embedded Gobi
3G module for notebooks and netbooks. As of January 2010, all new Gobi designs are bromine- and chlorine-free.Making distribution more efficient in Singapore
In 2010, we improved packaging and material handling practices at our Singapore Distribution Center, helping to
reduce our carbon footprint. We now:
Reuse inbound pallets at the distribution center and reuse empty boxes for shipment.
Recycle corrugated cardboard boxes from suppliers instead of incinerating them.
Employ battery-operated handling equipment instead of diesel-run equipment.
Reuse steel cages and trolleys more often than disposable palettes and cartons when moving materialbetween suppliers and our distribution center, which also lets us consolidate shipments and save fuel.
Only use loose cartons and unpalletized shipments when steel cages and trolleys are impractical.Supply Chain Management
A new code of conduct for our chipset manufacturing suppliers
As a fabless manufacturer of integrated circuit (IC) products, our partnership with manufacturing suppliers is key to
our ability to provide environmentally and socially responsible products. In addition to requiring that each IC
manufacturing supplier has an ISO14001-certified environmental management system, our Qualcomm CDMA
Technologies (QCT) business unit works with each IC manufacturing supplier in all stages of design and
manufacturing to ensure compliance with applicable global environmental legislation and various environmental
initiatives.
In 2010, QCT began implementing our Supplier Code of Conduct , a clear and comprehensive description of our
expectations for our manufacturing suppliers. We began the implementation process by educating our
semiconductor suppliers about the Code. The Code promotes safe working conditions, respectful treatment of
workers and responsible environmental operations throughout the QCT supply chain. It is composed of five major
sections that outline requirements for labor, health and safety, the environment, acceptable systems to manage
conformity to the Code and business ethics. The Code embodies the principles outlined in the Electronic Industry
Code of Conduct (EICC) , which is supported by the leading electronics companies around the world.
Improving our policy on conflict-free minerals
In 2010, we revised our policy regarding “DRC conflict minerals”—minerals mined in conflict areas in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries that may possibly be funding activities linked to
human rights violations and environmental degradation. Now even more far-reaching and clear in its intent, ourDRC Conflict-Free Minerals Policy is as follows:
During 2010, we began educating suppliers about this policy and advocating for conflict-free sourcing. Our policy
and related implementation strategies will enable us to not only comply with 
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission  regulations but also provide transparent sourcing for the benefit of our customers.
In addition to implementing our policy, we are part of the EICC-GeSI Extractives Work Group , an industry coalition
developing a systematic approach to keeping the electronics supply chain free of conflict minerals and supporting
legitimate sourcing from the DRC and adjoining countries.
Building an increasingly diverse supplier base
A diverse supplier base makes us a stronger company. That’s why we continue to encourage diverse suppliers to
compete for contracts that are within their capabilities to perform. We specifically reach out to small,
disadvantaged and minority-owned businesses and to businesses owned by women, veterans and people with
disabilities. We also promote opportunities for businesses situated in historically underutilized business zones.
In 2010, we improved our supplier diversity program in three ways:Qualcomm is aware of concerns that minerals mined in conflict areas in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries may be making their way into the electronics industry supply chain,
and may be fueling human rights violations and environmental degradation.
Qualcomm is committed to ensuring our supply chain is free of DRC conflict minerals by supporting
industry-wide efforts to implement due diligence standards, systems and procedures. In addition to requiring
that our suppliers comply with applicable laws, we expect that they source materials from environmentally
and socially responsible suppliers, and not from conflict areas in the DRC and adjoining countries.Program growth:  We increased the number of our diverse suppliers in part by raising awareness about our
supplier diversity program among all Qualcomm business units. We provided comprehensive in-house training
and outreach on the benefits of working with diverse suppliers. We also helped make it easier for program
managers and procurement personnel to locate and engage qualified diverse suppliers.
Outreach to suppliers:  Members of our Corporate Procurement team in San Diego took part in a
“matchmaking day,” meeting with representatives from small and diverse businesses to see if they might be a fit
for Qualcomm’s needs. We also participate in monthly networking events for suppliers.
Supplier registrations:  Our procurement teams encourage all suppliers to register on the Small Business
Administration’s Central Contractor Registration (CCR) site . Registration enables us to accurately report our
supplier expenditures to customers requiring this information. Registering with CCR also benefits suppliers bygiving their businesses greater visibility to Qualcomm and numerous other global prime contractors. In addition
to the CCR, potential suppliers are also encouraged to register on 
our own supplier site . Data collected is
accessible by all Qualcomm employees seeking new suppliers. Between 2007 and 2010, we increased the
number of diverse suppliers registered with Qualcomm from 108 to 563.
Number of Registered Global Diverse Suppliers
Our Small Business program recently won “Best Sustained Small Business Program,” “Best Small Business
Advocate” and a President’s Award from the San Diego Supplier Development Council , which is made up of more
than 100 local companies and agencies.Stakeholder Engagement
Reaching out, staying in touch
As the world leader in mobile technology innovation, we understand the power of communication and
connectedness. So we work in a variety of ways to foster clear and transparent communication with all of our
stakeholders. We think it’s the best way to educate, inspire and learn from the people who are connected to us.
Here are some of the ways we engage:
With our employees
“Open door” policy enabling employees to bring concerns to superiors—up to and including our CEO—at any
time
Regular executive breakfasts open to all employees
Regular employee surveys
Semiannual all-hands meetings, which are webcast companywide via our intranet and include employeequestion-and-answer sessions
The QC Daily News , our daily internal newsletter
Employee Resource Groups formed around a common interest or shared background and used as forums fordialogue
Monthly internal presentations that help employees understand what’s happening throughout the Company
Internal communication vehicles that enable our Company’s leaders to communicate to employees around theworld
Annual on-site fairs and tradeshows (available for viewing companywide via our intranet) that enableemployees to learn about our Company, benefits and technology
Annual Qualcomm Innovation Network Venture Fest, a competition to encourage innovation by our employees
With our investors
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  filings
Quarterly earnings conference calls and communications
Annual stockholders’ meeting
Annual analyst meeting
Presentations and participation at investor conferences and tradeshows
“Roadshows” and in-house investor group meetings with management
Quarterly employee earnings videos presented by our chief financial officer
With our suppliers and customers
Participation in key industry tradeshows and conferences
Online registry for diverse suppliers
Voluntary involvement with local supplier development councils
Promotion of our diversity practices at supplier eventsWith governments
Hosting of subject-specific informational sessions and conferences
Participation in working groups and agency taskforce initiatives
Working with government stakeholders, as part of our Wireless Reach™ initiative, to assist in using wireless
technology to implement programs
With the communities where we do business
Engaging nonprofit organizations through various Qualcomm community involvement programs
Participation in philanthropic collaboratives with other grant-making entities, public-private alliances andinformation exchanges with the nonprofit sector to ensure open dialogue among our colleagues
Anonymous feedback mechanisms
Programs with educational institutions worldwide
Continuously improving our reporting on social responsibility
In 2010, we commissioned an independent firm, ISOS Group LLC  (ISOS), to perform an external assurance of our
2009 social responsibility report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative . Initial reviews revealed a gap in
our reporting on stakeholder engagement. In response, we worked with ISOS to develop and disseminate a 15-
question survey aimed at gauging global stakeholder perceptions of Qualcomm’s reporting efforts and actions.
Survey responses revealed that employees are our largest stakeholder group at 45.2 percent, followed by
nonprofit organizations at 40.5 percent. The survey also showed that all responding stakeholders contributed to
the reporting process, and that the number of people reading our annual social responsibility report had increased
over the prior year.
For the most part, respondents rated our social responsibility reporting as “excellent.” Only one described our
efforts as “fair.” According to the survey responses, the strongest sections of the report were Corporate Giving,
Governance and Ethics, Product Responsibility and Energy Efficiency.
We expect that multiple stakeholders, ranging from the general public to current and future Qualcomm employees,
investors, customers and suppliers, will use our 2010 QSR Report. That’s why we have carefully considered what
information to include and disclose, taking into account what issues and topics are most relevant to our business
operations and of most interest to our stakeholders.Memberships and Awards
Collaborating and leading at home and abroad
As a global technological innovator, we work with our peer companies, governments, communities and nonprofit
organizations on a wide variety of issues and belong to a vast range of industry organizations. From time to time,
we are honored with awards for our work and the way we do business. Following are a selection of the awards
we’ve received over our 25-year history and a partial list of the organizations of which we are members.
Our awards
We have earned a distinguished reputation. We are among the members of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index®
and FORTUNE  500® . We have won the U.S. Department of Labor’s  Secretary of Labor’s Opportunity Award. Our
work environment, dedicated workforce and expertise have also earned us a place among FORTUNE  magazine’s
list of “100 Best Companies to Work For in America”  for thirteen consecutive years. We have also been named to
FORTUNE’s  list of “Most Admired Companies.” CIO named Qualcomm to its “Top 100” list for exemplifying the
highest level of operational and strategic excellence. A full list of our awards and recognition is available on our
corporate website .
Our memberships and industry affiliations
We maintain membership in various worldwide standards bodies, industry associations and other special interest
groups. The following lists are a sampling of organizations we are involved with.
Our corporate memberships
Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
American Chambers of Commerce (worldwide)
American Council for International Personnel
American Trucking Associations
BIOCOM
Business Roundtable
CommNexus
The Conference Board
Consumer Electronics Association
CTIA
Department of Defense Western Regional Council for Small Business
Digital Europe
European American Business Council
Information Technology Industry Council
Institute for Supply ManagementIntelligent Transportation Society of America
International Telecommunications Union
National Association of Purchasing Management–San Diego
San Diego Supplier Development Council
Semiconductor Industry Association
Telecom Council Silicon Valley
Telecommunications Industry Association
U.S. China Business Council
U.S. Council for International Business
U.S. Russia Business Council
U.S. Taiwan Business Council
World Economic Forum
Back to top
Our workplace memberships
American Industrial Hygiene Association
American Management Association
American Society for Quality
American Society for Training & Development
Building Service Contractors Association International
Business Ethics Leadership Alliance
Direct Employers Association
Equal Employment Opportunity Impact
Ethisphere
HR Strategy Forum
Human Rights Campaign
The Institute for Corporate Productivity (I4CP)
International Executive Housekeepers Association
National Association of Industrial and Office Properties
National Council of Women in Technology
National Industry Liaison Group
National Serve Safe Foundation
National Society of Black Engineers
Organization Design Forum
Organization Development Network
Pacific Safety Council
Risk Insurance Management SocietySociety for Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Society of Human Resource Management
U.S. Business Leadership Network
Women In Technology International
Back to top
Our community memberships
Business Continuity Institute
Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy
Consortium of School Networking
Council on Foundations
DRI—The Institute for Continuity Management
HandsOn Network/Points of Light
International Association of Emergency Managers
International Society for Technology and Education
Mais Unidos, United States Agency for International Development
ReadySanDiego
San Diego Association of Contingency Planners
San Diego Grantmakers
Sorrento Valley Consortium
Back to topOur environmental memberships
American Institute of Architects
Business Council for Sustainable Energy
California Center for Sustainable Energy
California Climate Action Registry
The Climate Registry
Digital Energy Solutions Campaign
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Global E-Sustainability
Initiative Extractives Work Group
Environmental Leadership Council of Information Technology Industry Council
Green Restaurant Association
GridWise Alliance
Industrial Environmental Association
International Association of Culinary Professionals
International Facility Management Association
International Special Events SocietyNational Association of Fleet Administrators
National Restaurant Association
San Diego Foundation Climate Initiative Professional Advisory Board
San Diego Regional Sustainability Partnership
Smart Grid Interoperability Panel
TechAmerica China RoHS Steering Committee
United States Green Building Council
World Economic Forum Business-Expert Task Force on
Low-Carbon Economic Prosperity
Back to topSending a Strong Signal 2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
Creating opportunity,  
rewarding excellence
Full SectionOur WorkplaceOur Workplace
Creating opportunity, rewarding excellence
They’re the people behind our technology and the heart and mind of Qualcomm—the engineers, administrators,
facilities crews, IT specialists and other professionals who make up our 17,500-person global workforce. Because
their commitment drives our success, we’re committed to keeping them safe, compensating them fairly and
supporting their professional development. Whether we’re building a more inclusive workforce, standing up for our
employees’ human rights or giving them the tools they need to do their best work, we know the companies that
last put their people first.
Section Highlights
In 2010, we were honored
to receive the
Higginbotham Corporate
Leadership Award.
Honored for Leadership in Diversity
Read the details.We believe that to have a
global impact, we must be
a truly global organization.
Accelerating Innovation Through Diversity
Watch the video.
Keeping our people safe
and healthy is one of our
highest priorities.
Workplace Safety
Read how.Global Workforce Inclusion
Accelerating innovation through diversity
In 2010, we were again named to FORTUNE  magazine’s “Most Diverse Companies” list. Our employees reported
more than 107 nationalities, spoke 66 languages, ranged in age from 18 to 76, and 55 percent were minorities.
 We take steps to ensure all people, including people with
disabilities, have the opportunity to be considered for all facets of
employment.
We believe that to have a global impact, we must be a truly global organization. The diverse backgrounds and
varied perspectives of our employees around the world are essential to our continued breakthroughs in wireless
technology. That’s why we’ve made diversity an inherent part of our culture.
We offer employee resource groups for employees who are female, Asian, Black, Hispanic or Pacific Islanders. We
also offer groups for disabled employees and for employees who are gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgendered. Our
employee resource groups offer their members:
Professional development , including events and support related to career enhancement and development of
leadership skills
Mentoring , including support that enables new hires to acclimate to our Company culture and current
employees to discover opportunities for professional and personal growth
Recruiting  that promotes diversity among new hires
Outreach  that connects members with volunteer opportunities as well as networking events
Alliances  with other diverse organizations nationally
You can find out more about our ongoing efforts to create a diverse workforce here. Read our policy on equal
employment opportunity and affirmative action here.
Honored for leadership in diversity
In 2010, we were honored to receive the Higginbotham Corporate Leadership Award from the Lawyers’ Committee
for Civil Rights Under Law . Named for pioneering federal judge and civil rights advocate A. Leon Higginbotham ,
the award recognizes exemplary corporate leadership in advancing diversity and equal opportunity. Our Chairman
and CEO, Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, accepted the award at a ceremony in Washington, D.C., where former president Bill
Clinton was the honorary dinner chairman. At the ceremony, we announced the Parental Readiness and
Empowerment Program ( PREP ), a new collaboration with the Lawyers’ Committee to improve K-12 student
achievement by increasing parental engagement with schools and teachers. PREP will launch in San Diego andwill eventually expand nationally.
The Higginbotham Corporate Leadership Award was established in 2000. Previous recipients include General
Electric, Microsoft, The New York Times Company, PepsiCo, Time Warner and United Parcel Service.
A perfect score on the HRCF Corporate Equality Index
We are proud to have scored 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s  Corporate Equality Index
Report. This survey and report are released each fall and provide an in-depth analysis and rating of large U.S.
employers and their policies and practices pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees.
Reaching out to create opportunity
We support various internal and community-based initiatives to create opportunities for groups that historically
have been underrepresented in the workplace.
Opportunities for women:  Qualcomm’s Board of Directors is composed of 15 percent women, and we are proud
to have many women leaders within our senior executive ranks.Throughout 2010, we worked jointly with 
Athena , the National Council of Women in Information Technology ,
Women in Technology International  and The Society of Women Engineers  to offer learning and networking
opportunities to our female employees. We were sponsors and booth exhibitors at the Women in Technology
International’s conference in San Jose and for San Diego Women’s Week, and Qualcomm employees were on
speaker panels at both events. We also participated in the Women’s Conference in Long Beach.
QWISE—Qualcomm Women in Science and Engineering—is our internal resource group for female employees.
QWISE offers members mentoring, support and resources for professional development. It also offers networking
opportunities and collaborates with our staffing department to recruit female employees. QWISE celebrated its
fourth anniversary in 2010 and established two chapters in India.
Opportunities for veterans:  The approximately 700 U.S. military veterans who work for Qualcomm bring valuable
experience, knowledge and perspective to our Company. Our Military Veterans Employee Resource Group
provides current and former military personnel with information about career opportunities at our Company.
Additionally, we recognize and support Qualcomm veteran employees and their families at flag raisings and other
special Veterans Day and Memorial Day ceremonies on our campus.
In 2010, acknowledging our initiatives in support of veterans and to promote diversity, the Veterans Museum &
Memorial Center of San Diego County  selected Qualcomm as the sole for-profit company to receive its Meritorious
Support of Veterans Award.Opportunities for people with disabilities:  Providing opportunities for people with disabilities and gaining from
their skills and experience is a win-win proposition. We’ve supported the 
San Diego Committee on Employment of
People with Disabilities  since 2003. Our employees have served on the committee and donated time to the
committee’s annual Jobtoberfest Job Fair, where we have been a presenting corporate sponsor for several years.We take steps to ensure all people, including people with disabilities, have the opportunity to be considered for all
facets of employment. Our accommodations for U.S. employees include:
Supplying voice recognition and other assistive software
Providing alternative transportation for employees between our buildings and meeting sites, ranging fromelectric carts to handicap-accessible vansReducing work schedules and telecommuting
Modifying work stations to allow employees to sit, stand or recline as necessary
Ensuring that disabled employees have identified escape routes in case of emergency
In addition, we do our best to meet all accommodation requests related to our fitness facilities and programs.
Efforts in the past have included increasing accessibility to our swimming facility by installing a lift to assist with
pool entry and exit.
Advocating for the disabled
We are involved with the U.S. Business Leadership Network (USBLN) , an organization that promotes best
practices in hiring, retaining and marketing to people with disabilities, and one of our employees serves on its
board of directors. As the lead employer for the San Diego BLN Chapter, we hosted several employer forums to
promote the business case for employing people with disabilities among other employers.Education and Training
Helping employees keep their edge
Knowledge isn’t just power—it’s the indispensable key to innovation and competition. That’s why our Learning
Center offers hundreds of courses to help our employees keep their skills sharp and advance on their career path.
In 2010, we expanded the tools and resources available in our Learning Center in several key ways.
 As Qualcomm continues to grow outside the U.S., the demand for
learning and development also increases.Tools that are ready when our managers are
So that our managers can improve their effectiveness without waiting for a class to be scheduled, the Learning
Center updated its organizational development website to provide resources that can be accessed quickly, on anas-needed basis. They include:
Graphical representations of various organizational approaches and processes
Downloadable job aids
Links to articles, books and blogs
Training by Employee Group (hours)
Redefining leadership development
Leadership development at Qualcomm is much more than a standard webinar. It involves a months-long program
employing experiences, classroom sessions, online learning, on-the-job assignments, ongoing assessment,mentoring and more. The result is learning that becomes a journey, reinforced over time, taking full advantage of
the latest adult learning practices.
Going global
As Qualcomm continues to grow outside the United States, the demand for learning and development also
increases. To meet the focused needs of each region, our Learning Center increased its staff presence in Asia
Pacific and India to expand curriculum expertise in engineering, management/leadership and organizationdevelopment.
Creating a common work culture
Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT), our largest business unit, wanted to create a unified work culture. Based
on feedback from employees throughout the organization, we developed the act@Work program, which coverstopics including efficiency, collaboration and effective global communication. Now QCT employees everywhere get
the same information and are more likely to be on the same page, thanks to a combination of in-class instruction
and online video streaming.Capturing our history
To commemorate Qualcomm’s 25th anniversary, we opened a new museum at our corporate headquarters. It
illustrates for employees and visitors alike the contributions our Company has made to improving the lives ofpeople around the world through innovations in digital communications. Other exhibits illustrate how our innovative
technologies are continuing to enable our global partners to satisfy the wireless needs of our customers in such
industries as communications, health and entertainment.Ethical Employment
Doing the right thing in the workplace
As an employer of thousands of people around the globe, we face important ethical considerations daily. Whether
we are safeguarding our employees’ human rights, evaluating their performance or working to ensure they are
compensated fairly, we continually strive to meet the highest ethical standards.
An unequivocal commitment to our employees’ human rights
We seek to uphold the human rights of our employees worldwide. Forced, bonded or indentured labor is
prohibited, and our employees are always free to leave our Company with reasonable notice. We prohibit the use
of child labor, although legitimate workplace apprenticeship or intern programs that comply with all applicable laws
and regulations are permitted and supported. We respect the rights of our employees to associate freely, join or
not join labor unions, seek representation and join workers’ councils in accordance with local laws.
We have reviewed our operations to identify those that are at significant risk for incidents of child labor and forced
or compulsory labor, or where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at
significant risk. For these, as well as all Qualcomm operations, we provide a workplace environment that is safe,hygienic and humane, and which upholds the dignity of all our employees. We also provide a number of grievance
redressal systems that are available to employees, vendors and customers.
Our human rights practices in India
Through our employment practices and adherence to local statutes in all jurisdictions throughout India, as well as
effective vendor due diligence and contractual safeguards, we ensure that no child laborers are employed and that
forced labor is not encouraged. Qualcomm India is proud to provide and maintain equal opportunities without
discrimination on any grounds, ranging from recruitment and throughout the course of employment. Our philosophy
and adherence in practice extends to all our suppliers and collaborators.
Competitive wages and benefits
For all jobs at Qualcomm, we pay a standard entry-level wage that is higher than the local minimum wage. Our
benefits package for regular full-time employees is competitive and comprehensive. It includes medical, dental and
prescription drug benefits, among others. For part-time employees, we prorate various full-time employee benefits
according to standard work hours. We do not offer benefits to temporary employees.
Our compensation program has five primary objectives:
Align the interests of our employees and long-term stockholders
Pay for performance
Deliver pay that is competitively reasonable and appropriate for our business needs and circumstances
Reflect high standards for corporate governance and compensation-related risk management
Be tax efficient for the Company
These objectives are applicable not only to the compensation programs for our named executive officers but they
also apply to the compensation programs for all our employees, including vice presidents and above. Although
social and environmental performance is not specifically identified among our objectives, it is inherent because
responsible social and environmental practices align with the interests of our stockholders.Employee Volunteer Turnover Rate by Region (percentage)
Collective bargaining agreements and trade unions
None of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Outside the United States, less
than 3 percent of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We are compliant with allcollective agreements regarding significant operational changes as required by country laws and regulations.
Qualcomm does not have formal agreements with trade unions.
Total Rewards: A fair and formal review process
Our Total Rewards review cycle allows for performance and development reviews twice a year. Eighty percent of
our employees receive regular formal performance and career development reviews with the opportunity to provide
feedback to management.
Parity in salaries for men and women
During salary reviews, performance, years of experience and responsibility level are all considered. We continue to
maintain an equal ratio between male and female salaries.Workplace Safety
Keeping our people safe and healthy
Ensuring that our 17,500 employees worldwide have a safe and healthy work environment is one of our highest
priorities. Our Injury and Illness Prevention Plan (IIPP) provides a roadmap for how we manage health and safety.
Key components of the IIPP are management involvement, training, safety audits, incident investigation and safety
communications.
Our safety record in 2010
We suffered no work-related fatalities in 2010. We also reduced costs per claim by 58 percent over 2009. Our
days-away rate, which measures lost time due to injury or illness, was 0.1 per 100 full-time employees—75percent below the industry average. Read more about our health and safety programs 
here.
Total Injury and Incident Rate (per 100 full-time employees)
Total Lost Time Injury and Illness Average Rate (days)
Environmental health and safety
We strive to reduce our environmental footprint, prevent injury and maintain business continuity through a variety
of training opportunities pertaining to environmental, health and safety (EHS). In 2010, a total of 2,610 hours oftraining were provided to 1,808 employees, or 11 percent of our employees worldwide, through 1,276 training
sessions. Training topics included hazardous waste operations and emergency response, driver safety, new-hire
EHS orientation, forklift operation, soldering safety and warehouse safety. In 2010, a total of 2,610 hours of training were provided to 1,808
employees.
Our comprehensive ergonomics program includes one-on-one training and ergonomic assessments of work
environments. The objective of the ergonomics program is early detection of musculoskeletal disorders and the
prevention of workplace injuries. Our EHS team performed 1,039 ergonomic assessments in 2010.
Giving employees a say on safety
At our San Diego headquarters, we’ve created a safety committee composed of representatives from all 39 of our
buildings there. Members accompany our EHS team during routine building safety inspections. They assist in
evacuating buildings when necessary and attend monthly meetings to discuss health and safety issues.Sending a Strong Signal 2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
Lending a hand around 
the world
Full SectionOur CommunityOur Community
Lending a hand
around the world
There’s a word for neighbor in every language. And we want to be a good one wherever we do business. Through
our Wireless Reach™ program, we help bridge the digital divide with a focus on entrepreneurship, public safety,
health care, education and the environment. Through QCares, our global philanthropy and volunteer program, we
invest our human and financial resources in inspirational, innovative programs that help build communities that are
healthier, more culturally vibrant and better educated. To date, we’ve contributed more than $165 million and our
employees have volunteered thousands of hours. In 2010, we made a difference in many ways around the world.
We’re proud to share some of those stories here.
Global Community Initiatives Map
Educated Communities
Connecting students with opportunities for learning
As a company built on scientific advancement and dependent upon smart, knowledgeable employees, we know
the immeasurable value of learning. That’s why we help improve education in science, technology, engineering and
math for students at all grade levels. We are particularly committed to expanding opportunities for people in
underserved communities. Following are just a few ways we supported education initiatives in 2010.
How we supported Educated Communities in 2010
Case Studies
United States: Experience for MBA students, expertise for nonprofits
We’re helping nonprofit organizations increase revenues, sharpen fiscal management and improve strategic
planning through the Qualcomm Social Entrepreneur Internship Program administered through the Entrepreneurial
Management Center at San Diego State University. The program matches talented MBA students with a team
made up of senior management from a local nonprofit, a San Diego State faculty member and a volunteer
Qualcomm mentor. Students work with the team to identify a strategic objective, perform analysis and develop
recommendations that can be readily implemented. Since 1999, 224 business-school interns have worked on 250
projects for 202 nonprofits. WebCompass, a similar program which began in 2008, tasks teams of students with
redesigning a nonprofit organization’s website. As a result, nonprofits see increased donations, volunteering andcommunity support.China: Equipping students with essential technology
In 2010, we helped provide classroom equipment to two Beijing schools. Our gift to Beijing Xingzhi Experimental
School helped purchase laptops, projectors and other learning aids. And our donation to Lizhi Rehabilitation
Kindergarten, which serves developmentally disabled children, helped purchase audio-visual equipment and equip
a special multisensory training room. Qualcomm employees also volunteered their time and skills at both schools
to enhance our relationships with these organizations and to benefit the students they serve.
United Kingdom: Career exploration workshop for students
Our London office joined the East London Business Alliance in sponsoring a workshop created to teach studentsages 13 and 14 about nontraditional careers. Students began the day by looking at market research that revealed
insights about their generation’s relationship to mobile technology; then they split into three teams and produced
video ads for their ideal mobile phones. The result? A memorable glimpse into the mobile industry and the fields
of advertising and marketing.India: A science fair in Bangalore
In collaboration with the Shikshana Foundation in Kanakpura, Bangalore, QCares Bangalore hosted a science fair
that challenged students to showcase experiments based on scientific principles. Seventeen student teams
presented experiments. They built models, explained the concepts underlying them and answered questions from
a panel of judges, which included three Qualcomm employees. The winning projects were a satellite and rocket
launcher, an energy-efficient home and a display on hydro energy. Winners received science books in Kannada
and English to take back to their schools.
Israel: Afterschool enrichment
Qualcomm employees in Haifa joined several neighboring high-tech companies in funding afterschool enrichment
classes for students in the city of Tirat Carmel. Classes included juggling, aviation, thinking games and more.
Professional instructors led the classes with help from Qualcomm volunteers. Kids liked the classes because they
were fun; parents liked that their children did something constructive after school.Healthy Sustainable Communities
Strengthening the safety net for people in need
Of all the elements necessary for people to thrive, health is one of the most fundamental. That’s why we support
initiatives that help build safe, healthy communities. Through efforts large and small, we strive to improve the lives
of underserved populations by providing for basic human needs, with a focus on the welfare of children. Following
are just a few of the ways we supported communities around the world in 2010.
How we supported Healthy Sustainable Communities in 2010
Case Studies
United States: Helping homeless youth
For more than ten years, we’ve worked with San Diego Youth Services (SDYS) to help provide homeless and at-
risk youth with housing, mentoring, job training and counseling. In 2010, our funding helped SDYS purchase a
transitional housing complex for youth aged 16 to 24. In addition, one of our employees serves on the SDYS
board of directors, and a number of our employees volunteered to renovate an SDYS housing facility. SDYS is
also the sole beneficiary of our employee-driven annual gift drive, and our 2010 Volunteer of the Year spends his
free time working with the homeless youth served by SDYS.Taiwan: Assisting adults and children with disabilities
We made a gift to Taiwan’s Children’s Hearing Foundation to subsidize hearing aids and cochlear implants for deaf
children from low-income homes. We also donated to the St. Joseph Social Welfare Foundation’s Sunshine
Development Center, whose programs assist physically and mentally disabled adults and children in Hsinchu. Our
donation helped replace worn-out and damaged assistive devices. Qualcomm employees also volunteered on
several occasions at Sunshine Development Center, helping clients with art projects, exercise, fundraising sales
and more.
Netherlands: For families facing uncertainty, a place to unwind
Maxima Medical Center in Veldhoven is one of the Southern Netherlands’ largest regional medical centers. Thefacility specializes in neonatal intensive care, children’s health care and at-risk pregnancies. Our gift to the Ronald
McDonald Family Home Zuidoost Brabant helped build an entertainment and relaxation area being designed as
part of a new wing at Maxima. The Living Room is a place where families can relax and connect with others in
similar circumstances. It will contain laptop computers with WiFi, a TV and stereo, video games, therapeutic
furniture and children’s play equipment.Spain: Supporting the developmentally disabled
Based in Barcelona, La Tutela is a private tutelary, or guardian, for people with developmental disabilities—
particularly those without a family that can care for them. We made a contribution to help improve the
organization’s main facility, where staff will be able to provide support, cognitive stimulation, and social and
recreational opportunities for the clients in their care. More than 200 clients are expected to be served in the
facility’s first year.
India: Increasing IT literacy among the visually impaired
In 2010, we collaborated with the National Association of the Blind (NAB) at Delhi to help improve IT literacy
among residents with blindness or low vision. The goal: to increase opportunities for education and employment.
Our funding helped enable the NAB to renovate their computer lab and purchase scanners, computers and
educational tools.Culturally Vibrant Communities
Encouraging creativity and imagination
Music, art, literature and performance make life richer. They tell our stories, provide meaning and offer avenues for
self-expression. Through our support of arts education and outreach programs, we help young people develop
creative minds and expand cultural enrichment opportunities for underserved populations around the world.
How we supported Culturally Vibrant Communities in 2010
Case Studies
United States: Bringing theatre to students
Through our longstanding support of the La Jolla Playhouse in California, we have helped expand arts education
and outreach programs to students at all grade levels throughout San Diego County. The Playhouse provides a
touring theatre program for schools, special student matinees, study guides and workshops for students and
teachers, internships and training in acting and theatre skills.India: A hand up for emerging artists
When you’re an unknown artist, visibility is everything. That’s why our Mumbai office organizes Works@work,
regular exhibits that showcase the work of promising artists and connect them with collectors. The gallery space?
Our own offices. Our Mumbai team also helps artists transport, frame and mount their work. Qualcomm Mumbai
has organized five Works@work events, each focusing on the work of a single new artist, over the last five years.
United States: Art instruction for at-risk teens
Our support of Arts Council Silicon Valley helps provide professional arts instruction for at-risk teens through in-
depth artist residencies conducted in conjunction with the Alternative Schools Department of the Santa Clara
County Office of Education. Students explore a number of disciplines, including drama, dance, music and visual
arts. At the end of the school year, an exhibit of students’ work is mounted at the de Saisset Museum at Santa
Clara University.Wireless Reach
Helping to bridge the digital divide
Despite the rapid pace of technology, a digital divide still exists. Thirty-four percent of the world’s population does
not have a mobile phone.1 Seventy-five percent of the population does not use the Internet.2
We know access to wireless communications has a direct, positive impact on people’s economic well-being. TheWorld Bank has found that increasing mobile penetration by 10 percentage points in developing countries
increases per capita GDP by .81 percent.
3 A 10 percent increase in broadband penetration in those countries
increases per capita GDP by 1.38 percent.4
Our strategic Wireless Reach™ initiative is helping to close the digital divide. With 66 projects in various stages of
development in 29 countries, Wireless Reach brings wireless technology to underserved communities around the
world. By working with other organizations, Wireless Reach invests in projects that foster entrepreneurship, aid in
public safety, enhance the delivery of health care, enrich teaching and learning and improve environmental
sustainability. You can read more about Wireless Reach here. Following are five Wireless Reach accomplishments
from 2010.
Case Studies
Brazil: Promoting sustainable economic development
Wireless Reach worked with the marginalized, indigenous fishing communities in Santa Cruz Cabrália to integrate
mobile devices as a means to improve the quality, diversity and sustainability of the local fishing and mariculture
economy. The Fishing with 3G Nets  project provided technology with real-time information on water quality,
weather and markets. Fishers can now connect directly with consumers, diversify their catch and improve theirearning potential. To date, 64 fishers have been trained to use the system, and 16 boats have been equipped with
3G mobile phones, safety equipment, eco-sonar, GPS and VHF radios.
China: Bringing Internet connectivity to rural schools
The 2010 Connected Computer Classroom Program  focused on three provinces—Anhui, Gansu and Sichuan. In
these areas, 33 underserved schools and training centers were provided with wireless Internet access, benefiting
more than 92,000 students and teachers.Japan: 3G health care access for rural communities
There are regions in Japan where access to advanced health care is lacking—particularly in snowy areas such as
Hokkaido, where winter makes access to health care facilities more difficult. Wireless Reach supported a project
that enables 300 remotely located elderly patients to send critical health information to doctors through the 3G
wireless network. Blood pressure, weight and other information is easily shared in real time with participating
physicians, who quickly review the data and advise patients accordingly.
Philippines: Improving public health reporting
In the Philippines—a nation spread over more than 7,100 islands—local health care providers compile and report
public health data via the Department of Health’s Field Health Service Information System, the country’s main data
source for policy analysis and planning. The Wireless Access for Health  project streamlined health data reporting
by strengthening the existing electronic medical record system. In the Tarlac region, the enhanced system hasimproved access to public health information—and patient care—by turning data captured during patient visits into
actionable reports for health care workers. Results of the pilot phase, which recorded more than 12,000 patient
consultations, indicate that such a system has had a real impact for decision makers by providing them with
accurate and timely health data that allows them to identify and prevent disease outbreaks across the Philippines.United States: Enhancing student achievement
Created jointly with the North Carolina Department of Public Instruction and Digital Millennial Consulting, Project
K-Nect  is a Wireless Reach–funded pilot program developed to determine whether smart phones can enhance
student interest in learning. The project’s initial aim was to improve math skills among at-risk students in rural
North Carolina who did not have Internet access at home. The project team created digital content for Algebra I
students and then encouraged them to use collaborative learning applications as well as Internet resources, such
as Algebra.com. For three consecutive years, the project has shown success in students’ achievement. Students
who participated in one of the classes had a 50 percent higher proficiency rate than those who didn’t. In the fall of
2009, 2,000 students were added to the program due to a $2.5 million U.S. Department of Defense EducationActivity grant. Project K-Nect  has also been incorporated into Algebra II, geometry and biology courses.
1Informa Telecoms and Media, “Worldwide Total and Prepaid Subscriptions,” WCIS, September 2009,
http://www.wcisplus.com/wcisplus/NumericalDataPage.html .
2Internet usage percentage is for June 30, 2009, and comes from data published by Nielsen Online, the ITU, GfK, local regulators and
other reliable sources, http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm .
3Figure 3.1: Growth Effects of ICT, Christine Zhen-Wei Quang and Garlo M. Rossotto with Kaoru Kimura, “Economic Impacts of
Broadband” in Information and Communications for Development 2009–Extending Reach and Increasing Impact  (World Bank, 2009),
Google Books .
4Ibid.Global Emergency Management
Ready to respond in times of crisis
Our Emergency Operations Team (EOT) protects our people and our assets through effective emergency
planning, response and recovery. The team includes cross-functional representation from departments across our
Company. In addition to responding in times of crises, our EOT offers ongoing training to ensure that our
employees and their families are prepared for emergencies at all times. Following are some of our EOT’s
achievements for 2010.
 Our Emergency Operations Team protects our people and our
assets through effective emergency planning, response and
recovery.Ensuring global business continuity
Our EOT works to minimize disruptions to our business that might occur in the event of natural or man-made
incidents such as earthquakes, pandemics, severe weather, terrorist attacks or supply chain disruptions. OurBusiness Continuity Program Office offers multiple services to our business units, including education and training,
business impact analysis, strategy, planning documentation, plan reviews and more. Our business continuity
efforts are benchmarked against the BSI Group’s BS25999 standard and support maintenance of several ISO
certifications, including ISO270001 and ISO2000.
Response to the volcano eruption in Iceland
When Iceland’s Mount Eyjafjallajökull erupted last spring, it spewed plumes of ash that interrupted air travel for
nearly a week and closed air space over parts of Europe. As a result, traveling Qualcomm employees were
stranded in many parts of the world. While the situation was thankfully not life threatening, our EOT and travel
teams were activated for several weeks to address this unprecedented mobility crisis.
Working in a situation that changed hourly, and confronting the challenge of communicating with dozens of
employees on the move worldwide, the EOT found lodging for stranded Qualcomm personnel, rebooked new
travel arrangements and prioritized trips for those who needed to return soonest. Spurred by this unique and
unexpected crisis, the team has proposed new policies for similar events, drafted communications templates and
instituted a new tracking and reporting process to ensure all travelers’ locations and status are captured in an
easily shareable repository.
Annual flu prevention campaign
An estimated 25 million to 50 million cases of influenza are reported each year, leading to 150,000 hospitalizations
and 36,000 deaths annually in the United States. Each year, Qualcomm develops an attention-grabbing flu
campaign for international and domestic employees. The campaign includes posters for break rooms andrestrooms as well as informational flyers distributed to each employee along with a small bottle of alcohol-based
hand sanitizer. The campaign is unveiled during our annual influenza vaccination campaign, helping to increase
awareness and ultimately encouraging a larger number of employees to get their flu shots.Sending a Strong Signal 2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
Greening up our act
Full SectionOur EnvironmentOur Environment
Greening up our act
How do you grow a leading global company while reducing its environmental footprint? We’re still discovering the
answer to that complicated question—and making progress along the way. Whether we’re launching green IT
initiatives, reducing water use, maximizing investments in energy efficiency or applying LEED® methodology to our
facilities, we’re optimizing resource management and easing our impact on the earth.
Section Highlights
A look at this year’s
accomplishments from our
facilities around the world.
Global Environmental Initiatives
View the map.In 2010, we launched
several initiatives to make
our IT practices more
sustainable.
Green IT
See the initiatives.
We are making a clear
commitment to cleaner air.
Air Quality
See our progress.We are cutting our energy
use as we cut costs.
Energy
See how.We are reducing the
amount of waste we send
to landfills.
Waste Reduction
Read how.We are designing and
operating sustainable
facilities.
Facilities
See how.Global Environmental Initiatives
Taking small steps that have a big impact
Shrinking our environmental footprint is less about sweeping, systemwide change and more about the hundreds of
small, but meaningful, steps taken by individual employees companywide. We’re tapping the skills and
imaginations of employees to reduce resource consumption, cut air emissions and minimize waste. Here are just
some of this year’s accomplishments from our facilities around the world.
2010 Global Environmental Initiatives
Reducing waste, increasing recycling
Employees at our Korean facilities collected and recycled used printer cartridges and mobile phones. Funds
generated from recycling helped support Child Fund Korea’s  programs for disadvantaged children.
Our Canadian offices eliminated bottled water and distributed reusable water bottles and coffee mugs to everyemployee. They also replaced Styrofoam coffee cups used by visitors with compostable paper cups, distributed
shredders for recycling confidential documents and installed composting stations and bins for used batteries.
In addition to our regular corporate recycling program, several of our U.S. offices host free, quarterly personal
e-waste recycling events. In 2010, our offices in Georgia, New Jersey, North Carolina and Texas encouraged
employees to bring in used computers, TVs, cell phones and other electronics. Altogether, our U.S. employees
recycled just over 35,000 pounds of personal e-waste.
Protecting habitats
For the second year, Bangalore employees and their families helped reduce their carbon footprint and providea habitat for numerous species by planting 250 saplings at Gowramma Lake.In Hong Kong, employees planted 60 trees as part of “Plant a Wish for a Better Climate,” an annual endurance
event that combines tree-planting with a 13-kilometer hike.
As part of our first annual Global Volunteer Week, employees in San Diego pitched in on a variety ofenvironmental cleanup projects. They removed more than 1,000 pounds of trash and planted native vegetation
at San Diego River Park; helped restore a native-plant demonstration garden and build fencing on property
owned by San Diego Audubon Society; trimmed brush from a trail at Los Peñasquitos Canyon Preserve,
adjacent to our San Diego campus; restored an acre of habitat at the San Elijo Lagoon Ecological Reserve;
and helped make numerous improvements to a San Diego neighborhood canyon park, including removing 600
pounds of trash and 40 cubic yards of invasive plants, improving 50 yards of trails and rehabilitating an outdoor
classroom where students can learn about the environment and canyon habitat stewardship.
Reducing carbon emissions
In 2010, The Climate Registry  welcomed us to the Cool Planet Program, an energy-efficiency and climate-
change mitigation initiative that rewards customers who install significant energy-efficiency projects by providing
assistance with measuring, managing and reducing their carbon footprint.
Our Hong Kong office has enrolled in the Low-Carbon Office Operation Program , or LOOP, organized by the
World Wildlife Fund Hong Kong . LOOP helps companies change their behavior and reduce their carbon
footprint by adopting managerial and technological best practices. The program also uses four-tiered labeling—from “certified” to “platinum”—to certify companies based on their carbon emissions. To date, Qualcomm Hong
Kong has achieved “silver,” the second tier of LOOP status. In addition, our Hong Kong office replaced
traditional halogen light bulbs with LEDs, which use less energy and cost less to operate.
We continued to encourage employees to explore alternatives to the one-car/one-driver mode when they
commute. Our U.S. employees are eligible to receive a 25 percent subsidy and pretax purchase of transit
passes and vouchers for bus passes, train tickets or vanpools. Employees in Ireland participate in the
government-led Bike to Work initiative, which encourages people to cycle to work and enables participants topurchase a bicycle and associated equipment at substantial cost savings. In the United Kingdom, the Season
Ticket Loan program promotes use of public transportation by offering employees huge savings on the cost of
an annual ticket.Green IT
Wiring our Company for greater efficiency
Our information technology (IT) infrastructure is a critical part of our Company. Left unchecked, it also has the
potential to consume excessive amounts of energy and produce a large amount of waste. In 2010, we launched
several initiatives to make our IT practices more sustainable.
Greener printing
To reduce energy and paper usage, we began implementing the following changes across our entire printer fleet:
Setting black-and-white printers to print double-sided by default.
Purchasing newer printer models that are more energy efficient and have toners that yield a higher page
volume.
Encouraging employees in our U.S. offices to send larger print jobs to our onsite copy centers. Printers in ourU.S. offices are also configured to switch to standby mode at preset intervals and automatically power down
after business hours to help minimize energy use.
A more energy-efficient data center
At our San Diego headquarters, we’re supporting a growing demand for computing power and IT services with a
modular data center that is much more efficient than traditional data centers. The HP Performance-OptimizedDatacenter (POD) supports standard computing platforms as well as leading-edge technologies that will provide
greater energy efficiencies. With a total area of just 320 square feet, the POD’s design dramatically reduces the
amount of real estate and power needed to operate a large number of computing systems. The POD is expected
to use 30 percent less energy to cool the hot air produced by IT equipment. It is expected to yield a Power Usage
Effectiveness (PUE™) rating of 1.18 PUE. (PUE, developed by 
The Green Grid , is a widely accepted
measurement of data center energy efficiency. A rating of 1.0 indicates a facility that is 100 percent energy
efficient.)
Monitors that use less energy
As part of our ongoing effort to reduce power consumption, we tested monitors from several manufacturers and
found that the latest generation of 22-inch LCD panels used only 40 percent of the power required by the 19-inch
panels we had been purchasing for several years—and they cost the same. We made the larger models our
standard model in 2010, using them to replace or upgrade older models as necessary.
Recycling e-waste
In 2010, Qualcomm facilities worldwide recycled more than 239 tons of corporate electronic waste, or e-waste. In
addition to the regular recycling stream of older, unusable hardware, our IT team also targeted various internal
sites each month and encouraged employees to drop off electronics they weren’t using. These items were then
collected and reviewed for possible reuse or proper disposal.IT e-Waste Collection (1,000 pounds)
In the United States, we use a California-based processor of electronic scrap that recently became one of the first
in the nation to be certified under the Responsible Recycling (R2)/Recycling Industry Operating Standard
(R2/RIOS) guidelines. These guidelines provide a set of practical procedures for electronics recyclers that can be
audited and that will ensure safer, more environmentally sound recycling practices.
Server virtualization
Server virtualization is a means of increasing server density by running multiple independent virtual operating
systems on a single physical computer. Virtualization lets us substantially reduce physical hardware and power
consumption—we cut 384,228 kilowatt hours in 2010 alone. That savings in energy also saved 276 metric tons of
greenhouse gas emissions, the equivalent of one year’s emissions from 52 cars.
Increasing telepresence
To help reduce our carbon footprint, reduce travel for our employees, speed decision making and foster
collaboration, we implemented eight telepresence systems providing an immersive videoconferencing experience
at locations in the United States and England, with systems to be implemented in other countries soon.Air Quality
Making a clear commitment to cleaner air
We affect air quality in two main ways: through our consumption of fossil fuels for energy and transportation, which
contributes to the emission of greenhouse gases, and through emissions of nitrogen oxide (NO 2), sulfur dioxide
(SO2) and volatile organic chemicals (VOCs) produced through power generation at some of our facilities. As with
all of our environmental efforts, balancing our Company’s need for resources with our commitment to a minimal
environmental impact is an ongoing challenge—and one to which we are passionately committed. Here’s how we
made progress in 2010.
Greenhouse gas emissions and climate change
Climate change is a serious environmental, social and economic issue that calls for concerted actions and
solutions by individuals, corporations and governments. We address climate change in several ways, includingminimizing the impact of our products on the environment, ensuring our operations and products are as energy
efficient as possible and promoting recycling. We innovate new technologies that will contribute to a more
sustainable society. Growing our Company while increasing energy efficiency and minimizing greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions is challenging but, we believe, imperative.
In 2010, we again received the designation of Climate Action Leader for our annual efforts in voluntarily reporting
our emissions to the 
California Climate Action Registry . Currently, we collect and report GHG emissions
exclusively from our facilities in California, which comprise roughly 72 percent of our global square footage.Because data-gathering and subsequent third-party certification of the data is time-intensive, we generally report
emissions data from the prior calendar year rather than the most recent fiscal year.CO2 per Gross Square Foot of Facilities Space (CO 2 metric tons)
In 2009, our GHG emissions increased from 92,135 metric tons to 97,545 metric tons, continuing an upward trend
that has persisted over the last seven years because of our Company’s continued growth. Additionally, as we
reduced the gross square footage of our facilities in California, our emissions per gross square foot increased
slightly over 2008 levels, from .0189 to .0203.
Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight (CO 2 metric tons)
Increased GHG emissions in 2009 resulted mainly from increased data center density and growth at our San
Diego headquarters; a full year of operations at our new facilities in Santa Clara, California; and other factors.
Because we generate carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions primarily through energy consumption, we continued our
efforts to reduce the amount of energy we use and purchase from utilities. Our energy-efficiency efforts to date
save 23.7 million kilowatt hours of electricity and approximately 7,805 metric tons of GHG emissions per year—the
equivalent of eliminating the annual emissions of 1,419 cars.
Reducing other emissions
We have reduced levels of NO 2 emissions 32 percent since 2007. We’ve achieved this in large part through theWe have reduced levels of NO 2 emissions 32 percent since 2007. We’ve achieved this in large part through the
use of two 4.5-megawatt cogeneration turbine plants at our San Diego facilities. Powered by natural gas, these
very efficient twin turbines enable us to generate some of our own electricity and release fewer pollutants. We also
capture the heat the turbines generate and use it to power two large chillers in the campus air-conditioning
system, thus reducing the need for electric-powered water chillers.
Significant Air Emissions by Type and Weight (tons per year)
Energy
Cutting our energy use as we cut costs
Balancing growth with a need to reduce energy is a challenge. Overall, our direct and indirect energy consumption
increased by about 12.5 percent from last year’s reported usage. That increase was mainly the result of increased
data center density and growth at our San Diego headquarters; a full year of operations at our new facilities in
Santa Clara, California; and other factors.
Still, we are committed to reducing our energy consumption. We continue to invest in highly efficient lighting andheating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, as well as in cogeneration and renewable energy, like
photovoltaics. We’ve installed solar panels on certain building rooftops and parking structures, where the panels
not only generate electricity but serve as shade structures. We’ve purchased a fleet of hybrid vehicles and
encourage our employees to commute without cars by offering transit subsidies, shuttle services and bike lockers.
Reducing energy consumption also enables us to reduce operating expenses.
In California, where we have nearly 5 million square feet of building space, our energy-efficiency investments to
date save more than 23.7 million kilowatt hours of electricity annually—at a savings of $3.09 million.
Direct Energy Consumption
Indirect Energy Consumption
Collaborating to cut carbon
In addition to our internal efforts to reduce GHG emissions, we also work with our peers, governments,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and communities toward the same goal. Among our efforts:
We participated as an observer at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change COP15
meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark, in December 2009. We also took part in meetings leading up to COP15,
including negotiations regarding technology transfer. We spoke to various country delegations and NGOs about
the role of information and communications technology in addressing climate change.
We hold the vice-chair position in the Smart Grid Interoperability Panel  (SGIP). The SGIP is a public-private
partnership that coordinates standardization activities for U.S. smart grid (electrical networks that use digital
technology) standards and has developed a number of plans to address reduction of the nation’s carbon
footprint via the use of renewable energies.
We participate as members in Grid Wise Alliance , an industry advocacy group focused on accelerating the
deployment of smart grids. The Alliance’s outreach program includes educating stakeholders about the
environmental benefits of smart grid technology.
We participate in The EV Project , the largest deployment of electric-vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure in the
United States. The project, which is led by ECOtality, includes 15,000 EV charging stations across six U.S.states and Washington, D.C. We provide comprehensive support for this initiative, including cellular technology,
engineering expertise and advice on the optimal location for public chargers. We’re also working to install
charging stations at our own facilities to support our employees’ use of EVs.
We are investors in Consert Inc. , a provider of home energy management systems. Consert uses our 3G
technology to offer a fully integrated energy-conservation solution. Residential users set their energypreferences in an easy-to-use web portal, and the system takes care of the rest. By reducing ghost
consumption (using kilowatts when no one is benefiting from it), pilot programs demonstrated energy savings
ranging from 7 percent to 54 percent with an average of 17 percent.We are a member of the Business Council for Sustainable Energy , and our employees serve on several
council committees focused on promoting clean energy technologies.
We are a member of the Digital Energy Solutions Campaign , which brings together information and
communications technology (ICT) companies and associations, NGOs, customers and other stakeholders who
recognize the enabling role that ICT plays in improving our environment and driving long-term economic
growth.
We serve on the San Diego Foundation Climate Initiative Professional Advisory Board .
We sponsored the U.S. Department of Commerce’s  Green ICT & Energy Efficiency Conference in Mexico in
2010, focusing on the role of cellular communications in the smart grid.
We work with the energy and environmental committees of various industry associations  to monitor and shape
laws and regulations related to energy efficiency and emissions reduction. In 2010, we also participated in
various state, federal and international policy proceedings regarding smart grids. In these proceedings, we
urged regulators and utilities to rely on wireless communications as a key part of smart grids.Waste Reduction
Recycling more—and minimizing landfill waste
We’re reducing the amount of waste we send to landfills. Our San Diego campus alone recycled more than 1,000
tons of “mixed recycling” in 2010—a substantial jump over the 680 tons recycled last year. One of our goals is to
achieve a disposal rate lower than the average for San Diego businesses. We met that goal in 2010 with a per-
capita disposal rate of 2.2 pounds per person per day (PPD), compared to the average of 11.4 PPD (current as of
2008, the last year for which information is available).
In 2010, we recycled more than 244 tons of electronic waste worldwide. On a single day in January, as part of a
special e-waste recycling event, employees at our Santa Clara campus turned in more than 3,300 pounds of e-
waste, including 1,225 pounds of cathode ray tubes from televisions, 685 pounds of computers, 378 pounds of
consumer electronics and more than 1,000 pounds of tin.
Total Weight of Waste and Disposal Methods (tons)
Hazardous Waste
We generated 56.5 tons of hazardous waste at our California facilities in 2010 and recycled 73 percent of it by
reclamation. Typical hazardous waste reclamation activities involve recovery of spent solvents such as acetone or
metals such as lead. Hazardous materials not recovered were disposed of through either thermal treatment or
inorganic waste treatment. (See table below.) We also recycled 178 tons of debris—or 61 percent of total waste—
from construction projects at our San Diego facilities.Hazardous Waste Final Disposition
Besides recycling, we’re looking for innovative ways to keep waste out of the waste stream. The Office Outlet, an
internal program by our Administrative Services department, was established to collect all unused office supplies
and redistribute them through an online catalog. In 2010, the Office Outlet redistributed nearly 1,000 items and
reported cost savings of $38,000.Water Conservation
Conserving every last drop
Only 1 percent of the planet’s water supply is fresh water. And a growing global population is making increased
demands on that limited supply.
We’re doing our part to conserve—particularly in California, home of our headquarters and a state struggling with
a years-long drought and water-use restrictions. We continue to incorporate drought-resistant landscaping, drip
irrigation and water-saving fixtures and devices across our facilities. In 2010, we used 122.6 million gallons of
water at our San Diego facilities, compared to a total of 131.2 million gallons in 2009, a savings of more than 8.6
million gallons. Additionally, by carefully managing our cooling tower water-treatment program, we saved 18.08
million gallons of water as compared to 2009’s savings of 17.8 million gallons.
2010 Water Usage (million gallons, San Diego, CA, facilities only)*
*Water usage that does not come from reclaimed sources is supplied by the City of San Diego, Water Department. Detailed
information regarding its water supply can be found on their website.
We have been proactive in using available reclaimed water, thus reducing our usage of potable water. In 2010, we
saved more than 2.8 million gallons of potable water in our cooling towers and 14.0 million gallons of potable
water used for landscape irrigation by using reclaimed water. We also completed efforts at our San Diego facilities
to implement reclaimed water for the central plant cooling tower—an effort that will save more than 28 million
gallons of potable water annually.Facilities
Designing and operating sustainable facilities
Every day, we’re helping to define the future of mobile technology at 139 locations in 34 countries. The way we
design, build and operate our facilities has a profound effect on the environment, so we take care to minimize our
impact as much as possible.
We continue to implement the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design ( LEED ) methodology prescribed by
the U.S. Green Building Council , of which we are members. We choose green building materials wherever
possible—low-VOC paint and products made of recycled content, which are further recyclable, such as ceilingtiles, vinyl composition floor tile, systems furniture, carpet and fabrics and more. By sourcing, designing and
building with sustainable products, we’re minimizing waste and helping reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Going international with LEED-designed construction
In 2010, two of our facilities outside the U.S. were designed for LEED certification. In Bangalore, we applied for
LEED Gold certification for a new 127,000-square-foot tower intended to accommodate increasing numbers of
employees—the first time we’ve sought certification for a built-from-the-ground-up building outside the United
States.
In Beijing, our expansion of the 31st floor of the Qualcomm Kerry Centre earned the LEED for Commercial
Interiors Silver certification based on such features as highly efficient lighting and HVAC systems, alternative
transportation options, recycled content and regional materials, low-emitting materials, building reuse and more. In 2010, two of our facilities outside the U.S. were designed for
LEED certification.Our facilities and biodiversity
In San Diego, we own five office sites adjacent to Los Peñasquitos Canyon Preserve , a protected terrestrial
ecosystem of high biodiversity value.
The preserve encompasses some 4,000 acres of both Peñasquitos and Lopez Canyons. It comprises more than
14 habitat types that support a broad range of plant and animal species, including more than 500 plant species,
more than 175 types of birds and great variety of reptiles, amphibians and mammals. Many of these species are
rare or endangered and are protected within the preserve. The preserve is jointly owned and administered by the
City and County of San Diego. We work closely with both to ensure that our impact on the preserve is minimal.
In 2010, for the second consecutive year, we adopted a portion of the preserve as part of California’s Coastal
Cleanup Day. More than 85 of our employees, along with their families and friends, scoured six miles, collecting
1,600 pounds of trash and 75 pounds of recyclables.
Lunch, with a side of sustainability
We operate six corporate cafés for the convenience of our employees. All San Diego cafés are Green Restaurant
Association  Certified Green Restaurants™. To achieve certification, our food services team completed a rigorous
18-step process that resulted in improved water efficiency, a comprehensive program for recycling and use of
recycled materials, use of chlorine-free paper products, elimination of polystyrene foam containers and a
commitment to sourcing local, sustainable and organic foods. In 2010, we took additional steps to meet Green
Restaurant Certificate 4.0 standards, including:
Starting a Community Supported Agriculture Program, which currently has 400 members.
Increasing our purchases of local, organic and sustainable products.
Switching to 100 percent toxin-free cleaning chemicals.
Ensuring that 100 percent of all oil and grease—more than 1,000 gallons in 2010—is converted to biofuel.
Events planning with a touch of green
Our Events Department manages more than 400 events per year using LEED- and Green Restaurant Association-
Certified venues throughout our campuses. Our events staff applies the practice of “reduce, reuse and recycle”
when developing décor and signage. For example, we use local florists to supply our flower arrangements. Afterevents, we either reuse flowers for another event or donate them to Blooms for the Heart—an organization that
recycles flowers and plants and delivers them to San Diego-area hospitals, senior homes, hospice centers and
other places where people can enjoy them.
Our events team also partners with our in-house printer and audio-visual department to design signage that canbe used for multiple events or to develop electronic signage, reducing the number of printed signs. Moving into
2011, our Events Department will measure the sustainability of their events utilizing Meeting Professional
International’s Sustainability Tool developed by Intercontinental Hotel Groups.
Cleaning greener
To provide a safe, healthy work environment for more than 10,000 employees at our San Diego facilities, our
Building Services team follows ManageMen’s  (OS1) standardized cleaning system and adheres to a number of
green cleaning practices, including:
Green Seal Certified  chemicals for all cleaning products.
Use of a neutral pH germicide approved by the Environmental Protection Agency.
Limited use of ammonia, bleach, peroxide and other toxic chemicals.
Use of an ergonomic, four-level filter vacuum system proven to reduce dust particles to virtually no detectableemission.
Replacement of traditional string mops with flat microfiber mops and two-sided buckets, reducing water usagefor restroom cleaning by 75 percent.
Just-in-time inventory system based on Lean manufacturing processes to reduce the amount of itemsdisposed.
Use of chemical cleaning concentrates that has reduced waste sent to landfills by 97 percent.
Use of neutral pH (@ +-7) carpet-cleaning chemicals listed by the Occupational Safety and HealthAdministration as having zero toxic hazard, zero flammable hazard, zero reactive hazard and zero corrosive
hazard.Environmental Governance
Complying with environmental regulations
We strive to comply with all applicable environmental laws wherever we do business. In 2010, we had no
significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and
services. Among the ways we comply:
All of our integrated circuit (IC), Gobi and new European fleet management products are in compliance with the
European Union (EU) RoHS Directive  and perfluorootanoic acid/perfluorootanoic sulfonate (PFOA/PFOS)
Directive .
No EU REACH Substance of Very High Concern is used in the manufacture of our IC products, Gobi orcommercial vehicle telematics products.
Qualcomm Enterprise Services products manufactured and shipped for the European market are Waste
Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive  compliant.
Qualcomm CDMA Technology products fully comply with Phase 1 of China’s Management Methods on controlof Pollution from Electronic Information Products (also known as China RoHS). Qualcomm chipsets will comply
with the material restriction requirements that apply to the newly published catalogue-listed products.
You can read more about our product responsibility efforts 
here.Sending a Strong Signal 2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
Content IndexGlobal Reporting InitiativeGlobal Reporting Initiative
Measure and report our economic, environmental and social
performance
The 2010 QSR Report voluntarily complies with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines. The GRI is the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework, setting the principles and
indicators that organizations use to measure and report their economic, environmental and social performance. For
more detailed information on the GRI, please visit www.globalreporting.org .
This report complies with the GRI’s B+ Application Level. It has been externally assured by an independent third-
party, ISOS Group, LLC. As a component of the external assurance process conducted by ISOS Group, our level
application was checked when aligning all reported content to GRI disclosures. A GRI Content Index is provided
below as a cross-reference to the report content, and an External Assurance Statement can be downloaded here.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index
Strategy and Analysis
Indicator Description Response
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-
maker of the organization.CEO letter
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, andopportunities. Governance
Organizational Profile
Indicator Description Response
2.1 Name of the organization. Qualcomm Incorporated
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Products and Services
2.3 Operational structure of the organization,
including main divisions, operating
companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.Businesses and Organizations
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. San Diego, CA
2.5 Number of countries where the organization
operates, and names of countries with either
major operations or that are specificallyrelevant to the sustainability issues covered in
the report.139 worldwide locations
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Qualcomm is listed on the NASDAQ
Stock Market under the ticker symbol
QCOM.
2.7 Markets served (including geographic
breakdown, sectors served, and types ofData Summary , Additional information
available in 10-K/Annual Reportcustomers/beneficiaries).
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Data Summary , Additional information
available in 10-K/Annual Report
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting
period regarding size, structure, or ownership.None.
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Memberships and Awards , Awards and
Recognition
Report Parameters
Indicator Description Response
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year)
for information provided.Our 2010 QSR Report covers eventsand highlights occurring from
September 28, 2009, to September 26,
2010, and coincides with our corporate
fiscal year. In some instances, data is
collected and reported on a calendar
rather than fiscal-year basis. Such
exceptions, as well as any other
exceptions to the reporting period, will
be noted within the report.
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Our 2009 QSR Report covers events
and highlights occurring from
September 29, 2008, to September 27,
2009, and coincides with our corporate
fiscal year. 
Qualcomm 2009 QSR
Report
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the
report or its contents.Qualcomm IncorporatedAttn: QSR
5775 Morehouse Drive
San Diego, CA 92121
qsr@qualcomm.com
3.5 Process for defining report content. Governance
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries,divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint
ventures, suppliers).This report includes Qualcomm and its
subsidiaries. Financial data is reported
in U.S. dollars.
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or
boundary of the report.We anticipate that multiplestakeholders, ranging from the general
public to current and future Qualcommemployees, investors, customers and
suppliers, will access and use our 2010
QSR Report. As such, we carefullyconsidered what information to include
and disclose in this report, taking into
account what issues and topics are
materially relevant to our business
operations. Data and content
determined to have the highest priority
have been included in this report.
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures,
subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced
operations, and other entities that can
significantly affect comparability from period to
period and/or between organizations.There were no joint ventures,
subsidiaries, leased facilities,
outsourced operations or other entities
that significantly affect comparability
from period to period and/or between
organizations.
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases
of calculations, including assumptions and
techniques underlying estimations applied to
the compilation of the Indicators and other
information in the report.Data for this report was compiled from
various company departments specific
to the performance indicator. Some
calculations have been noted in
relevant report sections as appropriate.
Data is reported using U.S.
measurement systems unless otherwisenoted.
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statementsof information provided in earlier reports, andthe reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,
mergers/acquisitions, change of base
years/periods, nature of business,
measurement methods).There are no re-statements of
information provided in earlier reports.
3.11 Significant changes from previous reportingperiods in the scope, boundary, or
measurement methods applied in the report.There have been no significant changes
from previous reporting periods in the
scope, boundary or measurement
methods applied in the 2010 QSR
Report.
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard
Disclosures in the report.
GRI Content Index
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard toseeking external assurance for the report.The 2010 QSR Report complies withthe GRI’s B+ Application Level, and ithas been third-party verified for
accuracy. The QSR Leadership
Committee provides guidance on
whether or not independent external
assurance should be conducted on our
QSR Reports.
Governance, Commitments, and Engagement
Indicator Description Response4.1 Governance structure of the organization,
including committees under the highest
governance body responsible for specific
tasks, such as setting strategy or
organizational oversight.Governance , Governance Principles
and Practices
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highestgovernance body is also an executive officer. Governance , Governance Principles
and Practices
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary boardstructure, state the number of members of the
highest governance body that are independentand/or non-executive members.Governance , Governance Principles
and Practices
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employeesto provide recommendations or direction to
the highest governance body.Governance Principles and Practices
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members
of the highest governance body, senior
managers, and executives (including
departure arrangements), and the
organization's performance (including social
and environmental performance).Ethical Employment
4.6 Processes in place for the highest
governance body to ensure conflicts of
interest are avoided.Governance Principles and Practices
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications andexpertise of the members of the highest
governance body for guiding the
organization's strategy on economic,
environmental, and social topics.Corporate Governance
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or
values, codes of conduct, and principles
relevant to economic, environmental, and
social performance and the status of their
implementation.The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of
Business Conduct
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance bodyfor overseeing the organization’s identification
and management of economic, environmental,
and social performance, including relevant
risks and opportunities, and adherence or
compliance with internationally agreed
standards, codes of conduct, and principles.Corporate Governance
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highestgovernance body’s own performance,
particularly with respect to economic,
environmental, and social performance.Governance Principles and Practices4.11 Explanation of whether and how the
precautionary approach or principle is
addressed by the organization.Product Responsibility
4.12 Externally developed economic,
environmental, and social charters, principles,
or other initiatives to which the organization
subscribes or endorses.Ethics and Integrity , Public Policy ,
Product Responsibility , Supply Chain
Management , Energy , Facilities ,
Environmental Governance
4.13 Memberships in associations (such as
industry associations) and/or
national/international advocacy organizationsin which the organization:
Has positions in governance bodies;
Participates in projects or committees;
Provides substantive funding beyond routine
membership dues; orViews membership as strategic.Memberships and Awards
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the
organization.Stakeholder Engagement
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of
stakeholders with whom to engage.Stakeholder Engagement
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement,including frequency of engagement by typeand by stakeholder group. Stakeholder Engagement
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have beenraised through stakeholder engagement, and
how the organization has responded to those
key topics and concerns, including through its
reporting.Stakeholder EngagementDisclosures on Management Approach
Indicator Description Response
DMA Economic Our Company , 2011 Proxy Statement ,
Corporate Governance , Our Code of
Business Conduct , Code of Ethics ,
Supplier Diversity Policy
DMA Environmental Our Environment , Environmental Policy ,
Our Code of Business Conduct
DMA Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Our Workplace , Health & Safety , Our
Code of Business Conduct
DMA Social: Human Rights Our Workplace , Global Workforce
Inclusion , Our Code of Business
Conduct
DMA Social: Society Our Company , Our Community , Our
Code of Business Conduct , Community
Involvement , Wireless Reach
DMA Social: Product Responsibility Our Company , Responsibility Product
Design , Our Code of Business Conduct
Economic
Indicator Description Response
EC1* Direct economic value generated and
distributed, including revenues, operating
costs, employee compensation, donations and
other community investments, retained
earnings, and payments to capital providers
and governments.Data Summary , Additional information
available in 10-K/Annual Report
EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefitplan obligations.We do not maintain a defined benefitpension plan.
EC5* Range of ratios of standard entry level wage
compared to local minimum wage at
significant locations of operation. Ethical Employment , General entry
wage level information provided
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spendingon locally-based suppliers at significant
locations of operation.Supply Chain Management , Supplier
Diversity Policy
EC8* Development and impact of infrastructure
investments and services provided primarilyfor public benefit through commercial, in-kind,
or pro bono engagement.Our Community , General public benefit
information providedEC9* Understanding and describing significant
indirect economic impacts, including the
extent of impacts.Our Community , General indirect
economic impact information provided
Environmental
Indicator Description Response
EN1* Materials used by weight or volume. Environmental Governance , Product
Responsibility
EN2* Percentage of materials used that arerecycled input materials. Product Responsibility , Facilities
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy
source.Energy
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primarysource. Energy
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation andefficiency improvements. Air Quality , Energy , Green IT , Facilities ,
Global Environmental Initiatives
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or
renewable energy based products and
services, and reductions in energyrequirements as a result of these initiatives.Product Responsibility , Energy ,
Products and Services , Responsible
Product Design
EN7* Initiatives to reduce indirect energyconsumption and reductions achieved. Energy , Green IT , Facilities , Global
Environmental Initiatives
EN8* Total water withdrawal by source. Water Conservation , Water usage for
Headquarters provided
EN10* Percentage and total volume of water recycledand reused. Water Conservation , Recycled water
and reusage for Headquarters provided
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased,managed in, or adjacent to, protected areasand areas of high biodiversity value outside
protected areas.Facilities
EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Facilities , Global Environmental
Initiatives
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gasemissions by weight. Air Quality
EN17* Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas
emissions by weight.Air Quality
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gasemissions and reductions achieved. Our Environment
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Air Qualityby type and weight.
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal
method.Waste Reduction , Green IT
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Qualcomm experienced no significant
spills in 2010 that had a material impacton the environment.
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, ortreated waste deemed hazardous under theterms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III,
and VIII, and percentage of transported waste
shipped internationally.0% of Qualcomm’s hazardous waste isshipped internationally.
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of
products and services, and extent of impact
mitigation.
Environmental Governance , Product
Responsibility
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and totalnumber of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and
regulations.Qualcomm received no monetary fines
and no non-monetary sanctions fornon-compliance with environmental
laws and regulations in 2010.
Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work
Indicator Description Response
LA1* Total workforce by employment type,
employment contract, and region.Data Summary , Total workforce by
region and employment type provided
LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnoverby age group, gender, and region. Ethical Employment , General
information on voluntary turnover
provided
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that
are not provided to temporary or part-time
employees, by major operations.Ethical Employment
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by
collective bargaining agreements.Ethical Employment
LA5* Minimum notice period(s) regarding significantoperational changes, including whether it isspecified in collective agreements. Ethical Employment , General
information provided
LA6* Percentage of total workforce represented informal joint management-worker health and
safety committees that help monitor and
advise on occupational health and safety
programs.Workplace Safety , General information
provided
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost
days, and absenteeism, and number of work-Workplace Safetyrelated fatalities by region.
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention,
and risk-control programs in place to assist
workforce members, their families, orcommunity members regarding serious
diseases.Workplace Safety , Global Emergency
Management
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formalagreements with trade unions.Qualcomm does not have any formalagreements with trade unions.
LA10 Average hours of training per year per
employee by employee category.
Education and Training
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelonglearning that support the continuedemployability of employees and assist them in
managing career endings.Education and Training , Global
Workforce Inclusion
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular
performance and career development reviews.80%, Ethical Employment
LA13* Composition of governance bodies andbreakdown of employees per categoryaccording to gender, age group, minority
group membership, and other indicators of
diversity.Global Workforce Inclusion , Data
Summary , General information provided
LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women by
employee category.Ethical Employment , General
information provided
Social: Human Rights
Indicator Description Response
HR2* Percentage of significant suppliers and
contractors that have undergone screening on
human rights and actions taken.Supply Chain Management
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies
and procedures concerning aspects of human
rights that are relevant to operations, including
the percentage of employees trained.13,000, Workplace Safety
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination
and actions taken.Qualcomm has never been found tohave unlawfully discriminated against
any of our employees
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to
exercise freedom of association and collective
bargaining may be at significant risk, and
actions taken to support these rights.Ethical Employment
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk Ethical Employmentfor incidents of child labor, and measures
taken to contribute to the elimination of child
labor.
HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk
for incidents of forced or compulsory labor,
and measures to contribute to the elimination
of forced or compulsory labor.Ethical Employment
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in
the organization’s policies or procedures
concerning aspects of human rights that are
relevant to operations.100% of security personnel are trainedin the organization’s policies or
procedures concerning aspects of
human rights that are relevant to
operations.
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations
involving rights of indigenous people and
actions taken.None
Social: Society
Indicator Description Response
SO2 Percentage and total number of businessunits analyzed for risks related to corruption. Ethics and Integrity , Our Code of
Business Conduct
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in
organization’s anti-corruption policies and
procedures.Ethics and Integrity , Our Code of
Business Conduct
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents ofcorruption. Ethics and Integrity
SO5 Public policy positions and participation inpublic policy development and lobbying. Public Policy
SO6* Total value of financial and in-kindcontributions to political parties, politicians,and related institutions by country. Public Policy , General information
provided
Social: Product Responsibility
Indicator Description Response
PR1* Life cycle stages in which health and safetyimpacts of products and services are
assessed for improvement, and percentage of
significant products and services categories
subject to such procedures.Product Responsibility , Supply Chain
Management , General discussion of
product responsibility reported,Percentage of significant products
subject to procedures reported
PR3 Type of product and service information
required by procedures, and percentage of Environmental Governance , Product
Responsibilitysignificant products and services subject to
such information requirements.
PR6* Programs for adherence to laws, standards,and voluntary codes related to marketingcommunications, including advertising,
promotion, and sponsorship.Ethics and Integrity , Our Code of
Business Conduct , General information
provided
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints
regarding breaches of customer privacy and
losses of customer data.Ethics and Integrity
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-
compliance with laws and regulations
concerning the provision and use of products
and services.Environmental Governance , Ethics and
Integrity
* Partially covered in reportSending a Strong Signal 2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
Our commitment, 
by the numbersData SummaryData Summary
Our commitment, by the numbers
Make selections below to expand information for each section.
Our Company
 Units 2010 2009 2008
Total Consolidated Revenues by Region* (in millions)
China $ 3,194 2,378 2,309
South Korea $ 2,913 3,655 3,872
Taiwan $ 1,360 831 564
Japan $ 1,018 1,098 1,598
United States $ 564 632 970
Other Foreign $ 1,942 1,822 1,829
Total $ 10,991 10,416 11,142
Revenues by Segment (in millions)
QCT $ 6,695 6,135 6,717
QTL $ 3,659 3,605 3,622
QWI $ 628 641 785
QSI $ 9 29 12
Other $ 0 6 6
Total $ 10,991 10,416 11,142
Total Capitalization (in millions)
Stockholders’ Equity $ 20,858 20,316 17,944
Quantity of Products Provided
QES Satellite-Based and Terrestrial-Based Telematics # of Units
Shipped79,000 43,700 91,200QCT Mobile Station Modem (MSM™) Integrated Circuits # of
Products
Provided399,000,000 317,000,000 336,000,000
Number of Employees
United States # of 13,500 12,800 12,600
Non-United States # of 4,000 3,300 2,800
Total Employees, Worldwide # of 17,500 16,100 15,400
Breakout by Employee Type
Regular Employees % 90% 91% 93%
Temporary Employees % 10% 9% 7%
Supply Chain
Number of Diverse Suppliers Registered, Global # of 563 439 342
Spending on Government Subcontract Work Directed at
Small Businesses (U.S. only)% of OverallSpending38% 38% 38%
*The Company distinguishes revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which its
products, software or services are delivered and, for QTL’s licensing and royalty revenues, the invoiced addresses of its
licenses.
Our Workplace
 Units 2010 2009 2008
Diversity
Minority Employees % of T otal 55% 54% 53%
Nationalities # of 107 102 103
Languages Spoken # of 66 66 66
Women in the Workforce
Women on the Board of Directors % of T otal 15% 23% 17%Training Statistics
Classoom Training Course Enrollments # of 45,400 48,400 50,500
Instructor-led Sessions # of 600 360 330
Online Courses # of 700 700 660
Training by Employee Group
Individual Contributor Hrs/Employee 24 N/A N/A
Management Hrs/Employee 27 N/A N/A
Executive Hrs/Employee 18 N/A N/A
Ethical Employment
Employee Voluntary Turnover Rates % of T otal 4.00% 2.50% 4.90%
Workplace Safety
Total Injury and Illness Incident Rate (U.S. only) Per 100 Full-
time
Employees1.8 1.2 1.7
Total Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate (U.S. only) Per 100 Full-
time
Employees0.1 0.1 0.2
Environmental Health and Safety Training
Employees Trained # of 1,808 2,290 3,000
Trainings Led # of 1,276 1,344 N/A
Ergonomic Assessments Led # of 1,039 659 2,248
Total Hours Provided # of 2,610 N/A N/A
N/A = data not available
Our Community Units 2010 2009 2008
Employees Participating in Matching Grant and Community
Service Grant Programs# of 2,823 2,311 2,346
Nonprofit Organizations Helped by Matching Grant and
Community Service Grant Programs# of 1,513 1,416 1,245
Corporate Giving by Program Area
Educated Communities % of T otal 68% 68% 59%
Healthy Sustainable Communities % of T otal 27% 26% 35%
Culturally Vibrant Communities % of T otal 5% 6% 6%
Matching Grants and Community Service Grants
Educated Communities % of T otal 43% 46% 37%
Healthy Sustainable Communities % of T otal 47% 46% 53%
Culturally Vibrant Communities % of T otal 10% 8% 10%
Wireless Reach™
Wireless Reach Partners # of 200+ 100+ 100
Wireless Reach Projects # of 66 56 37
Wireless Reach Project Countries # of 29 28 22
Our Environment
 Units 2010 2009 2008
Green IT
E-Waste Collection Pounds of
Waste489,932 339,306 239,729
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)*
CO2 per Gross Square Foot of Facilities Space CO2 Metric
Tons0.0203 0.0189 0.0205Total Direct GHG Emissions by Weight CO2 Metric
Tons57,721 53,633 43,921
Total Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight CO2 Metric
Tons39,824 38,502 46,694
Direct Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Source*
Natural Gas (facilities) MMBtu 895,712 851,408 699,784
Jet Fuel (aviation related) Gallons 988,469 809,707 748,863
Vehicle Gasoline (shuttle/test vehicles) Gallons 47,494 46,358 32,230
Diesel Fuel (cars/trucks) Gallons 7,341 5,616 5,854
Diesel Fuel (generators) Gallons 1,485 3,887 3,670
Indirect Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Source*
Electricity (purchased) Megawatt
Hours120,676 115,881 111,080
Significant Air Emissions**
NOx Tons 28.79 28.50 42.30
SOx Tons 0.20 0.10 <0.10
VOC Tons 1.17 1.00 0.80
Total Weight of Waste and Disposal Method*
Recycled Material Tons 1,313 680 709
Landfill Waste Tons 1,723 1,200 1,142
Solid Waste Generated Tons 3,036 1,880 1,851
Hazardous Waste*
Generated Tons 56.5 47.9 54.1
Recycled % 73% 77% 56%
Water Conservation**
Water Savings Million 18.08 17.80 16.50Gallons
*Amounts represent prior-year calendar year data for California facilities only, which make up roughly 72 percent of our
global square footage.
**San Diego, CA, facilities onlySending a Strong Signal 2010 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report qsr
External Assurance 
What we looked at: scope of our work  
Qualcomm Incorporated  has engaged ISOS Group , LLC  to give assurance on the quality and e xtent of Profile Disclosures, Disclosures 
of Management Approach and Standard Disclosures otherwise referred to as Performance  Indicators referenced through  the 2010 
Qualcomm Social Responsibility  (QSR) Report . This assurance applies  to the report based on the 2010  fiscal  year, made pub lic in 
April of 2011 ; it does not extend to events occurring prior to, or after the 2010  reporting cycle.  
A verification statement will be made public and submitted to the Global Reporting Initiative.  
The scope of the assurance covers the economic, socia l and environmental performance data, both quantitatively and qualitatively 
expressed on behalf of Qualcomm’s  headquarters and subsidiaries. This assurance exercise has been conducted by verifying report 
content and supporting documentation made available during the external assurance period ( March 7 – March 29, 2011 ). The scope 
of the assurance does not include observational analysis as a component of on -site visits, but rather a strict emphasis on the 
reliability and quality of report content, in addition  to verification of data sources and collection processes . 
The comprehensive assessment and summary  that accompany this formal statement  are to be used at the discretion of Qualcomm. 
It is the C ompany’s decision to implement suggestions made by ISOS Gr oup in future reporting cycles.  
Our methodology: basis of our work and level of assurance  
ISOS Group administered the assurance process for Qualcomm through its experts who followed the G3 Framework established by 
the Global Reporting Initiat ive and principles for defining report content and ensuring the quality of the reported information, while 
integrating self -developed tools for verification of sustainability reporting based on practices drawn from the U.N. Global Compact, 
the DJS I, AA1000, relevant ISO series  and anticipated developments in this field.  
This external assurance exercise consists of four main tasks and two supplemental  ones . Performance results are determined by 
ISOS Group’s evaluation of reported information , which is weighted and scored. Additionally, c orporate codes and policies driving 
organizational change, data justifications supplied by key personnel, internal stakeholder feedback, and statements made by key 
members of the reporting team  during process interviews are referred to as support for claims made by the C ompany .  
An “Acceptable” score indicated by a 50% threshold is needed f or the four main tasks in order to issue a “+” level. Although only 
twenty material indicators are required for a GRI “ B” level report, this external assurance statement is based on the results of a 
comprehensive verification of all disclos ed indicators , while highlighting performance of a pre-selected sample of  twenty  indicators . 
What we did: key assurance procedures  
ISOS Gr oup administered the assurance process for Qualcomm through its experts who  strictly followed the G3 Framework, along 
with the Global Reporting Initiative ’s principles for defining report content and ensuring the quality of the rep orted information, 
while integrating independently developed tools for verification.  
Our findings were supported by conducting:  
 an inspection of the documentation used for gathering, analyzing and aggregating the material quantitative data,  
 investigation of procedures for determining material inclusiveness via random sampling and interviews, and  
 inquiries  of the central unit responsible for preparing the report as well as a select group of internal and external stakeholders.  
An initial review allowed for the C ompany to make adjustments to detected discrepancies and deliver  supplemental data to 
support their case. Once a final draft was delivered to ISOS  Group ’s Assurance Practitioners, elements of each main task 
(Credibility Check, Quantitative Review, Qualitativ e Review, and Sustainability Action Balance) w ere carefully evaluated and 
weighted accordingly.  External Assurance Statement  
by ISOS Group , LLC  to Qualcomm Incorporated  
2010 QSR  Report  
GRI Application Level: “B+”  [Approved]  What we found: our assurance opinion  
In ISOS Group’s opinion, the 2010 QSR Report is a fair  representation of the C ompany’s sustainability -related strategies, 
managemen t systems and performance. The r eport, along with referenced material s in the 10K, information posted on the C ompany 
website and supplemental documentation supplied to ISOS meet the general content and quality requirements of the GRI G3 
Framework .  
We have evaluated the r eport’s ability to address specific criteria within the foll owing main tasks on a scale of “Good”, “Acceptable”, 
“Fair” and “Needs Improvement” .  
 
 Credibility Check:  GOOD   
Qualcomm has accurately referenced the reported indicators in the GRI Content Index . It is also apparent that the 
Company’s organizational structure fully supports sustainability related activities, just as the mission and vision have 
set the tone for the newly instituted organizational structure needed for a robu st sustainability reporting process. 
Statem ents from the CEO validate the C ompany’s acknowledged  risks, opportunities and strategies for integrating 
sustainable development into the greater busines s ethos at all locations and communities served . Continuing  to 
formalize this process, particularly through structured stakeholder feedback mechanisms will further strengthen the 
“material ity” of issues reported by the C ompany in the future. Closer consultation with the Indicator Protocols 
throughout the reporting  cycle will also increase the C ompany’s ability to transition to an extended number of FULLY 
reported indicators.  
 Quantitative Review:  ACCEPTABLE  (20 Sample Indicators)   
We believe that all data included in the r eport is accurate and that the C ompany will cont inue to improve its metrics  
for illustrating performance of ‘Material’ issues. Our opinion is based upon careful analysis and verification of 
supplemental documentation r equested by ISOS. Although the C ompany has made significant strides to improve 
com parisons from the previous year, this task could be further strengthened by drawing a correlation to other 
comparative data points and leveraging internal stakeholder’s feedback  for goal s setting. Incremental steps made to 
provide better coverage in  the area of “Product Responsibility ” could generate greater awareness for the C ompany’s 
responsible product design efforts.  
 Qualitative Review:  GOOD   
When consider ing the reporting boundary and ‘Material ’ issues identified by Qualcomm, we do not believe that the 
report misrepresents significant economic, environmental and social impacts or omits relevant information that 
would influence st akeholder decisions. While the C ompany should be commended for their efforts to apply GRI’s 
content and quality principles effec tively, it is suggested that  further improvements in the area of stakeholders’  
engagement be continued. The 2010 QSR Report is an attestation in  itself to the commitments the C ompany has 
made to driving sustainability deeper into the organization and the b enefits of instituting a firm process needed for 
producing a valuable management and communication tool.  
 Sustainability Action Balance:  GOOD   
 
The C ompany has been found to be consistent with their management approach, responsive to priority issues 
expressed by internal  stakeholders and aware of their current sustainability context. Progress has been made from 
the previous year to expand the number of disclosures made across all dimensions of sustainability and to report in a 
much more complete manner. A solid organizati onal structure has elevate d the C ompany’s strategic objectives to 
include a wide range of sustainability issues - further demonstrating the leadership role it has taken in the 
marketplace. Furthermore, a refreshed Code of Business Conduct has been vital in send ing a strong message about 
the C ompany’s commitment to operating ethically at all levels of its business and laid the foundation for reporting on 
a wider range of issues.  
 
 ISOS Group’s responsibilities  
ISOS and Qualcomm agreed to uphold confidentiality arrangements between the two entities regarding correspondence and data 
exchange. ISOS refuses to issue any statements or publications that contradict with information made public by the C ompany in 
order to maintain privacy of all persons, practices and systems involved. Our responsibility is to independently express conclusions 
on the reliability of  management’s assertions of select subject matter s as defined within the agreed scope of work and intended by 
Qualcomm in meeting all voluntary sustainability reporting disclosures.  
We are committed to expressing an opinion based on our work performed as to whether any issues have come to our attention 
causing us to believe that the ‘Material ’ data has not been prepared in accordance with relevant criteria. The procedures selected 
are based on ISOS Group’s professional judgment. Our responsibil ity in performing this assurance is to the management of 
Qualcomm  only, and in accordance wit h the terms agreed to with the C ompany . 
Statement of Independence  
ISOS Group declares its independence from Qualcomm on any reporting activity except for the external assurance activity offered as 
a neutral third  party from the organization’s interests. Therefore, there is no confl ict of interest to the integrity of this assurance 
statement.  
 
 
 
                                
  
Nancy Mancilla                                           Alexandru Georgescu  
Lead Verifier | CEO, ISOS Group                Financial and Quantitative Anal ysis | CFO, ISOS Group  
 
Las Vegas, USA  
March 29, 2011  