qsr  2011-2012 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report
THINKING 
AHEAD
FULL REPORT
1qsr  2011-2012 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report THINKING  AHEAD
OUR  
COMPANY
FULL SECTION
23LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
Leading with tomorrow in mind
Sustainability at Qualcomm begins with our senior management. Their
commitment, and their collaboration with our QSR LeadershipCommittee, ensure that sustainability is built into our business. Below,CEO Paul Jacobs
 and QSR Leadership Committee Chair Daniel
Sullivan  share their perspectives on our progress in 2012.
Dr. Paul E. Jacobs
A Message from Our Chairman and CEO
Innovation requires the ability to look into the future and imagine how it might be better. At Qualcomm, that
is the essence of what we do and what we have always done, from our earliest days to our latest ideasand solutions. We are truly a company built on imagining what’s possible.
Thinking sustainably is also part of our innovative spirit. That’s why we have never treated sustainability as
an afterthought or as something to be handled apart from our core work. Instead, we’ve strived tointegrate it throughout Qualcomm—in our products, in our operations and, most importantly, in our people.
Looking back over the past year, there are many examples of our continued progress toward sustainability.
In particular, every day we create sustainability with our technologies and products—through the betterworld they help make possible and through our careful approach to designing and producing them. Oursolutions enable next-generation mobile technologies that are enhancing quality of life worldwide. They’rehelping make transportation more efficient, make energy systems more reliable, increase the quality ofhealth care, enhance education and better connect people everywhere. Our Wireless Reach™ program
 is
also working to close the digital divide in underserved communities in more than 30 countries. As wecontribute to these advances, we produce our products as efficiently and as mindfully as we can. Weconstantly look for ways to conserve resources and reduce waste
. We also work closely with suppliers  to
extend environmental and social sustainability throughout our supply chain.
4As we enable technology that improves quality of life, we are also strengthening communities through our
philanthropy. Since 2000, Qualcomm Incorporated and the Qualcomm Foundation have donated more
than $200 million  to help create educated, healthy, sustainable and culturally vibrant communities
worldwide. Our employees have given thousands of hours to lend a hand in their own communities.
I’m proud of Qualcomm’s progress toward sustainability—and I’m excited about where we’re going.
Ensuring both our long-term success and responsible citizenship as we continue to expand and grow isn’teasy…but it is essential. At Qualcomm, it’s just the kind of challenge we embrace. It requires us toimagine the possibilities, envision and, of course, innovate.
I invite you to read more about our progress in this report and in the message below from Qualcomm
Executive Vice President of Human Resources, Dan Sullivan, who also chairs our QSR LeadershipCommittee. On behalf of everyone at Qualcomm, thank you for joining us on our journey towardsustainability.
Dr. Paul E. JacobsChairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
5Dr. Daniel L. Sullivan
A Message from the Chair of Our QSR Leadership Committee
At Qualcomm, we’re helping to change the world: through innovations that touch billions of people
worldwide and through our efforts to be an outstanding global corporate citizen. Our journey towardsustainability began more than 25 years ago and has taken on even greater momentum in recent yearswith expanded initiatives, more formal governance and increased transparency—all of which have grownin parallel to the rapid growth of our Company.
In 2012, we maintained our momentum. As the chair of Qualcomm’s QSR Leadership Committee, which
develops and guides our companywide sustainability initiatives, I’m pleased to share some examples ofour progress.
New goals, new progress.  In 2012, we formalized our QSR goals
, which clearly articulate our objectives
for each of our sustainability priorities. These goals further define the priorities and commitments we
established in 2011. We made steady progress toward meeting our goals in 2012, including thesehighlights:
Qualcomm Incorporated and the Qualcomm Foundation gave a combined $42 million in grants tosupport and strengthen communities around the globe in 2012, bringing our total combined giving tomore than $200 million since 2000.
Through our annual QCares Experience , more than 1,600 employees donated more than 6,500 hours of
volunteer time at 52 nonprofits in 23 Qualcomm locations worldwide.
We maintained an injury rate 32 percent below the industry average.
We decreased our 2012 per-capita landfill disposal rate for our three major California facilities by 99
percent over 2011. We also recycled 100 percent of hazardous waste from those facilities, along with100 percent of our IT-managed e-waste at our San Diego headquarters.
We continued to implement state-of-the-art energy-efficiency efforts in our facilities and informationtechnology divisions. We also certified our fifth facility under the Leadership in Energy andEnvironmental Design (LEED) program and implemented our second energy-efficient POD data center,which we expect will save approximately 1 million kilowatt hours and $130,000 annually.
Extending sustainability to our key suppliers. For many years, we’ve worked closely with our suppliersto ensure their policies and values align with ours. In 2012, we gave those efforts a major boost by joining
6the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC)  as an applicant member. Joining the EICC puts
Qualcomm in the good company of our peers, gives us a voice in important industry-related conversations
and enables us to bring the resources and influence of our entire industry in efforts to achieve greatertransparency and sustainability throughout our whole supply chain. We are in the process of working withour key suppliers to help them conform to the EICC Code of Conduct
, which sets specific requirements
related to human and workplace rights, ethics, the environment and more.
Assessing materiality. Our Company is growing fast, and the world is changing quickly. In 2012, we
began to look closely at our sustainability priorities so that we can be sure we are focusing on the issuesthat are most relevant to our business and to our diverse stakeholders. We expect to report the results ofour assessment in 2013.
We have always believed that sustainability is good business. Striving to be a good corporate citizen and
ensuring the long-term success of Qualcomm are, in the end, the same goal. The net result, whetherthrough our technology or our sustainability efforts, is that we’re helping to change the world for the better.
Dr. Daniel L. SullivanExecutive Vice President of Human Resources and Chair, QSR Leadership Committee
7GOVERNANCE
Creating a culture of
accountability
By leading with our values, we ingrain responsibility in everything we
do. From our Board of Directors to our cross-divisional QSRLeadership Committee, our responsibility efforts begin with thepeople in charge.
LEADING BY EXAMPLE
As a publicly held company, we are governed by a Board of Directors , which sets high standards for our
executive leadership  and all of our employees as it acts in the best interests of our stockholders. Our
directors serve as prudent fiduciaries and oversee our Company’s management. Board members are
expected at all times to act in accordance with our Code of Ethics .
As of September 30, 2012, twelve directors are independent, meaning they are not employees, have notbeen employees within the last three years and do not have any business or consulting arrangements withQualcomm. The Board includes a presiding director who is independent. The presiding director leads at allmeetings of the Board at which the chair is not present, including executive sessions of the independentdirectors.
The Board has four standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Finance and Governance. Members of all
committees except Finance are composed of independent directors. The presiding director serves as chairof one of the three independent committees.
The positions of chairman of the board and chief executive officer are combined and are currently held by
Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, who has served as chairman of the board since 2009 and as chief executive officersince 2005. The Board elects the chairman of the board and chief executive officer based on the criteriathat it deems appropriate and in the best interests of the Company at the time of election.
Detailed information about our governance structure and policies is available on our corporate website
.
8SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT QUALCOMM
Governance structure dedicated to social responsibility
Social responsibility efforts at Qualcomm are guided by our cross-divisional QSR Leadership Committee,
which reports annually to the Governance Committee of our Board of Directors. The Committee’sleadership and access to the Board ensures social responsibility issues are an essential component of ourbusiness strategy. Four QSR Committees oversee our four areas of focus—Company, Workplace,Community and Environment—and implement the QSR Leadership Committee’s directives ascompanywide practices broadly shared with our stakeholders. In all, our QSR governance structure helpsingrain social responsibility throughout our Company and long-term business goals.
OUR QSR COMMITMENT, PRIORITIES AND GOALS
We’ve established clear QSR commitments, priorities and goals to define and focus our socialresponsibility efforts. Our commitment is to:
Operate with the highest ethical standards
Be a great place to work
Be good corporate citizens wherever we conduct business
Develop technology that positively transforms the world
Continue to drive value for our stockholders
In 2012, we formalized our goals for each of our QSR focus areas and priorities so that we can continue to
9improve our social responsibility efforts, better monitor our progress and report more transparently. We are
pleased to share our steady progress on each of these goals.
Additional policies that outline our commitment on specific social responsibilities include:
Code of Ethics
Environmental Policy
Supplier Diversity Policy
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct
OUR
COMPANYGOALSWe meet and exceed industry standards for ethical business
practices, product responsibility and supplier management.
Governance
Regularly review our corporate governance principles and policies to ensure they serve the best interests
of our stockholders and other stakeholders
2012 PROGRESS
Amended the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and amended the Company’s Bylaws asa result of a vote by stockholders at the 2012 Annual Meeting to eliminate the plurality voting provisionfor the election of directors
Develop measurable goals and reporting metrics for each of our QSR priorities
2012 PROGRESS
QSR Leadership Committee approved goals to monitor progress of our QSR priorities
Commenced materiality assessment to determine and prioritize our social responsibility issues
Ethics and Integrity
Require employees to acknowledge our code of business conduct, review the U.S. Foreign CorruptPractices Act (FCPA) and acknowledge our anticorruption policy, as applicable
2012 PROGRESS
Nearly 100 percent of active employees reviewed and acknowledged The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of
Business Conduct
10Nearly 100 percent of active employees identified as needing to be aware of our FCPA and
anticorruption policies reviewed and acknowledged these policies
Develop and publish Qualcomm's guiding principles on privacy
2012 PROGRESS
Qualcomm strives to foster trust in the use of wireless technologies by helping to enable responsibleinformation privacy and data security practices that are informed by the guiding principles publishedhere
.
Product Responsibility
Develop products taking into account environmental and social impact considerations
2012 PROGRESS
Continued to implement and expand companywide and supplier sustainability initiatives
Joined the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) as an applicant member and adopted theEICC Code of Conduct in our operations
Expanded bromine-free and chlorine-free design strategy beyond integrated circuit products
Participated in the EICC-GeSI Extractives Work Group and IPC conflict minerals standard developmentcommittees and continued to work with industry to develop conflict-free solutions
Supplier Management
Engage suppliers to advance sustainability efforts, including promoting efficient water uses
2012 PROGRESS
Began engaging with our top suppliers by spend on sustainability issues including but not limited towater, energy, hazardous materials usage, conflict minerals and human rights
Upon joining EICC and adopting the EICC Code of Conduct internally, began engaging with our majorsuppliers on their adoption of the Code
Completed a water scarcity assessment of top suppliers by spend
Developed supplier engagement strategies to encourage efficient water management
11Encourage conflict-free sourcing of materials used in products
2012 PROGRESS
Required our top suppliers to source from smelters and refiners listed on the Conflict-Free Smelter list,
when practicable
Continued to participate in EICC-GeSI Extractives Work Group and IPC standards development
committees to foster a conflict-free electronics supply chain
Continued developing companywide supplier due diligence measures
Internal task force engaged to determine impact of final SEC rule on our Company
Stakeholder Engagement
Foster ongoing, transparent communication with our key stakeholders
2012 PROGRESS
Held leadership positions on a number of key trade associations and industry partnerships throughoutthe world
Met regularly with policymakers globally to discuss relevant public policy issues
Actively engaged with numerous key public policy organizations, including the World Economic Forum,4G Americas and the United States Council for International Business
Worked with investors and research firms to continue enhancing openness, transparency andaccountability in a timely manner
Improved transparency and disclosure of social responsibility issues
Engaged in cross-industry forums to help us identify, adopt and contribute to the development ofenvironmental best practices
Participated in discussions about relevant methodologies for tracking, evaluating and reportingenvironmental performance
12Global Workforce Inclusion
Expand diversity and inclusion efforts globally with a focus on the recruitment, retention and development
of traditionally underrepresented minorities and women
2012 PROGRESS
Expanded our QWISE chapters globally
Offered fellowships, scholarships and summer internships to underrepresented graduate students inengineering through our college internship program, Early Identification Program and studentsponsorship in the National GEM Consortium
Supported professional development programs and networking opportunities targeting women andtraditionally underrepresented minorities via our Employee Resource Groups and partnerships withexternal diversity organizations
Provided underrepresented youth an opportunity to experience life in a corporate environment throughour Hire a Youth program
Invested financial and human resources, including volunteer mentoring by our employees, in nonprofitorganizations providing STEM educational opportunities for underrepresented students
Support transition of United States military personnel into corporate workforce
2012 PROGRESS
Implemented Qualcomm Corporate Integration Program, which exposes Wounded Warriors to workingin a corporate environment
Sponsored and supported activities of our Mil-Vets Employee Resource Group, which focuses onrecruitment, mentoring and community outreach to military veterans and fosters employee engagement
Expand efforts to support opportunities for the employment of people with disabilities within Qualcommand the community
2012 PROGRESS
Sponsored and supported activities of our disABILITY.resource Employee Resource Group, whichsupports and educates people with disabilities both within our Company as well as the community as awhole
Hosted various internal and external events to raise awareness and support the employment of peopleOUR
WORKPLACEGOALSWe provide a safe and healthy work environment where diversity
is embraced and various opportunities for training, growth andadvancement are strongly encouraged for all employees.
13with disabilities, such as Jobtoberfest, “Day in a Chair” and Qualcomm mentorship day
Employee Development
Promote global employee wellness and improve overall health and fitness of our employees
2012 PROGRESS
Began Global Employee Health Services program
Thousands of employees attended over 1,500 QLife fitness classes at our 19 on-site, commercial-grade
fitness facilities or at fitness centers nearby
Our on-site headquarters’ clinic, Qualcomm Health Center, offered comprehensive health services, pre-travel consultations, on-site physical therapy and visiting medical specialists to all full-time employees
Over 4,000 employees bolstered their immune systems through our annual flu shot program
Provide training globally that enables Qualcomm employees to operate at the leading edge of technologyand help them to meet our future business needs
2012 PROGRESS
Introduction of lynda.com
Implemented mobile learning strategy
Created and promoted internal social media sites
Ethical Employment
Increase awareness and visibility of human rights principles within our Company, as well as withcontracted vendors and key suppliers
2012 PROGRESS
Gave global trainings on The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct , a policy that all active
employees review and acknowledge
100 percent of our security personnel are trained in human rights policies and procedures
Annual assessment of human rights compliance and risks conducted by legal, finance, employeerelations and internal audit departments
Enhanced our understanding and assessment of human rights issues, including the UN GuidingPrinciples on Business and Human Rights
Actively participated in BSR’s Human Rights Working Group
14Increase awareness of employee recognition programs and promote increased recognition of employee
contributions
2012 PROGRESS
Rolled out “Appreciate Q” program, a resource for employees to appreciate effort, recognize great workand celebrate excellence at Qualcomm
Provide employees with increased visibility to their total compensation and benefits package
2012 PROGRESS
Total Rewards Value Initiative rolled out to all United States, China and India personnel, whichcomprises over 85 percent of our workforce
Workplace Safety
Maintain injury rates below industry average
2012 PROGRESS
Our Total Injury and Incident Rate is 32 percent lower than the industry average
OUR
COMMUNITYGOALSWe grow strategic relationships with a wide range of local
organizations and programs that develop and strengthencommunities worldwide.
Philanthropy
Expand our philanthropic support toward areas of need in alignment with Qualcomm’s growth
2012 PROGRESS
Broadened our philanthropy to new nonprofit organizations in Canada, Europe, Asia, India and the
United States
Qualcomm Foundation and Qualcomm Incorporated gave a combined $42 million in grants to supportand strengthen communities worldwide
Volunteerism
Increase employee volunteerism through innovative programs with local nonprofit organizations globally
152012 PROGRESS
Held companywide volunteerism month, QCares Experience, in 23 Qualcomm locations worldwide,
enabling more than 1,600 employees to volunteer over 6,500 hours at 52 nonprofit organizations duringwork hours
Hosted online system for nonprofit organizations to promote and encourage board and committeeservice opportunities directly to our employees
100 percent of our executive leadership is active in the communities where we operate
Wireless Reach
Create sustainable advanced wireless projects that strengthen economic and social development with afocus on education, entrepreneurship, health care, the environment and public safety
2012 PROGRESS
Wireless Reach currently has 73 projects in various stages of development in 31 countries, each
targeted at empowering people through the use of advanced wireless technologies
Support United Nations Millennium Development Goals and help local governments reach theirInformation and Communications Technology and universal service goals
2012 PROGRESS
In 2012, Wireless Reach began projects that specifically target the following UN MillenniumDevelopment Goals: universal education
, gender equality , and child and maternal health .
Air Quality
Identify opportunities to better track and reduce our direct and indirect greenhouse gas and othersignificant air emissions
2012 PROGRESS
Publicly reported greenhouse gas emissions for all of our North American facilities for calendar year2011
Earned SDG&E’s 2012 Clean Transportation Award for our pioneer efforts to implement and promoteelectric vehicle charging stationsOUR
ENVIRONMENTGOALSWe grow our operations while minimizing our carbon footprint,
conserving water and reducing waste.
16Installed 17 electric vehicle charging stations at San Diego sites, in addition to the five Raleigh, NC,
sites that were implemented in prior year
Encouraged and incentivized energy-efficient and alternative commuting, including Company-organizedcarpool vans/routes
Energy
Seek innovative and practical methods to improve our energy efficiency
2012 PROGRESS
Received SDG&E’s 2012 Energy Champion Award for implementing efficiency projects, resulting insignificant energy savings
Identified equipment efficiency opportunities for additional energy savings
Increase our contribution to the development of the smart energy ecosystem
2012 PROGRESS
Engaged in cross-industry forums and dialogue on environmental issues, such as Business Council forSustainable Energy, International Caucus Conservation Foundation, GridWise Alliance and IndustrialEnvironmental Association
Presented at and sponsored the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners annualmeetings
Conducted various webinars, including “Smart Grid Virtual Summit Webinar: 3G Cellular Technologiesfor Smart Grid Communications,” “Qualcomm Webinar: Lessons from the Real World — ComparingCellular with Other Communication Technologies for Smart Grid” and the “GSMA Webinar: SmartEnergy for Smart Cities”
Participated in various stakeholder working groups on smart grids
Waste Reduction
Identify opportunities to increase recycling and decrease amount of waste sent to landfills, as well ascontinue to implement best practices in hazardous waste disposal
2012 PROGRESS
Earned the 2012 Directors Recycling Award presented by the Mayor of San Diego and the city’sEnvironmental Services Department
Explored ways to increase overall amount of material recycled in our facilities, including constructionmaterials
17Recycled 100 percent of our hazardous waste in fiscal 2012
Maintain recycling of IT-managed e-waste and provide opportunities for our employees to recycle personal
e-waste
2012 PROGRESS
Held quarterly e-waste collection events to recycle employees’ personal e-waste
Recycled 100 percent IT-managed e-waste generated at headquarters
Water Conservation
Seek additional, practical methods to enhance water conservation and sustainability practices
2012 PROGRESS
Advocated with San Diego County Water Authority for expanded reclaimed water access at ourheadquarter sites to facilitate increased water recycling
Identified opportunities for additional water efficiency utilizing water-saving fixtures, drought-resistantlandscaping and other best practices
Worked closely with the City of San Diego and the Industrial Environmental Association watercommittee on water practices and policies
At our San Jose and Santa Clara operations, we saved approximately a quarter of a million gallons ofwater per year using a reverse osmosis/deionized water system, which produces more deionized waterwith less waste water
Facilities and Operations
Consider design factors that enhance energy efficiency and sustainable construction
2012 PROGRESS
Earned “LEED India for New Construction Gold” from the Indian Green Building Council for ourBangalore, India, facility
Maintained ISO 9001:2008 certification for our San Diego QualClean office cleaning system
Began pursuing LEED for two construction projects in San Diego and LEED gold certification for Taiwanfactory
Maintained Green Restaurant Certification at our corporate cafes in San Diego
Enhance our efforts to utilize energy-efficient IT infrastructure, with a particular focus on our data centers
182012 PROGRESS
Implemented second Performance-Optimized Datacenter (POD), resulting in approximately 1 million
kWH and $130,000 savings annually
95 percent of all new desktops, laptops and monitors are EnergyStar-rated
Expanded number of Telepresence systems by 14, totaling 29
Global Environmental Initiatives
Inspire employees to engage proactively in environmental initiatives in the workplace and beyond
2012 PROGRESS
Hosted our annual on-site Earth Day fair focused on employee participation
Promoted and encouraged employee involvement in volunteer projects at environmental nonprofitorganizations
Received award for recording the most bicycle commute trips per employee in our size category duringthe San Diego Association of Governments’ Bike to Work Month
REDUCING RISK BY ACTING RESPONSIBLY
Social responsibility is more than the right thing to do. It is also how we and other forward-thinkingcompanies protect against the risks inherent in our business. Below are some of the ways ourresponsibility efforts are helping to mitigate risk. For further information about risks to our business, pleaserefer to our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
.
Risk:
Our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of CDMA, OFDMA and othercommunications technologies and our customers’ and licensees’ sales of communications equipment,products and services based on these technologies.
HOW OUR QSR PROGRAMS HELP
We work with businesses, governments and nonprofit organizations to demonstrate the advantages ofmobile technologies in solving various social and environmental concerns. Among other efforts, we’reinvolved in the evolution toward a smart energy grid
 in the United States that utilizes solutions based on
our technology. Our Wireless Reach  program supports efforts that use our technologies to address such
issues as poverty, disparities in health care and lack of education around the world. Wherever possible,we’re promoting our technologies as part of the solution to some of society’s greatest challenges.TM
19Risk:
Global economic conditions that impact the communications industry could negatively affect the demand
for our products and our customers’ products, which may negatively affect our revenues.
HOW OUR QSR PROGRAMS HELP
By investing in the places where we do business through our global social responsibility programs, we’rehelping to bolster communities against the effects of economic downturns. By hiring locally, we’reproviding jobs and stimulating local economies. Meanwhile, by acting as a prudent fiduciary for ourCompany and our stockholders, our Board of Directors
 seeks to protect the Company from adverse
economic effects.
Risk:
Our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result indecreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and those of our licenseesand/or result in new specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which couldnegatively affect our revenues and operating results.
HOW OUR QSR PROGRAMS HELP
We must continually innovate to compete successfully. The key to our innovation can be summed up intwo words: our people
. We help ensure access to the innovators who will define and lead our industry in
coming years by recruiting the best minds in the industry; building a workforce characterized by a diversityof perspectives; maintaining a workplace culture that has been recognized as being among the best in theworld; and treating employees fairly, rewarding them well and investing in their continued development.Further, by making our products
 ever more sustainable and safe, we continue to achieve an imperative for
any company that hopes to set the agenda for the industry.
20Risk:
We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees.
HOW OUR QSR PROGRAMS HELP
As noted previously, our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel
at all levels of our Company and in all of our locations worldwide. Workplace  initiatives designed to
increase on-the-job health and safety, promote inclusion, encourage work-life integration and enhanceprofessional development all help make us an employer-of-choice for the world’s top talent.
Risk:
We are subject to government regulations. Our business may suffer as a result of changes in laws orregulations, our failure or inability to comply with laws or regulations, or adverse rulings in enforcement orother proceedings.
HOW OUR QSR PROGRAMS HELP
Through The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct , which we require all employees to read
and acknowledge, we make ethical and regulatory requirements clear and reduce the risk ofnoncompliance, corruption or ethical breaches. Similarly, our QCT business’ 
Supplier Code of Conduct
makes explicit our expectations regarding regulatory compliance and ethical behavior among oursuppliers. Our ongoing efforts to make our products increasingly safe and sustainable reduce thelikelihood that we will violate environmental and safety regulations. Finally, our engagement in developingpublic policy
 helps us stay well abreast of any regulations or other policies that could affect our business
and, in some cases, enables us to shape policy in ways that are advantageous to our industry.
21DAN SULLIVAN,
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, HUMAN RESOURCESETHICS AND INTEGRITY
Following the rules, even as we
change the game
Lasting success is built on integrity. In an exponentially growing
industry where boundaries sometimes blur and innovations cancreate new questions, our high ethical standards, values-basedculture and 
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
guide all of us at Qualcomm as we strive to do the right thing.
GOING GLOBAL WITH THE QUALCOMM WAY: OUR CODE OF BUSINESS
CONDUCT
Across our Company, we make it clear that we are committed to upholding the highest ethical standards in
everything we do. Still, as workers in a complex and quickly evolving industry, our employees can oftenuse a guide to help them navigate ethical matters. Fortunately, they have one in The Qualcomm Way: Our
Code of Business Conduct .
The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct  advises employees on the ethical and legal
situations they face daily and sets forth the behaviors expected of all of us. We fully revised and updatedThe Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct  in 2010, making it comprehensive and more user-
friendly. In early 2011, we made The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct  available to every
Qualcomm employee worldwide. We also required that every employee electronically acknowledge thatthey have read it through our online learning portal.
“We weave integrity into everything we do. Ethical
conduct is a core value that is evidenced throughout theorganization. We’re proud of our tradition of ethicalbehavior and the best practices exemplified byemployees in all parts of the world.”
22In 2012, we continued our Qualcomm Way trainings around the world. These in-person, interactive
trainings did more than reiterate the content of The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct . They
facilitated dialogue, employing hypothetical situations that showed employees how ethical issues are not
always clear-cut in a global economy where customs and regulations vary. The trainings also encouragedopenness and collaboration in ethical matters and informed employees about multiple channels for raisingconcerns about such issues. Nearly 2,000 employees have participated in our trainings, since they beganin June 2011.
MAKING IT EASIER TO REPORT ETHICAL CONCERNS
We foster an open-door culture and want our employees and business associates to know that they canreport ethical concerns without fear of retaliation. Our Business Conduct Hotline enables employees andothers to get information about our ethical guidelines and to register concerns about our businesspractices. In 2011, we expanded the hotline to offer toll-free calling for employees outside the UnitedStates. The hotline also accommodates callers who speak languages other than English. In addition to theexpanded phone line, we introduced a new online business conduct reporting system for employees.Online or by phone, employees can report concerns anonymously where the law allows.
In 2012, we made it easier to report concerns by launching posters and badge cards that provide
employees with a quick reference on how to use our Business Conduct Hotline. We also added a new toolenabling employees to raise concerns directly to our ethics committee members via our internal website.
WORKING PROACTIVELY AGAINST CORRUPTION
We annually evaluate our Company for risks related to corruption. We also assess additional areas on acase-by-case basis. All employees determined to be in positions where corruption may be a risk arerequired to regularly review and certify compliance with our anticorruption policies.
It is our policy to comply with anticorruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA),
other applicable U.S. laws, and the anticorruption laws and regulations of the countries where we dobusiness. It is also our policy to obey all other laws, including those that regulate our conduct in themarketing of our products, services and technologies in the international marketplace.
There has never been any legal case for corruption
brought against our employees or our Company.
We expect employees, agents, consultants and representatives deemed relevant to anticorruption
concerns and FCPA-type risks to review, understand and follow our FCPA policy. These individualsregularly certify that they understand our policy and are not aware of any violations of it. In the most recent
23certification process, we identified active employees who might expose Qualcomm to FCPA-type risks—
about 49 percent of our workforce. To date, nearly 100 percent of those employees have responded andreported compliance with the policy.
THINKING AHEAD
Helping to foster trust in the use of wireless technologies
At Qualcomm, we envision a world where powerful, easy-to-use wireless devices are tailored toend-users’ individual needs and preferences. We believe that personalization of the wirelessexperience brings a wide array of benefits to both individuals and enterprises. Cultivating trustthrough a foundation of security and privacy practices helps drive broader adoption and morepersonalized wireless technology offerings.
We strive to foster trust in the use of wireless technologies by helping to enable responsible
information privacy and data security practices that are informed by the following guiding principles:
Transparency in the collection, use and sharing of personal information
Providing or enabling meaningful choices over the collection, use and sharing of personalinformation
Providing or enabling value to consumers when using their personal information
Safeguarding personal information from existing and emerging threats
Responsible stewardship of personal information
In addition to developing our privacy principles, we also expanded our internal privacy group in2012. The group includes dedicated privacy attorneys and specialists who are 
Certified Information
Privacy Professionals . Our privacy group is advised by a cross-divisional steering committee, which
24addresses privacy from the multiple perspectives that characterize our diverse Company. In
addition, more employees throughout our Company have received certification through the
International Association of Privacy Professionals , increasing the number of “privacy champions”
across our operations.
Our guiding principles on privacy are being integrated in
multiple “privacy checkpoints” built into our engineeringand production processes.
Most often, the ultimate responsibility for protecting user privacy rests largely with our customers—
the companies who make wireless devices and develop wireless applications. Even so, our productsare designed with privacy in mind.
One example is our 
2net™ Platform  from Qualcomm Life. 2net is a set of wireless health solutions
that capture medical device data from nearly any wireless medical device and deliver them to
integrated portals or databases for storage in a system designed for security. We carefully designed2net to meet stringent 
HIPAA  security requirements, ensuring information sharing among providers,
patients and payors without compromising patient privacy.
Gimbal™, our context awareness platform for Android and iOS devices, helps preserve privacy by
enabling application developers to offer users greater personalization without sacrificing privacy. OurTrustZone chipset solution enables mobile payment, conditional access and protection of storagemedia through advanced security options.
In addition to addressing privacy in our products, we are part of the global conversation about
privacy. We lend our voice through trade associations such as 
CTIA , Tech America  and Digital
Europe . We also sponsor organizations that promote responsible information privacy practices,
including the Future of Privacy Forum , the Center for Democracy and Technology  and the
International Association of Privacy Professionals .
25PUBLIC POLICY
Making our voice heard
To help promote innovation and protect our business interests, we
participate in the crafting of public policy by supporting certain U.S.political candidates and advocating for certain policy positions. Weare transparent in our public policy work, and we follow all applicablelaws and regulations regarding political contributions.
HOW WE ENGAGE IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS
Qualcomm is committed to abiding by all applicable laws and regulations regarding political contributions
and expenditures throughout the world. In addition, the Company’s political contributions are subject to theapproval of senior management and oversight by the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.
OUR POLICY POSITIONS
In 2012, we continued our engagement in policymaking at the international, federal, state and local levels.Here is a brief summary of some of our policy positions:
Competition policy:
As a global company, we support open and competitive markets. Today there exist more than 100 antitrustagencies with different degrees of enforcement experience, legal systems and procedural requirements.
We advocate that government competition regulators/enforcers adhere, to the maximum extent, to
common principles in order to minimize legal divergence and economic distortions across borders and topromote commercial diffusion of technology and consumer welfare. We support dialogue within andbetween governments to enhance transparency, promote sharing of best practices in the areas ofprocedural fairness and rigorous economic analysis of alleged anticompetitive conduct and effects andencourage substantive alignment on the intersection of complex legal and business issues, especially inthe areas of intellectual property licensing and standards.For more information  please see our Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy.
26Cybersecurity:
Cybersecurity is a high priority at Qualcomm because it affects almost every aspect of our business. To
reflect today’s borderless, interconnected cyber-environment, we support cybersecurity proposals that aretechnology-neutral, flexible enough to promote innovation and global in nature.
As governments and the IT industry work together to develop cybersecurity risk-management strategies, it
is essential that all strategies protect personal information. We also believe one of the most criticalcomponents of cybersecurity policy is the appropriate sharing of actionable information among the publicand private sectors. We have advocated for legislation that would encourage such information-sharing.
Education:
We fund numerous educational programs and projects worldwide, and advocate for policies that improveeducation, particularly in the areas of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).
A specific area of focus is the role of mobile broadband in improving educational outcomes. Qualcomm
supports the U.S. Department of Education’s National Education Technology Plan and the FederalCommunications Commission’s National Broadband Plan, which include cloud computing and mobiledevices as fundamental components of educational infrastructure. For more information about specificprograms we’ve funded to promote access to mobile broadband technologies to improve education, visitour Wireless Reach
 site.
Intellectual property and patent reform:
As a technology developer and enabler, we depend on strong intellectual property (IP) protections andpatent systems that promote innovation and reward companies that focus on developing inventions thatenable new products and services to come to market.
We support patent reforms that improve patent quality and patent office operations, including reducing
pendency and backlogs of patent applications. We also advocate for standards and governmentfunding/procurement policies that catalyze ongoing innovation and promote competition between differenttechnologies and business and IP-licensing models.
Mobile broadband:
As a wireless innovator, we have a significant stake in policies seeking to promote mobile broadband.Mobile phones are ubiquitous and arguably the most pervasive technology platform in history.
The majority of the world’s population will experience the Internet predominantly or exclusively over a
mobile device. Yet the full potential of mobile communications technologies is not yet being realized. We’re
27doing our part to raise awareness and demonstrate different applications of mobile technology as a tool to
promote economic inclusion and entrepreneurial development in emerging economies. Through ourcollaboration with organizations in our Wireless Reach projects and participation in the U.S.Telecommunications Training Institute (USTTI), World Economic Forum (WEF), InternationalTelecommunications Union (ITU) Taskforce on Broadband and other forums, we are also helping toeducate the next generation of leaders in emerging regions of the transformative power of wirelesstechnologies.
In addition, we work to educate policymakers around the world about the need to make more spectrum
available, given the virtual explosion in wireless data usage that we have witnessed and anticipatecontinuing. In the United States, we strongly support the National Broadband Plan, which was released bythe Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 2010. The FCC’s Plan calls for substantially morespectrum for mobile broadband—500 MHz to be made newly available for mobile broadband use withinthe next 10 years, of which 300 MHz between 227 MHz and 3.7 GHz should be made available within fiveyears. In addition, we advocated for legislation to provide the FCC with the authority to conduct voluntaryincentive auctions, which has the potential to free up as much as 120 MHz of high-quality spectrum formobile broadband.
Tax:
As a multinational company, we support tax policies that allow us to compete effectively in a globaleconomy, such as proposals that would adopt a territorial system for taxing foreign income and reduce thecorporate tax rate.
We also support policies to encourage research and development (R&D) in the United States, including
making the U.S. R&D tax credit permanent.
Trade:
We support the increase of global commerce through new agreements to open markets for trade andinvestment. We are supportive of an ambitious, pro-growth trade policy and advocated in favor of thebilateral free-trade agreements with Colombia, Korea and Panama that were ratified in 2011.
We encourage the completion of the World Trade Organization Doha Round trade pact with ambitious and
balanced results as well as other trade initiatives, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Workforce:
We advocate in favor of a full supply of highly educated professionals, both U.S. citizens and foreignnationals, to drive innovation, fuel economic growth and create business and job opportunities in theUnited States.
28We have advocated in favor of reforms to U.S. immigration laws that currently restrict our ability to hire
and retain foreign nationals who are qualified for jobs in which there is often a shortage of qualified U.S.workers.
In addition, we offer excellent benefits to our employees and closely monitor policy proposals that affect
our ability to continue to offer best-in-class health care coverage and other critical employee benefits. Wesupport policies that encourage diversity in the workplace, including enactment of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, which would enact a federal ban on employment discrimination on the basis of sexualorientation and gender identity.
29PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Respecting people and the
planet as we innovate
Our social responsibility begins with our products—in the
contributions they make to society and in the care we take indeveloping them.
PRACTICING PRECAUTION
Our technology enables devices that empower people and improve lives in numerous ways. Wireless
technology is bringing education and opportunity to underdeveloped and remote areas of the globe. It ishelping to improve transportation, reduce energy consumption, produce food more efficiently and betterconnect people.
As mobile technology continues to benefit society in new and often unexpected ways, companies like ours
must ensure that the materials used in wireless devices don’t harm human health or the environment.That’s why we address the environmental, health and safety effects of our products. Across our Company,we practice the “precautionary principle” of identifying and taking preventative measures regardingchemicals, even in circumstances in which there is a high degree of scientific uncertainty regardingpotentially hazardous chemicals. Our own policies are often more stringent than applicable law. Wecontinuously monitor opportunities to improve our products and make them as sustainable as technicallyand economically feasible.
100%
of our products are subject to our environmental management system or
our various programs for eliminating hazardous substances.
We also apply the precautionary principle to the products added to our portfolio as a result of acquisitions.
Our 2011 acquisition of Atheros Communications and 2012 acquisition of Summit Microelectronics greatlyexpanded our portfolio of integrated circuit (IC) products. We assessed those products to ensure that theycomply with all applicable laws and also meet our standards for environmental and social responsibility.
30MAKING OUR PRODUCTS LEAD-FREE
The health and environmental hazards of lead are well documented. We have been proactive in removing
lead from our products for more than a decade. Following our successful and proactive introduction oflead-free flip-chips in 2010, we now incorporate lead-free design in all new IC products, whenevertechnically and economically feasible.
Our lead-free innovations
1999We began exploring lead removal from our IC
products, well ahead of European regulation.
2003We became one of the leading IC makers to introducelead-free chip-scale package products.
2006The European Union’s Restriction on HazardousSubstance (RoHS) Directive, restricting lead inelectrical and electronic equipment, took effect.
2010We introduced several lead-free flip-chip IC products.
TodayWe incorporate lead-free design into new IC products,whenever technically and economically feasible.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES WE DON'T USE
We began prohibiting and restricting the intentional use of certain hazardous substances in our
semiconductor business’ integrated-circuit product design in 2003. Today our list of prohibited or restrictedsubstances has grown to include 29:
Antimony
AsbestosAzo compoundsBrominated flame retardant and chlorinated flame retardantBromineCadmium and cadmium compoundsChlorinated paraffins (CP)Chlorine4,4’-Diaminodiphenylmethane (MDA)Diarsenic pentoxide (As205)
31Diarsenic trioxide (As203)
FormaldehydeHexabromocycododecane (HBCDD) and all major diastereoisomersHexavalent chromium compoundsLead and lead compoundsMercury and mercury compoundsMirex (perchlorodecone)Organic tin compounds (tributyl tin, tributyl tin oxide and triphenyl tin)Ozone-depleting substancesPerfluorooctane sulfonates (PFOS)/Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA)Phthalates (DEHP, DBP, BBP)Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs)Polybromobiphenyls (PBBs)Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)Polychlorinated naphthalenes (PCNs)Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and PVC blendsRadioactive substances5-tert-butyl-2, 4,6-trinitro-m-xylene (Musk xylene)Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA)
In addition to the substances we’ve prohibited for use in our products, we strive not to use the EU REACH
Substances of Very High Concern  candidates or the regulated substances listed in the Joint Industry
Guide (JIG-101 Ed. 4.1)  in the manufacture of our products.
ELIMINATING BROMINE AND CHLORINE
Although the law does not prohibit the use of all brominated and chlorinated compounds in our products,
we have been proactive in eliminating them because of the potential hazards they pose.
2003We incorporated bromine-free mold compounds.
2009All new IC products began incorporating a
bromine/chlorine-free package design.
2010We converted a number of high-volume legacyproducts to bromine/chlorine-free designs, includingour single-chip solution and MSM7xxx Series products.
32TodayWe have extended bromine/chlorine-free design to our
non-IC products, including our embedded Gobi 3Gmodule for notebooks and netbooks. All new Gobidesigns are bromine-free and chlorine-free.
COMPLYING WITH REGULATIONS
We strive to comply with all applicable laws wherever we do business. Among the ways we comply:
All of our IC, Gobi and new European fleet management products are in compliance with the EU RoHS
Directive  and perfluorootanoic acid/perfluorootanoic sulfonate (PFOA/PFOS) Directive .
We strive not to have EU REACH Substances of Very High Concern candidates used in the
manufacture of our products.
QES products manufactured and shipped for the European market comply with the EU Waste Electrical
and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive .
Our chipset products fully comply with the Phase 1 of China’s Management Methods on Control ofPollution from Electronic Information Products (also known as China RoHS). Qualcomm chipsets willcomply with the material restriction requirements that apply to the Catalogue-listed products.
In 2012, we had no fines for noncompliance with laws and
regulations concerning the provision and use of ourproducts and services.
33THINKING AHEAD
Bringing greater transparency to mineral sourcing
In 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act (Dodd-Frank), which required the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to issuerules requiring certain companies to disclose their use of “conflict minerals”—tantalum, tin, gold ortungsten—that originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. In2012, the SEC adopted rules requiring such companies to disclose their use of such minerals.Companies, including ours, will be required to report on their use of conflict minerals beginning in2014.
We want our products to be DRC conflict-free. Even before the enactment of Dodd-Frank, we began
working with peers and suppliers to develop systems to assist the electronics industry to be able toproduce products without minerals that benefit armed groups in the DRC or adjoining countrieswhose activities are linked to human rights violations and environmental degradation. To produceDRC conflict-free products and comply with the SEC rule mandated by Dodd-Frank, we have:
Implemented a DRC conflict-free minerals policy and published it on our website .
Developed a compliance strategy and schedule.
Engaged with suppliers to educate them about Dodd-Frank and U.S. SEC regulations.
Educated suppliers about the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and
High-Risk Areas .
Actively participated in the Electronics Information Citizenship Coalition (EICC)-Global e-
Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Extractives Work Group  since 2010, which enables us to work
collaboratively with other electronics industry companies and leverage common tools in achieving
34a DRC conflict-free supply chain.
Helped develop and began using the EICC-GeSI Conflict Minerals Reporting Template  to collect
sourcing information and to communicate that information to our customers. We have shared our
conflict minerals sourcing information with customers since March 2012.
Joined the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade  to contribute to the
development of a clean-minerals sourcing program in the DRC and surrounding areas.
Supported the Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) Program .
35SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
Helping suppliers meet our
standards
Our responsibility extends beyond our direct operations. Because our
semiconductor business greatly depends on suppliers for themanufacture of our integrated circuit (IC) products, suppliers play acrucial role in determining our ability to offer products that are sociallyresponsible. So we’re keenly interested in making sure our suppliersmeet our standards for social responsibility and sustainability.
MAKING OUR EXPECTATIONS CLEAR
In addition to requiring that each of our direct IC manufacturing suppliers has an ISO14001-certified
environmental management system, we work with each IC manufacturing supplier in various stages ofdesign and manufacturing to ensure compliance with applicable global environmental legislation andvarious environmental initiatives.
In 2012, we continued implementation of our Supplier Code of Conduct  we launched in 2010. The Code
describes our expectations of our IC suppliers. It promotes safe working conditions, respectful treatment of
workers and responsible environmental operations, and it outlines our requirements for such areas aslabor, health and safety, the environment, business ethics and more. The Code embodies the principlesoutlined in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct
.
WORKING TOWARD A DRC CONFLICT-FREE SUPPLY CHAIN
We share the world’s concern about minerals mined in conflict areas of the Democratic Republic of Congo(DRC); we want our supply chain to be DRC conflict-free. We have been working since 2010 with ourpeers and suppliers in an effort to create DRC conflict-free supply chains.
We are working to implement the five-step framework described in the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals
from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas . We also contribute to industrywide efforts such as
development and implementation of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and Global e-
Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Conflict Minerals Reporting Template  and the Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS)
Program . Through the CFS Program, an independent, third-party auditor evaluates the procurement
activities of smelters and refiners to determine whether the smelter or refiner can demonstrate DRC
36conflict-free sourcing.
To help suppliers understand and meet our expectations, our semiconductor business unit implemented
Conflict-Free Minerals Requirements for Suppliers. The requirements are based on the OECD DueDiligence Guidance’s five-step, risk-based due diligence strategy.
In 2012, we surveyed the semiconductor business’s direct suppliers to assess their conflict minerals
usage, the state of smelters and refiners in the supply chain, and their preparedness for achieving DRCconflict-free status. As more smelters and refiners are validated through the CFS Program, we, as well asthe entire electronics industry supply chain, will move closer to achieving validated DRC conflict-freestatus. In the meantime, we intend to work with direct suppliers and smelters and refiners to advocate forparticipation in the CFS Program. Our membership in the EICC-GeSI Extractives Work Group
 will continue
to aid greatly in that effort.
INCREASING DIVERSITY AMONG OUR SUPPLIERS
In 2012, we continued to increase the diversity of our suppliers, reaching out to small, disadvantaged andminority-owned businesses; businesses owned by women, veterans and people with disabilities; andbusinesses situated in historically underutilized business zones. Including such suppliers in our supplychain makes us a stronger company. Not only do we benefit from a variety of capabilities andperspectives, we also gain the value of unique, entrepreneurial customized services that many of thesesuppliers provide. Contracting with such suppliers also helps support local economies—an importantconsideration in the midst of a global economic slowdown.
Number of Registered Global Diverse Suppliers
37In 2012, we:
Provided Qualcomm’s business units with comprehensive training demonstrating the benefits of
engaging diverse businesses. We also made it easier for managers and procurement personnel toengage diverse suppliers through our database of registered suppliers.
Encouraged suppliers to register their businesses with the System for Award Management (SAM)  site, a
free federal government database that gives suppliers’ businesses greater visibility to Qualcomm andmany other global prime contractors. We also continued to encourage potential suppliers to register onour own supplier site, which our employees use when seeking new suppliers for open subcontractingwork.
Participated in monthly networking events that give our personnel and suppliers a chance to connectwith one another. We continued to work with national diverse supplier support agencies that providesuppliers with free counseling, workshops and training programs.
THINKING AHEAD
Advancing supplier sustainability throughout our industry
In 2012, we took an important step toward supplier sustainability by joining the Electronic Industry
Citizenship Coalition (EICC)  as an applicant member. EICC is a worldwide association of electronics
companies working together to improve efficiency and social, ethical and environmentalresponsibility in the global electronics supply chain.
Joining EICC gives us a voice in an important industry forum. It also connects and aligns our
sustainability efforts with those of similar companies. Perhaps most importantly, membership willenable us to employ EICC’s tools and best practices for assessing and improving sustainabilityamong key electronics industry suppliers. By tapping into EICC resources and working
38collaboratively with our peers, we’ll build greater momentum toward improved transparency and
sustainability among our industry’s common suppliers.
“As mobile technologies continue to benefit society in new and often unexpected ways, it is
important that companies like ours collaborate with key stakeholders to foster sustainabilitythroughout the supply chain,” notes Jim Lederer, executive vice president of QualcommTechnologies, Inc., and general manager of QCT. “Our membership in EICC is part of our broadercommitment to social responsibility, which is an important part of our corporate culture.”
As a condition of membership, EICC members must adopt the 
EICC Code of Conduct  and must
require their suppliers to do the same. Our existing Supplier Code of Conduct  is consistent with the
EICC code; in fact, some aspects of our code exceed EICC requirements. We are committed to
helping our key electronics manufacturing suppliers adopt and implement the EICC code, which willmove us toward full membership in the EICC. Read more about EICC membership requirements
here.
39STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Remembering to listen
To be effective, our social responsibility efforts must be collaborative
and consider all relevant perspectives. That’s why we consistentlyseek the input and opinions of those who have a stake in ourCompany and its actions.
HOW WE ENGAGE OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Much of what you’re reading in this report is the result of an ongoing conversation with a diverse range of
people who shape and influence our social responsibility policies and initiatives: employees and investors,customers and suppliers, government officials and representatives of nonprofit organizations, and more.We think carefully about what information to share in this report. We make sure it is important to ourbusiness and also addresses the issues our stakeholders care about.
Fostering regular, transparent communication not only helps our reporting, but it also makes us a smarter,
better informed and more competitive company. Some of the ways we stay in touch are:
EMPLOYEES
Our open-door policy enables employees to bring concerns to superiors—up to and including our chiefexecutive officer—anytime.
We conduct regular employee surveys to better understand what our employees think and want.
We hold semiannual all-hands meetings and webcast them companywide. Each meeting includesemployee question-and-answer sessions.
Our executives communicate regularly about the importance of doing business with integrity.
Through video messages and interviews throughout the year, our senior executives help employeesunderstand our company strategy, industry position and financial performance.
We hold regular executive breakfasts open to all employees.
Employee Resource Groups serve as forums for dialogue and promote diversity and inclusion.
We hold on-site fairs, tradeshows and presentations throughout the year that enable employees tolearn about our Company programs and our products, services and technologies—and how they makean impact on the world.
QC Daily News, our daily internal newsletter and website, reports the latest from across our Company.
40We maintain a corporate intranet, updating it regularly with fresh and useful information.
We distribute The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct  online and in print and require all
employees to acknowledge that they’ve read it and will report any known or suspected violations or
concerns.
Our Business Conduct Hotline is a dedicated 24-hour phone line and web reporting resource that canbe used to communicate any questions or concerns with the Company. It is administered by anindependent company to help ensure that issues and concerns can be reported anonymously wherepermitted by law.
Internal communications vehicles enable our leadership to communicate to employees around theworld.
Q-Alerts deliver and confirm delivery of emergency information via mobile phone, home phone, textand e-mail.
Our emergency hotline provides information and instructions in the event of an emergency.
International SOS  provides emergency and non-emergency medical information for employees on
business travel.
We encourage innovation through our Qualcomm Innovation Network and annual Venture Festcompetition.
We publish the Annual Report About People, an internal publication showcasing the culture and
achievements of employees at our locations worldwide.
We offer opportunities for employees to participate in discussions with public officials.
INVESTORS
We hold quarterly earnings conference calls and issue quarterly communications to report on ourCompany’s progress.
We report on each year’s financial results, articulate our vision of the future and respond to investorquestions and concerns at our annual stockholders’ meeting.
We hold an annual meeting with analysts to update them on our progress, share insights about ourCompany’s future and answer their questions.
We regularly file information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as required by law.
We participate in investor conferences and tradeshows and meet regularly with investors at“roadshows” and in our corporate offices.
Our investor relations team engages with investors on a less formal basis throughout the year.
41SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS
We connect with customers and suppliers regularly through business meetings, industry conferences
and symposiums and networking events.
We participate in industry tradeshows and conferences.
We maintain our own online registry  for small and diverse businesses and encourage such businesses
to register with the System for Award Management site  as well.
We’re proactively involved with local supplier support agencies and development councils.
We’ve undertaken strategic initiatives to expand our active supplier pool of small and diversebusinesses.
We advocate in support of small and diverse businesses.
GOVERNMENTS
We advocate  for public policy in our Company’s interest.
We host subject-specific informational sessions and conferences for government officials.
We participate in working groups and agency taskforce initiatives.
As part of our Wireless Reach  initiative, we work with government stakeholders to assist them in using
wireless technology to implement public programs, helping governments reach their ICT goals.
COMMUNITIES AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
We engage nonprofits through our philanthropy, employee volunteerism and other global social
responsibility programs .
We take part in philanthropic collaboratives with other grantmaking entities. We’re part of many public-private alliances, and we regularly engage the nonprofit sector in open dialogue.
We’re engaged in programs and projects with educational institutions worldwide.
Our employees serve on boards and committees of nonprofit organizations.
How We’re Doing: Stakeholder Feedback
As part of its review of our 2010 Social Responsibility Report , ISOS Group LLC , our third-party
assurance provider, conducted a survey gauging stakeholder perceptions of our socialresponsibility reporting and programs. Here’s some of what we learned:
Most respondents rated our reporting as “excellent” or “very good.” They also gave us high
42marks for our ability to receive stakeholder feedback.
Respondents told us the strongest sections of the report were the Ethics and Integrity and
Wireless Reach sections. Our Education and Training, Ethical Employment and WorkplaceSafety sections were also highly rated.
43MEMBERSHIP AND AWARDS
The company we keep
Issues related to responsibility are often far-reaching and complex,
and no single company can hope to resolve them alone. To informand improve our efforts, we work with a wide variety of industry andcivic organizations on issues touching virtually every aspect of ourbusiness. On occasion, we are honored by peers or stakeholders forour work, and we have appeared regularly in various rankings and on“best of” lists.
OUR AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
We have earned a distinguished reputation over the years. We are among the members of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  and FORTUNE  500 . We have won the U.S. Department of Labor’s Secretary of
Labor’s Opportunity Award . Our work environment, dedicated workforce and expertise have also earned
us a place among FORTUNE  magazine’s list of “100 Best Companies to Work For” in America
consecutively since 1999. We have also been named to FORTUNE ’s list of “Most Admired Companies.”
CIO named Qualcomm to its “Top 100” list for exemplifying the highest level of operational and strategic
excellence. A full list of our awards and recognition is available on our corporate website .
OUR MEMBERSHIPS AND INDUSTRY AFFILIATIONS
We maintain membership in various worldwide standards bodies, industry associations and other special
interest groups. The following lists are a sampling of organizations we are involved with.® ®
44Our
corporatemembershipsAlliance forTelecommunications IndustrySolutions
American
Chambers ofCommerce(worldwide)
American Council
for InternationalPersonnel
American
TruckingAssociations
BIOCOMBusiness
Roundtable
CommNexusThe Conference
Board
Consumer
ElectronicsAssociation
CTIA–The
WirelessAssociation
Digital EuropeElectronic
IndustryCitizenshipCoalition (EICC)
European
AmericanBusiness CouncilInformationTechnologyIndustry Council
Institute for
SupplyManagement
Intelligent
TransportationSociety ofAmerica
International
Association ofPrivacyProfessionals
International
Telecommunications Union
National
Association ofPurchasingManagement–San Diego
San Diego
RegionalChamber ofCommerce
San Diego
SupplierDevelopmentCouncil
Semiconductor
IndustryAssociation
Software &
InformationIndustryAssociationEducationDivisionTechAmericaChina RoHSSteeringCommittee
Telecom Council
Silicon Valley
Telecommunicatio
ns IndustryAssociation
U.S. ASEAN
Business Council
U.S. Brazil
Business Council
U.S. China
Business Council
U.S. Council for
InternationalBusiness
U.S. India
Business Council
U.S. Russia
Business Council
U.S. Taiwan
Business Council
World Economic
Forum
45Our
workplacemembershipsAmericanIndustrial HygieneAssociation
American
ManagementAssociation
American Society
for Quality
American Society
for Training &Development
American Society
of SafetyEngineers
BSR's Human
Rights WorkingGroup/li>
Building Service
ContractorsAssociationInternational
Business
ContinuityInstitute
Business Ethics
LeadershipAlliance
Corporate Ethics
LeadershipCouncil
Direct Employers
AssociationDRII—TheInstitute forContinuityManagement
Equal
EmploymentOpportunityImpact
Ethics and
ComplianceAlliance
EthisphereExecutive
LeadershipCouncil
HR Strategy
Forum
The Institute for
CorporateProductivity(I4CP)
International
Association ofEmergencyManagers
International
ExecutiveHousekeepersAssociation
Lawyers
Committee forCivil Rights UnderLaw
National
Association ofIndustrial andOffice PropertiesNational Centerfor Women andInformationTechnology
National Industry
Liaison Group
National Serve
Safe Foundation
Organization
Design Forum
Organization
DevelopmentNetwork
Pacific Safety
Council
Risk Insurance
ManagementSociety
Society for
Industrial andOrganizationalPsychology
Society of Human
ResourceManagement
U.S. Business
LeadershipNetwork
OurcommunitymembershipsBSR
Committee
EncouragingCorporatePhilanthropy
Consortium of
SchoolNetworking
Council on
FoundationsHandsOnNetwork/Points ofLight
International
Society forTechnology andEducation
Mais Unidos,
United StatesAgency forInternationalDevelopment
ReadySanDiegoSan Diego
Association ofContingencyPlanners
San Diego
Grantmakers
Sorrento Valley
Consortium
46Our 
environmental 
membershipsAmerican Institute
of Architects
Business Council
for SustainableEnergy
California Center
for SustainableEnergy
The Climate
Registry
Digital Energy
SolutionsCampaign
EICC-GeSI
Extractives WorkGroup
Environmental
LeadershipCouncil ofInformationTechnologyIndustry Council
Green Restaurant
AssociationGridWise Alliance
Industrial
EnvironmentalAssociation
International
Association ofCulinaryProfessionals
International
ConservationCaucusFoundation
International
FacilityManagementAssociation
International
Special EventsSociety
National
Association ofFleetAdministrators
National
RestaurantAssociationSan DiegoFoundationClimate InitiativeProfessionalAdvisory Board
San Diego
RegionalSustainabilityPartnership
Semiconductor
IndustryAssociation ESHCommittee
Simon InstituteSmart Grid
InteroperabilityPanel
United States
Council forInternationalBusinessEnvironmentCommittee
United States
Green BuildingCouncil
47qsr  2011-2012 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report THINKING  AHEAD
OUR  
WORKPLACE
FULL SECTION
4849GLOBAL WORKFORCE INCLUSION
Inspiration and insight from a mix
of minds
Defining the next generation of mobile technology demands a range
of perspectives and talents. That’s why we began assembling adiverse workforce in our earliest days, and why we developed ourGlobal Diversity and Inclusion philosophy, an award-winning approachto building a workforce that mirrors our values as well as those of themobile-using public.
INTEGRATING INCLUSION ACROSS OUR COMPANY
Today, diversity and inclusion are thoroughly woven into our culture—from major initiatives like recruiting,
Employee Resource Groups and diversity training, such as our new cultural competency classes, anddining facilities specializing in cross-cultural cuisine. Diversity and inclusion are also at the heart of ourpolicy on affirmative action, which you can read here
.
*U.S. employees only
50More than 3,600 employees received 6,555 hours of
employee relations training.
RECRUITING AND RETAINING WOMEN
In the technical arena, men largely outnumber women. Therefore, recruiting and retaining female talent
remains a high priority for us. Qualcomm Women in Science and Engineering (QWISE), our EmployeeResource Group for women, plays a key role in recruiting and supporting professional development ofwomen at Qualcomm. Two QWISE programs have been especially effective: the Women’s Mentoring
Program, which pairs up-and-coming women at Qualcomm with more senior female and male colleagues;and QC Spotlight, which provides networking opportunities with internal experts.
In 2012, Chennai, India, and Singapore launched chapters
of QWISE. In 2013, Canada will be joining the QWISEfamily.
In 2012, QWISE celebrated its sixth anniversary and increased its membership from 600 to 800 globally.
In honor of the Qualcomm Women in Science & Engineering (QWISE) 6th Anniversary, Qualcomm’sWireless Reach Program collaborated with the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women and Qualcomm Labson the Convergence of Women, Technology, and Innovation event . The event welcomed Cherie Blair,
founder of the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women and wife of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, andfocused on providing the tools, access and services necessary to enable women’s leadership andempowerment globally. Additionally, the event aimed to help recruit mentors for the foundation’s Mentoring
Women in Business program . More than 250 entrepreneurs, mentors and professionals attended the
event from Qualcomm and external organizations.
QWISE also continued to expand to operations outside of the United States. The Hyderabad, India,
QWISE group launched a mentoring program that pairs junior employees with experienced colleagues.Qualcomm India reached out to female engineers at college campuses and job fairs and offeredleadership workshops intended to help women lead in a mixed-gender workplace.
We sponsor students in the National GEM Consortium,
which offers fellowships and summer internships tounderrepresented graduate students in engineering.
Our college internship program has also been a valuable channel for connecting with new female
employees. Through it, we match female interns with mentors who support them in their day-to-day work
51and share insights on long-term career growth at Qualcomm. Interns (male and female) work at
Qualcomm offices around the globe.
GETTING PERSPECTIVE FROM OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
In addition to QWISE, we also offer other Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) for African-Americans,Asians, Hispanics, employees with disabilities, military veterans and employees who are lesbian, gay,bisexual or transgendered (LGBT).
Led by employees, our ERGs provide professional development programs, mentoring and networking
opportunities within Qualcomm and connection with local and national organizations. ERGs make ourCompany stronger by broadening our perspective, deepening our pool of qualified leaders andstrengthening our recruiting efforts. ERGs also contribute to community outreach efforts.
REACHING OUT TO PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
Through recruiting and community outreach, we strive to provide job opportunities to people withdisabilities. We are actively involved in several disability awareness organizations, including San DiegoCommittee on Employment of People with Disabilities and U.S. Business Leadership Network
 (USBLN),
and we are responsible for leading the local San Diego chapter of the USBLN, an organization thatpromotes best practices in hiring and retaining people with disabilities. We convened quarterly USBLNmeetings and trainings attended by approximately 50 local employers.
We also hosted a number of community programs intended to raise awareness about disabilities in the
workplace. Among them:
Career Connections for Youth, a day-long event intended to inform and inspire San Diego middle-schoolstudents with disabilities
Disability Mentoring Day , which brought disabled students from San Diego State University and
University of California, San Diego to our corporate headquarters for informational interviews and a lookat corporate life
Day In a Chair, in which 58 employees globally spent their workday in a wheelchair to better understandthe perspective of people with spinal cord injuries
52THINKING AHEAD
Reaching out to veterans
Military veterans hold a special place in our corporate culture. To understand why, you need only
look to our hometown: San Diego is home to many veterans returning from wartime duty. Thousandsof retired service members live in the county as well. In our Company, we count nearly 700 veteransamong our employees, along with a number of active-duty reservists serving around the world. Weare also proud to supply technology that serves U.S. armed forces in the field.
Recognizing veterans’ contributions to our country and their potential for contributing to our
Company, we reach out to veterans in many ways. To show our respect and gratitude, we holdannual Memorial Day and Veterans Day ceremonies that include keynote addresses by our mostsenior executives. We support our employees who are reservists by paying them their full salarieswhile they are away fulfilling their military duties and sending them care packages to remind themthat we are thinking of them. To help make us a stronger Company, we actively recruit veterans asemployees.
Qualcomm Chairman and CEO Paul Jacobs summed up the reason for our outreach to veterans in
a recent Veterans Day ceremony:
“We are committed to continuing to reach out to veterans not just because it’s the right thing to do,
but because they are among the best and the brightest, most committed people in America’sworkforce. They are the kind of people that we want to have on our team.”   
“Qualcomm embraces the training and knowledge that I
acquired in my Navy career.”
— Lynn Fahrlender, who joined Qualcomm in 2008 after 24 years in the U.S. military
53For the last two years, we’ve helped returning warriors through our Corporate Integration Program
for Warrior Veterans, or QCIP-Warriors. The program’s mission is to honor and empower warriorveterans by providing them with hands-on technical experience, exposure to a corporateenvironment and the confidence that comes with professional development. Guiding vets duringtheir experience are Qualcomm employees who are military veterans themselves. Perhaps notsurprisingly, the program was developed by a Qualcomm staffing specialist who is a former armypolice captain.
For seven weeks, participating veterans work with various business units within our Company. They
build their personal networks and polish interpersonal skills through management lunches, executivebreakfasts and after-hours social events. They develop job-hunting skills through training ininterviewing and résumé-writing. At the end of the seven-week program, participants are betterprepared to compete for jobs, whether at Qualcomm or in the external job market.
Over half of the program’s 54 participants have found full-time work. Seven of them work at
Qualcomm, including Navy veteran Louis Tuey.
“A big challenge for me while transitioning out of the military was believing that my skills were useful
in a civilian company,” he says. “During [QCIP], I was able to see how my skills were useful, and Icontinue to develop them.”
Another program participant may sum it up best: “I am better prepared than I could have ever hoped
to be before the program. Every transitioning service member should participate in a program likethis.”
54EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT
Keeping the best and brightest
Retaining great people requires supporting them in their lives outside
of work. Sometimes that means teaching them new skills andproviding fresh challenges. Other times it’s as simple as organizing afamily movie outing or a night at the cricket field. Our comprehensivework-life programs, combined with our broad and deep education andtraining opportunities, help make Qualcomm a more engaging andsatisfying place to work.
SHARPENING SKILLS AND BUILDING CAREERS
Through career coaching and a comprehensive range of resources and trainings, we strive to increase our
employees’ job satisfaction by helping them develop skills, find new challenges and advance their careers.Our Learning Center is central to that effort—online and in-person. The Learning Center’s team of expertsdeliver development opportunities that help employees worldwide keep pace with the rapidly evolvingwireless industry. Through training, presentations, resources, referrals and more, the Learning Centersupports our employees’ development of engineering technical, professional and leadership skills. TheCenter’s website is a portal connecting employees with learning opportunities, professional resources andtools for mapping and managing their career development.
Qualcomm Learning Center in 2012
65,224 enrollments
356 instructor-led courses2,000 online courses
Among other initiatives, our Learning Center:
Through our Qualcomm Community online informal learning program, created social media sites that
allow employees to learn from each other and provide quick access to critical information. One example:The Productivity Expert Network, made up of 28 employees who have demonstrated exceptional skill inpersonal time management and task execution. Like other Qualcomm Community sites, the Productivity
55MARK BETTER,
QUALCOMM LEARNING CENTERExpert Network provides an informal “place” outside of a classroom where any Qualcomm employee
can ask questions, pick up tips and get involved in discussions to improve their personal effectiveness.Employees worldwide are taking part in over 1,000 Qualcomm Community groups.
Created “Guru Talk” and “Tech Talk,” a series of informal meetings intended to provide employees withaccess to Qualcomm’s engineering thought leaders. These live meetings, webcast via videoconferencing, enable engineers at all levels and in many locations to gain exposure to differenttechnologies, key subject matter experts and new ways of thinking.
Provided employees with free access to lynda.com, a subscription site made up of thousands of how-tovideos on a wide range of subjects. Lynda.com’s professionally produced videos provide learning inthree- to eight-minute segments—just enough time to learn a specific skill and apply it to work.
Training by Employee Group (hours)
“We’re teaching managers that everything they do has an
effect on their employees, and we’re helping themdevelop new ways to make sure that effect is positive.”
56CULTIVATING THE NEXT GENERATION OF INNOVATORS
To help develop the technical talent of the future, we’re engaging middle and high school students in
several community programs. Our Workforce Development Labs team works with schools and communityorganizations to help students begin thinking about their futures as they learn résumé-writing, interviewskills, job search strategies and more. Hire a Youth is an annual five-week program that pairs 20 at-risk
youth with Qualcomm managers who serve as mentors—sometimes long after the program ends.Students explore marketing, human resources, IT and culinary arts, among other fields.
LIVING THE QLIFE
One of the most effective ways we can recruit and keep excellent employees is by offering them programsand opportunities that help balance work and life. QLife  is our comprehensive work-life integration
program offering employees opportunities and resources in five areas: family, community, health, leisureand work. The majority of our QLife  programs are a direct result of employee suggestions. Many programs
are led by employee volunteers with guidance from QLife  staff.
There aren’t many areas of life QLife  doesn’t address. Here are just some of what we offer employees:
About 11,000 employees used LifeCare, our online referral service, to find resources for childcare,
eldercare, finances, legal guidance, adoption, emotional health and support for mothers at work.
As part of our benefits package, we reimburse employees up to $4,000 per adoption per year to defrayexpenses.
We offered a variety of events open to employees’ families, including Take Your Kids to Work Day,Redirecting Children’s Behavior courses and free movie nights.
Tai chi, knitting and drawing are just a few of the 42
employee-led QClubs.
Through pre-tax subsidies, we assist employees in their daily commute to and from work using mass
transit. In 2012, U.S. employees purchased 6,700 transit passes through QLife , and more than 300
pedaled to offices on Bike to Work Day.
57Thousands of employees attended over 1,500 QLife  fitness classes at our 19 on-site, commercial-grade
fitness facilities or at fitness centers nearby. Our on-site QLife  fitness centers are open 24 hours, seven
days a week and offer personal training, group exercise and state-of-the-art fitness equipment.
Many of our San Diego employees stay healthy with the help of the Qualcomm Health Center, our on-
site clinic offering comprehensive health and wellness services.
We held our sixth annual Qualcomm Charity Poker Tournament , which attracted approximately 200
employees.
Badminton and ping-pong lovers competed for bragging rights and glory during tournaments inShanghai, Beijing, Seoul and the San Francisco Bay area.
Over 2,000 employees bolstered their immune systems through our annual flu shot program.
THINKING AHEAD
Survey says: Qualcomm is a great place to work
As part of our effort to make Qualcomm the employer of choice among the most talented people inour industry, we regularly survey our employees to find out what it’s like to work here. Our mostrecent survey, conducted in 2012, delivered a picture of a workforce that is engaged, passionateabout our direction and driven by a sense of purpose. Compared to external benchmarks, includingmany leading high-tech companies, our employees had more positive attitudes than in mostcompanies and scored above the benchmark in nearly every comparison.
58“Qualcomm is a highly innovative Company that is a
wonderful place to work. The people are world-class.The environment is open, which is something to beapplauded.”
—employee comment from our 2012 Climate Survey
Ninety-two percent of our global workforce completed the survey—roughly 20,000 employees. They
answered questions about 11 dimensions of our business, many of which map back to our corevalues and all of which relate to those things—such as innovation, collaboration, management andleadership—that we consider essential to our success.
Here’s some of what we learned:
97 percent of employees said they are committed to Qualcomm’s success. 96 percent said they
are willing to contribute effort beyond their job responsibilities.
94 percent said they believe Qualcomm is an innovative company.
93 percent of employees said they believe Qualcomm is ethical in its business practices.
92 percent said they work in an environment that is accepting of diversity.
Company financial strength, opportunities for career growth and Qualcomm’s reputation werefound to be the top-three reasons employees stay at Qualcomm.
59ETHICAL EMPLOYMENT
Treating our employees with
fairness and integrity
Our credibility, compliance with applicable laws and ability to recruit
top-notch talent all depend on our conduct as an employer. Weadhere to the highest standards of decency and fairness in ouroperations around the world.
AN UNEQUIVOCAL COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS
We seek to uphold the human rights of our employees. Forced, bonded or indentured labor is prohibited,
and our employees are always free to leave our employment with reasonable notice. We also prohibit theuse of child labor, although we permit and support legitimate workplace apprenticeship or intern programswhich comply with all laws and regulations. We respect the rights of employees to associate freely, join ornot join labor unions, collectively bargain under local law, seek representation and join workers’ councils inaccordance with local laws.
We have reviewed our operations to identify those that are at significant risk for incidents of child labor and
forced or compulsory labor, or where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargainingmay be at significant risk. Because we rely on suppliers for nearly all of our manufacturing, we generallydo not encounter issues with child labor or forced labor in our direct operations. QCT, our largest businessunit and the part of our business most dependent on outside suppliers, works with suppliers to make surethey meet our standards for human rights.
Qualcomm has never been found to have unlawfully
discriminated against any of our employees, nor have webeen found in violation of the rights of indigenous people.
In our direct operations, we are unaware of any operation in which:
the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining is at significant risk;
there is a significant risk for incidents of child labor; or
there is a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor.
Human rights issues are addressed in The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct  and are
60EMPLOYEE COMMENT FROM OUR 2012 CLIMATE
SURVEYincluded in the code of conduct training we launched worldwide in 2011. One hundred percent of our
employees are required to acknowledge reading The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct ,
and 100 percent of our security personnel are trained in our policies and procedures concerning aspectsof human rights that are relevant to operations.
In 2012, Qualcomm joined BSR’s Human Rights Working Group
 to further augment our human rights
efforts. Working with other corporate stakeholders in this multi-industry group provides us with an
opportunity to share best practices and challenges in developing companywide solutions to addresshuman rights.
AHEAD OF OUR INDUSTRY IN EMPLOYEE RETENTION
To help retain employees as their goals and interests change, our Internal Opportunity System provides
professional and career development opportunities within Qualcomm and gives current employees priorityfor new positions.
“A work environment where people are focused,
energized, incented and supported to do their best, aswell as a leader who is innovative with the highestintegrity.”
612012 Qualcomm Employee Voluntary Turnover Rates
*Source: Radford
**Source: Radford. Average for companies over 5,000 employees.
OUR COMPENSATION PROGRAM
Our compensation program has five primary objectives:
Align the interests of our employees and long-term stockholders
Pay for performance
Deliver pay that is competitively reasonable and appropriate for our business needs and circumstances
Reflect high standards for corporate governance and compensation-related risk management
Be tax efficient for the Company
These objectives are applicable not only to the compensation programs for our named executive officers
but they also apply to the compensation programs for all our employees, including vice presidents andabove. Although social and environmental performance is not specifically identified among our objectives,it is inherent because responsible social and environmental practices align with the interests of ourstockholders.
62OFFERING
COMPETITIVEWAGES ANDBENEFITSFor all jobs at Qualcomm, we pay a standard entry-level wage that is higher
than the local minimum wage. Our benefits package for regular full-timeemployees is competitive and comprehensive. It includes medical, dentaland prescription drug benefits, among others. In all locations where legallypermitted, we prorate various full-time employee benefits according tostandard work hours for part-time employees.
COLLECTIVE
BARGAININGAGREEMENTSAND TRADEUNIONSNone of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Outside the United States, less than 3 percent of our employeesare covered by collective bargaining agreements. We are compliant with allcollective agreements regarding significant operational changes as requiredby country laws and regulations. Qualcomm does not have formalagreements with trade unions.
TOTAL
REWARDS: AFAIR ANDFORMALREVIEWPROCESSOur Total Rewards review cycle allows for performance and development
reviews twice a year. Eighty percent of our employees receive regular formalperformance and career development reviews with the opportunity to providefeedback to management.
PARITY IN
PAY FOR MENAND WOMENWe regularly review and evaluate our compensation practices to ensure that
they are based upon business needs and do not discriminate on the basis ofgender, race, national origin or other bases prohibited by applicable law.
63WORKPLACE SAFETY
Making safety second nature
With 26,600 people working in office locations worldwide, avoiding
accidents and keeping people healthy remains one of our highestpriorities. Our guide? Our Injury and Illness Prevention Plan. Itprovides clear, consistent and regulatory-compliant policies andprotocols for managing health and safety. It describes our standardsand specifications for training, safety audits, incident investigation andcommunications, and it helps us integrate safety practices in everyaspect of our business.
SAFETY BY COMMITTEE
Informing our safety policies and procedures for our San Diego location is a committee made up of
representatives from all 44 buildings at our headquarters. These volunteers accompany our EnvironmentalHealth and Safety Department during routine safety inspections, help evacuate buildings when necessaryand attend safety committee meetings every other month.
We want to make safety a global export. We’re working to understand the complex occupational safety
regulations of all the countries where we do business and implement a global safety program.
AN INJURY RATE FAR BELOW THE INDUSTRY AVERAGE
Our illness and injury rate dropped by 43 percent compared to 2011. It is 32 percent lower than theindustry average. That’s due in part to the fact that we have one of the industry’s most comprehensive androbust accident-reporting systems. Qualcomm employees have a variety of channels for reportingaccidents without fear of reprisal—an achievement we are proud of. We encourage employees to reporteven minor injuries so we can help prevent them from becoming more serious. Our rate of lost time due toinjury and illness was 53 percent lower than the industry average and 30 percent lower than 2011.
64Total Injury and Incident Rate (per 100 full-time U.S. employees)*
(Compared to Telecom Industry, U.S., with 1,000 or more employees)
*Work-related injury that required treatment beyond first aid or resulting in lost time or restricted job duties for one or more workers as defined bythe U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Total Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate (days, per 100 full-time U.S. employees)*
*Work-related injury that resulted in days away from work, restricted work activity and/or job transfer.
FEWER INJURIES, MORE TRAINING
Our 2012 Environmental Health and Safety Trainings consisted of 1,737 trainings totaling 2,764 hours
delivered to 3,221 employees. Training topics included hazardous waste operations and emergencyresponse, driver safety, forklift operation, lab safety, ergonomics and more.
Preventing Ergonomic Injuries
Our employees spend many hours daily at their computers, which can lead to back pain,
eyestrain and repetitive stress injuries, to name a few. We provide personalized ergonomictraining—including a comprehensive online self-assessment—to help ensure our employees’workstations produce innovations rather than injuries. In 2012, we performed 3,184 one-on-oneergonomic assessments, an increase of 63 percent over the previous year.
65GLOBAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Protecting our people and our
assets worldwide
Whether they’re monitoring tensions in the Middle East or helping
traveling employees navigate natural disasters, keeping our peoplesafe during emergencies is the primary goal of our EmergencyOperations Team (EOT). Composed of representatives from across ourCompany, our EOT protects our people and assets throughemergency planning, response and recovery. Trainings for employeesand families also help ensure our preparedness.
MAINTAINING BUSINESS CONTINUITY
Our EOT works to minimize disruptions to our business that might occur in the event of natural or human-
caused incidents. Our Business Continuity Program Office—part of our EOT and a core component of ouremergency response system—provides our business units with education and training, plan reviews andmore. Our business continuity efforts are benchmarked against the ISO22301 standard, and we supportmaintenance of several ISO certifications, including ISO270001, ISO2000 and most recently ISO13485.
66We increased the number and scope of our Business
Continuity audits in 2012, enabling us to assess the stateof readiness among our critical suppliers.
PROMOTING PREPAREDNESS IN 2012
Increasing our readiness for a regional disaster
Co-founded and led by Qualcomm, the Sorrento Valley Consortium is a group of over 20 companies
located near our headquarters that meets monthly to discuss emergency scenarios, share emergencyplans and resources and determine how we can improve partnerships with city and county governmentsduring a regional disaster. In 2012, one of the Consortium’s significant accomplishments was to developand participate in a tabletop exercise testing members’ response to an incident on San Diego’s streets.The objective of the exercise was to improve members’ coordination and response to such an incident inreal life.
Building our Emergency Response TeamOur Qualcomm Emergency Response Team (QCERT) program trains employees in how to assist
emergency personnel and personally respond to a large-scale disaster. Trainings have been conducted inSan Diego and Raleigh for over six years; several employees in Santa Clara have taken the training aswell. QCERT members are trained in search and rescue, fire suppression, first aid/triage and on theIncident Command System. QCERT members are also invited to participate in CPR/First Aid and AEDtraining and other disaster exercises.
Qualcomm’s QCERT team now has a total of 137 trained employees, with 104 in San Diego, 30 in Raleigh
and 3 in Santa Clara. In 2012, the San Diego Fire Rescue department taught a special mapping course toour San Diego team members to give the team members additional knowledge on how to help firstresponders find victims in buildings after a large-scale disaster.
Seeking partnerships, sharing expertiseThe ReadySanDiego Business Alliance partnership program seeks to create a coalition of businesses that
contribute resources and senior expertise in preparation for, during and after a time of crisis in San DiegoCounty. Through our EOT, Qualcomm is a committed member of the Business Alliance, acting as both anactive member in the Telecommunications Sector and, in a leadership role, as a member of theReadySanDiego Advisory Committee.
Emergency trainings for our employeesOur EOT increases preparedness among our employees around the world and their families by
conducting a variety of trainings. “Creating a Family Survival Plan” covers communications plans,evacuation plans and disaster survival kits. More than 675 employees have completed the training since2007. Another training on responding to workplace violence emphasizes the need for advance planning
67and personal assessment to survive a sudden incident of violence. In 2012, 130 of our employees
received first aid, CPR and defibrillator training, bringing our total number of trained U.S. employees to667.
2.78%
of our San Diego workforce is trained to respond to
a medical emergency on our campus.
68qsr  2011-2012 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report THINKING  AHEAD
OUR  
COMMUNITY
FULL SECTION
6970PHILANTHROPY
A new way for us to give back
Giving has been part of our culture since our founding over 25 years
ago. With the establishment of the Qualcomm Foundation inDecember 2010, we now facilitate our philanthropy in two ways:through the Foundation and through Qualcomm Incorporated.
A NEW WAY TO HELP COMMUNITIES IN NEED
One of our Company’s basic aims is to change the world for the better. The Qualcomm Foundation helps
us to do just that. Forming the Foundation underscores our commitment to communities worldwide andextends our ability to make a difference. In managing the $50 million initial contribution from our Company,the Foundation works in conjunction with Qualcomm Incorporated to improve underserved communitieswhere we do business. The Foundation also supports our long tradition of supporting Qualcommemployees’ efforts of giving back through our matching and community service grant programs
.
$220Mcombined giving since 2000 by
Qualcomm Incorporated andQualcomm Foundation
The philanthropic endeavors of the Qualcomm Foundation and Qualcomm Incorporated develop and
strengthen communities worldwide. We invest our human and financial resources in inspirational,innovative programs that serve diverse populations. Specifically, we aim to create educated, healthy,sustainable, culturally vibrant communities, primarily in areas where we have a business presence.
71The following chart shows how Qualcomm Incorporated and the Qualcomm Foundation gave in 2012.
Percentages indicate the percentage of our total philanthropic giving for the fiscal year.
79%EDUCATED COMMUNITIES
We are committed to improving science, technology, engineering and
math education for students during their primary, secondary andhigher education years, and to expanding educational opportunitiesfor underrepresented students.
18%HEALTHY, SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES
We strive to better the lives of underserved populations by providingbasic human needs, with a focus on enhancing the welfare of children.We are also committed to protecting and enhancing our globalenvironment.
3%CULTURALLY VIBRANT COMMUNITIES
Through our support of arts education and outreach programs, wehelp young people develop innovative minds and expand culturalenrichment opportunities to in-need populations.
THINKING AHEAD
Giving help, bringing hope in China
As part of our global effort to strengthen underserved communities, our employees in China are
72giving both time and money to local nonprofit organizations—particularly to schools and orphanages
serving children with disabilities and special needs. In addition, Qualcomm and the QualcommFoundation have provided philanthropic support to various projects in Beijing and Shanghai over thepast three years. The following are some highlights of our recent philanthropic and volunteerismefforts in China.
Beijing.  Our Beijing offices support the Lizhi Rehabilitation Center, a nongovernmental organization
dedicated to helping mentally and intellectually challenged children and adults integrate with theircommunities. Over the last few years, we provided funding to improve the organization’s facilities. In2012, our volunteers helped students and teachers bake moon cakes to celebrate the Mid-AutumnFestival.
“The donation from Qualcomm really helped us. We
repaired a stairway, relieving a lot of concerns aboutsafety.”
—Ms. Gao, Director, Bo Ai Children Rehabilitation Center
Employees from our Beijing offices also took part in two volunteer events for the children of migrant
workers. At an event held on a farm, kids explored agriculture, learned about different fruits andvegetables, and made paintings based on what they’d learned. At another event, our volunteers ledchildren in a day of sports.
Shanghai. In 2011, Qualcomm provided a grant to help repair facilities and IT equipment at Bo AiChildren Rehabilitation Center, an organization serving kids with cerebral palsy, autism and Downsyndrome. At “Love Bakery House,” an activity organized by the Shanghai Enrichment CommunityService Center, our employees spent a day baking cakes and playing games with developmentallydisabled kids. During the annual Family Day at our Shanghai offices, employees and their childrentook part in a number of activities benefiting local charities and kids in impoverished areas of China.Through the Red Chair Project, Shanghai employees were paired with wheelchair users—many ofthem elderly—for a day in the park that included games, photography and a walk in the sun.
73VOLUNTEERISM
Working for change, touching
lives
The kind of people who work at Qualcomm are the kind of people
who want to change the world—through their work and throughservice to their communities. Across our Company, our employees aregiving back and getting involved.
QCARES AND THE QCARES EXPERIENCE
Our spirit of giving is summed up nicely in the name of our employee volunteer program: QCares. Through
QCares, our employees around the world are connected to numerous volunteer opportunities. They helpthe homeless, protect the environment, pack meals at food banks and much more.
In May 2012, employees took part in our annual QCares Experience, a companywide, paid-time-off
volunteer effort that benefitted nonprofit organizations in 23 cities. From a senior center in Taipei and alow-income school in Windsor to food banks in Atlanta and a health camp in Chennai, our employeevolunteers demonstrated how giving just a little time can make our communities better.
74QCares Experience 2012: The numbers add up to impact
ASIA
SHANGHAI, CHINA QCares volunteers engaged in a day of games and activities with clients of the
Wheelchair Foundation.
HONG KONG At a shelter for abused children, volunteers helped kids craft gifts.BANGALORE, INDIA As part of Youth for Seva’s Doctor-at-School Project, employees helped organize eye
screenings for 200 low-income students.
CHENNAI, INDIA Our employees assisted nearly 60 children and their families at a health camp sponsored
by the Aid India Foundation.
75HYDERABAD, INDIA Qualcomm volunteers played games and made crafts with students from Ashray
Arkuti, a school for hearing-impaired children.
MUMBAI, INDIA QCares volunteers transcribed handwritten notes to help create audiobooks for studentswith cerebral palsy.
SINGAPORE Employees worked through the night to fill over 500 balloons and prepare other supplies for a
Sports Day for children with cerebral palsy.
SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA Employees joined Child Fund Korea and a number of disabled children in a
springtime picnic in the park.
HSINCHU, TAIWAN QCares volunteers visited disabled youth at the St. Joseph Social Welfare Foundation
and helped them create handmade book covers.
TAIPEI, TAIWAN Lending a hand to the Hua-Shan Social Welfare Foundation, our volunteers helped
perform housekeeping for seniors and hosted a party to celebrate the opening of a new nursing servicecenter.
MIDDLE EAST
BEIT SHEMESH, ISRAEL Students from the Tirat Carmel Community Foundation children’s home visited ouroffices, where employees treated them to a science project and dinner.
HAIFA, ISRAEL Volunteers joined kids in a chocolate-making workshop organized by the Tirat Carmel
Community Foundation.
76EUROPE
DUBLIN, IRELAND QCares volunteers helped Habitat for Humanity Ireland renovate four housing units for
families in need.
NORTH AMERICA
ATLANTA, GEORGIA Our volunteers sorted hundreds of pounds of food for the Atlanta Community FoodBank.
AUSTIN, TEXAS Employees inspected, cleaned and boxed food donations at the Capital Area Food Bank.
77BOULDER, COLORADO QCares volunteers painted and landscaped at the WOW!
BRIDGEWATER, NEW JERSEY Volunteers worked the concession stands at a Somerset Patriots baseball
game and donated a portion of the proceeds to Operation Shoebox, New Jersey’s Support a Soldierprogram.
MARKHAM, ONTARIO Employees joined Environmental Earth Angels and local students in revitalizing the
garden area at a community center.
OCALA, FLORIDA Working with the Public Education Foundation of Marion County, our volunteers sorted
and boxed school supplies and personal hygiene items for distribution to students in need.
RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA QCares volunteers sorted donated food and clothing and tackled several
landscaping projects for InterAct, an organization supporting victims of domestic violence.
SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA Employees helped the San Diego River Park Foundation create and install a360-foot community art piece along a fence line near the San Diego River.
SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA Working with Habitat for Humanity, Bay Area volunteers constructed and painted
two playhouses that were donated to families in need.
WINDSOR, ONTARIO Working alongside students, QCares volunteers transformed the schoolyard at a low-
income school by adding new plants and shrubs.
78EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Letting employees take the lead
In addition to our QCares  program, our employees contribute to their
communities through our matching and community service grant
programs and by lending their expertise to nonprofit organizations.The math is simple: by combining our resources with our employees’passions, we’re able to accomplish more.
SUPPORTING CAUSES OUR EMPLOYEES CARE ABOUT
Our employees are often our best connection to organizations making a difference. We support and
enhance employee involvement through our matching and community service grant programs. Withmatching grants, we double employee monetary contributions by matching them dollar for dollar. Throughcommunity service grants, we donate $250 to nonprofit organizations for every 15 hours of volunteer timean employee donates to the organization.
Matching and Community Service Grants in 2012
79Since 2000
SHARING OUR KNOW-HOW
In addition to financial resources, nonprofit organizations can often benefit from professional expertise. So
our employees also lend their experience and insight by serving on boards and committees of nonprofits.They share their knowledge of financial management, marketing, information technology and strategicplanning, among other areas.
100%
of our executive leadership is active in the
community.
80WIRELESS REACH
Helping to bridge the digital
divide
Despite the rapid pace of technology, a digital divide still exists. For
example, large disparities remain between mobile-broadbandpenetration in the developing (8 percent) and the developed world (51percent).
We know access to wireless communications has a direct, positive impact on people’s economic well-
being. The World Bank has found that increasing mobile penetration by 10 percentage points indeveloping countries increases per capita gross domestic product (GDP) by .81 percent.  A 10 percentincrease in broadband penetration in those countries increases per capita GDP by 1.38 percent.
Our strategic Wireless Reach  initiative is helping to close the digital divide. With 73 projects in various
stages of development in 31 countries, Wireless Reach brings Qualcomm technology to underservedcommunities around the world. By working with other organizations, Wireless Reach invests in projectsthat foster entrepreneurship, aid in public safety, enhance the delivery of health care, enrich teaching andlearning, and improve environmental sustainability. You can read more about Wireless Reach here
.
Following are five Wireless Reach accomplishments from 2012.1
2
3
TM
81Our Strategic Wireless Reach
CHINA
Wireless heart health assists underserved patients with cardiovascular
diseases
According to the World Health Organization, chronic diseases—like cardiovascular diseases (CVDs)—
have placed a grave economic burden on countries.  CVDs are currently the leading cause of death inChina, responsible for about 3 million deaths annually.  Wireless Reach, in collaboration with Life CareNetworks and the Community Health Association of China, has worked to increase investment for theprevention and care of CVDs for underserved communities in China. Four community health clinics inShandong, Anhui, Sichuan and Chongqing were given 3G-enabled electrocardiograph (ECG) monitors,which allow remote screening and monitoring of CVDs. The monitors send patient data through China4
5
82Telecom’s EV-DO Network to a 24-hour call center in Beijing staffed by physicians. These doctors can
then provide rapid feedback to the patient via text or phone call.
EGYPT
Using 3G mobile broadband to remotely diagnose patients
Working with the GSMA Foundation, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Communications andInformation, and Mobinil, Wireless Reach launched a program to test a technology framework that enablesdermatologists to use a 3G mobile network to diagnose skin conditions remotely. Physicians who arelocated in low-income clinics throughout Cairo take photographs of patient skin conditions and capturesymptoms in text format using a 3G-enabled wireless device. This information is then sent via mobilebroadband so doctors can swiftly obtain a diagnosis from specialists working elsewhere. During the pilotphase, both an on-site physician and a remote specialist diagnosed skin conditions, and the results werethen compared to confirm the prognosis. To date, diagnosis comparisons completed during the pilot havedemonstrated full agreement in 82.2 percent of cases examined.
83INDIA
Sesame Radiophone  project provides early learning opportunities for
underserved children
Wireless Reach joined with Sesame Workshop India to launch the Sesame Radiophone project, which
focuses on addressing the educational and health needs of poor and disenfranchised urban children,
particularly those in migrant working families. Sesame Workshop India runs the Galli Galli Sim Sim(GGSS) radio show, which integrates local voices and is broadcasted on the Gurgaon  community radiostation. In addition, the radio show and GGSS-related content—videos, games and text—is offered on 3Gmobile phones. Families are able to access the GGSS content using a preloaded shortcut on the phone,allowing parents to access fun and engaging educational content for their preschool-age children whootherwise lack access to schools and formal education. Early results of the pilot report families are makingefforts to save water, practice better hygiene and dispose of garbage in dustbins.
INDONESIA
Creating new entrepreneurial opportunities with mobile devices6
84Qualcomm’s Wireless Reach initiative, Grameen Foundation and Ruma, an Indonesian social enterprise,
were selected as finalists for GSMA’s 2012 in Women Best Mobile Product or Service for Women inEmerging Markets and the American Chamber of Commerce’s 2012 Citizens Award in the BestInternational Ambassador category for the Application Laboratory (AppLab)  project. The awards honored
innovative programs that contribute to closing the mobile phone gender gap, as well as those that are thebest corporate citizenship practices that can be implemented by corporate peers. AppLab delivers new
products, information services and business opportunities tailored to the needs of the poor and poorest,and in ways that are specifically designed to increase their income. This program builds off of the Mobile
Microfranchising project, which, as of September 2012, recruited more than 15,000 Ruma Entrepreneursand serves approximately 1.5 million unique customers. The Mobile Microfranchising project creates
sustainable businesses by offering a prepackaged kit that includes a mobile phone with a microfinanceloan that allows entrepreneurs to resell “airtime minutes” to neighbors: an estimated 47 percent ofentrepreneurs who stay in the portfolio for more than four months have moved above the poverty line, and100 percent are profitable.
JAPAN
Demonstrating the effectiveness of smartphones in learning
85The 3G Smartphone Digital Textbook  project provides 500 smartphones loaded with educational content
to students at Renaissance Academy—a private correspondence high school in Daigo-cho, Ibaraki.
Students are able to download educational applications and take lessons or tests anytime and anywhere.Offering smartphone-based courses is expected to help increase the rate of students completing programswhile staying interested in learning. Having ubiquitous access to educational materials via 3G givesstudents an opportunity to study, catch up with lessons and take tests outside the hours of a typical schoolday. This flexibility is expected to help students as they work to obtain a diploma, which will help themsecure a steady job.
International Telecommunications Union .
Figure 3.1: Growth Effects of ICT, Christine Zhen-Wei Qiang and Carlo M. Rossotto with Kaoru Kimura, “Economic Impacts of Broadband” in
Information and Communications for Development 2009–Extending Reach and Increasing Impact  (World Bank, 2009).
Ibid.
World Health Organization, “Rethinking ‘Diseases of Affluence’: The Economic Impact of Chronic Diseases ,” 2005.
China CVD Report 2010 , published by China National Center for Cardiovascular Diseases under the administration of the Ministry of Health.
Gurgaon is a typical city center that sees continued economic activity but worsening poverty, resulting in increased disparities within a close
geographic area.1
2
3
456
86qsr  2011-2012 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report THINKING  AHEAD
OUR  
ENVIRONMENT
FULL SECTION
8788AIR QUALITY
Our commitment to cleaner air
Our consumption of fossil fuels for energy and transportation
contributes to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Power generators atsome of our U.S. facilities also emit relatively small amounts ofnitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and volatile organic chemicals. Acrossour Company, we’re taking steps to reduce emissions of all kinds aswe work collaboratively to confront the complex challenge of climatechange.
INCREASING TRANSPARENCY IN OUR REPORTING
Climate change is a serious environmental, social and economic issue that calls for concerted actions
among all sectors of society. Growing our Company while increasing energy efficiency and minimizingGHG emissions is challenging but, we believe, crucial to both our sustainability and the sustainability ofthe planet.
In 2011, we began reporting GHG emissions for all of our facilities in North America. After receiving the
designation of “Climate Action Leader” for eight consecutive years by the California Climate Action
Registry , we joined The Climate Registry , which tracks emissions of businesses and other organizations in
all of North America. Because data-gathering and subsequent third-party certification of this data is time-intensive, we generally report emissions data from the prior calendar year rather than the most recentfiscal year.
Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight (CO  metric tons)*
*2012 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 75 percent of our global square footage.
2011 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 80 percent of our global square footageduring that timeframe. 2010 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for our California facilities only, which made up roughly 72 percentof our global square footage during that timeframe.2
89CO  per Gross Square Foot of Facilities Spaces (CO  metric tons)*
*2012 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 75 percent of our global square footage.
2011 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 80 percent of our global square footageduring that timeframe. 2010 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for our California facilities only, which made up roughly 72 percentof our global square footage during that timeframe.
We expect our total GHG emissions to increase as our operations expand. But we’re taking steps to
minimize our energy consumption  and to decrease our GHG emissions per square foot, one key measure
of efficiency.
We’ve implemented energy efficiencies in our
California facilities that save approximately 8,712metric tons of GHG emissions every year—theequivalent annual emissions of 1,584 cars.
PARTICIPATING IN THE GLOBAL CONVERSATION ABOUT CLIMATECHANGE
In December 2011, we participated as part of a designated observer delegation at the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change COP 17 meeting in Durban, South Africa. This was the thirdconsecutive U.N. climate summit in which we’ve participated. In Durban, we collaborated with otherdelegations to define the role of information technology and strong intellectual property rights systems inaddressing climate change.
In June 2012, we participated in the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development—also
known as Rio+20—at the invitation of the Brazilian Ministry of Communications. We presented highlightsof our Wireless Reach Fishing with 3G Nets project, which demonstrates the use of Qualcomm technologyto promote sustainable fishing in the Brazilian state of Bahia. In 2012, we also continued our participationin the International Conservation Caucus Foundation, which brings together leaders from government,business and nonprofit organizations to develop market-oriented solutions for conservation andsustainability worldwide.
In 2012, Steve Crout, our senior director of government affairs, continued chairing the Energy and2 2
90Environment working group of the Information Technology Industry Council . The committee educates
policymakers, journalists and members of the public about the critical role information technology plays in
energy-saving efforts. It also advocates for policies enabling the technology industry to advance solutionsfor energy conservation and environmental sustainability.
We participate in many other organizations dedicated to addressing climate change and promoting
smarter energy use, including the following:
The Business Council for Sustainable Energy
The California Center for Sustainable Energy
The Climate Registry
The Digital Energy Solutions and Sustainability Campaign
GridWise Alliance
The San Diego Foundation Climate Change Initiative Advisory Committee
U.S. Green Building Council
TRACKING OTHER EMISSIONS
In addition to GHG emissions, we also track emissions of nitrogen oxide (NO ), sulfur dioxide (SO ) and
volatile organic chemicals (VOCs) generated as by-products of two 4.5-megawatt cogeneration turbineplants at our corporate headquarters. Fueled by natural gas, these highly efficient turbines enable us toproduce some of our own electricity, reducing both costs and GHG emissions. We also capture heatgenerated from the turbines and use it to power two large chillers in our corporate campus air-conditioningsystem, further saving electricity and the carbon emissions associated with producing it.
Significant Air Emissions by Type and Weight (tons per year)*
*San Diego, CA, facilities only2 2
91ENERGY
Building energy efficiency into
our future
Using less energy makes our Company more sustainable by helping
us minimize our carbon footprint  and cut costs. As we strive to
consume less energy, we’re also contributing to a more energy-efficient world as part of the effort to develop smart grids and otherkinds of energy-savings technology.
AIMING TO SAVE KILOWATTS AS OUR COMPANY GROWS
We track energy consumption for all of our facilities in North America. In 2012, our North American energy
use increased as a result of our Company’s continued growth.
As our business expands, we are continually looking for ways to use energy more efficiently. Among other
efforts, we are striving to maximize data center efficiency . We’re constructing several of our new facilities
according to LEED specifications . And we’re replacing existing computer monitors and printers with more
efficient models .
In 2012, we resurfaced two rooftops totaling 105,000 square feet at our San Diego corporate headquartersusing highly efficient “cool roof” technology—materials that reflect the sun’s energy and dramaticallyreduce both the roof’s surface temperature and the amount of heat transferred to the building below. Coolroofs help reduce energy costs by reducing the need for air conditioning. They improve comfort forbuilding occupants, cut maintenance costs, increase the lifecycle of the roof and reduce the urban heat-island effect, which contributes to the creation of smog.
Qualcomm was awarded the “Clean Transportation Award” from SDG&E for being a leader in
championing the installation of electric vehicle charging stations for use by our employees and campusvisitors. We installed 17 electric vehicle charging stations at San Diego sites, in addition to the fiveRaleigh, NC, sites that were implemented in 2011.
92Direct Energy Consumption*
*2012 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 75 percent of our global square footage.
2011 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 80 percent of our global square footageduring that timeframe. 2010 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for our California facilities only, which made up roughly 72 percentof our global square footage during that timeframe.
Indirect Energy Consumption*
*2012 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 75 percent of our global square footage.2011 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 80 percent of our global square footageduring that timeframe. 2010 amount represents prior-year calendar year data for our California facilities only, which made up roughly 72 percentof our global square footage during that timeframe.
93At our California facilities, our energy-efficiency initiatives resulted in:
HELPING TO PUT THE “SMART” IN SMART GRIDS
We’re contributing to the global evolution toward more efficient energy by enabling the wireless
components in smart grids —digitally enabled electrical grids that use wireless networks and information
technology to distribute energy more efficiently, saving costs and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)emissions in the process.
Our acquisition of Atheros Communications
 substantially expanded our portfolio of smart-grid-related
products, including power-line technologies and low-power WiFi solutions. (Read more about Qualcomm
Atheros’s smart grid solutions here .) We also have a department focused on growing our cellular chipset
business in the Internet of Everything space , with initial focus on smart automotive and energy solutions.
94
Source: Wireless and The Environment: A Review of
Opportunities and Challenges , BSR and CTIA, October 2011.CPS Energy of Texas showed that using Qualcomm-
enabled smart grid solutions to power 140,000homes could save 145,000 metric tons of COemissions annually and delay the need to build anew power plant.
We helped advance smart grid technologies in other ways this past year as well:
Mark Klerer, our senior director of technology, was vice chair of the Smart Grid Interoperability Panel
(SGIP). The SGIP is a public-private partnership that coordinates standardization activities for U.S.
smart grid standards and has developed a number of plans to address reduction of the nation’s carbonfootprint via the use of plug-in electric vehicles and renewable energies like wind.
We participated in state, federal and international government rule-making and public-commentopportunities regarding smart grids.
We sponsored and presented at the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC)annual meetings, which are key events for businesses, utilities and policymakers focused on smart gridtechnologies. We also conducted various webinars on the role of cellular communications in the smartgrid, as shown in this video
.
We continued our membership in the GridWise Alliance , an organization representing virtually the entire
energy supply chain and aimed at making the U.S. energy grid sustainable.
We continued to invest in Consert, Inc. , a provider of home energy management systems. Consert
leverages our 3G cellular technology in solutions that enable residential energy users to better managetheir power consumption through an online portal.
We participated in the Electricity Subgroup of the Future Transportation Fuels Study , a study of
America’s energy diversification led by the National Petroleum Council and commissioned by formerSecretary of Energy Samuel Bodman.
We also collaborated on energy-related initiatives related to carbon emissions and climate change. Readabout those here
.2
95THINKING AHEAD
Deploying more energy-efficient data centers
Data centers—buildings that house and protect large numbers of computer servers—are essential
for any business that, like ours, is IT-intensive. But powering and cooling data centers also requireslarge amounts of energy. In our continuing efforts to manage energy consumption and greenhousegas emissions as our Company grows, we are utilizing creative solutions as we deploy new datacenters at our San Diego, California, headquarters.
In 2010, we deployed our first HP Performance Optimized Data Center, or POD. Housed in a
shipping container, the POD’s design dramatically reduces the amount of real estate and powerneeded to operate a large number of computing systems; it contains more than 1,000 servers in just320 square feet. A traditional data center would require more than 5,000 square feet to support thesame power and heat load. The performance results of our first POD were so impressive that wecommissioned a second, even more efficient POD in October 2012. The new POD is expected tosave 1 million kilowatt hours and $130,000 annually.
In 2013, we plan to deploy a prefabricated modular data center, or MOD. Produced at a factory and
assembled on our campus, MODs are more cost-effective than traditional brick-and-mortar datacenters, in part because they reduce deployment time. Like PODs, they enable us to house moreservers in a smaller space.
96“Qualcomm is growing, and so is our demand for
computing power and IT services. Modular data centers(MODs) are allowing us to meet these computing needsby increasing capacity while also significantly loweringenergy consumption and associated costs.”
—Norm Fjeldheim, Senior Vice President & Chief Information Officer
We have further increased energy efficiency by pairing several of our data centers with our natural
gas-powered co-generation plants. The turbines in our co-generation plants run around the clockevery day—a perfect match for our data centers’ requirement for reliable, 24/7 power. Also, wecapture the heat produced as a by-product of power generation and convert its energy to cool ourdata centers, reducing the burden on the electric chillers and avoiding additional electricity usage.Finally, by placing our data centers as close as possible to our co-generation plant, we enable moreefficient energy transfer. We expect that pairing a MOD with a co-generation plant at just one of ourSan Diego facilities will allow us to avoid consuming more than 4 million kilowatt hours annually. Wewill also avoid 66 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with conventional datacenter use.
In sum, deploying PODs and MODs along with our co-generation plants enables us to use about 30
percent less energy to cool our servers, lowering our Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) to 1.18—alevel below federal targets for data center efficiency.
Because there are limits to the returns that can be gained by minimizing data centers, we will
continue to look beyond PODs and MODs to other solutions for maximizing computing capacity perwatt of energy. Among them is Platform as a Service (PaaS) for cloud provisioning, which employsinfrastructure-virtualization and application orchestration technology to support more computing withfewer hardware resources.
97WASTE REDUCTION
Working smarter, wasting less
Being mindful of waste today helps ensure that we’ll have the
resources we need in the years to come. Our employees are recyclingeverything from water bottles to e-waste and discovering ways to usematerials more efficiently.
MORE RECYCLING, LESS LANDFILLING
Three of our major locations in California employ a mixed recycling program, which enables employees to
dispose of recyclables in a single container rather than separate bins for glass, aluminum, paper andplastic. That simplification has enabled us to substantially increase our recycling rate. In 2012, our percapita landfill disposal rate was 0.15 pounds per person—a 99 percent reduction from our 2011 rate andfar below the average of 6.07 pounds per person for a San Diego business.
We’re recycling beyond our offices as well. During construction projects on our campuses, we recycle as
much debris as possible. One example: In the process of adding cool roofs to two of our San Diegobuildings, we diverted 80 tons of gravel from local landfills to be used for road construction. Overall, our2012 building projects surpassed San Diego County requirements for recycling construction debris.
Total Weight of Waste and Disposal Methods (tons)*
*Amounts represent data for our major California facilities only, which make up roughly 51.4 percent of our global square footage.
98PROPERLY DISPOSING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
We currently track hazardous waste generation at our facilities in San Diego, San Jose and Santa Clara,
California, which account for nearly 52 percent of our global square footage. At those facilities, weproduce a variety of waste classified as hazardous under local, state or federal regulations. Paint, lacquer,inorganic solids, flammable liquids, diesel fuel and the ethylene glycol we use in our air-conditioningchillers are examples of the kinds of hazardous wastes we produce. Whenever we produce such waste,we take measures to dispose of it in accordance with local and national regulations, and we recycle itwhenever possible.
In 2012, our levels of hazardous waste returned to normal levels after a steep increase in 2011 that was
caused by the decommissioning of an air-conditioning chiller at our San Diego headquarters.
We are pleased to report that 100 percent of the
hazardous waste we disposed of in 2012 wasrecycled.
Hazardous Waste*
*Amounts represent data for our major California facilities only, which make up roughly 51.4 percent of our global square footage.
99Fiscal Year 2012 Hazardous Waste Final Disposition*
*Amounts represent data for our major California facilities only, which make up roughly 51.4 percent of our global square footage.
PITCHING IN TO REDUCE E-WASTE
In addition to Company-generated e-waste recycled through our waste disposal program, we collected
personal e-waste from employees through monthly interoffice collection efforts and through quarterly e-waste recycling events. Such events encourage employees to drop off personal electronics for reuse orrecycling.
e-Waste Collection (1,000 pounds)*
*Amounts represent prior-year calendar year data for our United States’ facilities only
100
WATER CONSERVATION
Using water more efficiently
As water sources around the world become increasingly stressed,
we’re acutely aware of the need to treat water as the preciousresource it is. We’re conserving water, particularly in California, thehome of our headquarters and a state perennially challenged bywater scarcity.
CONSERVING WATER IN CALIFORNIA
At our San Diego facilities, we make our greatest gains in water conservation by utilizing reclaimed water
instead of potable water for irrigation and air conditioning. As we construct new buildings and renovateexisting facilities, we intend to use as much reclaimed water as local infrastructure allows. We are workingwith the City of San Diego to find a cost-effective solution for extending so-called purple pipes forreclaimed water to more of our facilities. Additionally, at our San Diego facilities where we do not haveaccess to reclaimed water for our cooling towers, we avoid consuming another 11.5 millions gallons ofpotable water annually, by carefully managing the treatment of the water, enabling us to use it longerbefore having to flush the system and refill it.
At our San Jose and Santa Clara operations, we saved approximately a quarter of a million gallons of
water per year by using a reverse osmosis/deionized water system that produces less wastewater. Of thewastewater the system did produce, we recycled more than a million gallons by diverting it into the coolingtowers for our air-conditioning system, thus significantly decreasing the amount of water from the citywater system we would have otherwise used to fill the towers.
1012012 Water Usage (million gallons)*
*San Diego, CA, facilities only. Water usage that does not come from reclaimed sources is supplied by the City of San Diego, Water Department.
Detailed information regarding its water supply can be found on their website .
CONSIDERING OUR WATER FOOTPRINT
As we rely on suppliers to manufacture our chipsets and other products, we are concerned with the
adverse impacts that the manufacturing process may have on the environment. Water consumption andits impact on the environment are one area of concern. Therefore, we want our suppliers to be as efficientwith their water use as possible. QCT currently requires its manufacturing suppliers to conserve, recycleand reuse water through its Supplier Code of Conduct
. We are in the process of further articulating our
expectations of suppliers with regard to water and exploring ways that we can work with them to use watermore efficiently.
102THINKING AHEAD
Assessing our water challenges
Water may not be the first thing you think of when you consider a high-tech company like ours. But
water is essential to our business—both in the operation of our facilities and in our semiconductorsupply chain facilities.
Given the increasing pressure on water sources worldwide, in 2012 we assessed potential long-term
water challenges for our business. We employed the 
World Business Council for Sustainable
Development Global Water Tool  in our evaluation and also consulted the Global Environmental
Management Initiative Local Water Tool .
Our analyses confirmed our understanding that our California facilities, especially our San Diegoheadquarters, are located in areas that may be subject to long-term water scarcity. In response, weare continuing efforts to use water as efficiently as possible, focusing mainly on reusing water at ourSan Diego facilities, which account for about 55 percent of our global square footage. We are alsoengaged in local water conservation efforts, working with municipalities, regulators and otherbusinesses to develop solutions for ensuring water security for San Diego, and other communitieswhere we do business, for years to come.
Looking beyond our California facilities, we also considered the long-term water challenges that our
primary foundry suppliers for semiconductors may face. Because semiconductor processing iswater-intensive, we encourage and support water efficiency, conservation and disclosure efforts byour semiconductor manufacturing suppliers. To that end, we are engaging with our suppliers,communicating our expectations and assisting them in their efforts related to water-conservation andreporting. 
As disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, the
primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, radio frequency (RF) and
103power management (PM) integrated circuits are Global Foundries Inc. (Global Foundries),
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. (Samsung),Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), Taiwan SemiconductorManufacturing Company (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC). All of thesesuppliers include disclosures about water on their websites or social responsibility reports.Additionally, three of these six suppliers were asked, and responded to, the 
2012 Carbon Disclosure
Project (CDP) Water Disclosure , including IBM, Samsung and TSMC.
In 2012, we became an applicant member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition , which will
allow us to work with others in the electronics industry to improve water practices across the overallelectronics supply chain by encouraging more detailed and transparent water reporting andresponsible management of water sources. By working together as an industry, we believe we canbe more effective in creating workable solutions for adequate long-term water sourcing.
Moving forward, our goal is to seek additional practical methods to enhance water conservation and
sustainability practices in our own operations and in those of our suppliers.
104FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS
Increasing sustainability from the
inside out
As a Company focused on employee health, environmental
stewardship and cost-efficiency, we want our facilities to be assustainable as possible. So as we design, build and operate ourfacilities, environmental performance is top of mind.
EXPANDING OUR COMMITMENT TO BUILDING GREEN
As we expand our operations around the world, we continue to implement the U.S. Green Building
Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) methodology. We choose greenbuilding materials wherever possible—including low-VOC paint and recycled products, which are furtherrecyclable, such as ceiling tiles, vinyl composition floor tile, systems furniture, carpet, fabrics and more. Bysourcing, designing and building with sustainable products, we minimize waste and help reducegreenhouse gas emissions. In all, we have earned LEED certification for five of our buildings.
In 2012, we achieved LEED Silver—Commercial Interiors Certified status for our 9,300-square-foot
expansion space in Shenzhen, China. This is our second building in China to earn this distinction. Our firstwas the Qualcomm Kerry Centre in Beijing.
We also achieved LEED Gold Certification for construction of our new 1.3 million-square-foot facility in
Longtan, Taiwan. Our other LEED Gold facilities are our 127,000-square-foot office tower in Bangalore,India (which was upgraded from LEED Silver status), and our 1 million-square-foot campus in San Diego,California, which was certified LEED Gold in 2008.
105OUR FACILITIES AND BIODIVERSITY
Five of our San Diego office sites are adjacent to Los Peñasquitos Canyon Preserve, protected home to
more than 500 plant species, 175 types of birds and a variety of reptiles, amphibians and mammals. Wework closely with the City of San Diego and San Diego County to ensure that we have minimal impact onthis important sanctuary.
MORE EFFICIENT DISTRIBUTION IN SINGAPORE
Improved packaging and material handling at our Singapore distribution center continued to reduce wasteand carbon emissions. Reuse of pallets and boxes, recycling of corrugated cardboard and replacement ofdisposable palettes and cartons with steel cages and trolleys are just some of the ways we’re cuttingwaste.
Since our Singapore distribution center introduced slimmer shipping boxes for our integrated circuit (IC)
products in 2008, we’ve saved thousands of metric tons of cardboard. We also expect to reuse more than30,000 cartons per year, further reducing our consumption.
CUTTING WASTE FROM IT OPERATIONS
As an engineering company, we depend on a robust information technology (IT) infrastructure. We takesteps to minimize energy consumption and waste in our IT system, keeping both costs and environmentalconsiderations in mind. Our Green IT Committee meets regularly to look for opportunities to cut waste,such as using their procurement teams to leverage consolidated purchasing to reduce the number ofshipments we receive, saving transportation fuel and encouraging vendors to minimize packing materials.
106The following are some of our new and continuing measures:
SERVER
VIRTUALIZATIONEnables a single computer to do the work of multiple machines,
saving energy and carbon emissions. We increased our virtualservers by 30 percent in 2012.
INCREASED
TELECONFERENCINGTeleconferencing reduces our carbon footprint by reducing travel
for our employees. We increased our number of teleconferencesystems to 24 in 2012, with more systems scheduled forimplementation in 2013.
WIRELESS
BACKHAULWe use wireless backhaul wherever feasible. Wireless backhaul—
the use of wireless solutions to connect with wired networks—saves wasteful trenching of city streets for network cableinstallation.
POWERING DOWN
PRINTERSAll of our printers automatically power down after hours and print
double-sided by default. We’re replacing older printers with moreenergy-efficient models and buying toner that yields higher pagevolume.
MONITOR
UPGRADESWe now purchase LED-backlit displays instead of CCFL displays,
thereby reducing power usage and increasing lifespan.Additionally, these types of panels no longer include any mercurycontent.
MODULAR DATA
CENTERSAs our Company grows, so does our demand for computing
power and IT services. Modular data centers allow us to efficiently
meet those demands by increasing capacity while significantlylowering energy consumption and associated costs.
ISO-CERTIFIED BUILDING SERVICES TEAM
We strive to keep our buildings exceptionally clean and to minimize the use of chemicals as we do so. In
2012, our San Diego Building Services Team earned ISO 9001:2008 certification from the InternationalOrganization for Standardization (ISO). In awarding the certification, the third-party auditor called our teama “benchmark of excellence.”
107In buildings at our Company headquarters, our janitorial
team employs QualClean, a program that reduceschemical use, water consumption and waste whilehelping to ensure consistency in cleaning and a healthierworkplace for our employees.
The program delivers cost efficiencies as well. Among our “green” cleaning practices:
A system for reducing potential for cross contamination that exceeds requirements for Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) compliance.
Two Green Seal Certified  chemicals of three daily-use cleaning products.
Use of three of four neutral pH (@ +-7) carpet-cleaning chemicals listed by OSHA as having zero toxichazard, zero flammable hazard, zero reactive hazard and zero corrosive hazard.
Limited use of hydrochloric, sulfamic and oxalic acids.
Use of an ergonomic, four-level filter vacuum system proven to reduce dust particles to virtually nodetectable emission.
Use of flat microfiber mops and two-sided buckets that reduce water usage for cleaning by 75 percent.
A just-in-time inventory system for cleaning products that reduces the amount of product disposed.
Use of chemical cleaning concentrates that has reduced waste sent to landfills by 97 percent.
All six cafés at our corporate headquarters are Green
Restaurant Association Certified Green Restaurants .TM
108GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
Growing greener around the
globe
Making our Company more environmentally sound is an all-hands
effort, and we believe commitment, ingenuity and new habits on thepart of our people have more impact than a corporate edict. Here aresome of the ways Qualcomm employees at our facilities worldwideput their hearts and minds into minimizing our footprint.
ASIA
CHINA Employees in Beijing hosted representatives of the Green Living Center, who presented solutions
for low-carbon living, and employee volunteers in Shanghai helped clean and protect a 1,400-square-meter wetland.
HONG KONG  As part of the World Wildlife Fund’s annual Earth Hour event, employees in Hong Kong
produced a two-minute video encouraging their colleagues to conserve energy. “The Wireless Warriors,” ateam of our employees, planted 30 seedlings in an annual endurance event that combines tree-plantingwith a 13-kilometer hike.
INDIA  Qualcomm India celebrated Earth Day by promoting the use of natural, rather than plastic, bags. An
on-site sale of bags made from jute benefited Save the Children India.
109KOREA Employees collected and recycled used mobile phones and printer cartridges, using the funds
generated to support Child Fund Korea’s work with disadvantaged children. Qualcomm Korea alsodonated used event banners to Eco Party Mearry, which makes handbags, wallets and other goods fromrecycled materials.
TAIWAN  All Qualcomm offices held an “earth hour” on Earth Day, shutting off all lights for 60 minutes and
encouraging employee ideas for reducing energy use and waste.
MIDDLE EAST
ISRAEL Our office in Haifa distributed reusable produce bags to employees in celebration of Earth Day.
110NORTH AMERICA
ONTARIO  Employees joined Environmental Earth Angels in a schoolyard tree-planting. Our Markham
office teamed with Smart Commute to help provide employees with sustainable transportation options.
Employees also took part in the “20-Minute Makeover,” a communitywide effort to clean up litter in greaterToronto.
CALIFORNIA  Our annual Earth Day Celebration at our San Diego headquarters surpassed last year’s
event, with dozens of booths sponsored by employees and outside organizations, attendance exceeding2,000 people and a keynote address by our Chairman and CEO, Dr. Paul Jacobs. Employees showed offtheir electric cars, promoted recycling, participated in Bike to Work Day and volunteered in a hands-onactivity to promote the planting of native plant species, among other attractions.
GEORGIA Our Atlanta office celebrated Earth Day with a week of trivia games, new reusable coffee mugs
and water bottles, and an e-waste drive.
NORTH CAROLINA  At our Raleigh offices, where vehicle-charging stations have been installed since
2011, employees took part in an event promoting electric vehicle awareness.
111TEXAS Employees collected a pallet of used batteries from their offices and composted food scraps.
Many employees bike to work regularly.
112qsr  2011–2012 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report THINKING  AHEAD
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE
CONTENT  
INDEX
113GLOBAL  REPOR TING  INI TIATIVE  
MEAsuRE AND  REPORT  OuR ECON OMIC ,  
ENVI
RONMENTAL  AND  sOCIAL  PERfORMANC
E.
The 2011–2012 QSR Report voluntarily complies with the Global Reporting Initiative ( GRI) G3 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines. The GRI is the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework, setting the 
principles and indicators that organizations use to measure and report their economic, environmental and 
social performance. For more detailed information on the GRI, please visit www.globalreporting.org.
We have self-assessed our reporting to be Application Level B. A GRI Content Index is provided below as a 
cross-reference to the report content.
Strategy and Analysis
Indicator Description Response
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 
organization. Leadership Messages
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Governance
Organizational Profile
Indicator Description Response
2.1 Name of the organization. Qualcomm Incorporated
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Products and Services
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main 
divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Businesses and Organizations
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. San Diego, 
CA
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Worldwide locations
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Qualcomm is listed on the 
NASDAQ  Stock Market 
under the ticker symbol QCOM .
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Performance Summary, Additional information available in 10-K/Annual Report
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Performance Summary, Additional information available in 10-K/Annual Report
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. There were no significant changes during the reporting period.
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Memberships and Awards, Awards and Recognition
Report Parameters
Indicator Description Response
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 
provided. Our 2011–2012 
QSR Report covers events and 
highlights occurring from September 27, 2010, to September 30, 2012, and coincides with our corporate 2011 and 2012 fiscal years. In some instances, data is collected and reported on a calendar rather than fiscal-year basis. Such exceptions, as well as any other exceptions to the reporting period, will be noted within the report.
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Our 2010 
QSR Report covers events and highlights 
occurring from September 28, 2009, to September 26, 2010, and coincides with our corporate 2010 fiscal year.
*Partially covered in report
114Report Parameters (continued)
Indicator Description Response
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Bi-annual
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 
contents. Qualcomm IncorporatedAttn:
QSR 
5775 Morehouse DriveSan Diego, 
CA 92121
qsr@qualcomm.com
3.5 Process for defining report content. Governance, Leadership Message
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). This report includes Qualcomm Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. Financial data is reported in U.S. dollars.
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. We anticipate that multiple stakeholders, ranging from the general public to current and future Qualcomm employees, investors, customers and suppliers, will access and use our 2011–2012 
QSR 
Report. As such, we carefully considered what information to include and disclose in this report, taking into account what issues and topics are materially relevant to our business strategy and are of utmost importance to our stakeholders. Data and content determined to have the highest priority have been included in this report.
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company’s subsidiaries in India that were established to operate a wireless network on the broadband wireless access (
BWA ) spectrum ( BWA  
subsidiaries) issued noncontrolling interests to Bharti Airtel Limited (Bharti), an Indian wireless network operator. As a result, the Company’s ownership interest in each of those subsidiaries was reduced from 74% to 51%. In addition, Bharti purchased the outstanding shares of those subsidiaries that were held by two third-party Indian investors. However, this change did not result in a change in control, and as a result, the Company’s consolidated financial statements continue to include the assets, liabilities and operating results of those subsidiaries. The Company’s agreement with Bharti provides that Bharti’s ownership interest will increase over time to 100% if certain conditions are met. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the assets and liabilities of the 
BWA  subsidiaries were presented as 
held for sale. Additional information available in 10-K/Annual Report
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the 
GRI Indicator Protocols. Data for this report was compiled from various company departments specific to the performance indicator. Some calculations have been noted in relevant report sections as appropriate. Data is reported using U.S. measurement systems unless otherwise noted.
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). There were no such restatements during the reporting period.Additional information available in 10-K/Annual Report
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. There have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the 2011–2012 
QSR Report.
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Content Index
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. External verification of specific content is noted throughout our 2011–2012 
QSR Report. Our 2009 
and 2010 QSR Reports were externally assured by 
an independent third-party. Based on stakeholder feedback and cost/benefit analysis of available assurance options, we have not conducted a separate third-party verification of our 2011–2012 
QSR Report.
*Partially covered in report
115Governance, Commitments, and Engagement
Indicator Description Response
4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including 
committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Governance, Governance Principles and Practices
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Governance, Governance Principles and Practices
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Governance, Governance Principles and Practices
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Governance, Governance Principles and Practices
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Ethical Employment
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Governance Principles and Practices
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Corporate Governance
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Governance, Ethics and Integrity, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.  Governance, Corporate Governance
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Governance, Governance Principles and Practices
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Product Responsibility
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Ethics and Integrity, Public Policy, Product Responsibility, Supplier Management, Energy, Facilities and Operations, Air Quality, Memberships and Awards
4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization:     * Has positions in governance bodies;    * Participates in projects or committees;    * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or    * Views membership as strategic.Memberships and Awards
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder Engagement
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholder Engagement
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Stakeholder Engagement
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Stakeholder Engagement
*Partially covered in report
116Disclosures on Management Approach
Indicator Description Response
DMA  Economic Our Company, 2012 Proxy Statement, Corporate 
Governance, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct, Code of Ethics, Supplier Diversity Policy
DMA  Environmental Our Environment, Environmental Policy, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
DMA  Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Our Workplace, Health and Safety, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
DMA  Social: Human Rights Our Workplace, Global Workforce Inclusion, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
DMA  Social: Society Our Company, Our Community, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct, Community Involvement, Wireless Reach
DMA  Social: Product Responsibility Our Company, Responsible Product Design, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
Economic
Indicator Description Response
EC1* Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 
revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Performance Summary, Additional information available in 10-K/Annual Report
EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. We do not maintain a defined benefit pension plan.
EC5* Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Ethical Employment, General entry wage level information provided
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Supplier Management, Supplier Diversity Policy
EC8* Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Our Community, General public benefit information provided
EC9* Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Our Community, General indirect economic impact information provided
Environmental
Indicator Description Response
EN1* Materials used by weight or volume. Product Responsibility
EN2* Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 
materials. Product Responsibility, Facilities and Operations
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Energy
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Energy
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Our Environment
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Product Responsibility, Energy, Products and Services, Responsible Product Design, Smart Energy
EN7* Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Air Quality, Energy, Facilities and Operations, Global Environmental Initiatives
EN8* Total water withdrawal by source. Water Conservation, Water usage for Headquarters provided
EN10* Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Water Conservation, Recycled water and reusage 
for Headquarters provided
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Facilities and Operations
EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Facilities and Operations, Global Environmental Initiatives
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Air Quality
*Partially covered in report
117Environmental (continued)
Indicator Description Response
EN17* Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Air Quality
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
reductions achieved. Our Environment
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and 
weight. Air Quality
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Waste Reduction
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Qualcomm experienced no significant spills in 2012 that had a material impact on the environment.
EN24* Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, 
II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste 
shipped internationally. All hazardous waste generated by Qualcomm U.S. operations is recycled or treated in the United States by Certified Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facilities.
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Product Responsibility, Supplier Management
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Qualcomm received no monetary fines and no non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2012.
Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work
Indicator Description Response
LA1* Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 
and region. Performance Summary, Total workforce by region and employment type provided
LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Ethical Employment, General information on voluntary turnover provided
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Ethical Employment
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Ethical Employment
LA5* Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Ethical Employment, General information provided
LA6* Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Workplace Safety, General information provided 
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. Workplace Safety
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Workplace Safety, Global Emergency Management
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Qualcomm does not have any formal agreements with trade unions.
LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Employee Development
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Employee Development, Ethical Employment
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 81.70%, Ethical Employment
LA13* Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Global Workforce Inclusion, Performance Summary, General information provided
LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Ethical Employment, General information provided 
*Partially covered in report
118Social: Human Rights
Indicator Description Response
HR2* Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 
undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Supplier Management, Ethical Employment
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 17,874, Workplace Safety, Ethics and Integrity, Ethical Employment
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Qualcomm has never been found to have unlawfully 
discriminated against any of our employees. Ethical Employment
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and/or collective bargaining are at significant risk. Ethical Employment
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a significant risk for incidents of child labor. Ethical Employment
HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. Ethical Employment
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 100% of security personnel are trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. None 
Social: Society
Indicator Description Response
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for 
risks related to corruption. Ethics and Integrity, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Ethics and Integrity, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. There has never been any legal case of corruption brought against our employees or our Company. We disclose all material legal proceedings in our periodic filings. Ethics and Integrity, Additional information available in 10-K/Annual Report
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Public Policy
SO6* Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Public Policy, General information provided 
Social: Product Responsibility
Indicator Description Response
PR1* Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 
products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Product Responsibility, Supplier Management, General discussion of product responsibility reported, Percentage of significant products subject to procedures reported
PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Product Responsibility
PR6* Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Ethics and Integrity, The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct, General information provided
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. We did not receive any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or data in 2012 or in the two years prior. Ethics and Integrity
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.In 2012, we had no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of our products and services. Product Responsibility
*Partially covered in report
119PERFORMANCE  
SUMMARYqsr  2011–2012 Qualcomm Social Responsibility Report THINKING  AHEAD
120PERFORMANCE  SUMMARY
OUR COMPANY
Units 2012 2011 2010
Total Consolidated Revenues by Region* (in millions)
Total  $ 19,121 14,957  10,982  
China  $ 7,971 4,744  3,194  
South Korea   $ 4,203 2,887  2,913  
Taiwan  $ 2,648 2,550  1,360  
United States $ 967 897  555
Other Foreign  $ 3,332 3,879  2,960  
Revenues by Segment** (in millions)Total  $ 19,121 14,957  10,982  
QCT  $ 12,141 8,859  6,695  
QTL  $ 6,327 5,422  3,659  
QWI  $ 633 656  628  
Other  $ 20 20  0  
Total Capitalization (in millions)Stockholders’ Equity  $ 33,545 26,972  20,858  
Quantity of Products Provided
QCT Mobile Station Modem ( MSM ™) Integrated Circuits  # of Products 
Provided  590,000,000 483,000,000  399,000,000  
Supply ChainNumber of Diverse Suppliers Registered, Global  # of  759 682  563  
Spending on Subcontract Work directed at Diverse 
Businesses (U.S. only)  % of Overall Spending  13% 12%  14%  
* The Company distinguishes revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which its products, software or services are delivered 
and, for QTL’s licensing and royalty revenues, the invoiced addresses of its licenses. Fiscal 2010 revenues have been adjusted for discontinued operations.
** Fiscal 2010 r
evenues have been adjusted for discontinued operations.
121PERFORMANCE  SUMMARY
OUR WORKPLACE
Units 2012 2011 2010
Number of Employees
Total Employees, Worldwide  # of  26,600 21,200  17,500  
Breakout by Region:
United States  %  65% 71%  77%  
Non-United States  %  35% 29%  23%  
Breakout by Employee TypeRegular Employees  %  89% 90%  90%  
Temporary Employees  %  11% 10%  10%  
Global Workforce InclusionDiversity:
Minority Employees*  % of Total 59% 56%  55%  
Nationalities Represented  # of  118 109  107  
Languages Spoken  # of  67 66  66  
Women in the Workforce:
Women on the Board of Directors  % of Total 25% 15%  15%  
Education and TrainingTraining Statistics:
Classoom Training Course Enrollments  # of  65,224 49,400  45,400  
Instructor-led Sessions  # of  356 660  600  
Online Courses  # of  2,000 700  700  
Training by Employee Group
Individual Contributor  Hrs/Employee  31 19  24  
Management  Hrs/Employee  73 27  27  
Executive  Hrs/Employee  23 13  18  
Ethical EmploymentEmployee Voluntary Turnover Rates  % of Total  3.8% 5.1%  4.0%  
Workplace SafetyTotal Injury and Illness Incident Rate (U.S. only)  Per 100 Full-time 
Employees  0.7 1.6  1.8  
Total Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate (U.S. only)  Per 100 Full-time 
Employees  0.03 0.1  0.1  
Environmental Health and Safety Training
Total Hours Provided  # of  2,764 4,384  2,610  
Employees Trained  # of  3,221 2,902  1,808  
Trainings Led  # of  1,737 2,128  1,276  
Ergonomic Assessments Led  # of  3,184 1,956  1,039  
* U.S. employees only 
122PERFORMANCE  SUMMARY
OUR COMMUNITY
Units 2012 2011 2010
Qualcomm Foundation and Qualcomm Incorporated Grants
Educated Communities % of Total 79% 59% 68%
Healthy Sustainable Communities % of Total 18% 33% 27%
Culturally Vibrant Communities % of Total 3% 8% 5%
Matching Grants and Community Service Grants
Educated Communities % of Total 47% 43% 43%
Healthy Sustainable Communities % of Total 45% 49% 47%
Culturally Vibrant Communities % of Total 8% 8% 10%
Employees Participating in Matching Grant and 
Community Service Grant Programs# of 2,990 2,967 2,900
Nonprofit Organizations Helped by Matching Grant and Community Service Grant Programs# of 1,642 1,575 1,583
Wireless Reach™
Wireless Reach Partners # of 250+ 200+ 100+
Wireless Reach Projects # of 73 64 56
Wireless Reach Project Countries # of 31 27 28
123PERFORMANCE  SUMMARY
OUR ENVIRONMENT
Units 2012 2011 2010
Green IT
E-Waste Collection* Pounds of Waste 387,000 486,480 489,932
Greenhouse Gas ( GHG ) Emissions**
CO2 per Gross Square Foot of Facilities Space CO2 Metric Tons 0.0191 0.0205 0.0203
Total Direct GHG  Emissions by Weight CO2 Metric Tons 64,782 63,301 57,721
Total Indirect GHG  Emissions by Weight CO2 Metric Tons 49,216 50,591 39,824
Direct Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Source**
Natural Gas (facilities) MMB tu 991,255 965,349 895,712
Jet Fuel (aviation related) Gallons 1,127,478 1,176,173 988,469
Vehicle Gasoline (shuttle/test vehicles) Gallons 56,891 49,442 47,494
Diesel Fuel (cars/trucks) Gallons 10,284 8,220 7,341
Diesel Fuel (generators) Gallons 12,156 8,230 1,485
Indirect Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Source**Electricity (purchased) Megawatt Hours 139,882 145,925 120,676
Significant Air Emissions***
NOx Tons 29.70 32.20 28.79
SOx Tons 0.20 0.20 0.20
VOC Tons 1.10 1.17 1.17
Total Weight of Waste and Disposal Method†Recycled Material Tons 2,086 1,049 1,313
Landfill Waste Tons 421 1,355 1,723
Solid Waste Generated Tons 2,507 2,404 3,036
Hazardous Waste†Generated Tons 52.3 92.0 56.5
Recycled % 100% 77% 73%
Water Conservation***Water Savings Million Gallons 18.90 18.04 18.08
* Amounts represent prior-y ear calendar year data for our United States’ facilities only
** 2012 amount r
epresents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 75 percent of our global square footage. 2011 amount 
represents prior-year calendar year data for all of our North American facilities, or roughly 80 percent of our global square footage during that timeframe. 2010 
amount represents prior-year calendar year data for our California facilities only, which made up roughly 72 percent of our global square footage during that timeframe.
***
 San Diego, CA, facilities only
† Amounts represent data f
or our major California facilities only, which make up roughly 51.4 percent of our global square footage.
124