QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
QUA LCOMM’ s commitment to 
its emplo yees, local community 
and global economy .  
 QUALCOMM 
 Social 
 Responsibility 
 Report
2006QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
1QUALCOMM Incorporated is a pioneer of 
CDMA (code division multiple access) digital 
wireless technology and one of the leading 
enablers of 3G wireless, as well as other  
advanced wireless products and services. 
QUALCOMM leads the industry in the  
development of CDMA2000® 1X, 1xEV-DO, 
WCDMA (UMTS) and HSDPA/HSUPA  
chipsets and solutions, and has licensed  
its essential CDMA patent portfolio to more 
than 140 telecommunications equipment 
manufacturers worldwide. 
QUALCOMM’s solutions and technologies  
ultimately enable and benefit consumers, 
the enterprise, network operators, OEM 
manufacturers and developers.QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportTable of Contents
4  Message from Our CEO
5  Governance and Ethics
9  Employees and Workplace
17  Environmental Impact
25  Community
29  Wireless Reach
35  Corporate Information
QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
“The work we do around the globe 
not only advances our business goals, 
but also contributes to social and 
economic development.”
– Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, Chief Executive OfficerQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Message from Our CEO
QUALCOMM was built on a commitment to better the societies in which  
we work and live. Our belief is that building strong shareholder value requires 
more than making a profit—it requires making a contribution. This is the  
cornerstone of being a responsible corporate citizen in today’s world, and it  
is essential to what we do at QUALCOMM. 
Corporate citizenship expands beyond philanthropy. At QUALCOMM, it is  
vital to our future. We strive to incorporate good citizenship into every business 
practice across the Company, from transparency in our financial practices to the 
best healthcare benefits for our employees. 
With industry leadership comes many opportunities—and responsibilities—to 
make a positive impact on our communities. The work we do around the globe 
not only advances our business goals, but also contributes to social and economic 
development. We believe that our technology changes people’s lives for the 
better in a very literal way, and we are committed to ensuring that people 
realize these benefits. 
This report details the range of our social responsibility efforts, from employee 
learning and diversity to corporate governance, ethics and environmental  
impact. We attempt to provide sound insight into our performance, as well  
as highlight “What’s Next” so that we continually acknowledge where we want 
to improve and expand our corporate citizenship efforts.
As we move into the future, our values will remain the same as when  
QUALCOMM was founded in 1985. And, we will continue to meet our  
responsibilities to our shareholders, employees and the global community.
Dr. Paul E. Jacobs
Chief Executive Officer
QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Corporate Governance and EthicsQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
“QUALCOMM met an important  
milestone by being one of the first  
SEC registrants nationwide to comply  
with Sarbanes-Oxley 404, and we  
did so a year ahead of the required  
schedule. This accomplishment is a  
testament to our commitment to  
strong financial controls and effective  
corporate governance practices.”   
– William E. Keitel, Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial OfficerQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportCorporate Governance and Ethics
QUALCOMM is committed to perform with the utmost integrity. We maintain 
strong policies, training and communication to ensure that our actions are ethical 
and transparent. We also recognize the importance and the challenge of upholding 
these principles as our company grows in its global reach and regulatory complexity.
Corporate Governance
QUALCOMM’s Board of Directors provides sound corporate governance and sets 
high standards for the Company’s employees, officers and directors. It is the duty 
of the Board of Directors to serve as a prudent fiduciary for stockholders and to 
oversee the Company’s management. To fulfill its responsibilities and to discharge 
its duty, the Board of Directors follows the procedures and standards that are set 
forth in the Company’s corporate governance guidelines. The complete Governance 
Principles and Practices are available on our web site www.qualcomm.com
Corporate governance highlights:
 >  QUALCOMM was one of the first Securities and Exchange Commission   
  registrants nationwide to achieve compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley 404.  
  We are extremely proud to have achieved this accomplishment one year   
  ahead of the regulatory deadline;
 >  QUALCOMM files its 10-K and 10-Q SEC Filings concurrently with   
  its earnings release;
 >  QUALCOMM does not maintain a defined benefit pension plan; and
 >  QUALCOMM’s 401(k) employee retirement plan does not have  
  ownership in QUALCOMM stock.
QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
7QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportCode of Ethics
QUALCOMM is committed to the highest standards of workplace conduct and 
business ethics, and creating the best possible work environment for our employees. 
There are numerous policies and initiatives woven throughout our Company that 
reflect our commitment to the highest ethical standards. 
QUALCOMM’s Code of Ethics promotes: 
 >  Honest and ethical conduct, including the ethical handling of  
  actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and  
  professional relationships;
 >  Full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports  
  and documents that QUALCOMM files with, or submits to, the  
  United States Securities and Exchange Commission and in other  
  public communications;
 >  Compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations;
 >  The prompt internal reporting of violations of this Code; and
 >  Accountability for adherence to this Code.
QUALCOMM encourages the ethical behavior of its employees through the  
following programs:
 >  Open Door Policy & Anonymous Ethics Hotline - QUALCOMM actively   
  pursues a positive work environment where responsiveness to employee   
  needs is essential and open communication between all levels of staff exists   
  throughout the Company. Employees may also report concerns anonymously   
  to QUALCOMM’s Ethics Hotline.
 >  Ethics T raining - QUALCOMM’s Learning Center and Employee Relations   
  Department provide training courses focusing on awareness of our Code of   
  Ethics and promotion of ethical practices.
 >  Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination and EEO Policies - QUALCOMM   
  holds a firm policy prohibiting unlawful harassment.
 >  The executive management team regularly communicates its support of  
  these initiatives through company-wide emails, internal news articles and   
  video messages. 
What’s Next  
 >  Implement a Code of Ethics training module tailored to address  
  the specific ethical challenges unique to our corporate environment.
QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
“QUALCOMM is as exciting a place  
to work today as it was in the early 
days. To me, this implies both a  
continuous renewal and focus on the 
individual (and on the organization)  
to maintain a very successful and 
stimulating environment. 
Employees at QUALCOMM are dedicated to their co-workers, and we  
rely on each other to get our jobs done. As we continue to grow,  
the challenge for collaborating and communicating with each other  
becomes greater, but we are finding ways to meet that challenge.”   
– Dr. Daniel L. Sullivan, Executive Vice President, Human ResourcesQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Employees and WorkplaceQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportOur Employees
 
2006 was one of QUALCOMM’s strongest years of global workforce growth in 
our history. We hired more than 2,500 individuals last year. It was an especially 
exciting year in the international markets as 22 percent of our new employees 
were in locations other than the United States. Even more impressive than the 
number of employees who joined us were the diverse skills they brought to our  
company in ever more specialized areas of wireless communications.
Total QUALCOMM Employees
Diversity
As of October 2006, QUALCOMM employed more than 10,500 individuals 
who collectively represent more than 125 different countries, speak more than 
65 languages and range in age from 18 to 80 years.2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
6,295 6,198 6,037 7,206 8,940 10,719 
Employees
Over 45% of our 
employees are 
minorities*Over 65% of 
our 252 interns 
are minorities*
Over 25% of our 
executive management 
team are womenOver 55% of our 
graduating interns 
roll over to full-time 
employees
11*U.S. definition of minorities includes Asians, African-Americans, Native Americans and Hispanics.QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportOur Workplace  
QUALCOMM is a high-energy company filled with people who want to be  
challenged and rewarded for meeting those challenges. We are proud of the work -
place programs we have developed that drive QUALCOMM’s unmistakably  
innovative culture.
QUALCOMM Climate Survey
Employee feedback is critical to QUALCOMM’s operations. We conduct the 
QUALCOMM Climate Survey to gauge employees’ perceptions of management, 
the performance of the Company, and the overall workplace culture. In 2005, over 
93% of our employees participated in the survey.
Survey highlights:
 >  98% of surveyed employees are committed to the success of QUALCOMM;  
 >  95% of surveyed employees believe QUALCOMM provides a working  
  environment that is accepting of cultural and ethnic differences;  
 >  95% of surveyed employees feel proud to work for QUALCOMM; 
 >  94% of surveyed employees believe QUALCOMM is ethical in its  
  business practices;
 >  93% of surveyed employees believe QUALCOMM provides a working  
  environment that is accepting of gender differences;
 >  90% of surveyed employees believe QUALCOMM operates with integrity  
  in its external dealings with customers, suppliers, licensees, etc.;
 >  89% of surveyed employees rated QUALCOMM higher than competitors   
  on quality of work environment; and 
 >  84% of surveyed employees rate QUALCOMM favorably on being open  
  in communications to employees.
“The environment at QUALCOMM places no boundaries on creativity  
and communication among all levels of employees. This empowers  
employees to explore the limits of their abilities and teams to  
synergistically unite to solve the most challenging problems.”  
– Samir Ginde, Engineer, QCT 1X Product Systems
QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportLearning
Our Corporate Learning Center provides hundreds of leading-edge professional and 
technical development solutions for local, regional and international offices. Learning 
opportunities available on QUALCOMM’s campuses, online, and at nearby colleges 
and universities include:
 >  Advanced engineering degree programs online; 
 >  Live classroom sessions, web-based programs and computer-based training in  
  technical and professional areas such as leadership development, supervisory  
  skills, time management, QUALCOMM Technical Education Network, and  
  CDMA and other advanced wireless technologies; 
 >  An innovative online development tool that allows customized professional   
  development plans and aligns learning with divisions’ goals and objectives; 
 >  A tuition reimbursement program that 381 employees benefited from  
  in FY06 for undergraduate and graduate classes at approved U.S. and  
  international schools; 
 >  A library filled with educational and technical resources; and
 >  Online training of which employees logged 9,387 hours last year.
13“QUALCOMM is a company that goes the distance for its 
employees. Employee recognition is a way of life at QUALCOMM, 
not just an afterthought as with many companies. Employee 
retention is paramount. I have heard several employees say that 
this is the last company they will work for. I’m proud to be part 
of the QUALCOMM team.”   
– Yvonne Kaoua, Senior Program Administrator, QGOVQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportCompensation and Benefits
QUALCOMM’s compensation philosophy is focused on providing employees with 
total compensation and rewards that are externally competitive and internally equitable. 
With total compensation programs that are results-based, QUALCOMM’s goal is  
to reward superior individual performance, business growth and leadership. This 
philosophy guides the design and administration of compensation and benefit  
programs for the Company’s officers, other executives and our general workforce.
Work/Life Balance
QLife: Health, Family, Leisure and Community Resources
QLife is QUALCOMM’s Work/Life Balance solution. The program assists employees 
in achieving a balance between their lives at QUALCOMM, at home and in the  
community. In 2006, QLife offered 939 programs, events and services across the 
following six different QLife Communities:
Employees & WorkplaceCommunity Life
Focuses on our employees’ activities to  
support the local communities in which they 
live. Activities include quarterly blood drives, 
holiday toy drives and participation in chari -
table runs and walks.
Healthy Life
Supports employee health and provides the 
tools to learn about and practice healthy  
habits. The Company offers an on-site medical 
clinic, mobile dental service, health education 
and more than a dozen on-site fitness centers 
at QUALCOMM locations worldwide.
Life Resources
Brings a wide range of resources to employees 
to help live a balanced life, including financial 
education workshops, on-site massage, vendor 
discounts and commuter resources.Family Life
Provides resources to help employees  
deal with family obligations from child and 
elder-care issues to family education and  
adoption assistance.
Leisure Life
Leisure time is important to a balanced  
life. QUALCOMM provides employees the  
opportunity to explore a myriad of leisure-time 
activities from adventure outings and sports 
tournaments to employee-interest clubs  
and “Learn-To” programs.
Team Life
Provides team-bonding activities such as  
tours of Mexico, wine tasting, behind the 
scenes at the San Diego Zoo and Sea World, 
casino nights, go-kart racing, scavenger  
hunts, rafting trips and beach outings.There is a wide range of practices 
for offering stock-based awards 
(options and/or full-value shares).
Once per year performance review 
for employees.
Employees contribute toward 
health-plan coverage premiums.All employees, including those with non-  
exempt positions, receive QUALCOMM stock  
options as part of the job-offer package, and 
are eligible to receive on-going stock options 
every six months. 
Twice per year performance review for all 
employees.
QUALCOMM pays 100% of health coverage  
premiums for employees and their dependents.QUALCOMM Practice                  Industry StandardQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
15Health and Safety
Safety
Creating a safe work environment for our employees and a safe community for our 
neighbors is a top priority for the Company. QUALCOMM’s Health and Safety 
Department’s objective is to identify and eliminate work-related risks, injuries and 
illnesses. We are also committed to preparing our employees and communities for 
emergency response in the event of a disaster.
Safety Committee
QUALCOMM’s Safety Committee is comprised of volunteer employees who  
assist the Environmental Health and Safety Department in communicating safety  
information. The QUALCOMM Safety Committee establishes safety procedures 
and safety training programs, reviews reported hazards and oversees the correction  
of reported hazards and safety violations.
In 2006, QUALCOMM’s incident rate* decreased by 8%:
*Number of recordable 
injuries and illnesses per 
100 full-time employees 
that resulted in days away 
from work, restricted 
work activity and/or 
job transfer.
Emergency Response
 >  QUALCOMM leads the Sorrento Valley Consortium, which focuses on   
  regional emergency response.
 >  72 employees trained on-site as Community Emergency Response  
  Team (CERT) members are prepared to be first responders in the event  
  of a local disaster.
 > The Emergency Response team recently completed the successful deployment  
  of an emergency messaging system to all of our domestic and international  
  offices. This system allows the Company to communicate critical information  
  to all employees in the event of a regional disaster or act of terrorism.
 2004 2005 20061.54
1.31
1.20Incident RateQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportWhat’s Next
 >  Improve work-life balance solutions for offices outside the U.S.
 >  Strengthen university partnerships to enhance the Company’s diversity  
  recruiting efforts.
 >  Increase use of the QUALCOMM Innovation Network online tool to  
  enhance knowledge sharing and strengthen the Company’s creative culture   
  across our global workforce.
Awards
Culture
 > FORTUNE  magazine’s “100 Best Companies to Work For” for nine  
  consecutive years 
 > BestJobsUSA.com’s “Employers of Choice 500” 
 > Computerworld  magazine’s “100 Best Places to Work in  
  Information Technology” 
 > Work-Life Coalition’s “Leaders in Corporate Work-Life Initiatives for  
  Wellness & Work-Time Options” 
 > Executive Excellence  magazine’s “Top Leadership Development Program”
 > San Diego Society of Human Resource Management’s “Workplace  
  Excellence Award” 
 > #5 on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 2006 list of companies  
  named “The Best Workplace For Commuters” 
 > “BEST” T raining Organizations by the American Society of T raining  
  and Development
 > Training  magazine’s “T raining Top 100”
Diversity
 >  U.S. Department of Labor’s “Secretary of Labor’s Opportunity Award” 
 >  Leadership Conference on Civil Rights’ “Dr. Dorothy I. Height  
  Chairperson’s Award of Special Merit” 
 >  Black Engineering  magazine’s “Best Diversity Program”
 >  San Diego Business Journal’s  “Multicultural Heritage Award”
 >  AARP’s “Best Employers for Workers Over 50” 
 >  Black Collegian  magazine’s “Top 100 Employers”
 “I love the fact that QUALCOMM isn’t your normal 8 to 5 company.  
QUALCOMM allows you to work flexible hours so you can enjoy your  
job and enjoy your life all at the same time. Plus, the benefits are  
amazing! QUALCOMM is a fantastic company to work for!”  
– Kayla R. Seignious, Legal Analyst I, Patent Group
Employees & WorkplaceQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Environmental ImpactQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
“We believe it is our responsibility to 
ensure that our operations and the 
products that deploy our technology 
are as green as possible. That is why 
we provide award-winning commuter 
resources for our employees and 
integrate state-of-the-art, energy-saving  
technology whenever possible. We also 
continue to find new ways to ensure our 
environmental footprint has the least  
amount of negative impact as possible.”  
– Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, Chairman of the BoardQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
19Environmental Impact  
Environmental Policy 
QUALCOMM is committed to protecting and enhancing the local and global  
environment. The Company works continuously to minimize use of hazardous  
materials and reduce consumption of natural resources. Using education and  
administrative controls, we continuously assess our processes and practices to  
identify areas for reduction in energy, waste and emissions.
QUALCOMM strives to:
 > Minimize generated waste through reduction, reuse and recycling; 
 > Use energy more efficiently through management controls and  
  routine practices; 
 > Conserve water through management controls and routine practices; 
 > Minimize and, where possible, eliminate noise and odor pollution; and 
 > Minimize, substitute and, where possible, eliminate the use of    
  hazardous chemicals in processes and operations.
It is consistent with QUALCOMM’s environmental policy to comply with all  
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. QUALCOMM is committed 
to meeting or exceeding environmental laws, standards and regulations.
Climate  
QUALCOMM has been a long-time innovator and early adopter of energy efficiency 
systems and environmental sustainability planning. Since 1993, QUALCOMM  
has completed more than 110 projects to improve energy efficiency and reduce 
greenhouse gases from our operations. These projects include capture and use of  
thermal energy to manage two cogeneration systems, which generate electricity  
to increase efficiency and reduce emissions through solar generation.
QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportIn 2005 and 2006, QUALCOMM expanded our facilities by 29% to accommodate 
our rapid growth. The increase in total emissions over this period reflects this expansion.
As seen in the chart below, emissions on a “per building gross square footage” basis 
have slightly decreased due to continuous investments in energy-efficient equipment 
and technologies.
QUALCOMM is committed to sustainable and renewable energy resources to offset 
greenhouse gases and decrease the speed of global warming. The Company continues 
to make significant investments in photovoltaic solar power. T o date, QUALCOMM 
has installed almost 500 kilowatts of solar generation in multiple building systems 
using both rooftop and parking structure sites, which now provide 60% of the building 
lighting loads at those locations. 
QUALCOMM has been a member of the California Action Registry since 2002,  
a non-profit, voluntary registry for greenhouse gas emissions and has earned the  
distinction of “Climate Action Leader” for our early and voluntary participation  
in reporting greenhouse gas emissions in California.70,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0Total 
Emissions  
(CO 2)
0.0250
0.0200
0.0150
0.0100
0.0050
0Fiscal YearCO 2 Emissions 
Per Gross 
Square FootCO 2 Emissions Per Gross Square Foot3,000,000
2,500,000
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0Buildings
Gross 
Square FeetCO 2 Metric Tons Emissions and Building Square FootageBuilding Gross Square FeetMetric Tons
2002   2003      2004               2005    
2002    2003      2004                2005    .0168.0190.0220 .0219QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
21Energy Conservation
QUALCOMM annually saves more than 13.9 million kilowatt hours valued at $2.5 
million in avoided costs through use of energy-efficient equipment, practices and 
employee education. QUALCOMM continues to install equipment that is on the 
leading edge of technology, thereby reducing energy demand and improving overall 
operating system efficiency.  
QUALCOMM is an active participant in the SDG&E (San Diego Gas & Electric) 
Savings By Design Program, a California utilities program encouraging high-  
performance, non-residential design and construction.  
In 2006, QUALCOMM completed construction projects geared toward improving 
energy efficiency that cover more than 537,000 square feet of Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEED)-certified space and another 458,000 square feet 
of LEED-compliant space – nearly one million square feet of “green” improvements 
in the 12-month period. These buildings have been designed to perform 15.4% 
better than required under California’s Title 24 standards. QUALCOMM owns and 
operates two combined heat and power (CHP) generation facilities providing more 
than seven megawatts of baseload, reliable, ultra-high-efficiency energy to mission-
critical applications. Since CHP is highly efficient, it reduces traditional air  
pollutants and carbon dioxide (CO 2), the leading greenhouse gas associated with  
climate change. Our newest cogeneration facility alone saves 3,086 tons per year in 
CO 2 emissions, equivalent to removing the annual emissions of 526 cars. This facility 
also significantly reduces environmental pollutants by saving a total of 36 tons per 
year of nitrogen oxide (NO x) and sulfer dioxide (SO 2) emissions, representing a 91%  
annual reduction.  
QUALCOMM facilities procurement staff assesses sustainability, energy efficiency 
and alternate solutions in determining total cost of ownership and awarding facilities 
business. Additionally, QUALCOMM consciously aligns itself with responsibly  
engaged entities to support legislation and regulation, industry standards and  
prudent business practices that contribute to greater energy efficiencies, greenhouse 
gas emissions reductions and sustainable business practices.
Water Conservation   
QUALCOMM is committed to water conservation. The Company utilizes reclaimed 
water for irrigation and drought-resistant native plants in landscaping. Buildings 
are outfitted with water-saving faucets and showerheads. Preparing for the future, 
QUALCOMM has plumbed for reclaimed water use in our newest central plant  
and 12-story office building. Also, by actively managing our cooling tower cycles 
and water treatment program, QUALCOMM saves a total 59,075,525 gallons of 
water annually.QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Environmental ImpactRecyclingCommuter Resources   
QUALCOMM’s commuter resources include transit subsidies, a hybrid vehicle fleet, 
electric vehicle charging stations, shuttle services, bike lockers, motorcycle parking  
and many on-site amenities. QUALCOMM was the first company outside of down -
town San Diego to implement the Flexcar car-sharing service. 
In 2006: 
 >  239 QUALCOMM employees received subsidies through the Company’s  
  Mass T ransit Subsidy program.  
 >  151 employees signed-up for the Flexcar program.
 >  QUALCOMM was named #5 on the U.S. Environmental Protection   
  Agency’s “The Best Workplace For Commuters.”
Recycling   
QUALCOMM strives to reduce the amount of waste we produce in all of our  
operations. We continually look for opportunities to increase material re-use  
and recycling.  
 >  Over the last four years QUALCOMM headquarter offices recycled 4.15  
  million pounds of materials.  
 >  In 2005, QUALCOMM conducted a recycling awareness campaign resulting  
  in a 55% increase in aluminum and plastic recycling.
 >  In 2006, QUALCOMM recycled more than 93,000 pounds in computer  
  equipment.
 >  In 2006, QUALCOMM began tracking quantities of recycled construction  
  materials. More than 16 million pounds of materials from our construction   
  projects were recycled in 2006, representing over 77% of generated waste   
  being diverted from landfills.
The graph below represents tons of recycled office and manufacturing materials  
including metals, cardboard, paper, plastics, electronics and furniture.
600
500
400
300
200
100
02003      2004            2005                   2006 
                TonsQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportSustainable Chip Design   
QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies’ (QCT) Environmental Management  
System is dedicated to developing environmentally friendly chip designs. Since  
1999, QUALCOMM has been committed to minimizing adverse environmental 
impacts that may be caused by QUALCOMM’s chip-related products. 
Lead Elimination Program   
The Lead Elimination Program targets eliminating lead usage in the manufacture of  
QUALCOMM’s integrated circuit (IC) packaging. The Lead Elimination Program 
has shown remarkable progress and success. By 2003, when the European Union  
announced the Restriction on Hazardous Substance Directive (RoHS), which  
targets lead and five other hazardous substance uses in electronics, 75% of QCT’s 
product portfolio was already “lead free.” By December 2004, over 85% of the  
entire product portfolio became lead free. T oday, QCT’s entire Value, Multimedia, 
Enhanced Multimedia and Convergence chipset platform portfolios are 100% EU 
RoHS compliant.
Bromine Reduction Program   
Launched in 1999, the Bromine Reduction Program replaces brominated flame  
retardant uses in the IC package encapsulant material with an alternate material.  
By 2004, all packages were produced with bromine-free mold compounds.  
Additionally, all radio frequency (RF) products are now bromine-free packages, and 
the bromine used in Mobile Station ModemTM (MSMTM) products has been reduced 
by 70%. 
Controlled Substance Elimination Program   
Launched in 2003, the Controlled Substance Elimination Program identified 14 
hazardous substances that were not allowed to be intentionally added to the IC 
packages and plastic IC carrier systems. Through collaboration with our suppliers,  
we now provide products free of these hazardous substances.
What’s Next
 >  Develop a comprehensive system to measure the environmental impact of  
  the Company’s global offices.
 > Ensure that the Company’s U.S. new-building construction continues to   
  adopt the most environmentally friendly solutions to energy consumption   
  and greenhouse gas emissions.
23QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportAwards and Honors
Best of 2006 Southern California Green Building Award
Presented by: The McGraw-Hill Companies
2006 - Director’s Recycling Award
Presented by: City of San Diego Environmental Services Department
2006 - #5 of Best Workplace for Commuters
Presented by: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
2002 - 2006 - Climate Action Leader
Presented by: California Climate Action Registry
2006 - Flex Your Power Award
Presented by : Flex Your Power Organization
2005 - Director’s Recycling Award
Presented by: City of San Diego Environmental Services Department
SANDAG 2004 Diamond Award Recipient
Presented by: San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG)
2004 - Recycler of the Year
Presented by: City of San Diego, Environmental Services Department
2003 - Directors Award, Waste Reduction and Recycling Award
Presented by: City of San Diego, Environmental Services Department
2002 - Outstanding Contributor Award for Safer Communities
Presented by: Pacific Safety Council
2001 - Excellence Award For Energy Management
Presented by: San Diego Business Journal
2000 - Improving San Diego’s Environment
Presented by: City of San Diego, Environmental Services Department
1999 - Climate Wise Energy Star Partner of the Year
Presented by: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
1997 - Waste Reduction and Recycling Award
Presented by: City of San Diego, Environmental Services Department
1996 - Waste Reduction and Recycling Award
Presented by: City of San Diego, Environmental Services Department
Environmental ImpactQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Community
“ At QUALCOMM we realize we have a  
significant role to play as a partner in  
the communities we call home. We strive  
to connect with our nonprofit neighbors  
in productive and meaningful ways.  
After all, QUALCOMM’s business is based  
on connectivity. We also believe that  
community organizations are important  
avenues for our employees to develop  
as professionals and as people.”  
 – Steven R. Altman, PresidentQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportCommunity Impact  
At QUALCOMM, we’re not only committed to being good corporate citizens, but 
also good neighbors in the communities we call home. We contribute collectively as  
a corporation; we participate in ways that touch people’s lives on a personal level.
QUALCOMM strives to build strong relationships with our community partners.  
We look for ways in which we can make measurable change, and bring our breadth  
of resources – human, financial and technical – to the service of these projects.
Giving  
QUALCOMM focuses the majority of our philanthropy in three distinct areas:  
education, arts and culture, and health and human services. QUALCOMM strives  
to donate 1% of the Company’s pre-tax profits.
QUALCOMM1.01%
National Average*.85%1.00%
.95%
.90%
.85%
.80%
.75%
– Response to Hurricane Katrina
QUALCOMM quickly brought our wireless technology and expertise to the service of 
Hurricane Katrina rescue and relief efforts. To enable communications and assist relief 
operations, we delivered a deployable base station, commercial phones provisioned 
to work on the base station, OmniTRACS® units, and Globalstar ™ phones. QUALCOMM 
employees physically hauled base station equipment into the upper floors of a flooded 
building that FEMA used as its headquarters for St. Bernard Parish in Louisiana.
QUALCOMM also made a $1 million contribution to the Bush-Clinton Katrina Relief 
Fund and matched over $150,000 in employee contributions to relief efforts.Giving as a Percent of Prior Year Pre-tax Profit – Five-Year Average
*The Conference Board, 2005 Corporate Contributions ReportQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportVolunteerism  
QUALCOMM Cares, the Company’s volunteerism program, promotes a wide range 
of volunteer activities for our employees. Employees serve seniors, provide meals to the 
hungry, protect our environment, rebuild fire-ravaged areas, educate children and care 
for abandoned animals.
 > In 2006, QUALCOMM employees volunteered more than 50,000 hours.
 > A council of 14 employees meets monthly to guide the Company’s  
  QUALCOMM Cares volunteerism program.
 > The QUALCOMM Cares 2006 Volunteer Fair hosted more than 50  
  nonprofit organizations and more than 2,500 employees and their  
  families attended.
 
Matching Grant Program 
QUALCOMM provides a dollar-for-dollar matching grant program for employee 
contributions to charitable causes. Most employees’ annual benefit is $1,000. The 
program’s broad parameters – matching grants to a wide variety of nonprofits –  
reflect the Company’s respect for employees’ diverse interests in community causes.
In 2006, 1,409 employees participated in the program and 2,721 matching grants 
were provided by QUALCOMM.
2006 Matching Grants by Category
Animal Welfare - 1%
Environment - 3%
Education - 3%
Arts & Culture - 10%
Civic - 12%
Higher Education - 20%
K-12 Education - 20%
Health & Human Services - 31%2006– San Diego Police Foundation
A $1 million dollar gift, the largest single donation ever received by the San  
Diego Police Foundation, allowed the Police Department to put state-of-the-art 
handheld communication devices and geographic-based location capabilities  
to work for their officers and dispatchers. The upgraded equipment enhances  
police patrol communications and improves dispatch and response times.
27QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportWhat’s Next  
 > Develop a volunteer network to engage our engineering population in the   
  Company’s math and science education initiatives.
 > Expand corporate grantmaking to increase the Company’s impact within  
  our communities outside the U.S.
 
Awards  
 > Association of Fundraising Professionals “San Diego’s Outstanding  
  Philanthropic Corporation”
 > Business Ethics  magazine’s “100 Best Corporate Citizens”
 > Corporate Citizen Group’s “National Corporate Citizen Award”
 > Leadership Conference on Civil Rights Education
 > National South Asian Bar Association “Corporate Citizen of the Year”
 > San Diego Magazine’s  “Philanthropic Business of the Year”
 > United Nations Associations “San Diego’s Global Corporate Citizen Award”
– National Engineers Week
QUALCOMM sponsored community meetings and partnered with local organizations, 
businesses and schools to demonstrate to parents, teachers, counselors and students 
why engineering is an exciting and important profession. Our employees volunteered  
at schools and after-school programs to talk to K-12 students about engineering.  
In addition, the Company donated more than $1 million dollars to establish the  
QUALCOMM Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Scholarship Fund.
– Spreading Holiday Cheer
Last year, our annual Head Start for the Holidays program provided more than 4,000  
children with holiday gifts from employees; 2,000 families received gift cards; and  
employees volunteered as Santa and Santa’s helpers when delivering the gifts to 
more than 24 Head Start preschool centers.
Community ImpactQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
29
“Wireless technology is a powerful 
tool that not only empowers individuals  
but also transforms developing regions.  
We believe it’s important to actively  
promote social uses of our technology 
throughout the world, enabling much-  
needed connectivity and economic  
and social benefits.”  
– Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, Chief Executive Officer QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Wireless Reach™QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
31QUALCOMM believes access to advanced wireless voice 
and data services improves people’s lives. QUALCOMM’s 
Wireless Reach initiative supports programs and solutions 
that bring the benefits of connectivity to developing 
communities globally. Wireless Reach is an important 
way of enabling our Company to link its commitment to 
social responsibility with its obligation to its shareholders. We view Wireless Reach 
as a strategic program that supports the Company’s long-term strategic goals. 
India:  Connecting Village Knowledge Centers  
Though wireless teledensity in India has grown exponentially since 2000, there is 
still a huge disparity between urban and rural connectivity. To overcome this, the 
government of India and several state governments, civil society organizations, 
industry partners and donor agencies have created an initiative, named Mission 
2007, to facilitate and accelerate through multi-stakeholder collaborations, the 
provision of Village Knowledge Centers in each of India’s 600,000 villages. These 
centers provide a central meeting point for knowledge-based livelihoods and 
income-generating opportunities for farming communities and underserved people.
In support of India’s Mission 2007 initiative, QUALCOMM has formed an alliance 
with the NASSCOM Foundation and Tata Teleservices to provide CDMA2000 
wireless connectivity solutions to 65 Village Resource Centers in India. Under the 
scope of this alliance, NASSCOM Foundation and QUALCOMM will provide 
connectivity and online content to Village Knowledge Centers in the states of West 
Bengal, Orissa, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Goa, Gujarat 
and Kerala.
The NASSCOM Foundation represents the software industry’s commitment to 
leveraging IT for empowering the underserved. QUALCOMM, as NASSCOM 
Foundation’s technology supporter, will provide Internet connectivity with 
CDMA2000 fixed wireless terminals to the centers. CDMA2000 enables both voice 
and data and is best suited to provide comprehensive connectivity to rural India. 
Furthermore, it will enable inclusive growth and development for the benefit of 
these underserved citizens.
Peru: Connecting a Rural Clinic  
A small healthcare clinic, located in a rural village named Coya a few hours from 
Machu Picchu, serves the indigenous population of the “Sacred Valley” of the 
Incas. Through our partner, FACES Foundation, teams of doctors fly in from the 
United States to volunteer their time and serve residents who would otherwise have 
no access to healthcare. It is not uncommon for as many as 500 patients to receive 
medical attention each week. To date, 12,000 residents have received medical care. 
Prior to QUALCOMM’s involvement, the clinic had no connectivity of any kind.QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportAlthough fixed-line communications had been attempted, the harsh mountainous 
terrain made wireline connectivity extremely unreliable. QUALCOMM provided 
the clinic with CDMA wireless voice and data equipment including laptops, 
CDMA camera/video phones, data cards and related services allowing external 
communications for the first time.
Now, the clinic and visiting physicians can communicate with colleagues and medical 
specialists from all over the world in real time.
 
China: Enabling Rural Innovation & Entrepreneurship  
There is a significant difference between the eastern coastal cities and the western 
countryside of China in terms of wealth and wireless connectivity. While the 
country’s overall mobile phone penetration is about 35 percent, it is as high as 90 
percent in some urban areas. Wireless Reach in China aims to harness advanced 
wireless technology to positively contribute to the long-term development and 
sustainability of underserved communities in three of China’s western provinces: 
Shaanxi, Guizhou and Ningxia. 
In collaboration with China Unicom and the international non-governmental 
organization, PlaNet Finance, QUALCOMM donated 1,000 wireless handsets  
pre-charged with a two-year service voucher and gave them to PlaNet Finance’s 
network of microfinance workers and loan recipients. The initiative improves 
successful PlaNet Finance programs by providing the benefits of mobile 
communications to new entrepreneurs.
The handset recipients are microfinance loan officers or borrowers who have 
successful track records and regularly participate in PlaNet Finance’s training 
programs. China Unicom’s service voucher includes a weekly short message service, 
which enables PlaNet Finance to provide key price and loan information to its 
microfinance partners and recipients. The CDMA2000 handset donation helps  
drive the recipients’ access to markets, prevents wasted journeys and makes it easier 
to receive microfinance loans.
Through the Wireless Reach program, QUALCOMM and China Unicom support 
China’s overall development goals, including the country’s mission to increase the use  
of science and technology, a goal articulated by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao at the 
National People’s Congress in March 2006.
Wireless ReachQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
33Indonesia: Connecting Way Kanan and Pacitan  
The Lampung province on the island of Sumatra in Indonesia has rural areas with 
minimal telecommunications infrastructure. Here, isolated villages, some reachable 
only after a drive of no less than six hours over bumpy dirt roads, now have 
secondary schools where students can surf the Internet.
QUALCOMM, wireless operator Sampoerna T elekomunikasi Indonesia, IndoNet, 
Axesstel Inc., the Indonesian Ministry of Information and Communication T echnology,  
and the State Ministry for the Accelerated Development of Disadvantaged Regions are 
partnering to increase teledensity and Internet penetration.
The cornerstone of the program is the establishment of computer laboratories with 
Internet access in five high schools in Way Kanan: Buay Bahuga, Negeri Besar, 
Negara Batin, Rebang Tangkas and Pakuan Ratu. In addition, cellular kiosks or 
“warsels” are being established in 59 villages and in the five high schools to provide 
increased access to telecommunications.
Similarly, a community access point (CAP) has been established in Pacitan, East 
Java to serve as an Internet data center for local townspeople. This CAP in Pacitan 
consists of a computer laboratory equipped with an EV-DO modem operating at 
450 MHz (CDMA450) to provide high-speed Internet access to the public. More 
than 2,000 students and teachers in the Pondok T remas district will be able to access 
information worldwide via the Internet for use in education, research and training.
Vietnam: Access to Information Technology  
QUALCOMM has partnered with the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID), Electricity Vietnam Telecom, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft 
and the Center for Research and Consulting on Management on the T raining 
Online Program in Information Technologies for Communities (TOPIC64).
TOPIC64 aims to empower underserved communities in each of Vietnam’s 64 
provinces by establishing Community Technology and Learning Centers (CTLCs) 
with computers, software and Internet connectivity via 3G. The project seeks to 
educate the public in basic IT skills, management and marketing skills by providing 
technical expertise via teacher training and technical support at each of the CTLCs. 
TOPIC64 will reach a wide spectrum of Vietnam’s people, bringing wireless 
voice and data access to introduce new services and opportunities and stimulate 
economic growth.QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
Wireless ReachMexico: USAID - Training, Internships, Exchanges and Scholarships  
According to the World Bank, in 74 percent of the municipalities in Mexico, 
bank branches do not exist. Furthermore, 85 percent of adults in urban areas have 
never engaged in business with a formal financial institution. Even those that do 
have access to financial institutions often have to travel long distances to reach 
them, raising transaction costs when they communicate and receive funds from 
their families abroad. The University of California at San Diego, the Centro de 
Investigación y Docencia Económicas, the Centro de Investigación Científica 
y de Educación Superior de Ensenada and QUALCOMM sought to overcome 
this constraint. A team of students and professors from the above institutions are 
researching use of advanced wireless connectivity to provide more efficient financial 
transactions. The project will then be implemented in a Oaxaca, Mexico town in 
coordination with the large San Diego-Oaxacan community.
What’s Next  
 > Build stronger partnerships with non-governmental organizations,  
  government agencies, corporations, and local communities to identify  
  and implement projects with high social returns.
 > Take on more projects globally, bringing the advantages of connectivity  
  to more communities worldwide.QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
35
Corporate InformationQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportQUALCOMM Incorporated is a pioneer of CDMA (code division multiple access) 
digital wireless technology and one of the leading enablers of 3G wireless, as well as 
other advanced wireless products and services. QUALCOMM leads the industry in 
the development of CDMA2000® 1X, 1xEV-DO, WCDMA (UMTS) and HSDPA/
HSUPA chipsets and solutions, and has licensed its essential CDMA patent portfolio 
to more than 140 telecommunications equipment manufacturers worldwide. 
QUALCOMM’s solutions and technologies ultimately enable and benefit consumers, 
the enterprise, network operators, OEM manufacturers and developers.
Financial Performance 
2006 was another year of growth in our global markets and in our  
financial performance.
 
For QUALCOMM, 2006 was a year of records and achievements of new milestones. 
Once again, we posted record financial results, further increasing revenues, earnings 
and operating cash flow. We delivered new products, opened new markets and led the 
industry with innovations designed to cost-effectively deliver the promises of next-
generation wireless.
Footnotes
(1) During fiscal 2004, the company sold its consolidated subsidiaries, the Vesper Operating Companies and TowerCo, 
and returned personal mobile service (SMP) licenses to Anatel, the telecommunications regulatory agency in Brazil. The 
results of operations including gains and losses realized on the sales transactions and the SMP licenses, are presented as 
discontinued operations. As such, Revenue, Gross Margin and Free Cash Flow results presented do not include the results 
from these discontinued operations.
(2) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company adopted a new method of recording royalties, based solely on reports 
received from licenses for royalty bearing sales of equipment in the prior quarter. Under the prior method of recording 
royalties, the Company recorded an estimate of earned royalties for certain licensees in the quarter preceding its receipt of 
licensee reports. This change was made on a prospective basis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and as a result, GAAP 
results for fiscal 2004 reflect only partial economic performance of the Company’s licensing business as royalty revenue 
that would have been recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 was recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2005.Revenue and Gross Margin 1, 2
$ in Billions
Revenue                          Gross Margin$2.68$2.92$3.85$4.88$5.67
61%67%$7.53
FY01      FY02            FY03                 FY04  FY05        FY06    67%70%71%71%QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
37Operator Choices Help Fuel Market Competition  
QUALCOMM’s strong investment in R&D has led to more than 4,800 U.S. patents 
and patent applications for CDMA and other technologies. The Company’s broad 
licensing strategy has been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to create new 
competition while driving down average selling prices for handsets and wireless devices.
The world’s leading wireless operators, device manufacturers and content providers 
are partnering with QUALCOMM to revolutionize the mobile marketplace. With 
significant investments in research and development, we’re creating the wireless 
technologies that power the mobile experience that consumers want now. And to 
ensure our partners’ success in the wireless broadband evolution, we’re innovating 
the wireless device, service and network landscape with solutions that converge 
communication, computing and consumer electronics platforms into a seamless  
mobile broadband experience.
Awards
 > Institutional Investor’s “America’s Most Shareholder-Friendly Companies: 2006” 
 > Fabless Semiconductor Association’s “Best Financially Managed Company”   
 > Forbes “400 Best Big Companies in America”  
 > BusinessWeek’s “Global 1000”
 > BusinessWeek’s “IT 100/200”
 > CIO’s “Top 100 Award”
 > Financial Times “List of Most Valuable Global Companies”
 > Forbes 500 Company
 > FORTUNE 500 ® Company
 > FORTUNE’s “ America’s Most Admired Companies”
 > Financial Times  “Top 10 IT Companies”
 > Information Week’s “Top 500 Technology Companies”
 > NASDAQ 100™ Company
 > S&P 500 IndexQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report QUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility ReportQUALCOMM
2006pg. Social Responsibility Report
38Copyright © 2007 QUALCOMM Incorporated. All rights reserved. QUALCOMM, BREW and OmniTRACS are registered trademarks of QUALCOMM Incorporated. 
Wireless Reach is a trademark of QUALCOMM Incorporated. CDMA2000 is a registered certification mark of the Telecommunications Industry Association. Used 
under license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. QUALCOMM asserts that all statistics are current through August 1, 2007 . CCL1094
www.qualcomm.com