2018  
Sustainability  
Report2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
12 Message from Our CEO
4 About Qualcomm
6 Our Sustainability Priorities
8 Supporting Our 2030 Sustainability Vision
9 Key Accomplishments
 T ransformative Technology
 STEM Education
 Inclusion and Diversity
 Sustainable Product Design
 Privacy and Security
 Ethical Governance
31 Performance Summary
39 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
48 Appendix
Our Support of the United Nations  
Sustainable Development Goals
About this ReportT able of  
ContentsMessage  
from Our CEO
Over the more than 30 years since our founding, 2018 proved 
to be an unprecedented year in the history of Qualcomm. We 
successfully navigated through many challenges yet remained 
focused on execution and driving sustainable value. What's more, 
we accelerated our leadership on 5G, which will bring a new era of 
innovation like nothing that's come before. I believe this ability to 
remain intensely focused on the future is what not only allows 
us to persevere but continue to pioneer a new age of invention. 
In a time when our breakthrough technologies are the 
foundation for life-changing products, experiences and 
industries, we believe we have a significant opportunity 
to positively change the world. But how we do this is 
what truly defines us. Qualcomm has a long-standing 
reputation for conducting business with unquestioned 
integrity, being a great place to work, developing 
solutions for a sustainable world and much more. 
And in 2018, we remained steadfast on our path to 
achieving our 2030 sustainability vision   
in a number of ways. 
Steve Mollenkopf  
Chief Executive Officer
Qualcomm Incorporated 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
22018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
3
Message from  
Our CEO
We updated our Code of Business Conduct — The Qualcomm 
Way — to address today’s ethical issues and introduced a 
refreshed set of company values that reinforce the behaviors 
and culture that build integrity into everything we do: by collaborating with over 30 institutions across the 
United States and abroad, serving over 47,000 students 
since its founding in 2014. Through our ongoing strategic 
collaboration with FIRST® (For Inspiration and Recognition 
of Science and T echnology), we continued to provide 
hands-on experience with our technology to over 180,000 
students from more than 25 countries. 
Through our Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™ initiative, 
we continued to broaden the impact of transformative 
technology in underserved communities throughout the 
world. In 2018 alone, programs to foster entrepreneurship, 
improve access to education and health care, aid in public 
safety and promote sustainable development helped 
enrich the lives of over 3 million people. 
As we expand our operations and develop new  
products and technologies, we remain committed to 
minimizing our environmental impacts and meeting our  
2025 greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goal. T o date, we 
have reduced our absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions by over 15 percent. 
As our innovative technologies transform the places where 
we live and work, sustainability is a key component of 
how we think about the future. It’s important that our 
sustainability strategy not only reflects the world around 
us, but also prepares us for the world ahead. We remain 
committed to inventing breakthrough technologies that 
transform how the world connects, computes and 
communicates, enabling innovation that benefits many 
industries and billions of people. These four pillars further define the guiding principles that 
will help us foster a working environment that promotes 
creativity, invention, inclusion and respect among employees 
and stakeholders.  
The successes of 2018 could not have been possible without 
the hard work and dedication of our employees. As such, we 
continued to prioritize inclusion throughout the Company.  
As this report highlights, we introduced a new mandatory 
diversity and inclusion training for senior management and 
improved the transparency and employee ownership of our 
annual review process. I am especially proud of the great  
work that our 20+ employee networks do to foster an inclusive 
culture and celebrate diversity across the globe.
And, we continued to focus on cultivating tomorrow’s 
workforce through our strategic science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) education programs. The 
Qualcomm® Thinkabit Lab™ expanded its impact in 2018 Purposeful Innovation
Passionate Execution
Collaborative Community
Unquestioned Integrity
Steve Mollenkopf  
Chief Executive Officer
Qualcomm Incorporated
About Qualcomm
We invent breakthrough technologies that transform how the world connects, computes and 
communicates. Our inventions have powered the smartphone revolution and connected billions of people across the world. We pioneered 3G and 4G technologies — and now, we have led the way to 5G. We have unlocked a fifth generation of connectivity that will be known as the one  of accelerating progress and a new era of intelligent, connected devices.   
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
4
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
5
About Qualcomm
Our products enable customers, transform industries and  
enrich lives. Our inventions help enable our customers and 
partners to compete, innovate and grow globally. We make 
industry-changing investments that customers harvest for 
their own innovation capacity. When we break through, 
the ecosystem leaps forward and the world benefits by 
the competitive options that emerge. Our products are 
revolutionizing industries, including automotive, computing 
and Io T, allowing connections between millions of devices in 
ways never imagined. Our inventions help create a renewed 
livelihood for many, and ultimately allow us the  
honor of enriching lives. 
References in this report to “Qualcomm” may mean  
Qualcomm Incorporated, Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc.  
and/or other subsidiaries or business units within the  
Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable. 
Our QCT supply chain
Qualcomm CDMA T echnologies (QCT) primarily utilizes a 
fabless production model. This means that we do not own 
or operate foundries to produce silicon wafers from which 
our chipsets are made. We rely on independent third-party 
suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and 
most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. These are die 
cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package 
assembly and test manufacturing processes. Our suppliers 
are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw 
materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. 
Most of our foundry, semiconductor assembly and test 
suppliers are in the Asia-Pacific region. 
$50b + invested in R&D and over 130,000+ 
patents and patent applications since 1985. $17.3b
QCT  Qualcomm CDMA T echnologies
QCT is a leading developer and supplier of chipsets 
(integrated circuits) and system software for use in 
mobile devices and in wireless networks. 
$5.2b
QTL Qualcomm T echnology Licensing
QTL grants licenses and provides rights to use 
portions of our intellectual property portfolio.
$187m
OTHER   Businesses
Other businesses include our small cell and other 
wireless technology and service initiatives. 
$100m
QSI  Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives
QSI makes key investments that are focused on 
opening new or expanding opportunities for our 
technology while also supporting the design and 
introduction of new products and services for voice 
and data communications. Revenue in 20181
1 The following is certain 
information that was originally 
filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) 
on November 7, 2018 as 
part of our Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for our fiscal year 
ended September 30, 2018. 
We have not undertaken any 
updates or revision to such 
information since the date 
it was originally filed with 
the SEC. Accordingly, you 
are encouraged to review 
such financial information 
together with any subsequent 
information we have filed with 
the SEC and other publicly 
available information.2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
6 Our Sustainability Priorities
 Focusing Our Resources, Programs and Reporting
We work with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit business network and 
consultancy dedicated to sustainability, to conduct materiality assessments. These exercises, which  we have conducted with BSR since 2013, include both research and interviews with key leaders from across the Company. The findings help us prioritize the sustainability issues that are most important  to our business and our key stakeholders. By identifying our top sustainability priorities, we can then  focus our resources, programs and reporting on these core topics.
We regularly reevaluate our sustainability priorities to ensure we stay focused on topics that are vital  
to our stakeholders and to our business continuity and success. In 2018, we worked with BSR to conduct our third materiality analysis. The results will be integrated in our 2019 QSR report.
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
7
Our Sustainability  
Priorities
Transformative 
T echnology
Protecting people and the planet. We’re focused on creating 
products in ways that don’t harm individuals, communities or the 
environment and sustainably procuring materials and minerals.
Promoting data protection across the mobile ecosystem. In our 
Company, in our products and in the mobile industry, we’re working  
to process personal data responsibly and to make data more secure.Cultivating tomorrow’s workforce. We’re working to promote 
and improve science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) education at all levels and to expand opportunities for 
underrepresented students.
Creating a Company that reflects the world. We celebrate diversity 
among our employees and recognize that our varied backgrounds, 
experiences and ideas are critical to our success.
Doing business “The Qualcomm Way. ”   We’re committed to 
doing business with the highest level of integrity, respecting our 
customers, business partners and each other.Solutions for a sustainable world. Our innovations are helping 
empower people and enhance the quality of life around the globe.
Sustainable  
Product Design
Privacy  
and SecuritySTEM  
Education
Inclusion  
and Diversity
Ethical 
Governance2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
8
Q&A with Our Corporate 
Responsibility Director
What is your role at Qualcomm?
I am looking at how our technology and programs help  
us create a more sustainable world, connected wirelessly.  
In 2018, we combined Qualcomm's wide-ranging social  
impact programs and the sustainability function into a  
unified Corporate Responsibility (CR) organization, which  
will streamline and strengthen our mission going forward.  
As Director, I think about how our strategic programs like 
Wireless Reach, Thinkabit Lab and Corporate Giving  
align with our business strategy. Additionally, I am responsible  
for the sustainability team that leads our work around  
reporting, materiality assessments and supports other  
divisions at Qualcomm that have responsibilities related  
to our corporate responsibility priorities. 
Qualcomm has a 2030 Sustainability Vision.  
Could you tell us more about this vision and what 
Qualcomm is doing to achieve it?
For Qualcomm, sustainability is a strategy that drives  
long-term growth and profitability by including environmental, 
social and governance issues in our business decisions as 
they relate to our key spheres of influence: our workplace, our 
supply chain, local communities, our industry and the public 
policy realm. Our 2030 Sustainability Vision is our roadmap to 
inform strategic thinking on sustainability issues that are most 
important to our Company and helps us identify where we 
can collaborate with key stakeholders to create sustainability 
solutions. This vision helps us identify what success looks like  
for each of our six sustainability priorities. 
One of Qualcomm’s sustainability priorities is 
Transformative T echnology. What does this mean to you?
At Qualcomm, we invent the tech the world loves, and  
our inventions are enriching communities across the globe.  T o us, “transformative technology” means using our 
inventions for good and to drive human and economic 
progress. Wireless Reach is our strategic initiative 
that brings Qualcomm® technology  to underserved 
communities globally. T ogether with our partners, 
Wireless Reach has impacted over 15 million people since 
its creation in 2006. Programs like these continue to 
demonstrate the positive correlation between access to 
technology and improved social and economic outcomes. 
Similarly, STEM education is another sustainability 
priority area for Qualcomm. What is the motivation 
behind the focus on STEM-related initiatives? 
Our STEM efforts are designed to increase the talent 
pipeline within STEM-related careers and nurture the 
next generation of inventors. As a technology leader, and 
a company of inventors, we are big believers in STEM 
education; it is part of who we are. That’s why we invest 
in programs that impact students from kindergarten 
through college and beyond. Through programs like our 
homegrown Thinkabit Lab and our support of FIRST, 
we are committed to nurturing STEM, giving today’s 
students the foundation they need to invent the future.
Where do you see sustainability heading in the 
next couple of years? And in this light, what will be 
Qualcomm’s sustainability focus in the near term? 
Across the Company, we're excited for 5G, which 
will have a significantly greater impact on industries, 
communities and everyday lives than previous 
generations of cellular technology. Our vision is for 
everything and everyone to communicate and interact 
seamlessly. Within CR, we will continue to work towards 
meeting our 2030 Sustainability Vision; responsible 
supply chain management, privacy and security; and 
diversity and inclusion will remain important priorities. 
Our efforts in STEM education, centered around 
inspiring and engaging the next generation, will remain 
a key area of focus. We will also continue to work to 
leverage breakthrough Qualcomm® technologies for  
the economic and social development of communities 
across the globe.
Supporting Our 2030 
Sustainability Vision Through 
Streamlined Programs
Q&A with Angela Baker, Director of Corporate Responsibility
Qualcomm Incorporated 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
9
Key Accomplishments
What follows is a summary of our progress made on our sustainability priorities and key 
accomplishments towards achieving our 2030 sustainability vision and 2020 sustainability 
goals during fiscal 2018. We also highlight how our various programs and activities help support 
the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
10
Transformative 
T echnology
Solutions for a sustainable worldWireless Reach is a strategic corporate responsibility initiative 
that brings advanced wireless technology to where it is most 
needed. The goal of Wireless Reach is to create sustainable 
programs that use our technology as a transformative tool to 
foster entrepreneurship, aid in public safety, enhance the delivery 
of health care, enrich teaching and learning and improve the 
state of our environment. Our programs demonstrate that 
our technology can break down geographic, socioeconomic, 
educational and cultural barriers that obstruct progress in 
emerging regions. 
Through Wireless Reach, we show new and innovative ways  
to use mobile technology to help achieve a number of the  
UN SDGs and the social and economic priorities of 
governments worldwide. Since 2006, our Wireless Reach 
portfolio has grown to include 119 collaborative programs in  
47 countries, positively impacting over 15 million people. UN Sustainable Development Goals Addressed
Key Accomplishments:  
T ransformative Technology 
With 119 programs in 47 countries, 
Wireless Reach has collaborated with 
more than 650 organizations to improve 
the livelihoods of many and ultimately, 
enriched lives across the globe.
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
11
China: Wireless Heart Health
In China, despite drastic improvements in public health 
over the last 30 years and government action to prevent 
and manage cardiovascular disease (CVD), CVD-related 
morbidity and mortality has risen quickly and is the leading 
cause of death. Early detection, consistent monitoring 
and treatment can decrease CVD-associated health risks 
but reaching patients, particularly those in rural areas, 
efficiently and effectively remains a major challenge.  
As a result, most people in rural areas lack access to 
affordable screenings and don’t know if they are at risk  
of, or have CVD.
Our Wireless Heart Health program uses 3G/4G enabled, 
purpose-built, electrocardiogram (ECG)-sensing smartphones 
to expand access to CVD screenings in rural, underserved communities across China. T o take a reading, a healthcare 
provider holds the device to a patient’s chest for 
approximately 30 seconds while the three built-in sensors 
collect the heart data and the ECG waveform is displayed 
on the screen in real time. Data is stored in the patient’s 
Electronic Health Record and sent immediately over the 
wireless network for analysis by a cardiac specialist at 
the Beijing Life Care Networks Call Center. The center is 
staffed 24/7 by more than 20 physicians. 
The specialists provide local doctors with diagnostic and 
treatment recommendations within minutes, reducing 
barriers to CVD screening and treatment, bringing expert 
care to patients rapidly and for a fraction of the cost of 
conventional ECG machines. Since 2014, this solution has 
enabled more than 2,600 community doctors to benefit 
nearly 500,000 patients across 23 provinces.
Key Accomplishments:  
T ransformative Technology 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
12
Senegal: Wireless Solutions  
for Fisheries
Fishing is critical for the livelihood and sustenance of  
many communities in Senegal. This industry employs  
17 percent of the country’s workforce and provides  
70 percent of the animal protein to the population.  
Ninety percent of the fish consumed in Senegal are caught by 
artisanal fishers who sell their catch to wholesale fish markets 
and small-scale fish processing businesses, the latter of which 
are predominantly women-owned. With limited access to data 
on ocean and weather conditions, market price information 
and affordable loans and financial services, the artisanal 
fishers are unable to determine the best times to fish, and both 
the fishermen and fish processors cannot ascertain optimal 
pricing for their products or access the economic support they 
need to grow their businesses.
The Wireless Solutions for Fisheries (WISE) program, a 
collaboration between Qualcomm Wireless Reach and FHI 
360, developed a mobile application (app) that allows fishers 
and fish processors to receive market data using mobile phones, thus enabling these entrepreneurs to negotiate 
the best prices for their products. The mobile app also 
provides daily weather information, ocean state forecasts, 
GPS and navigational resources to help fishers improve 
their safety and productivity at sea, as well as  
fish processing best practices and offshore safety tips in 
video format. The WISE program collaborates with local 
microlending institutions to provide artisanal fishers and  
fish processors with access to affordable loans for 
expanding their businesses. 
WISE has reached more than 4,000 Economic Interest 
Groups (EIGs) whose members include fish processors 
and fishers in the Dakar, M’Bour, Mballing and Joal 
regions of Senegal. After one year of using the mobile 
app, fishers and fish processors trained by WISE reported, 
on average, a 35 percent increase in income compared 
to the previous year. Additionally, the app and services 
provided by WISE have enabled the beneficiaries to 
increase their catch and fish processing volume. In early 
2019, the WISE program will expand to more sites in 
Dakar, M’Bour and Joal, reaching an additional 50 EIGs 
and serving approximately 1,000 new people. 
Key Accomplishments:  
T ransformative Technology 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
13
Vietnam: DevelopHer- 
Empowering Women in Asia 
Entrepreneurship is growing rapidly across Southeast Asia. 
In Vietnam, where women are one-third more likely than 
men to start a business, female entrepreneurs often face 
challenges in accessing the resources and support they need 
to develop, grow and sustain their businesses. Women’s limited 
participation in the labor force perpetuates gender inequality, 
poverty and unequal economic growth.
The DevelopHer program, developed by Qualcomm 
Wireless Reach and the Cherie Blair Foundation for 
Women, uses a mobile learning app to help women 
entrepreneurs overcome business challenges and take 
their enterprises to the next level. The HerVenture mobile 
app provides an inexpensive and flexible means for women who own micro and small businesses to access 
essential business training, tips and support to become 
successful business owners. Any woman entrepreneur 
in Vietnam can download HerVenture through the 
Google Play Store. T o date, more than 1,000 women 
entrepreneurs have downloaded the app. 
Through the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women’s  
Mentoring Women in Business Programme, the  
DevelopHer program also offers online mentoring support 
to 180 high-potential women entrepreneurs in Vietnam 
and across Southeast Asia. This program connects the 
participants with dedicated mentors around the world who 
provide one-on-one support to the women for one year. 
Through a bespoke online and mobile-enabled platform, the 
female entrepreneurs have access to business, leadership, 
mentoring and financial literacy trainings and resources. 
Key Accomplishments:  
T ransformative Technology 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
14
STEM Education 
Cultivating tomorrow's workforce
STEM Education supports the brainpower 
behind the inventions that we bring to life. Key Accomplishments:  
STEM Education
We work to develop a diverse and inclusive workforce 
of the future by fostering opportunities for students in 
STEM education. As a technology leader and a company 
of inventors, we take this responsibility seriously by 
investing in STEM programs and collaborating with key 
community stakeholders as we strive to enable everyone 
to have access to these opportunities and that they 
remain sustainable for future generations.
UN Sustainable Development Goals Addressed
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
15
Thinkabit Lab continues to 
spread across the world
Our Thinkabit Lab program is designed to inspire and 
engage students from all cultural and socioeconomic 
backgrounds. As part of this program, students are guided 
through our Qualcomm® World of Work  career exploration 
activities to discover their unique talents and learn about 
concepts and careers in STEM fields such as Io T, robotics 
and invention. Students also participate in hands-on 
engineering experiences. They learn basic programming 
and strengthen their problem-solving, collaboration and 
creativity skills by designing and building their own robotic 
inventions. T ogether, our unique Qualcomm World of Work 
and engineering activities help students understand where 
they might fit in the future workforce and expose them to 
many aspects of building advanced wireless technology. 
The original Thinkabit Lab operated at our San Diego 
headquarters from 2014 to 2018. During this time, we 
collaborated with 16 local school districts to serve more  
than 14,000 students and more than 2,500 teachers,  
parents and school administrators. This includes more  
than 2,900 students and more than 320 adults during  
the 2017-2018 academic year.
The Thinkabit Lab offered a free-of-charge, immersive 
summer camp program intended to introduce students 
to and solidify their interest in STEM. Every summer since 
2014, we have engaged with others to bring engaging 
invention-based projects to more than 500 middle school 
boys and girls. Our key collaborators include the Institute 
of International Education, Children and Youth Science 
Center of China, American Association of University 
Women, Thinkabit Lab sites and local San Diego Districts. 
Through collaborations, we’re expanding the impact of  
our Thinkabit Lab program to serve students and educators 
across the United States and beyond. For example, we 
collaborated with the University of Michigan College of Engineering to introduce Thinkabit Lab to the  
Michigan Engineering Zone, which is known for  
its makerspace and high school robotics program.  
More than 2,500 students from more than 26 schools 
across five Detroit school districts participated. Overall, 
during the 2017-2018 school year, we expanded our 
program to include 24 more Thinkabit Lab sites at 
schools, universities, libraries and other types of 
organizations. We also grew regionally during this 
period, expanding from San Diego to the DC metro 
area, Detroit and California’s rural Central Valley.  
In 2018, we expanded access to our Qualcomm  
World of Work career exploration activities to students 
and educators in Mexico and the United Kingdom (UK). 
In collaboration with the Institute of the Americas, our 
Thinkabit Lab instructional materials were translated  
into Spanish. In cooperation with our UK employees, 
these instructional materials were updated with UK  
labor data and used at various STEM events, such as 
Women in Engineering workshops which raise girls’ 
awareness about technology career pathways. Our UK 
employees also organized a STEM! 2018 event, which 
drew more than 250 students from eight participating 
schools. The students, ages 8-13, learned about making 
informed choices related to secondary education,  
post-secondary degrees and employment opportunities.
“The Thinkabit Lab 
provides us an 
opportunity to expose 
younger students to the 
world of technology, 
beginning to crystallize 
in their own minds what 
role they may play as 
technologists, scientists 
and engineers. ”
Julian Pate,  
Director of Michigan 
Engineering Zone 
Since its creation in 2014, the  
San Diego Thinkabit Lab collaborated 
with 16 local school districts to serve 
more than 14,000 students and more 
than 2,500 teachers, parents and 
school administrators.Key Accomplishments:  
STEM Education2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
16
Qcamp™ continues to generate 
interest in STEM among rural  
girls in China
Following the success of our first all-girls Qcamp program 
in San Diego, we collaborated with other organizations to 
expand Qcamp to serve students throughout the United 
States and China. 
China Qcamp, a collaboration with Children & Youth 
Science Center of China Association of Science and 
T echnology, aims to spark rural girls’ interest in science 
and technology. In 2018, 24 middle school girls and six 
science teachers — all from rural areas — took part in 
the third annual China Qcamp. During this week-long 
camp adventure, students dedicated approximately 
20 hours to learning scratch programming and built 
robotic crafts on an Arduino platform to help address 
the top socioeconomic challenges that cities face today. 
The students also participated in a guided tour of our 
Company’s headquarters in China. They learned about our 
business culture and visited a modem testing lab and device 
certification lab to help them explore the inner workings of a mobile phone. Since its inception, China Qcamp has 
directly impacted 125 girls and 19 science teachers from 
14 provinces throughout China.
Bridging the gender gap in 
STEM for women in India
In 2018, in association with United Way of Hyderabad  
and Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, we launched a 
flagship project called Qualcomm® Aqriti™. Our project aims 
to improve enrollment of girls in schools, improve academic 
performance in STEM subjects and reduce female student 
drop-out rates at secondary school levels. 
Aqriti focuses on providing STEM labs and learning 
tools to help students strengthen their understanding 
of concepts in science and math. The project facilitates 
technical mentorship and allied activities, such as special 
coaching and training in digital literacy, basic English 
and robotics. T o motivate students and enhance their 
interest, Aqriti provides scholarships and rewards for 
top-performing students pursuing higher education in 
STEM-related fields. 
In its first year, Aqriti has successfully impacted more 
than 25,000 children from more than 130 schools across 
Hyderabad and Bangalore. An estimated 40 percent of 
those students were females. More than 500 teachers 
have been trained through our project and have improved 
their teaching methods for science and math, benefitting 
approximately 12,000 additional students in Bangalore. In 
Hyderabad, our project has granted 41 female high school 
students scholarships for education in subjects such 
as math, biology, physics and chemistry. In Bangalore, 
84 high school students and 68 college students were 
awarded similar scholarships. 
Expansion plans for 2019 include working with 44 new schools 
in Hyderabad, 55 new schools in Karnataka and schools in 
new communities, including Mumbai and Chennai.  Key Accomplishments:  
STEM Education
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
17
Increasing access to STEM 
for students around the globe 
through FIRST
2018 marked the 12th anniversary of our strategic 
collaboration with FIRST, an international not-for-profit K-12 
organization founded to inspire young people’s interest and 
participation in science and technology while building their 
self-confidence, knowledge and life skills. Since its founding 
in 1989, FIRST has achieved significant global growth and 
impact through its programs. For example, FIRST alumni are 
now 2.6 times more likely than a matched comparison group 
of students to enroll in an engineering course during their 
freshman year of college, and 75 percent of FIRST alumni are 
engaged in a STEM field as a student or professional.
Our involvement as a FIRST Strategic Partner , has focused 
on supporting K-12 students in all four  FIRST programs, 
providing cutting-edge technology and expertise for FIRST  
T ech Challenge, while also helping to grow FIRST programs 
in global communities where access to STEM programs are 
either limited or do not exist. Through our support of FIRST, we 
are bringing innovation, collaboration and STEM education to 
students worldwide.
Through strategic investments and community outreach 
efforts, we’re increasing access to FIRST programs in eight 
countries including the United States, Canada, Mexico, 
China, Korea, Israel, Ireland and the UK. Our support for 
local student teams in these regions focuses on those in 
need from underserved communities and diverse teams. 
This year also marked the third year of our technology 
integration in the FIRST T ech Challenge control system, 
which has provided more than 180,000 students from over  
25 countries, hands-on experience with our Qualcomm® 
Snapdragon™ 2 mobile technology platform. 
Our employees also donated their time and expertise 
to help FIRST students and teams around the globe, 
providing more than 10,000 hours of volunteer time during 
"We believe that helping 
to support the world’s 
next generation 
of innovators and 
increasing access to 
education and careers 
in engineering and 
technology is core to 
building up the brilliant 
minds who will help 
invent the technology 
the world loves and 
needs. We are excited to 
work with organizations 
like FIRST and see 
the impact of their 
programs on youth 
worldwide, especially in 
diverse and underserved 
populations. "Brian Modoff, Executive 
Vice President of Strategy 
and M&A at Qualcomm 
IncorporatedIn 2018, our employees mentored  
85 percent more FIRST teams than  
the year before. This increase reflects 
more than 10,000 hours of volunteer 
time to students across the globe. 
Key Accomplishments:  
STEM Education
2018. This led to an 85 percent increase in  
the number of employees mentoring FIRST teams  
from the year before. 
We are excited to return as the FIRST Championship 
Presenting Sponsor in the 2019 season and continue 
to share our mutual goals of inspiring more students 
in STEM through mentor-based programs that spark 
interest, challenge students to solve big challenges and 
provide the skills necessary to pursue careers in STEM.
2 Qualcomm Snapdragon 
is a product of Qualcomm 
Technologies, Inc. and/or 
its subsidiaries. 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
18
Inclusion  
and Diversity
Creating a Company  
that reflects the world
UN Sustainable Development Goals AddressedKey Accomplishments:  
Inclusion and Diversity
Our commitment to inclusion and diversity remains one 
of our top sustainability priorities. We work to promote 
programs and improve internal policies and processes to 
demonstrate our steadfast commitment to building an 
inclusive and more diverse workforce. We foster inclusive 
practices across all of our departments worldwide to 
ensure that we remain a company that reflects the 
communities in which we do business. 
Over the years, we have integrated our inclusion and 
diversity objectives into a growing number of Company 
programs, and we have established strong relationships 
with various internal and external stakeholders to help 
embed these values throughout our industry. We are  
proud of our accomplishments to date and know that  
we still have a lot of work to do in order to achieve our 
goals in the coming years. 
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
19
Training on inclusion,  
diversity and leadership 
expectations
In 2018, our inclusion and diversity team led mandatory 
trainings for 1,339 senior directors and above across 
the Company, using content focused on the business 
imperative and values of diversity and inclusion. The 
objectives of each two-hour training were to highlight 
how the Company values its commitment to creating a 
diverse workforce and to shed light on different elements 
of diversity management and unconscious biases. These trainings were available in-person and via livestream 
and/or a saved recording, making them easily accessible 
and convenient for participants.
We have developed initiatives and opportunities to empower 
our senior-level managers to think critically about their 
understanding and vision for their employees’ development. 
These managers have a strong influence on their employees’ 
day-to-day experiences, ultimately impacting retention 
and attrition within the Company. Our core expectations 
have focused on ensuring that these managers have the right 
tools and trainings to facilitate and guarantee mentorship 
opportunities for their employees and to create a team culture 
that is inclusive and fair. 
Key Accomplishments:  
Inclusion and Diversity2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
20
Employee Networks bring 
inclusion to life
A sense of belonging and community is essential to building 
an inclusive Company culture that celebrates diversity. Our eight Employee Networks (ENs) are employee-led, enterprise-supported, promote professional growth and offer collaboration and encouragement among different employee groups. Our EN communities include: women; Africans and African Americans; Latin and Latin culture; military veterans; university graduates; millennials; lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT); and differently abled employees and those that are caregivers of individuals with special needs. At the end of 2018, we had more than 20 EN chapters worldwide. We’re working to continually and strategically expand these networks.  
2018 inclusion and  
diversity highlights
•The former Qualcomm Women in Science and Engineering(QWISE) and Qualcomm Females Influencing InformationT echnology (QFINITY) ENs merged to become Qwomen —one unified EN for all of our women employees. The missionof Qwomen is to inspire a diverse organization by providingopportunities to encourage leadership, mentorship andcareer development for all of our women employees,regardless of their job type.• Over 250 Qwomen members attended leadership and technical conferences in 2018 gaining access to industry trends, technical and leadership trainings and workshopsand inspirational speakers. The conferences included: Grace Hopper, the largest conference of women in technology; Watermark and T exas Women leadership conferences; Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Women in Engineering International Leadership Conference in New York and California; and the Women of Silicon Valley Conference.
• We participated in the Community of Practice meeting that had been organized within the framework of the Disability:IN "Inclusion Works" program. Disability:IN is theleading nonprofit resource for business disability inclusion worldwide. The meeting focused on recruiting, hiring and retaining employees with disabilities. Representatives from our AbilityQ EN joined other member companies to learn about best practices in hiring, accessibility and other important topics. The meeting and presentations were also live-streamed to employees.
• Members of our eQuality EN — together with our CEO Steve Mollenkopf, Chief Financial Officer George Davis, Executive Vice President of Human Resources Michelle Sterling and more than 400 employees, friends and family members — participated in the San Diego Pride Parade. Our strong showing demonstrated the Company’s firm support of efforts to celebrate differencesand highlighted the Company’s commitment to equal treatment for all.
•We expanded our approach and activities to bemore inclusive of all communities at Qualcomm. Weorganized events and programs celebrating BlackHistory Month, Lunar New Year, International Women’sDay, Hispanic Heritage Month, Disability EmployeeAwareness Month and International Men’s Day.
“Qualcomm remains 
a place where all 
individuals have the opportunity to achieve personal and professional goals. ”Vicky Mealer-Burke, VP  
& Chief Diversity Officer
20+ Employee Network Chapters 
across the Company. 
Key Accomplishments:  
Inclusion and Diversity2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
21
Adapting our policies  
and processes to better  
serve employees
In 2018, we worked on transforming some of our internal 
practices to adapt to the needs of our workforce and to 
promote transparency and consistency in our human 
resources processes. For example, employees worldwide 
have gained greater ownership of our annual review process 
and are now directly responsible for various aspects, such 
as soliciting 360 feedback from peers and colleagues 
or drafting goals for the next review cycle. We have also 
worked with an external expert to develop job leveling 
guides and detailed job descriptions that provide employees 
with guidance on the competencies and tasks required at 
each level of a job family as well as the responsibilities, scope 
and working conditions of each job. Our goal is to ensure full 
transparency of the expectations within each job category. 
 
We recognize that our employees have important priorities 
outside of the workplace and we work to accommodate 
them. We updated a policy to proactively ask all new hires 
if they have any accommodation requests, making the 
onboarding experience more comfortable. In the United 
States, we also updated and adapted our policies around 
flexible work arrangements and family time off to better 
serve employees’ needs.
Employees worldwide have gained 
greater ownership in the performance 
review process and are now responsible 
for various aspects, like soliciting 360 
feedback from colleagues or drafting 
goals for the next review cycle. Key Accomplishments:  
Inclusion and Diversity2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
22
Sustainable 
Product Design 
Protecting people and the planet
UN Sustainable Development Goals AddressedKey Accomplishments:  
Sustainable  
Product Design
We focus on creating products that positively influence 
and impact individuals and society. We’re achieving this 
by ensuring our direct operations integrate principles of 
sustainability and responsibility and by working closely  
with our supply chain. 
We want our products to be distinguished 
by their intelligence and by the care and 
attention we take in designing them.  
T o date, we have reduced our greenhouse 
gas emissions by 15.6 percent.
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
23
Continuing our efforts in 
sustainable supply chain 
management
We require all of our semiconductor manufacturing suppliers 
to adopt either the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) 
Code of Conduct or a similar code. By leveraging RBA tools, 
expertise and support to complement our supply chain 
management program, we can focus on conformance to 
high-level standards among all of our suppliers in relation to 
labor issues, health and safety, the environment, ethics and 
consolidated management systems.
One hundred percent of our suppliers  
that represent more than 90 percent  
of our total product-related spend 
complete the RBA Self-Assessment 
Questionnaire (SAQ) on an annual basis. 
More than 80 percent of these suppliers 
have completed Validated Audit Process 
(VAP) audits within the past two years.other member-initiated VAP audit reports for common 
suppliers and drove suppliers to close disqualifying 
priority findings. We published corporate responsibility 
data through our sustainability report and have been open 
and transparent about our progress.  
Our participation in RBA enables us to leverage tools 
and receive support to engage our supply chain on 
sustainability issues. It also gives us the opportunity to 
work with our industry peers to continuously improve 
our industry’s supply chains and to responsibly manage 
impacts on people and the planet.
Environmental sustainability
We are committed to minimizing our environmental 
impact across our business, products and supply 
chain. We address the sustainability of our products 
through our Environmental Management System and 
various hazardous-substance elimination programs. 
We’re also working to be a positive force in protecting 
the environment by continually looking for ways to 
conserve water, minimize energy consumption, lower 
emissions and reduce waste.
In 2018, we remained on track to meet our 2025 
greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goal to reduce 
absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from 
our global operations by 30 percent, compared to 
a 2014 baseline, by 2025. T o date, we have reduced 
our emissions by 15.6 percent due primarily to space 
consolidations and operational efficiencies worldwide. 
Approximately 4.7 percent of this reduction is attributed 
to the purchase of CY2017 I-RECs and Carbon Offsets, 
contributing to low-carbon, sustainable development in 
China and India. 
As we expand our operations internationally, we continue 
to look for new opportunities to reduce our global 
emissions. For example, in fiscal year 2018 we entered into 
a 10-year solar power purchase agreement in Bangalore, 
India for approximately 19.2 gigawatt hours annually. The RBA Code of Conduct, which serves as our  
Supplier Code of Conduct, and The Qualcomm Way: 
Code of Business Conduct, have been cornerstones of 
our commitment to RBA and responsible supply chain 
management for many years.
In 2018, we continued to make responsibility and 
sustainability part of our innovation process. Notably, we 
achieved Full Member status in the RBA. As a Full Member, 
we have deepened our commitment to the RBA Code 
of Conduct and continuous improvement of our supply 
chain sustainability. We completed a risk profile and audit 
plan for our supply chain, completed SAQs, accepted Key Accomplishments:  
Sustainable  
Product Design2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
24
Brazil: Drone T echnology 
Development Program  
for Precision Agriculture
Brazil is a global agricultural superpower. Family farms 
dominate the country’s agricultural landscape. They 
account for 85 percent of all rural properties and produce 
more than 70 percent of food consumed domestically. 
With the world’s population projected to reach 9 billion by 2050, 
agricultural demand globally is expected to grow by 70 percent. 
T o meet this demand, farms — including those in Brazil — need 
to become more productive and more sustainable. 
Brazilian farmers would greatly benefit from access to 
timely and accurate data about the health of their crops 
and fields. Having this information would allow them 
to take immediate actions to increase their crop yields 
while decreasing the environmental impact of their food 
production. Unfortunately, the family or smallholder farmers 
that dominate Brazil’s agricultural industry are largely 
without access to the advanced technology, human and 
financial resources and knowledge that can help them 
improve their agricultural intelligence.
The Drone T echnology Development Program for Precision 
Agriculture is a collaboration between our Company, the 
Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (Embrapa) and 
the Institute for Solidarity Socioeconomics (ISES) to innovate 
affordable drone technology that will be able to provide 
immediate, actionable agricultural intelligence to small and 
medium farmers. The on-board systems combine Embrapa’s 
expertise in agriculture and image processing algorithms 
with our Qualcomm® Flight™3 drone platform and advanced 
wireless technology to collect, process, analyze and transmit accurate crop intelligence data to trained agronomists. The 
agronomists access the information using a 4G, Wi-Fi or 
LAN capable device, such as a smartphone, tablet or PC, 
with a user-friendly web interface. The agronomists then 
work with farmers to translate precise crop intelligence 
metrics into recommendations for taking specific actions, 
such as when and where to fertilize or spray agrochemicals. 
This solution allows for higher crop yields and reduces 
environmental degradation by pinpointing areas that require 
spot applications rather than whole-field treatments.
It is our shared belief that by developing more affordable 
and improved onboard systems for drones, this program 
will accelerate the widespread adoption of drone 
technology in the farming industry. We know that these 
innovations must be designed for more than industrial 
farmers. T o make the necessary gains in productivity 
and to mitigate environmental degradation through 
the expansion of sustainable farming practices, the 
smallholder farmers who own more than 80 percent 
of the world’s farms also need to have access to this 
improved technology.
Key Accomplishments:  
Sustainable  
Product Design
3 Qualcomm Flight is a 
product of Qualcomm 
Technologies, Inc. and/
or its subsidiaries. 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
25
Privacy and 
Security  
Promoting data protection  
across the mobile ecosystem
UN Sustainable Development Goals AddressedKey Accomplishments:  
Privacy and Security
A strong foundation of privacy and security is critical to 
the success of the wireless industry. Such a foundation 
supports user trust and the adoption of new and exciting 
mobile technology. We’ve made significant efforts to 
incorporate privacy and security measures across our 
products and services and the broader mobile industry. 
In our Company, in our products and in 
our industry, we’re working to process 
personal data responsibly and to make 
data more secure.
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
26
Our six guiding principles for 
privacy and security 
We believe that the collection of personal information  
should promote trust, respect individuals’ privacy and rest  
on a foundation of responsible security and privacy practices. 
Our efforts to implement and enable responsible privacy and 
data security practices are informed by our guiding principles:
Transparency in the collection, use and sharing of  
personal information
Providing or enabling meaningful choices over the 
collection, use and sharing of personal information
Providing or enabling value to consumers when using  
their personal information
Safeguarding personal information from existing  
and emerging threats 
Maintaining the accuracy, quality and integrity of the  
data we collect
Responsible stewardship of personal information 
including limiting our collection, use, sharing and 
retention of personal informationThese guiding principles are the basis of our roadmap 
and actions regarding privacy and security matters. They 
are the foundation for our business and are integrated 
throughout our engineering and production processes. 
Safeguarding our intellectual 
property and employee data 
T o ensure strict compliance with our guiding principles 
and to manage or address any related issues regarding 
our products, services and intellectual property, we 
have hundreds of people dedicated to privacy and data 
security. These people specialize in product security, 
privacy, information security, risk management, application 
security, third-party security assessments, investigations 
and counter-threat analysis, security operations, physical 
security, privacy law and more. 
Our efforts to safeguard our intellectual property and 
protect our employee data continue to have a strong focus 
on educating and training all employees about their critical 
role in keeping our business information safe. For several 
years, we have used education and strong management 
processes — in which our guiding principles are embedded 
— to build a culture of security across our Company. In 
2018, we dedicated more than 330 hours to privacy and 
security trainings for our employees globally. 
We strive to implement appropriate data protection for 
one of our most important assets: our employees. In 2018, 
we created an Internal Privacy Committee (IPC) which is 
made up of representatives from numerous departments, 
including human resources, information technology, 
employee relations, payroll, benefits, physical security 
personnel, data analytics and employment-related legal 
representatives. The IPC was created with several goals in 
mind. It serves as a platform to educate internal stakeholders 2
3
4
5
61Key Accomplishments:  
Privacy and Security2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
27
on new laws or regulations affecting the collection or use of 
personal data. It serves as an entity that aids in the identification 
of new collections or uses of personal data and helps develop 
applicable processes to perform privacy reviews on those new 
collections or uses. It provides a forum for discussion in cases 
where a privacy issue spans multiple groups. It also acts as the 
main internal body that proposes new policies and procedures 
or changes to existing policies and procedures. 
Federal privacy regulation and 
industry collaboration
In 2018, key pieces of privacy legislation were implemented, 
such as the General Data Protection Regulation in 
the European Union. Privacy laws were also passed in 
California, Brazil and numerous other places. We support 
and welcome smart, comprehensive federal policy 
legislation in the United States. Having such legislation 
would promote a harmonized approach to privacy and 
help create a legal framework for operation nationwide. 
We work with our industry peers to raise awareness about the 
importance of privacy and security across our industry and to 
promote solutions. In this regard, we support organizations 
and forums that promote information privacy, such as the 
Centre for Information Policy Leadership and the Future of 
Privacy Forum. Through these organizations and forums, 
we advocate for responsible information-privacy and data-
security practices, including transparency and meaningful 
choices in the collection, use and sharing of personal 
information through a harmonized approach. 
330+ hours dedicated to privacy and 
security trainings for our employees globally.
Key Accomplishments:  
Privacy and Security2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
28
Ethical  
Governance  
Doing business "The Qualcomm Way"
UN Sustainable Development Goals AddressedKey Accomplishments:  
Ethical Governance
We push the boundaries of what’s possible in mobile 
technology, but we never push the boundaries when it comes to conducting business with integrity. We consider ethical governance to be a core requirement of doing business, a competitive advantage and the right thing to do. By exercising ethical leadership, we inspire confidence in the Company’s future and create a safe and supportive work environment for our employees. In a dynamic global industry where innovation can create new ethical questions, our Code of Business Conduct guides how we responsibly conduct ourselves every day.
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
29
Updating our policies 
We are committed to doing business responsibly and 
sustainably, starting within our own walls. T o ensure we operate with the highest ethical standards, we reinforce a culture of integrity and keep our policies up-to-date and accessible to all. 
In 2018, we reviewed and updated internal policies and 
procedures related to our ethical governance programs and created new guidelines or procedures where needed. For example, we released our revised Code of Business Conduct in October 2018, accompanied by learning  
check-ins relating to relevant ethics and compliance topics such as conflicts of interest, protecting Company confidential information and treating each other with respect. We also enhanced our conflict of interest  
program to require affirmative disclosures annually from  
all Company vice presidents and senior vice presidents. Qualcomm’s refreshed values
Our Company’s values guide us in creating and maintaining an environment that fosters invention, encourages creativity and allows employees to thrive. In 2018, along with revising our Code of Business Conduct, we refreshed our corporate values and  
the supporting behaviors:
Purposeful Innovation
Raise the BarDrive T echnology LeadershipFocus on the CustomerEngage Curiosity
Passionate Execution 
Ensure T otal QualityMake Decisions EfficientlyExceed ExpectationsEmpower People
Collaborative Community
Foster Inclusion and DiversityCommunicate OpenlyLeverage ExpertiseBe Respectful
Unquestioned Integrity
Do the Righ t Thing
Take Ownership
Cultivate Trust
Embrace Social Responsibility
Key Accomplishments:  
Ethical Governance2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
30
Fostering a Speak-Up culture 
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out specific obligations 
for managers to act as leaders and role models of The Qualcomm Way and to promote an open-door environment in which all of their team members feel comfortable and safe raising questions or concerns.
In 2018, we strengthened our open-door policy and provided 
additional channels for communication around any issues that employees may experience. We promoted our Speak-Up campaign to highlight the importance of raising concerns as well as the Company’s commitment to investigating and addressing those concerns while implementing remediating measures, as applicable. Through our open-door policy, we encourage constant and open communication with managers, direct engagement with Human Resources and voicing potential issues via our Business Conduct Hotline. The hotline is a 24-hour resource available to all employees. It is administered by a third party and allows employees to voice their concerns anonymously, where local country law permits. We have also designated specific individuals as points of contact. These people are part of the Company’s management and located at our headquarters. They include local contact points for different geographic areas where we operate. 
Employee ethics education 
and communication
We actively engage our employees in our ethical governance 
programs to ensure they have a thorough understanding of what is expected of them. In 2018, we conducted 81 in-person FCPA and Anti-Corruption training sessions at our offices worldwide. New employees who joined the Company through recent acquisitions were among the participants.
80+ in-person FCPA and Anti-Corruption 
training sessions at our offices worldwide.
Assessing and managing risk
We continue to assess risks in our business and take steps 
to ensure that employees Company-wide adhere to our ethics and compliance protocols. In 2018, we completed an enterprise-wide compliance risk assessment and shared the findings with our Ethics and Compliance Committee. We used the results of the risk assessment to help us prioritize our ethics and compliance objectives and focus areas for the coming year. We also continued to take a risk-based approach to ensuring that we are only collaborating with reputable companies that do not have a history of bribery, corruption or other misconduct. We conducted reputational screenings and due diligence on several third parties that could come into contact with a foreign government or government official on our behalf.Key Accomplishments:  
Ethical Governance2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
31Performance Summary
Our performance metrics gauge our progress during the past three years and enable us 
to report more transparently across a variety of sustainability topics.
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
32
Performance  
Summary
Our Company
Units 2018 2017 2016
T otal 
Consolidated Revenues by Country (in millions) 
4, 5Total $ 22,732 22,291 23,554
China (including Hong Kong) $ 15,149 14,579 13,503
South Korea $ 3,175 3,538 3,918
United States $ 603 513 386
Other Foreign $ 3,805 3,661 5,747
Revenues by Reportable Segment  (in millions) 
5Total $ 22,732 22,291 23,554
QCT (Qualcomm  CDMA Technologies)$ 17,282 16,479 15,409
QTL (Qualcomm  Technology Licensing)$ 5,163 6,445 7,664
QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) $ 100 113 47
Other $ 187 (746) 434
T otal Capitalization  (in millions) 
5Stockholders' Equity $ 928 30,746 31,768
Our Products and Suppliers
Units 2018 2017 2016
Quantity of Products Shipped  (in  millions)Qualcomm
® MSM™ 
Qualcomm MSM is a product of Qualcomm 
Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries# of products 855 804 842
4 We report revenues from external customers by country based on the location 
to which our products or services are delivered, which for QCT is generally the country in which our customers manufacture their products, or for licensing revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. As a result, the revenues by country presented herein are not necessarily indicative of either the country in which the devices containing our products and/or intellectual property are ultimately sold to consumers or the country in which the companies that sell the devices are headquartered. For example, China revenues could include revenues related to shipments of integrated circuits to a company that is headquartered in South Korea but that manufactures devices in China, which devices are then sold to consumers in Europe and/or the United States.
5 The following is certain information that was originally filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC) on November 7, 2018 as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2018. We have not undertaken any updates or revisions to such information since the date it was originally filed with the SEC. Accordingly, you are encouraged to review such financial information together with any subsequent information we have filed with the SEC and other publicly available information.2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
33
Our Products and Suppliers (cont.)
Units 2018 2017 2016
Privacy & 
SecurityCertified Information Privacy Professionals# 8 11 11
Privacy T raining # of hours 336.5 601.8 290.5
Privacy T raining Sessions Offered # 16 21 18
Targeted Security T raining Campaigns # 14 19 22
Targeted Employees T rained in Security # 9,298 12,235 11,753
Supplier  MetricsSuppliers (top 90% of total  product-related spend) who complete the RBA SAQ
6% 100 100 100
Suppliers (top 90% of total  product-related spend) with All Low-Risk Manufacturing  Facilities per RBA SAQ
6% 100 100 100
Suppliers (top 90% of total  product-related spend) who  provided us with greenhouse gas emissions use data% 100 100 100
Suppliers (top 90% of total  product-related spend) who  provided us with water use data% 100 100 100
Conflict Free Minerals
7RMAP-Conformant Processing Facilities8# 252 246 215
RMAP-Conformant Processing Facilities8% 82 73 71
Supplier  DiversityDiverse Suppliers Registered (U.S. only) # 830 860 931
Spending on U.S. Government Subcontract Work Directed at Diverse Businesses (U.S. only)% 52 26 30
6 Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ).
7 Amount represents prior-year calendar year data as of January 31, 2018.
8 Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP).Performance  
Summary2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
34
Our Environment
Units 2018 2017 2016
Energy and  
Air Quality9Electricity Avoided as a Result of Our 
Energy Saving InitiativesMegawatt Hours 53,501 48,915 49,599
Emissions Avoided as a Result of Our 
Energy Saving InitiativesCO2e  
Metric Tons16,070 14,325 15,009
Greenhouse  
Gas (GHG) 
Emissions10CO2e per Gross Square Foot of Facilities 
Space (Scope 1 & 2)CO2e  
Metric Tons0.01864 0.01848 0.0177
Total Scope 1 – Direct GHG Emissions 
by WeightCO2e  
Metric Tons73,832 80,016 75,205
Total Scope 2 (market-based:  
emission factors where available  
and purchased International  
renewable Energy Certificates  
and Emission Reduction Credits) - 
Indirect GHG Emissions by WeightCO2e  
Metric Tons120,771 129,440 147,681
Total Scope 3 – Other Indirect GHG 
Emissions by Weight11CO2e  
Metric Tons112,252 112,252 112,252
Direct Energy 
Consumption by 
Primary Energy  
Source10Natural Gas (facilities) MMBtu 1,301,239 1,405,156 1,292,102
Jet Fuel (aviation related) Gallons 976,158 919,403 924,220
Vehicle Gasoline (shuttle/test vehicles) Gallons 45,296 56,135 72,372
Diesel Fuel (cars/trucks) Gallons 8,456 9,792 17,642
Diesel Fuel (generators) Gallons 17,625 16,174 21,498
Propane Vehicles (truck) Gallons 131 182 438
Indirect Energy 
Consumption by 
Primary Energy 
Source10Electricity (purchased) Megawatt Hours 271,894 267,027 301,944Performance  
Summary
9 Annual avoided emissions of CO2e due to cumulative investments made  
for energy and water efficiencies for various owned and leased facilities.
10 Amounts represent prior-year calendar year data for 100% of Qualcomm’s 
global facilities.11 Amount is estimated based on prior-year calculation and represents 
employee business air travel, business car rental and employee commuting.2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
35
Our Environment (cont.)
Units 2018 2017 2016
Significant Air 
Emissions12NOx Tons 7.95 8.92 8.82
SOx Tons 0.32 0.34 0.3
VOC Tons 0.67 0.75 0.89
Waste 
Management13Total Non-Hazardous  
Waste GeneratedMetric Tons 3,678 10,895 9,425
Total Non-Hazardous  
Waste RecycledMetric Tons 1,517 3,639 2,777
Total Hazardous  
Waste GeneratedMetric Tons 63 58 62
Total Hazardous  
Waste RecycledMetric Tons 56 19 50
Total Hazardous  
Waste to LandfillMetric Tons n/a 7 5
Employee 
Engagement 
EventsPersonal Paper Shredding  
Collection Events for EmployeesTons 2.6 2.3 2.6
Personal E-Waste Collection  
Events for EmployeesPounds 6,156 2,515 16,615
E-Waste 
CollectionE-Waste Collection Pounds 533,925 450,801 658,308
Water 
Management14Total Water Usage Million Gallons 161 165 168
Potable Water – Building Water Million Gallons 26 36 38
Potable Water – Cooling Towers Million Gallons 72 67 79
Potable Water – Irrigation Million Gallons 22 23 21
Reclaimed Water – Cooling Towers Million Gallons 30 28 22
Reclaimed Water – Irrigation Million Gallons 11 11 8
Water Savings15Million Gallons 22 22 18
 12 All NOx, SOx and VOC data is prior-year calendar year data for our  
San Diego Co-Generation facilities only.
13 We revised how we report our waste management data beginning in 2016.14 Reported water usage and savings are for both owned and leased  
San Diego, CA facilities, plus owned and leased facilities in San Jose and 
Santa Clara, CA.
15 Reflects potable water savings (does not include reclaimed water savings).Performance  
Summary2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
36
Our Workplace
Units 2018 2017 2016
Workforce Total Employees # 31,100 33,800 30,500
Breakout by Region:
United States % 46 52 57
Non-United States % 54 48 43
Breakout by Employee Type:
Regular Employees % 90 90 88
Temporary Employees % 10 10 12
Inclusion 
and DiversityNationalities Represented # 113 116 111
Languages Spoken # 74 74 72
Women – Overall % of Total 19.0 18.8 18.7
Leadership % of Total 16.8 17.1 16.6
Technical % of Total 15.4 14.6 14
Women on Board of Directors % of Total 16.7 20 17
Race and Ethnicity Statistics (U.S. only): 
Minority Employees – Overall% of Total 66.3 64.2 63.7
American Indian/Alaska Native – Overall % of Total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Leadership % of Total 0.2 0.2 0.1
Technical % of Total 0.1 0.1 0.1
Asian – Overall % of Total 58.2 56 54.9
Leadership % of Total 47.1 44.4 43.7
Technical % of Total 64.1 61.8 60.9
Black/African American – Overall % of Total 1.4 1.5 1.6
Leadership % of Total 1.1 1.1 1.1
Technical % of Total 1.2 1.2 1.3
Hispanic – Overall % of Total 4.4 4.3 4.8
Leadership % of Total 3.8 3.9 3.8
Technical % of Total 3.4 3.3 3.2Performance  
Summary2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
37
Our Workplace (cont.)
Units 2018 2017 2016
Inclusion 
and Diversity
(cont.)Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander – 
Overall % of Total 0.3 0.3 0.4
Leadership % of Total 0.2 0.1 0.2
Technical % of Total 0.3 0.2 0.3
Two or More Minority Groups – Overall  % of Total 1.9 1.9 1.9
Leadership % of Total 1.5 1.5 1.3
Technical % of Total 1.5 1.5 1.5
Disabled % of Total 1.6 1.8 1.7
Veterans % of Total 2.4 2.6 2.9
Employee 
DevelopmentT raining Statistics
Classroom T raining  
Course Enrollments# 87,188 74,489 85,076
Instructor-led Session # 1,178 1,247 1,590
Online Courses # 16,605 26,030 11,685
T raining by Employee Group
Individual Contributor Hrs/Employee 14 14 13
Management Hrs/Employee 14 14 13
Executive Hrs/Employee 11 10 12
Ethical 
EmploymentEmployee Voluntary  
T urnover Rate% of Total 8.6 6.4 8.6
Workplace 
SafetyLost Time Injury and  
Incident RatePer 200,000 hrs 
worked0.05 0.04 0.06
Total Recordable  
Incident RatePer 200,000 hrs 
worked0.4 0.26 0.64Performance  
Summary2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
38
Our Society
Units 2018 2017 2016
Philanthropy Employees Participating in Matching 
and Community Service Grant 
Programs# 3,664 3,464 2,905
Nonprofit Organizations Helped by 
Matching and Community Service 
Grant Programs# 2,052 2,102 1,695
Wireless Reach16Stakeholders # 660 660 655
Projects # 119 119 114
Countries # 47 47 46
Beneficiaries (Direct and Indirect) # 15,773,740 12,007,333 9,519,949
16 Cumulative data since 2006.Performance  
Summary2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
39GRI Content Index
We report on our sustainability initiatives annually and in accordance with the  
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. This report  
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
40
GRI Content Index
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
General Disclosures
GRI 102: 
General 
Disclosures 
2016102-1 Name of the organization Qualcomm Incorporated
102-2 Primary brands, products, and services Products; Solutions; 10-K/Annual Report 
102-3 Location of headquarters San Diego, CA
102-4 Number of countries where the organization 
operates, and names of countries with 
significant operations Offices and Facilities  
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Qualcomm is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market 
under the ticker symbol QCOM. 10-K/Annual Report 
102-6 Markets served (including geographic 
breakdown, sectors served, and types of 
customers/beneficiaries) Our Performance Summary; 10-K/Annual Report
102-7 Scale of the reporting organization (overall) Our Performance Summary; Offices and Facilities;  
10-K/Annual Report
102-8 Scale of the reporting organization 
(employees)Our Performance Summary 
102-9 Organization’s supply chain Supply Chain Management; 10-K/Annual Report
102-10 Significant changes during the reporting 
period regarding size, structure, ownership  
or supply chainWe disclose all significant changes regarding size, 
structure or ownership in our periodic filings  
10-K/Annual Report
102-11 Whether and how the precautionary 
approach or principle is addressed by  
the organizationWe practice the “precautionary principle” of identifying 
and taking preventative measures regarding chemicals, 
including in circumstances in which there is a high degree 
of scientific uncertainty regarding potentially hazardous 
chemicals. Our own policies are often more stringent than 
applicable law. We continuously monitor opportunities to 
improve our products and make them as sustainable as 
technically and economically feasible.2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
41
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
GRI 102: 
General 
Disclosures 
2016102-12 Externally developed economic, 
environmental, and social charters, principles, 
or other initiatives to which the organization 
subscribes or which it endorsesQualcomm participates in, subscribes to or endorses a 
wide range of different externally developed economic, 
environmental and social charters, principles and 
initiatives. Our approach is described at Sustainability.
102-13 List of main memberships of industry or other 
associations, and national or international 
advocacy organizations in which the 
organization is involvedOur Memberships and Industry Affiliations
102-14 Statement from the most senior  
decision-maker of the organization Message from Our CEO
102-16 Organization’s values, principles,  
standards and norms of behaviorThe Qualcomm Way; Corporate Governance;  
RBA Code of Conduct
102-17 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking 
advice on ethical and lawful behaviorCode of Ethics; Ethical Governance;  
Business Conduct Hotline
102-18 Governance structure, including committees 
of highest governing bodyThe Governance Committee of our Board of Directors 
receives and reviews a report on our policies and 
programs concerning corporate citizenship and  
social responsibility, including charitable giving, 
annually. Corporate Governance; Governance 
Committee; Strategy
102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder Engagement; Strategy 
102-41 Percentage of total employees covered  
by collective bargaining agreementsNone of our United States employees are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements. Outside the United 
States, less than 25 percent of our employees are 
covered by collective bargaining agreements. We are 
compliant with all collective agreements regarding 
significant operational changes as required by country 
laws and regulations.
102-42 Basis for identification and selection  
of stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement; Strategy 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement; Strategy GRI Content Index2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
42
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
GRI 102: 
General 
Disclosures 
2016102-44 Key topics and concerns raised  
through stakeholder engagement  
and organization’s response The materiality assessment described in  
Our Sustainability Priorities incorporated key  
issues raised through stakeholder engagement.  
Our response to these issues is contained throughout 
this report and our Sustainability website.
102-45 Entities included in the organization’s 
consolidated financial statements or 
equivalent documents 10-K/Annual Report
102-46 Process for defining report content and
topic boundaries Our Sustainability Priorities; About this Report 
102-47 List of material topics identified in the process 
for defining report contentOur Sustainability Priorities; Priorities  
102-48 Effect of any restatements of information 
provided in previous reports Our Performance Summary; 10-K/Annual Report
102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting 
periods in list of material topics and topic 
boundariesThere have been no significant changes from  
previous reporting periods in the list of material topics  
and topic boundaries.
102-50 Reporting period About this Report 
102-51 Date of most recent previous report Our 2017 Qualcomm Sustainability Report covers 
events and highlights occurring in our 2017 fiscal year: 
from September 25, 2016 to September 30, 2017.
102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding report About this Report 
102-54 “In accordance” option About this Report 
102-55 GRI Context Index GRI Context Index
102-56 Policy and current practice with regard to 
seeking external assurance for the report About this Report GRI Content Index2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
43
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
Ethical Governance
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Sustainability Priorities; About this Report; 
Priorities; Ethical Governance
103-2 Management approach and its components Strategy; 10-K/Annual Report; Proxy Statement; 
Corporate Governance; The Qualcomm Way;  
Code of Ethics; RBA Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Strategy 
GRI 205:  
Anti-corruption 
2016205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruption At least annually, we evaluate our Company for risks 
related to corruption. We also assess additional risk 
areas on a case-by-case basis. The Qualcomm Way; 
Ethical Governance
205-2 Communication and training about  
anti-corruption policies and proceduresQualcomm requires its employees and temporary 
workers to complete a policy training and certification 
process every 12-24 months that covers the 
Company’s Global FCPA and Anti-Corruption Policy 
and Procedures. As of September 30, 2018, 99.99% 
of Qualcomm's employees and temporary workers 
completed the 2017 FCPA and Anti-Corruption Policy 
T raining and Certification requirement, which was 
sent out to all employees and temporary workers 
on November 1st, 2017. In addition, 79 instructor-led 
training sessions on Qualcomm’s FCPA and Anti-
Corruption Compliance program were offered and 
attended by 2,049 employees in higher risk functional 
roles (Business Development, Marketing, Sales, 
Government Affairs, Procurement, etc.) in FY18.  
The Qualcomm Way; Ethical Governance
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and  
actions takenWe disclose all material pending legal proceedings in 
our periodic filings 10-K/Annual Report.
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practicesWe disclose all material pending legal proceedings in 
our periodic filings 10-K/Annual Report.GRI Content Index2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
44
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
GRI 415: Public 
Policy 2016415-1 Political contributions Disclosures Under Political Contributions and 
Expenditures Policy
GRI 419:  
Socioeconomic  
Compliance 
2016419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 
the social and economic areaWe disclose all material pending legal proceedings in 
our periodic filings 10-K/Annual Report.
Privacy and Security
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Sustainability Priorities; About this Report; 
Priorities; Privacy and Security  
103-2 Management approach and its components Strategy; Privacy Principles; Privacy Policy; Privacy 
Public Policy Positions; The Qualcomm Way; RBA 
Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Strategy 
GRI 418: 
Customer 
Privacy 2016418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses  
of customer dataWe did not receive any substantiated complaints 
regarding breaches of customer privacy or data  
in 2018 or in the three years prior.
Sustainable Product Design
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Sustainability Priorities; About this Report; 
Priorities; Sustainable Product Design; Human Rights
103-2 Management approach and its components Strategy; The Qualcomm Way; RBA Code of 
Conduct; Qualcomm’s Commitment to Human 
Rights; Qualcomm Communication on Progress
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Strategy
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance 
2016307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws
and regulationsQualcomm received no significant monetary fines and 
no non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations in 2018.GRI Content Index2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
45
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
GRI 308: 
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 
2016308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaSupply Chain Management
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions takenSupply Chain Management
GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 2016407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which 
the right to exercise freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may be violated  
or at significant riskQualcomm is unaware of any operations in which 
the right to exercise freedom of association and/or 
collective bargaining are at significant risk. 
GRI 408: Child 
Labor 2016408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having 
significant risk for incidents of child labor Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there 
is a significant risk for incidents of child labor. 
GRI 409: 
Forced or 
Compulsory 
Labor 2016409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as  
having significant risk for incidents of forced  
or compulsory labor Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which  
there is a significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor. 
GRI 410: 
Security 
Practices 2016410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights  
policies or procedures100 percent of security personnel are trained  
in the organization’s policies or procedures  
concerning aspects of human rights that are  
relevant to operations.
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 
2016414-1 New suppliers that were screened using  
social criteriaOur approach to labor practices in the supply chain is 
described in Supply Chain Management. Qualcomm 
 is applying the RBA Membership Requirements.
414-2 Negative impacts for labor practices in the 
supply chain and actions takenOur approach to labor practices in the supply chain is 
described in Supply Chain Management. Qualcomm  
is applying the RBA Membership Requirements.GRI Content Index2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
46
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
GRI 416: 
Customer 
Health and 
Safety 2016416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts 
of product and service categories Qualcomm’s approach to the health and safety 
impacts of products is found in Product Responsibility.
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  
the health and safety impact of products  
and servicesZero
Inclusion and Diversity
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Global Inclusion and Diversity; Our Sustainability 
Priorities; About this Report; Priorities; Inclusion  
and Diversity
103-2 Management approach and its components Strategy; Equal Employment Opportunity and 
Affirmative Action; Supplier Diversity Policy;  
The Qualcomm Way; RBA Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Strategy
GRI 405: 
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 
2016405-1 Composition of governance bodies  
and employeesOur Performance Summary 
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 
2016406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective  
actions takenQualcomm has never been found by a court to have 
unlawfully discriminated against any of our employees.GRI Content Index2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
47
GRI 
StandardDisclosure  
NumberDisclosure  
Title Response
STEM Education
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Sustainability Priorities; About this Report; 
Priorities; STEM Education
103-2 Management approach and its components Thinkabit Lab; Strategy; Our Society
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Strategy
T ransformative Technology
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Sustainability Priorities; About this Report; 
Priorities; T ransformative T echnology
103-2 Management approach and its components Wireless Reach; Strategy
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Strategy
GRI 203: 
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 
supportedWireless Reach
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Wireless ReachGRI Content Index2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
48Appendix
2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
49
Our Support of the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) 
17 goals to transform our worldAppendix:  
Our Support of the 
UN Sustainable 
Development Goals 
In September 2015, the UN 
established 17 SDGs aimed 
at achieving long-term 
sustainable development, 
elimination of poverty and 
an overall healthy planet 
by 2030. Designed with a 
bottom-up approach, the 
SDGs help focus government 
policy, programs, innovation 
and spending. They also 
help to highlight the need for 
private sector involvement and 
collaborations for achieving 
success. Each goal has 
specific targets to be achieved.
We support the SDGs. The SDG icons 
that appear throughout this report 
highlight the work we are doing across 
our Company to address these goals.2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
50
End poverty in all  
its forms everywhere.End hunger, achieve food  
security and improved  
nutrition and promote  
sustainable agriculture.Ensure healthy lives and  
promote well-being for all  
at all ages.
Ensure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for 
all.Achieve gender equality and 
empower all women and girls.Ensure availability 
and sustainable 
management of water 
and sanitation for all.
Ensure access to affordable,  
reliable, sustainable and  
modern energy for all.Promote sustained, inclusive and 
sustainable economic growth, full 
and productive employment and 
decent work for all.Build resilient 
infrastructure, promote 
inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization and 
foster innovation.
Reduce inequality within and  
among countries.Make cities and human  
settlements inclusive, safe,  
resilient and sustainable.Ensure sustainable consumption  
and production patterns.
Take urgent action to combat 
climate change and its impacts.Conserve and sustainably use the 
oceans, seas and marine resources 
for sustainable development.Protect, restore and promote 
sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, and 
reverse land degradation and halt 
biodiversity loss.
To learn more about all 17 SDGs, please visit the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals website.
Promote peaceful and inclusive 
societies for sustainable 
development, provide access to 
justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive 
institutions at all levels.Strengthen the means of 
implementation and revitalize the 
global partnership for sustainable.Appendix:  
Our Support of the 
UN Sustainable 
Development Goals 2018 Qualcomm  
Sustainability Report
51
Appendix:  
About this report
About this Report
Since our founding in 1985, Qualcomm 
has been committed to bettering 
the societies where we live and work. 
We have been producing an annual 
sustainability report since 2006.  Boundary and scope
This report covers our 2018 fiscal year: September 25, 
2017 to September 30, 2018. In some instances, data 
is collected and reported on a calendar rather than a 
fiscal year basis. Such exceptions, as well as any other 
exceptions to the reporting period, are noted within the 
report. Financial data is reported in U.S. dollars. The 
information and data in this report includes Qualcomm 
Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless 
otherwise stated.
Disclosure and assurance
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. 
The content of this report was developed using 
the GRI’s “principles for defining report content”: 
materiality, completeness, stakeholder inclusiveness and 
sustainability context. Our use of the materiality principle 
encompassed our whole value chain, both within and 
outside the Company, and is described further in the 
Sustainability Priorities section of this report.
Use of external assurance is noted in the report where  
it is used, though the report as a whole has not been
externally assured.
Additional information about our operations and financial 
statements is available in our Annual Report on Form 
10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q 
and other filings with the United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 
Additional information about sustainability at Qualcomm  
is available at www.qualcomm.com/sustainability .
We welcome your comments and feedback at  
qsr@qualcomm.com.
2018  
Sustainability  
ReportQualcomm Headquarters
5775 Morehouse Drive
San Diego, CA 92121
Phone: 858-587-1121
www.qualcomm.com/sustainabilityWe welcome your comments and feedback at qsr@qualcomm.com
© 2019 Qualcomm Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
Qualcomm, MSM, Snapdragon, Thinkabit Lab and Wireless Reach  
are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated, registered in the  
United States and other countries. Qualcomm Flight, Aqriti and  
Qcamp are trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. Other products 
and brand names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of  
their respective owners.
References in this report to “Qualcomm” may mean Qualcomm 
Incorporated, Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc., and/or other subsidiaries or 
business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable.
Qualcomm Incorporated includes Qualcomm’s licensing business, QTL 
and the vast majority of its patent portfolio. Qualcomm T echnologies, 
Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, 
along with its subsidiaries, substantially all of Qualcomm’s engineering, 
research and development functions, and substantially all of its product 
and services businesses, including its semiconductor business, QCT.