Qualcomm Corporate 
Responsibility Report
Our environmental, social, and governance (ESG)  
performance in 2020Table of
ContentsMessage from Our CEO  03
In
terview with Our CFO
 
05
About Qualcomm
 
06
Our COVID-19 Response
 
08
Our Corporate Responsibility 
Priorities and Vision  
10
Key Accomplishments
 
14
Purposeful Innovation
 15
Our
 People
 21
S
TEM Education
 27
R
esponsible Business
 32
ESG P
erformance Summary
 
37
Global Reporting Initiative  
Content Index
 
43
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
 
52
T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
 
58
Appendix
 
62
Our Support of the  
UN Sustainable  
Development Goals 
 63
Our
 2025 Goals 
 64
About This 
Report
 65
2 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    T able of ContentsReimagining what’s possible has been core to our successes throughout our 35-year history, but 
now, more than ever, we’ve seen the fundamental role wireless technology plays in helping us stay connected. During the ongoing COVID-19 health crisis, with people all over the world working beyond the office, learning beyond the classroom, and experiencing healthcare beyond the traditional doctor’s office, the potential for our technologies, especially 5G, to meet society’s needs has never been more evident.
In addition to a global health crisis, the events of 2020 brought other societal challenges  
to the forefront; from racial justice, to real-time impacts of the climate crisis, there is much  
more work to be done. For our part, we will continue to advocate for positive change on these 
issues in line with our core values of operating with unquestioned integrity and fostering a collaborative community.
T o that end, we have established 2025 quantitative targets to increase representation  
within our Company of groups that are historically underrepresented in the technology sector, 
made donations in support of civil rights efforts to organizations such as the Lawyer’s Committee for Civil Rights Under Law , NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., Center on Policy 
Initiatives, and, through our Global Diversity and Inclusion (GID) team and our Employee Networks, organized training and learning sessions for employees.
T o better understand and address the climate-related risks and opportunities across our 
Company, we conducted our first climate scenario analysis and are pleased to include T ask Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  indices in this report.Message from 
Our CEO
3
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Message from Our CEODespite the unforeseen challenges of 2020, we have had many successes over the last year.  
We welcomed the unanimous reversal of the district court’s judgment in the FTC case, a decision 
that validates our licensing business model and underscores the tremendous contributions that we have made to the industry. We now have license agreements with every major handset maker, including more than 110 5G agreements, a testament to the years of relentless research and development we have invested to consistently push the boundaries of what’s possible.  
For the second consecutive year, we have been named on Fortune’s Change the World List,  
in recognition of the revolutionary societal impacts of 5G, and by Newsweek as one of  
America’s Most Responsible Companies.
And, as we continue to work toward our 2030 Vision, I am proud to report we successfully met or 
exceeded our 2020 corporate responsibility goals and are launching the next set of more ambitious 2025 goals, the details of which can be found throughout this Report. Finally, across our corporate responsibility priorities, the environmental, social and governance (ESG) areas where we believe we can be most impactful, there are a few accomplishments I would like to specifically mention:
Purposeful Innovation: Staying connected is now more important ever, and 5G strengthens 
those connections. We are focused on helping transform telemedicine, supporting remote education, addressing environmental sustainability and more efficiently powering mobile devices. This year, we launched the Qualcomm
®  Small Business Accelerator Program designed to help 
small businesses participate in the global transition to a mobile-first digital work environment to help them thrive in today’s business climate and be set-up for resiliency and success in the long-term. The comprehensive program was created to provide small businesses with products from ecosystem partners powered by Qualcomm T echnologies solutions, collaboration tools, and technical and integration support, so that the selected businesses can continue to maintain operations throughout the current global pandemic and beyond.
STEM Education: Despite the shift to a virtual learning environment, we increased student 
participation in our Qualcomm
® Thinkabit™ weeklong summer camps and in collaboration with 
our national network of sites, have now inspired more than 78,500 students to explore careers in engineering. In support of our FIRST Strategic Partnership and as a Lead Sponsor of FIRST STEM Equity grants, we helped provide critical access to FIRST programs for over 29,000 students, the vast majority of whom were economically disadvantaged.
Responsible Business: In our updated Qualcomm Human Rights Statement, we reaffirmed our 
commitment to respecting all internationally recognized human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse. The Statement reiterates our belief that human rights are fundamental rights, freedoms, and standards of treatment to which all workers are entitled, which is especially pertinent during the global public health crisis. 
Our People: In line with our commitment to promoting equity across our Company and industry, 
over the past two years, we increased female engineering representation by 17 percent worldwide, and in the United States, we have increased representation of engineers in racial and ethnic groups historically underrepresented in the technology sector by 12 percent. 
During what have been difficult circumstances, I am incredibly proud and grateful for the grit and 
dedication of our employees, who have demonstrated the optimism and perseverance that have always defined our Company culture. As we look ahead, we are excited to continue inventing breakthrough technologies that can transform industries, help build a more resilient economy, and catalyze social change for billions of people across the globe.
Steve Mollenkopf  
Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated
 1 For purposes of this Corporate Responsibility Report, “racial and ethnic groups historically underrepresented in the technology sector” means Black/African American, 
Hispanic/Latinx, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, Native American or Alaskan Native, or two or more race and ethnicity categories.
4
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Message from Our CEOHow did our Chief 
Financial Officer get involved in the world of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)? 
In my role as a member of our Executive 
Committee, I lead multiple organizations within Qualcomm including, global finance, accounting and tax, information technology (IT) and global facilities. Over the past year, Qualcomm has seen a growing interest  
from employees, customers, investors, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs)  
in ESG. We recognize that robust ESG initiatives are an important aspect of our Company’s performance.
T o that end, I have been tasked with leading 
our ESG efforts. We have integrated ESG into our Corporate Responsibility governance structure, including our Leadership Committee, which is our cross-functional team providing strategic oversight on corporate responsibility matters, and which reports to our Board of Directors on  
a regular basis.Interview with 
Our CFO
What do you see as the 
most important aspects of ESG reporting? 
As the world’s leading wireless technology 
innovator, I think it is important to focus reporting on ESG issues that are material to our business and industry. It is also important to disclose information regularly and in alignment with international standards and frameworks, especially those that pertain to your sector and stakeholder interests.
What ESG programs  
are you most proud of  
at Qualcomm?
I am very proud of Qualcomm’s role in  
the transition towards greater sustainable development and social wellbeing across the globe. We believe 5G is one of the most important technological developments of the 21st century because of its potential to drive economic growth, transform entire industries, and change the way we live, work, and relate to each other. I am also very proud of our Qualcomm
® 
Wireless Reach™ initiative, which invests in sustainable programs that demonstrate innovative uses of our technology, helping over 20 million people across the globe. 
What are your  
ESG priorities for  
the year ahead?
In the year ahead, we will start working toward achieving our newly launched 2025 corporate responsibility targets, prioritizing environment, diversity and inclusion, and reporting. We will, for example, continue to address and improve our environmental performance through greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction strategies and work to build a more diverse workforce using training, development, and recruitment as key tools.
Additionally, we will continue to respond  
to the needs and expectations of our 
stakeholders through direct engagement  
and reporting.Q&A with Akash Palkhiwala, 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated
5
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Interview with Our CFOAbout
Qualcomm
Qualcomm is the world’s leading wireless technology innovator and the driving force behind the 
development, launch, and expansion of 5G. We invent foundational technologies that transform  
how the world connects, computes, and communicates. 
When we connected the phone to the internet, the mobile revolution was born. T oday, our inventions are 
the foundation for life-changing products, experiences, and industries. As we lead the world to experience 5G, we’re ushering in a new era of intelligent, connected devices that’s transforming entire industries and enriching lives on a global scale — from smartphones to mobile PCs, healthcare to education, automotive to agriculture, and factories of the future. 
Throughout our history, we’ve made the “impossible” possible. The expansion of 5G is just one example, 
inspiring new inventions that help enable our customers and partners to create technologies we’ve yet to imagine. When we break through, the ecosystem leaps forward and the world benefits by the competitive options that emerge. 
References in this report to “Qualcomm” may mean Qualcomm Incorporated, Qualcomm T echnologies, 
Inc. and/or other subsidiaries or business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable. 
6 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    About QualcommRevenues in Fiscal 2020
$16.5b
QCT Qualcomm CDMA 
T echnologies  
QCT is a leading developer 
and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on 3G/4G/5G and other technologies for use in wireless voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia  
and global positioning system products.$36m
QSI Qualcomm 
Strategic Initiatives
QSI makes strategic investments primarily through our Qualcomm Ventures arm that are focused on expanding or opening new opportunities for our technologies as well as supporting the design and introduction of new products and services  
(or enhancing existing products or services).Our products are revolutionizing industries, 
including automotive, computing and  
the Internet of Things (Io T). They’re enabling connections between millions of devices  
in ways never imagined. Our inventions are helping create a renewed livelihood for  
many people and allowing us the honor  
of enriching lives.
Our Qualcomm 
CDMA T echnologies (QCT) Production Model 
Other than for our RFFE modules and RF filter 
products (described below), QCT utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Therefore, we primarily rely on third-parties to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. The majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the Asia-Pacific region. 
QCT primarily uses internal fabrication 
facilities to manufacture RFFE modules and RF filter products, and its manufacturing operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. The front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in Germany and Singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate wafers with the structure and circuitry required for the products to function (also known as wafer fabrication). The back-end processes include the assembly, packaging and test of RFFE modules and RF filter products and their preparation for distribution. The back-end manufacturing facilities are located in China and Singapore.
$5.0b
QTL Qualcomm 
T echnology Licensing
QTL grants licenses or 
otherwise provides rights  
to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio which, among other rights, includes  
certain patent rights essential to and/or useful  
in the manufacture, sale and/or use of certain wireless products, including,  
without limitation, products implementing CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD,  
L TE and/or OFDMA-based 5G standards and  
their derivatives.$2.0b
OTHER
 
Other revenues were comprised of licensing revenues from Huawei resulting from the settlement agreement and royalties for sales made in the March 2020 and June 2020 quarters under the new global patent license agreement and, to a lesser extent, revenues from nonreportable segments. 
7
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    About QualcommOur 
COVID-19  
Response
8 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Our COVID-19 Responsetouchless key tool. In China, we provided  
kits prepared to support them in coming back 
on site. 
Additionally, we implemented a number  
of employee benefit programs and 
opportunities including additional paid leave for employees with symptoms or who may be high risk, need to care for a family member or assist a child with school. We provided options to take home office equipment and additional IT equipment support. 
We also maintain a global Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) that provides resources and assistance to employees and their families dealing with mental or emotional health issues, as well as everyday challenges associated with managing stress, work-life balance and locating quality care for their children or elderly parents and others. The program is provided at no cost  
to employees, their dependents or  
household members.
Delivering Critical 
Connectivity and Support to our Local and Global Communities 
T o support our global communities,  
we donated to the following efforts, and we 
remain committed to providing monetary and in-kind donations as the crisis continues.  
•
 Charities Aid 
Foundation America, Support 
for Association of the Italian Red Cross  
•
 Charities Aid 
Foundation America, Support 
for the Flexport.org Fund  
•
 Chinese R
ed Cross Foundation, 
Emergency Response  
•
 Cal Coas
t Cares Foundation, San Diego 
Small Business Relief Fund  
•
 Donations o
f laptops and other devices  
to schools and community nonprofits  
•
 Donations 
to local organizations in 
communities where our employees live 
and work  
•
 India Prime Minis
ter COVID-19 Relief Fund  
•
 Silicon 
Valley Community Foundation, 
COVID-19 Regional Response Fund  
•
 The San Diego F
oundation, COVID-19 
Community Response Fund/Jacobs & Cushman San Diego Food Bank  • Unit ed Nations Foundation, COVID-19 
Solidarity Response Fund for WHO  
•
 Vis
ta Unified School District
Supporting Small 
Businesses Impacted  
by COVID-19
In response to COVID-19, we launched the 
Qualcomm Small Business Accelerator Program. Designed to help bring small businesses into a mobile-first, remote work environment that will aid in taking them through this crisis and beyond, the Program selected 33 businesses that span healthcare, education, crisis response, arts, environmental services, and other industries, and most identified as women-owned, minority-owned, and/or veteran-owned.  
More information can be found in the Purposeful Innovation section of this report.Protecting the 
Health and Safety of our Employees and Communities
Our employees  make Qualcomm’s  
success possibl
e and
 their
 health and 
safety
 
is
 
our top priority. From the onset  
of the COVID-19 crisis,
 
our Emergency 
Operations T eam (EOT)
 
implemented  
a comprehensive response plan covering 
items such as: hygiene practices,  
infection-control measures, medical treatment, communication, travel policies,  
and human resource policies.
As the situation continued
 t
o evolve,  
the response plan
 
has been
 
closely 
monitored, adjusted and communicated  
to employees
 
at a
 
global,
 
regional 
and
 
local
 
level.
 W
e required all employees, 
including consultants, working onsite 
or 
visiting Company premises, to complete   
a R
eturn to Onsite Safety T raining
 t
o ensure 
understanding and compliance with the safety measures in place.
 
 
 
Qualcomm moved to a global required work from home policy for employees who are able to perform their job remotely on March 12, 2020. As of the launch of this report, this policy remains in effect except in China where approximately 75 percent of our employees have returned safely onsite.
For employees whose work is both critical to 
the continuity of business operations and requires onsite presence to perform work duties, Qualcomm took appropriate measures – as recommended by leading public health authorities – to ensure that the work environment
 
was
 
safe and the risk of 
the virus spreading in our facilities
 
was 
reduced as much as possible. This included implementing increased cleaning and lab hygiene plans, facilitating self-temperature checking, badge- access requirements
 
and 
requiring social distancing to ensure we are providing a safe work environment.
 
W
e distributed kits to support our employees 
in staying safe during the COVID-19 pandemic. We provided protective equipment (PPE) for on site employees and employees working from home. In the US,  
for example, this included health kits which contain masks, disinfectant wipes, and a 
9 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |     Our COVID-19 ResponseQualcomm for Good is our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen. It’s about 
integrating sustainability into every aspect of our business and using our breakthrough technology to make the world a better place. 
The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our people, the 
planet, and the world. As we push what’s possible and relentlessly ask "What if?" , we work to ensure that our innovations are helping shape a better future while also positioning our Company for sustained success. 
The world is becoming increasingly connected. We have a tremendous opportunity to build on 
our legacy of sustainable innovation and use our breakthrough technology to tackle global challenges, inspire tomorrow’s workforce and make a positive difference for decades to come.
Our Corporate Responsibility 
Priorities and Vision
10 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Our Corporate Responsibility Priorities and VisionThe Governance Committee of the Board 
provides oversight on corporate responsibility matters, including environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) issues. Our Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee reports at least annually on the Company’s corporate responsibility and ESG policies, programs, initiatives and reporting to the Governance Committee of the Board.
Our Corporate Responsibility Leadership 
Committee is composed of executives and senior management from across the Company, including human resources, legal, government affairs, supply chain, ethics  
and compliance, investor relations, operations and finance. In fiscal year 2020, we added three new members to the Committee based on the development of  
our business and changing priorities.  
Our Leadership Committee provides guidance on global corporate responsibility issues that are most important to Qualcomm and our key stakeholders so that corporate responsibility remains a central and visible component of our business strategy.
Our Corporate Responsibility Governance 
Committee implements directives from the Leadership Committee into company-wide programs, measures progress on our goals, and reports accomplishments and challenges. This Committee includes managers and other subject-matter experts from across our Company such as investor relations, supply chain management, diversity and inclusion, STEM education, environmental sustainability, health and safety and legal, among others.Our Corporate 
Responsibility Governance
Board of Directors 
Governance Committee
Corporate Responsibility 
Leadership Committee
Corporate Responsibility 
Governance CommitteeWho’s responsible for Corporate Responsibility at Qualcomm? Everyone. 
We’ve integrated corporate responsibility throughout our Company, from our daily operations to our executive leadership and our Board of Directors (the “Board”). Our governance structure exists to facilitate accountability, transparency and the ongoing improvement of our programs. 
11
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Who’s responsible for Corporate Responsibility at Qualcomm? Everyone.2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Our Corporate Responsibility GovernanceDevelop transformative 
mobile technologies that are widely adopted in support of a sustainable world.
Employ a workforce that more closely reflects the demographics of the communities in which we do business.
Be recognized as a  
global leader in business conduct and ethics.
Maintain adherence to our supplier code of conduct in our extended supply chain.
Ensure that respect for human rights is integrated into all key business decisions.
Ensure sustainable  
and transparent management of our climate and water impacts across our value chain.
Actively engage stakeholders in  
our corporate  
responsibility programs.
Our alignment with the 
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) 
Qualcomm's 2030 Vision is our roadmap to inform big-picture thinking on corporate responsibility issues that are most 
important to our Company, and will help us identify where we can collaborate with key stakeholders to create sustainability solutions. 
Our 2030 Vision
12
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Our 2030 VisionOur corporate responsibility priorities include four areas where we believe we can make the greatest impact — 
Purposeful Innovation, STEM Education, Responsible Business and Our People.Our Priorities
Qualcomm
for GoodPurposeful Innovation 
We invent breakthrough
technologies that enable life-changing
products and experiences.
Our People 
We promote equality to 
make Qualcomm an inspiring 
and inclusive workplace  
that advances  
the development of  
leading-edge technologies.STEM Education
We inspire the next
generation of innovators to
develop the workforce in
STEM-based careers.
Responsible Business
We uphold the highest level of integrity and privacy protection 
with responsibly designed products, respect for human rights, 
and managing environmental impact.
Enrich the lives of 27 million people  
by continuing to bring technology to 
underserved communities around  
the world through Qualcomm® 
Wireless Reach™.
Increase Representation of Women in Leadership* by 15 percent.
Increase Underrepresented Minorities 
(URM**) Leadership representation by 15 percent. 
Increase overall URM representation 
by 20 percent.Reduce absolute Scope 1 and  
Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions by 30 percent from our global operations compared to a  
2014 baseline.
Reduce power consumption by  
10 percent, every year***, in our flagship Qualcomm
® Snapdragon™ 
Mobile Platform products.Ensure 100 percent of our primary semiconductor manufacturing suppliers are audited every 2 years  for conformance to the Supplier Code of Conduct.
Continue to inspire the next generation of inventors by engaging 1.5 million students and teachers across the globe in our strategic STEM initiatives: our home-grown Qualcomm
® 
Thinkabit Lab, our collaboration with FIRST™, and our STEM community partnerships.
  * Leadership is defined as individuals at the Principal and above level in technical roles, and Director and above in non-technical roles
** 
 F
or technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Native American. For non-technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian 
or other Pacific Islander, American Indian or Native American, and Asian.
 *** Given equivalent features.      Qualcomm Snapdragon is a product of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.Our 2025 Goals
13
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Our Priorities and 2025 GoalsWhat follows is a summary of the progress we made during fiscal year 2020 on our 
corporate responsibility priorities as well as our key accomplishments toward achieving our 2030 Vision and 2020 goals.Key
Accomplishments
14
14
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsWe believe an idea can  
spark change, transforming 
the world in extraordinary new ways. 
Our inventions are the foundation of so many 
of the incredible advancements that are part of our wireless world today—from smartphones to tablets, to cameras and cars, to homes. Our 5G breakthroughs are helping transform industries, like telemedicine and remote education, and driving efficiencies with always-connected mobile PCs, smart cities and smart factories. These innovations have profound effects - from the positive impacts for human and machine productivity, to maximizing performance while using less power, to ultimately transforming industries and enriching lives around the world.
Wireless Reach
Wireless Reach brings advanced wireless technologies to people and communities who need it most. These programs demonstrate pioneering uses of our Company’s mobile innovations to help  
drive human and economic progress in underserved areas globally. 
We’re improving lives with sustainable 
programs that enhance the delivery of healthcare, enrich teaching and learning, foster entrepreneurship, aid in public safety and improve the state of our environment. Our programs have benefitted more than 20 million people in 48 countries on five continents since the program's inception  
in 2006. 
Our success is the result of collaborations with more than 650 partners, including non-governmental organizations, universities, government institutions, nonprofits, development agencies and other private sector companies. 
The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted 
people’s lives in ways that were previously unimaginable. Along with the hardships have come great opportunities for innovative, sustainable solutions that use advanced mobile technologies to address the new needs presented by the pandemic. Since its founding, Wireless Reach has been working closely with organizations to address some of society's biggest challenges head-on. Our approach during the COVID-19 crisis was no different, in fact, in many instances, we accelerated social innovation to new heights to ensure students continued receiving high-quality education, healthcare-related demands were met, and women-led ventures remained open for business.Purposeful 
Innovation 
2020 Goal: 
Have a comprehensive understanding of the impacts  
and opportunities arising from the application of 
our technology. 
Successes:  
• 5G mobil e technology will benefit entire economies  
and societies. The global 5G value chain could generate up to $3.8 trillion in economic output by 2035 and support up to 22.8 million jobs.
1 This includes potential new innovations 
in telemedicine, remote education, smart factories, agriculture and autonomous vehicles.
2  
•
 Our
 contributions to technology standards drive future 
industries by enabling system interoperability while enabling product differentiation, creating new markets and expanding existing markets, allowing for better cost efficiency, reduced market risk and improved reliability for consumers, system vendors, and inventors.  
•
 Our
 Wireless Reach programs have benefitted more than  
20 million people in 48 countries on five continents through the application of our technologies across education, entrepreneurship, healthcare, public safety, and environmental sustainability. 2025 Goals: 
Enrich the lives of 27 million people by continuing to bring technology to underserved communities around the world through Qualcomm Wireless Reach.
Reduce power 
consumption by  
10 percent, every year* ,  
in our flagship Snapdragon products. 
1  The 5G Economy in a Post-COVID-19 Era. IHS Markit (2020)  https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/media/documents/files/the-5g-economy-in-a-post-covid-19-era-report.pdf
2  Five Industries the 5G revolution is set to disrupt. Axios and Qualcomm (2020)  https:/ /www.axios.com/sponsored/qualcomm/five-industries-5g-is-set-to-disrupt
*Given equivalent features. Reporting on the successes of our 
2020 Corporate Responsibility GoalsIntroducing our 2025 Corporate Responsibility Goals
15
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsSome examples:
Enabling remote learning 
United States:  
STEAM Mobile Learning
School closures due to the COVID-19 
pandemic drove many K-12 education leaders to quickly adopt e-learning from home to ensure continuity of learning for students. However, most students and teachers weren’t prepared for the change. 
Data collected by Project T omorrow, an 
educational nonprofit supporting innovative uses of STEM resources, during the 2018-19 school year shows that just 17 percent of classroom teachers said their school assigned mobile devices for students to use at home and in school. Many students and teachers went into remote learning lacking familiarity with the strategies, tools and platforms that facilitate these new  
learning processes. 
School district leaders nationwide have 
made herculean efforts to acquire and provision tablets and connected PCs for student use at home. However, according to a Project T omorrow poll conducted in April 2020, over half of district leaders estimated that 15 to 50 percent of their students lacked adequate Internet connectivity at home to support remote learning. 
With help from Wireless Reach, 5th grade 
students and their teachers in Williamsburg, Kentucky, a small rural community  
nestled in the foothills of Daniel Boone Country, were already fully prepared for distance learning when their school building closed in mid-March. 
Funded by a grant from Wireless Reach, 
these students and teachers have been using tablets enabled by our technologies to support learning in school and at home every day since September 2019. Each tablet includes a data plan that students can use at home to connect with their teachers and classmates and to access online learning content. 
The program also equipped teachers with 
best practices for integrating the tablets into everyday instruction. From using a mobile application on their tablets to explore constellations in the night sky to engaging their families with their virtual science labs, learning has not stopped for these students. Working collaboratively with University of Kentucky and Southeast/South-Central Educational Cooperative, this program is focusing efforts in preparing the next generation of mobile-ready teachers. 
Enabling mobile  
healthcare  
Brazil: Green & Yellow  
Blood Project 
Steady blood donation is a necessity  
during normal times. During the pandemic,  
it has been critical. Health institutions globally are facing blood shortages due to social isolation measures enacted to slow the spread of COVID-19. 
Brazil has consistently had one of the world’s 
highest number of confirmed COVID-19  
cases according to John Hopkins University 
of Medicine’s Coronavirus Resource Center . 
Normal conditions for blood donation are incompatible with health regulations during COVID-19. Beds are close together. Walk-in wait times can build up with large groups congregating in small waiting rooms. Medical personnel are in close quarters with each other and donors for hours at a time. Giving blood remotely is not an option. 
The Green and Yellow Blood Project provides 
an opportunity for donors to take action by donating blood to those who need it. Through coordination with the Brazilian Soccer Federation, Brazilian Association of Hematology, Hematology and Cell Therapy, and Association Paulista of Medicine, blood donation events are now being held in soccer stadiums. The new venue allows plenty of space between beds and waiting areas, lowering health risks to donors and healthcare workers. 
In support of the Green and Yellow Blood 
Project, Wireless Reach, in collaboration with MTM T ecnologia and ClearT ech, launched a free mobile app that’s designed to promote and facilitate safe blood donation. The app provides users with alerts about donation events, information on donation criteria and the ability to schedule appointments during events. The app offers free data connectivity to users. Healthcare workers using the app also have access to a website that confirms appointments and allows them to send 
 “I love being able to connect with my students via Google 
classroom and Zoom while our school is closed. Thanks to the tablets, the students are able to access these. They can watch videos of me teaching and reading books to them. They are able to comment and interact with me. It is the best-case scenario since we are not able to see them face-to-face. ” 
– 5th grade teacher, Williamsburg, KY 
16
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key Accomplishmentsmessages directly to donors. From May to 
September 2020, the app was downloaded more than 35,000 times, and more than 3,800 users have officially registered. T o date, the events brought a total of 1,646 blood bags collected, impacting more than 6,500 patients in need.
Indonesia THRIVE
For millions of people in emerging regions, frontline health workers (FHWs) are the first and often only point of contact for healthcare. FHWs form the backbone of the health system, especially in resource- constrained environments which have shortages of trained physicians and nurses. 
In Indonesia, FHWs include midwives, 
nutritionists, vaccinators, early childhood development professionals and family planning field workers. All rely on data from paper-based health registers. These paper-based systems hamper communication, coordination and resource-sharing across all levels of Indonesia’s decentralized health system. 
The THRIVE program, supported by Wireless 
Reach, demonstrates how a digital registry 
system known as Open Smart Register Platform (OpenSRP) can reduce maternal and child morbidity by improving FHW efficiencies, healthcare services coverage, continuity and quality of care, data quality, and timeliness of Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health interventions. THRIVE is a public-private partnership originally launched by Wireless Reach, World Health Organization, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Summit Institute of Development, Ona Systems, and District Governments across Indonesia.
OpenSRP combines data collection, client 
management and reporting workflows into one linked mobile interface and allows health workers to form an integrated care team. Participating FHWs use tablets powered by the Snapdragon platform and pre-loaded with midwife, vaccinator, nutritionist and early childhood development professional applications. All participants receive training in the use of the technology. 
The technology features facial recognition of 
patients, allowing FHWs to rapidly pull up a client’s health record through a point-and-click photo; real-time data sharing to enable FHWs to coordinate efficiently; active feedback and coaching for improved provider performance and responsiveness; and SMS texts for service reminders and health promotion to increase on-time services. 
More than 55,000 mothers and children and 
180 FHWs in 111 villages have benefited from this program. Across all villages in the preliminary research pilot, use of OpenSRP has, on average, increased coverage rates  
for ante-natal care, post-natal care and child immunizations by 25 percent; improved quality of care and timeliness of service delivery by 22 percent; and led to a 27 percent decrease in maternal and child morbidity. The program began in 2016 on  
the Indonesian island of Lombok and has since scaled to many other districts across Indonesia.
Enabling remote business 
operations 
Philippines: Hapinoy Mobile 
Microbusiness Hubs
In the Philippines, sari-sari stores are the 
last-mile supply points for their communities. They function as a neighborhood’s shared pantry, carrying household needs in small, daily doses. Many of these shops are owned by women microentrepreneurs called Nanays (T agalog for ‘Mother’).
When the Philippines locked down due to the 
spread of COVID-19, nearly all businesses, including sari-sari stores, closed their doors. Supply chains for grocery items were disrupted, making it difficult for sari-sari store owners to restock their shelves. Store owners also faced dwindling finances as people lost their jobs en masse and communities lost purchasing power. 
Normally, MicroVentures Inc., primary partner 
in the Hapinoy Mobile Microbusiness Hubs  
program, supported by Wireless Reach, provides participating Nanays with in-person training, linkage to capital, business opportunities, technology enablement and community-building to help them grow their businesses. When COVID-19 hit, the program pivoted toward an all-digital approach for recruitment, training, on-boarding and ongoing engagement. The digital approach enabled Hapinoy to continue supporting and engaging over 5,000 sari-sari store owners so  “Since the start of lockdown,  
I decided to close my store. But I continue offering [digital financial]  services for my customers who need to pay their monthly bills and send money. In this way,  
my store became well-known and I was  able to help more people.” 
–  Noel Ul at, sari-sari storeowner –  
with Hapinoy since 2017
they could navigate and adapt to the 
realities brought by the pandemic. 
The program created educational content  
to support the Nanays to navigate the new 
normal, operate with better safety protocols and increase their economic resilience.  
The program also supported store owners  
—through a combination of Facebook Chatbots and the BizMo mobile app—  
to continue accessing microfinancing opportunities and purchase fast-moving consumer goods to stock their stores from  
the safety of their homes. Nanays post their goods and services on social media to reach more customers, conduct transactions through mobile wallets and generate additional income through digital bills payment and online payment services. 
17
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsTransformative 
T echnology
Qualcomm invents foundational 
technologies that transform how the world connects, computes and communicates. 
We are the leading technology innovator 
developing breakthrough technologies such as 5G, Wi-Fi and artificial intelligence (AI). But that’s just the beginning. We also design platforms, chipsets, software, tools and services that help OEMs and developers bring those technologies into products and create experiences that change the way we live and work.
5G
Our Company has been at the forefront  
of wireless research and development for decades. In 2020, we continued to lead  
the development of the foundational  
5G wireless technology and the means of using 5G to power the digital transformation of everything. 
3G brought the internet to our phone.  
4G started the smartphone era. Now 5G is 
igniting an era in which everything will be connected. The following are examples of how 5G is already changing industries and daily life:
•
 Priv
ate networks for factories and 
industrial facilities. This includes the 
5G-enabled Io T with many devices, sensors, applications and mobile connectivity all aimed at improving product quality, increasing productivity, lowering costs and enhancing safety in industrial workplaces. This new connectivity will include factories and facilities away from cities where remoteness and physical complexity hamper wireless connections.
•
 A
griculture. 5G’s promise of expanding 
and accelerating connectivity without sacrificing battery life will be particularly beneficial to farmers. Already, 5G is improving veterinary diagnostics,  
crop protection, reduction of fertilizer  
use and smart irrigation systems that  
conserve water. 5G is also expected to provide new solutions to the disparity between broadband Internet connections in cities and rural areas.•
 Sus
tainability. 5G is being deployed to 
make energy and water use more efficient. Cities are preparing to use 5G to monitor air and water quality in real time. Connected-car technology is designed to minimize traffic jams and reduce emissions while improving safety.
•
 On-de
vice AI. The combination of AI and 
5G allows wearable medical devices and phones to work together in ways that are fast enough and smart enough to identify health problems detected by a wearable device and alert your doctor.
•
 Ext
ended reality (XR). 5G technology is 
vastly increasing the video bandwidth for XR with powerful computing and minimal delays to close the gap between the real and virtual worlds. Education, healthcare, retail, tourism and manufacturing are among the fields expected to benefit.
Automotive
The automotive industry is transforming at an unprecedented rate. In 2020, we showcased how our Company is expanding beyond mobile to support the industry’s transformation and to help consumers safely bring their digital lives into their vehicles.
We’re very excited to have launched our first 
autonomous driving platform—Qualcomm
® 
Snapdragon Ride™ Platform. One of the automotive industry’s most advanced, scalable and open autonomous driving solutions, Snapdragon Ride supports advanced driver assistance systems, including functions such as lane-keeping, traffic sign recognition and automated highway driving, as well as the development of full self-driving applications such as robo-taxis. Snapdragon Ride chips and technologies began shipping to carmakers, including our long-standing partner,  
General Motors, in late 2020.
We also launched our game-changing  
Qualcomm
® Car-to-Cloud service.  
Qualcomm Car-to-Cloud is a suite of 
connected-car services that will enable automakers to keep their vehicles current with over-the-air updates and enable them  
to continuously improve the user experience for their customers.
Building on our work to advance high-speed 
cellular networks under the Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (C

V2X) technology, we rolled 
out our C

V2X reference platform for vehicular 
and roadside units. This is an incredible lifesaving technology that Qualcomm is very proud to be championing in the global automotive industry.
We also announced a new Automotive Wi

Fi 
5 and Bluetooth combo chip that gives 
automakers high performance dual Medium Access Control Wi

Fi 5 along with the latest 
generation of Bluetooth 5.1 capabilities.  
This launch completes our portfolio of scalable Wi

Fi and Bluetooth products to 
address the needs of every vehicle tier.
As we look forward, IHS Markit predicts the 
T ransportations and Storage industry sector, of which automotive is a part, to generate $603 billion in 5G-enabled sales between now and 2035
1. 
Qualcomm Snapdragon Ride and Qualcomm Car-to-Cloud are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
18
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsImproving Device Power 
Efficiency
At Qualcomm, we take power efficiency 
seriously and we are focused on exploring new and innovative ways to maximize the performance of devices, like smartphones, while reducing the amount of energy they consume.
Nowhere is this better demonstrated than in 
our Snapdragon Mobile Platform, where our technologies are improving the smartphone battery experience and contributing to a more sustainable world:
•
 Connectivity
 – smartphones powered by 
Snapdragon are always connected while 
minimizing power consumption. A single Snapdragon Platform is responsible for delivering Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, location, and of course, 5G connectivity – in most cases, all day long. What’s more impressive is that we’ve been able to scale throughput speeds and technological advances with minimal impact to battery life.
•
 Gr
aphics Processing Unit (GPU) – 
Qualcomm® Adreno™ GPU is one of the 
most power- efficient graphics intellectual property (IP) in mobile industry. This year, our Adreno GPU achieved the biggest year on year leap in graphics rendering performance with a 35 percent improvement in performance while focusing on sustainable and useable performance and adding new cutting-edge features.
•
 AI
 – AI augments many smartphone 
capabilities, operating behind the scenes to make your experiences natural and seamless. AI recognizes your voice and fingerprint to unlock your device, helps you take better pictures and select the best one, helps you to message faster by predicting your next words and much more. Our 6th generation Qualcomm
® AI 
Engine offers the highest tera operations per second (TOPS) performance on mobile at ultra-low power consumption with an impressive three-fold improvement versus the previous generation.
•
 Camer
a – We’ve made significant 
advances in video capture, supporting HDR, 8K, and capturing imagery from three different vantage points, but the image processing is where power efficiency is key. The technology inside Snapdragon, specifically the Qualcomm® Spectra™ image signal processor (ISP), can process more pixels per clock cycle than previous generations, meaning it can process images very fast. If it can process images quickly, fewer clock cycles need to be run, saving power, and reducing heat (which in of itself, shortens batter life).
It is easy to assume that charging a single smartphone doesn’t significantly affect the climate but when you consider there are more than 5 billion unique mobile subscribers globally
3, it adds up. That’s why we are 
looking at power efficiency across our entire product roadmap, from mobile to automotive to Io T.
Small Business  
Accelerator Program
The success of small businesses is  
essential to America’s economic growth  
and prosperity. As small business owners  
and employees quickly adapt to the new normal of the COVID-19 pandemic,  
they need technology solutions that will  
help them maintain operations and  
achieve long-term success.
In June, Qualcomm T echnologies,  
Inc. (QTI) launched the Qualcomm  
Small Business Accelerator Program to  
help small businesses transition to a mobile-
first work environment and thrive into the future. Qualcomm and its ecosystem of partners have committed to provide transformational technology, services and support to US-based small businesses  
across various industries, with particular commitment to minority-owned and  
women-owned establishments.
QTI received more than 375 applications to 
the program from across 38 states and the District of Columbia. The selected 33 small businesses span healthcare, education, crisis response, arts, environmental services and other industries.
Each selected small business received a 
unique variety of products and technical support valued at up to $25,000, based on identified need. Product offerings may include mobile computing and connectivity solutions powered by QTI solutions, such as Always-Connected PCs , Wi-Fi systems, mobile phones, Bluetooth-enabled headsets and active mobile hotspots, along with technical and device integration support.
We are so pleased to have the support of the 
following partners in this program: Best Buy Business, Bose, Inseego, Jabra, Lenovo, Linksys, Loom, Microsoft, Motorola, PicsArt, Samsung, Sketchable, Sophos, Square, T argus, Verizon Business, and Zoom.
Promoting patent diversity
We believe that bringing talent and diversity together is the key to unleashing creativity, innovation and breakthrough technologies. As part of our efforts to grow the innovation economy, we’re creating a pipeline of diverse inventors and patent holders.
In 2020, we proudly supported the 
VentureWell E-T eam grant program. VentureWell is a higher education network that helps cultivate the skills and creativity  
of university students who are passionate about solving the world’s biggest challenges and creating lasting impact. The E-T eam program supports multidisciplinary student-led teams who are aiming to bring their innovations out of the lab and into the market to create social, health or environmental impact.
We also participated in some exciting 
activities to highlight the gender gap within intellectual property (IP) development and ownership, including:
3GSMA Intelligence, January 2021. https:/ /www.gsmaintelligence.com/data/
Qualcomm Adreno, Qualcomm AI Engine, and Qualcomm Spectra are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
19
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key Accomplishments “Through Qualcomm 
T echnologies’ generosity, we will now be able to scale up and move the needle on access to music as an integral part of cross-curricular learning for students everywhere. ”
–  Jessica Bar on, Executive Director, 
Guitars in the Classroom,  
Small Business Accelerator participant• Amplified the successes of women-led 
E-T eams through cross-promotional 
activities around National Inventors Day and World IP Day.
•
 F
eatured Senior Vice President Susie 
Armstrong on VentureWell’s funder panel, Charting the Future: Philanthropic Trends in Innovation and Entrepreneurship.   
The panel was a virtual OPEN 2020 conference highlight with more 100 attendees, making it the second most-attended session after OPEN Minds,  
the E-T eam virtual pitch competition.
•
 Engaged Qual
comm staff to participate in 
“Office Hour with Experts” during E-T eam workshops, to help student entrepreneur teams improve work products critical to venture development.
We look forward to building on our successful partnership with VentureWell  
and sponsoring the E-T eam grant program  
in 2021.
Patents are critical to Qualcomm’s success 
and to the U.S. economy, but not everyone shares equally in the opportunity to patent. Women, people of color, and lower-income individuals patent inventions at significantly lower rates than their male, white, and wealthier counterparts. Invent T ogether  is a 
new coalition, led by Qualcomm, committed to breaking down barriers and helping to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to invent and patent. T ogether with the Association of American Universities,  
AntiaB.org, Association for Women in Science, Collaboratory for Women Innovators, Future Forward, Institute for Women’s Policy Research, Lemelson-MIT, Project Invent, The Ohio State University, VentureWell, and Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation we’re helping close wage and wealth gaps and supporting the development of new and different inventions.
20
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsAt Qualcomm, as a company of inventors, 
we believe in the power of technology.  
We also believe that innovation leads  
to social change, and that with every exciting new invention comes the  
potential to transform the way we live,  
work and connect.
Our Company owes its success to the  
hard work and dedication of our employees.  
Our varied backgrounds, experiences, 
perspectives, and ideas help us increase  
our global awareness and are crucial to  
our ability to innovate. 
We foster inclusive teams of diverse 
employees, educate and train all employees and leaders on the importance of driving diversity and reach out to varied communities to promote technology education. We also engage our global workforce through giving and outreach efforts to support and enrich the communities where we live and work.
Our People
 * Leadership is defined as individuals at the Principal and above level in technical roles, and Director and above in non-technical roles.
** 
 F
or technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Native American.  For non-technical positions, 
“URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, American Indian or Native American, and Asian.
2020 Goal: 
Our comprehensive programs for recruiting, retaining, and 
promoting an inclusive and diverse workforce will result in increased representation of women and underrepresented  minorities (URM) across our workforce including technical and business leadership roles.
Successes:  
• Compan y-wide female representation is up 17 percent and 
population of URMs in the U.S. is up 5 percent since Q1 FY19. 
•
 F
or engineering, total female population is up 15 percent 
and population of URMs in the U.S. is up 12 percent since  
Q1 FY19. 
•
 R
educed the voluntary attrition rates of both women  
and URMs below the Company average. 
•
 The empl
oyee perception of Qualcomm as an inclusive 
workplace has increased by 10 percent since FY19,  
as indicated by our diversity survey results.2025 Goals: 
Qualcomm will continue to focus on increasing diversity and inclusion within our workforce. We are committed to ensuring that every employee has an equal opportunity to become a leader. Our 2025 goals reaffirm that commitment.
•
 Incr
ease 
Representation  
of Women in 
Leadership*  
by 15 percent
•
 Incr
ease 
Underrepresented Minorities (URM** Leadership representation  
by 15 percent
•
 Incr
ease overall  
URM representation by 20 percentReporting on the successes of our 
2020 Corporate Responsibility GoalsIntroducing our 2025 Corporate Responsibility Goals
21
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key Accomplishments• Our  revamped diversity conference 
strategy led to a 300 percent increase in 
conference hiring. In 2020, Qualcomm was represented at eight diversity conferences where we could interact with thousands of students and hire the future leaders of our Company.  
•
 W
e hosted the Disability:IN Inclusion 
Works Conference to promote hiring people with disabilities. Qualcomm was pleased to welcome over 100 companies and organizations to our campus for the two-day event that focused on educating and sharing best practices to hire and retain people with disabilities. We also hosted a panel where we discussed our successful internship program created for people with autism.  
•
 Our
 continued engagement with 
organizations that work with diverse communities has been vital to our success in building a more diverse pipeline.  
We’ve built more than 30 successful partnerships with organizations such as Reboot Representation, Fairygodboss, Society of Professional Hispanic Engineers, Rallypoint, National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), GEM Consortium,  
and National Center for Women and Information T echnology. 
•
 W
e also proudly reaffirmed our support for 
the Hispanic Promise, the first-of-its-kind national pledge to hire, promote, retain and celebrate Hispanics in the workplace.
Diversity development
In alignment with our 2020 goal, our GID team established the Diversity T alent Development program and trained more  
than 7,500 employees on diversity, inclusion, racial equity, or leadership. The team also partnered with organizations such as LeadHership, Athena Academy, Hermanitas and The McKinsey Black Executive Leadership Accelerator to create development programs specifically for women and racial minorities.
T o improve engagement with our female 
employees and enhance our ability to  
retain this talent, we launched a women’s leadership development initiative across  
our global engineering organization.  
This initiative encourages managers to engage their female employees in development conversations, so they are better able to identify opportunities for stretch assignments, mentorship and  
other growth opportunities. Themes that emerge from these conversations are used  
to identify professional and technical development programs. 
In coordination with our T alent & Engineering 
Development teams, we’ve already introduced a variety of career and technical development training opportunities that align with the development themes:
•
 Be
tterUp Career Coaching Cohort 
Program: Empowers and develops future 
diverse leaders in engineering with the support of a dedicated career coach. 
•
 IEEE – Rut
gers Business Development 
Program, Mini-MBA: Addresses gaps between engineering expertise and business acumen. 
•
 Car
eer Development Workshops and 
Events: Programs and offerings for diverse employees on topics such as presentation skills, mentorship and managing conflict, as well as offerings to help managers and leaders build their skills in key areas, such as coaching, engagement and leading technical people. Inclusion and 
Diversity
Qualcomm has approximately 41,000 people 
represented by 109 nationalities working  
in more than 175 locations in 30 countries. Collectively, we speak 74 languages.  
We strive to be a community that reflects the world which we transform every day. That means working to ensure all our  
people have the chance to make their  
mark on innovation. 
Improving management & 
recruitment practices 
We are dedicated to sustaining a work 
environment where every employee feels welcome, inventive, and inspired through initiatives and programs that foster opportunity, professional growth, and community.  
We are proud that our wide-ranging and 
far-reaching inclusion and diversity efforts have earned our Company prestigious external recognition. Qualcomm was one  
of only 15 employers to receive the 2020 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom award. We’ve scored a perfect 100 on Disability:IN’s Disability Equality Index each year since its inception. Forbes named Qualcomm one of the Best Employers for Diversity, and Avtar named us one of the 100 Best Companies for Women.
Key inclusion and diversity efforts 
implemented in 2020 include:
•
 W
e provided training on unconscious  
bias to help managers understand and 
overcome any hidden biases they might have that could be influencing their decisions around promotions and annual review ratings.  
•
 W
e expanded our efforts to recruit and  
hire world-class diverse talent.  
We launched the Qualcomm Returnship Program to give employees who have taken a substantial break in their careers the opportunity to return to the tech sector. The program goal is to work with qualified individuals and help them  
gain professional experience, as well as build their skill sets for a successful career.  
22
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsPromoting inclusion  
and diversity among 
employees 
Qualcomm continued to expand its 
programs and activities promoting our inclusive and diverse culture among employees globally. GID’s support extends  
to our eight strong and vibrant Employee Networks (ENs), which added eight chapters globally while also increasing their domestic membership. Among domestic ENs, our African and African American Diversity (QAAAD) EN increased its membership  
more than 170 percent. 
We increased global diversity awareness by 
hosting inclusion and diversity events all over the world. We also designated GID Regional Leads in global regions where we have a significant employee presence. These leads provide more support to the specific issues faced in the regions. 
Normally, Qualcomm holds large events for 
Black History Month, International Women’s Day, Hispanic Heritage Month, Memorial Day, Pride and many more. During the COVID-19 pandemic, these events moved virtual. This format also allowed us to include global employees, and increase attendance, for our events.  
Racial Justice 
In the wake of George Floyd’s killing and  
the ensuing civil unrest around racial injustice, we created opportunities for employees and leaders throughout our organization to come together and talk about what they were seeing, hearing, and feeling. 
We held listening sessions to give our 
communities of color the opportunity to speak directly to our senior leaders. We hosted employee forums for QAAAD and LatinQ, our Latinx EN, to brainstorm ways  
to address the needs of people of color. We invited speakers, including Ibram X. Kendi, one of America’s foremost historians and leading antiracist voices, to talk about systemic racism, the black experience in America and how to be an anti-racist. 
We created a racial justice site on our 
intranet to give employees information and tools to fight racial injustice. We also created targeted development plans to increase black leadership within our Company. We increased our charitable giving to racial justice organizations, including the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under the Law, Black Girls Code, Equal Justice Initiative,  
I have a Dream Foundation, Climate Justice Alliance, and the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation. We also directed and matched employee donations to other nonprofits addressing racial justice.
Promoting inclusion  
and diversity in the 
community
Inclusion and diversity are at the heart of 
Qualcomm’s success. We further innovation and accelerate growth by reaching out to diverse communities to promote equity. We have many successful partnerships locally, domestically, and globally, including schools, charitable organizations, and nonprofits.  
We donate to nonprofit organizations locally 
and nationally that focus on inclusion and diversity with a particular focus on charities that focus on increasing diversity in tech. In 2020, we increased our standing in the San Diego community by becoming the lead sponsor for organizations such as The Richard T apia Celebration of Diversity in Computing Conference.  We’ve created impact in the black community through community events, mentoring and academic support. We’ve sponsored Black History Month events and Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebrations. We partner with Beyond School Walls (Big Brothers Big Sisters) to mentor kids from historically underserved communities. We partner with Students  
with Academic Goals to provide SAT test prep  
for underrepresented minority students.  
We also work with NSBE and GEM to support Black engineering students with scholarships.
Employee 
Engagement, Training and Development
Our people are committed to inventing 
solutions to complex problems and making the world a better place. At Qualcomm,  
we care about our employees and demonstrate it by providing a strong foundation of support to help our people be successful. Engaging employees is critical for retaining valuable and committed talent. As such, giving employees a strong voice to, together, improve the culture and climate is key. We use a variety of channels to facilitate open engagement and direct communication across the Company. 
23
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsOne of the ways we work to help keep 
engagement high is through the organization of regular small-group breakfast meetings, lunch meetings and happy hours with leaders across the Company. These global sessions give employees and leaders a chance to engage in informal discussions about the business and culture of Qualcomm. Employees ask questions, share information about the work they’re doing and make suggestions. Companywide and business unit All Hands Meetings held quarterly give employees additional opportunities to ask questions of our executives. In the context of the pandemic, these meetings were held online. 
We also track employee engagement and 
sentiment through listening posts, such as our Company’s Climate Survey, quarterly Pulse Surveys, and global focus groups. Through different employee engagement activities, we can identify and implement global initiatives that improve our culture and contribute to making Qualcomm an inspiring and inclusive workplace. 
Based on the results of our 2019 Climate 
Survey, three of the workstreams we continued to focus on for 2020 centered around recognition, career progression and skills development. The work done in these areas – led at the executive level – is an important part of how we continue to evolve, focus, and improve our workplace.Career Development and 
Progression Initiative 
We’re very excited about our new career 
development and progression initiative to empower employees with tools to design their unique career path. This initiative is focused on helping drive employees’ understanding of the promotion process, exploring career growth opportunities, and ensuring that employees can find available training and resources to support their career growth and advancement. Through new offerings such as Manager Communication forums, QC News stories spotlighting employees who realized their career goals and an eLearning course on creating successful mentoring relationships, we made terrific progress in 2020. From the 2019 Climate Survey to the June 2020 Pulse Survey, career development scores increased 8 percent across the board.
Skills development 
Our employee survey results show that employees are interested in having a variety  
of tasks and more opportunities for cross-functional interactions within their projects. In response, a Skills Development team came together to focus on increasing visibility, awareness, and opportunities to meet employees’ ever-evolving development needs. We’re very excited that through their efforts, skill development scores in 2020 increased 13 percent from the 2019 Climate Survey. 
Highlights of this initiative include: •
 Cr
eation of a Qualcomm Development 
website to serve as a centralized hub for 
resources for development goal setting, professional and technical training, and job opportunities available internally. 
•
 Updat
ed all technical training content for 
our engineering population, ensuring up-to-date resources in the most critical technology areas. 
•
 L
aunched the Skills Plus Seeker Pilot 
group, which includes opportunities for employees to develop their skills through short-burst assignments.
At Qualcomm, we believe in giving every employee the opportunity to reach their career goals by providing opportunities, networks, and experiences. Our Company offers learning opportunities to enrich the employee experience. Our development programs enable employees with the resources they need to achieve their career goals, build technical expertise, shape management skills, lead the organization, and balance their work and non-work lives to the best of their ability. 
Mentoring and coaching 
In 2020, we launched a new mentoring framework focused on empowering employees globally to engage in mentoring relationships as part of their career journey. Having supportive partners is mutually beneficial. Whether it’s a mentee getting guidance from another’s experience or  
a mentor sharing their own learnings,  
a mentoring relationship can help to expand networks, grow new skills, and navigate challenging situations.  
T o support this new framework, we 
developed an interactive e-learning course and practice forums to build mentor and mentee capabilities. T o date, more than 700 employees have taken our flagship Mentoring Matters training. 
Because research shows that organizations 
with strong coaching cultures are more than twice as likely to be high-performing organizations, we’ve continued to focus on coaching as a way to develop managers and 
24
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key Accomplishmentsemployees. In 2020, we offered a “Coaching 
Skills for Engineering Managers” workshop series. These sessions helped managers learn how to effectively coach employees to increase productivity, create an environment of trust and autonomy, and help boost morale and engagement.  
Recognition and ThankQ 
Research shows that recognition can increase employee engagement by more than 40 percent. With a strong recognition culture, employees are more likely to endorse a company as a great place to work, more likely to stay with the company long-term and more likely to feel committed to their job, manager and the company mission.
After the Company's Climate Survey 
identified recognition as an area of opportunity, we launched the ThankQ platform. ThankQ is an online social recognition platform and app that makes it easy and fun for all employees to virtually recognize each other’s great work, congratulate colleagues on their Qualcomm anniversaries and birthdays, and “like, ” comment on, and share recognitions. Individuals can receive points for being recognized, and the points can be redeemed for items of the employee’s choosing.  
Despite the challenges of launching  
ThankQ during the pandemic while the 
majority of employees were working remotely, in the tool’s first five months of  
use, 92 percent of individual contributors  
and 98 percent of managers and above registered to use the program and gave nearly 81,000 recognitions.   
After ThankQ launched, pulse survey data 
showed a 10 percent increase in agreement with the statement that Qualcomm is a company that promotes a culture of recognition. Frequent users of the platform also experienced a 6 percent boost in morale during the same period. 
Employee 
Wellbeing 
We believe that building connections 
between our employees, their families,  
and our communities creates an even more meaningful, fulfilling, fun, and productive workplace. Through our different programs, our people can pursue their interests and hobbies, connect to volunteering and giving opportunities, enjoy unique recreational experiences with family members, and communicate directly with our senior leadership. Our programs support our employees’ lives inside and outside work  
and empower them to influence the morale, culture and practices of our Company. 
We support employees to explore their 
passions. One example of this is our Company’s global Qclub program which creates meaningful connections between employees by providing funding for groups  
of colleagues to pursue their shared hobbies and interests. Employees establish and run the clubs. In 2020, our Qclub program continued with a mixture of virtual and in-person events from our more than 300 registered clubs, ranging from a go cart fans group in China, badminton clubs in various countries such as France and United States, or a driving club in Korea. 
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic drove most 
of our on-site workforce to suddenly become remote employees. We quickly created an internal site and populated it with a wealth of digital resources and best practices to address the new needs and expectations  
of leaders and employees. Among the topics included were leading during the uncertainty of coronavirus, managing remote teams, coping with stress, and managing the challenges of working while caring for oneself, children, and others. A daily “Quarantine Tips for Qualcommers” email also shared short wellbeing and productivity tips for the first eight weeks, and our CEO, Steve Mollenkopf, recorded weekly video messages to check in with employees and boost morale. For more information on our full COVD-19 Response, please see page 8. 
Normally, we leverage our partnerships with 
local arts and culture organizations to create fun and unique in-person experiences for our employees and their families. In 2020, we engaged our people and their families at home with kid-friendly virtual programs, parenting webinars, virtual arts events,  
and much more. Highlights included, amongst others, virtual performances by  
the San Diego Opera and City Ballet of  
San Diego, as well as a virtual comedy evening with one of India's nationally renowned comedians and a DJ-led music session; free virtual family days at science and military museums; and a flagship virtual Qkids (T ake Your Kids to Work Day) featuring STEM experiments for kids to follow along and try at home. We also transformed our regular Qualcomm Summer on the Lawn concert series into a virtual performance series. Similar events were replicated across our global sites. 
Qualcomm  
Ambassador Program
The Qualcomm Ambassador Program provides opportunities for employees to demonstrate their pride in working at Qualcomm by participating more deeply  
in on-site and virtual engagement events, encouraging recognition in the ThankQ program and by representing our Company in local communities. Launched in 2017 in San Diego, this program has grown to include nearly 200 ambassadors across Qualcomm offices in the U.S. and Canada. 
In 2020, ambassadors fulfilled 93 requests  
for support with activities such as Qualcomm 
Museum tours, community events, speakerships, new hire events, mentorships, and Thinkabit Lab events.
Community 
Engagement  
and Giving  
Responding to community 
needs during COVID-19 
Giving back to the communities where  
we live, work, and do business is central  
to our culture. In 2020, we donated to 
nonprofit organizations around the world, supporting COVID-19 relief funds,  
providing essential medical supplies,  
and helping address other COVID-19  
specific needs. 
•
 W
e activated Qualcomm Foundation 
funds to support local organizations’ 
COVID-19 response efforts. 
•
 W
e allowed grantees to repurpose 2020 
grants either toward general operational support or to the organization’s COVID-19 specific programs and needs. 
25
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key Accomplishments “Owing to COVID-19, 
several STEM activities organized by CYSC were rescheduled or changed to online activities, including Qualcomm's sponsored summer camp. Virtual activity management is a new skill that CSCY staff, like me, are learning by doing. We really appreciate that Qualcomm allowed us to repurpose the grant. We will use it in our 2021 STEM activities and inspire innovation in more young generation. ”
–   F ang ZHU, Director, Division of  
Resource Development, Children  
and Youth Science Center, China   “On March 16th, school 
districts across Santa Clara and San Mateo closed schools as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. As such, Reading Partners’ reading centers, all located within elementary schools, closed with them. Qualcomm’s support enabled us to develop and invest in new engagement opportunities that would allow us to continue serving students in need throughout the 2019-2020 school year and provide families with valuable resources and online literacy support. ” 
–  R eading Partners Silicon Valley,  
United States • W e educated employees on the needs of 
their local community and encouraged 
them to donate and request donation matching from Qualcomm. 
Our employees are passionate about many causes and embrace opportunities to make a difference. T o support their passion during the pandemic, we created an online portal for employees to find virtual volunteer opportunities and hosted virtual volunteer activities for employees and their families, such as making inspirational cards for older adults who would benefit from friendly connections during this deeply isolating time.
Facilitating remote  
learning capabilities  
when it matters most 
The global COVID-19 pandemic forced schools around the globe to move online.  
But many students lack broadband  
internet and the devices necessary to access their online schoolwork. The “digital divide”  
is nothing new, but the pandemic has demonstrated how a lack of access  
to devices and broadband poses an  
urgent threat. Many students and teachers, particularly those in under-resourced communities, began their distance  
learning journey lacking the tools,  
platforms, and connectivity to support  
their new learning processes.  
Qualcomm helped address these educational 
needs, providing mobile devices and other support to various schools in our headquarters in San Diego, including Vista Unified School District, San Diego Unified School District and Preuss School UCSD, as well as various nonprofit organizations, including the China Children T eenagers’ Fund, Georgetown University’s Community Scholars Program, and others. 
26
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key Accomplishments2020 Goal: 
Enhance and expand the talent pipeline in the technology industry by engaging students  
and other key stakeholders in our scalable STEM education initiatives.
Successes:  
• Since its incep tion, our homegrown STEM Education Program, the Thinkabit Lab, has inspired over 78,000 
students across the U.S. to become the next generation of inventors. Through collaborations with different 
organizations, we have a network of 16 Thinkabit Lab sites and 30 trained instructors at schools, universities, and libraries in five states nationwide. Even with COVID-19 in 2020, we expanded our summer program and reached 325 percent more students in part due to implementing our invention-based camps in a remote learning environment. 
•
 Our
 strategic collaboration with FIRST™ has grown over the last five years to include program and 
regional support in eight countries, support of teams in underserved communities, support of FIRST  
Championship and tech integration of our Snapdragon processor in the FIRST T ech Challenge program. These efforts combined have reached over 500,000 students in the last five years.   
•
 Qual
comm’s continuing collaboration with the Shanghai Adream Charitable Foundation trains teachers 
and educators in China to implement STEM curriculum and activities in schools and community centers. By end of 2020, 187 schools and 10 community centers implemented “STEM & Maker” courses benefiting around 40,000 students aged from 10 to 15. 
•
 Our
 Qualcomm Aqriti™ program has made big strides in improving access and exposure to quality STEM 
education at hundreds of schools in India with a key focus on engaging young girls in STEM. Since its inception, Aqriti has impacted more than 56,000 children and more than 2,200 teachers across 278 schools in Hyderabad, Bangalore, Mumbai, and Chennai.
STEM 
Education
Science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics (STEM) is the foundation for everything we do. It supports the brainpower behind the breakthrough technologies and inventions we bring to life.   
As technology leaders and a company of 
inventors, we are committed to providing future innovators with the skills and knowledge to solve global challenges.  
In the last five years, Qualcomm and the Qualcomm Foundation have given over $30 million to STEM programs globally, funded more than 160 STEM organizations, fostered interest in STEM in 41 countries, and inspired more than 700,000 students to join the next generation of inventors.We invest in STEM initiatives that:
•
 Help bridge 
the STEM skills gap among 
students globally  
•
 Build S
TEM capacity among teachers  
and educators  
•
 Engage w
omen and underrepresented 
minorities in STEM fields  
•
 L
everage our employees as STEM 
ambassadors in our communities
2025 Goal: 
Continue to foster the next 
generation of innovators by inspiring 1.5 million students and teachers across the globe through our strategic STEM initiatives: our home-grown Thinkabit Lab, our collaboration with FIRST   
and our STEM community partnerships.Reporting on the successes of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Goals Introducing our 
2025 Corporate 
Responsibility Goals
27
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsIn 2020, as COVID-19 was spreading 
globally, schools and STEM programs closed their doors and distance learning became the new normal. The pandemic challenged school districts to ensure that all teachers, parents, and students were equipped with the tools, knowledge and access to participate in remote learning. It also created many new opportunities for Qualcomm to support our STEM program partners and inspire future inventors with innovative, sustainable learning solutions.
Thinkabit Lab 
Continues to Broaden its Reach 
Thinkabit Lab 2020 Impact
Our Thinkabit Lab program shows students 
from all cultural and socioeconomic backgrounds that they can be part of inventing the wireless world of the future. Learners of all ages explore careers available at Qualcomm and other technology companies. They engage in fun and unique engineering projects culminating in the design of an Internet of Things (Io T)-themed invention to solve a real-world problem. These activities help students understand where they see themselves in the future workforce and how they could use technology to help make the world a  
better place.   
We launched our Thinkabit Lab program in 
2014 at Qualcomm’s headquarters in  
San Diego. We have evolved and expanded the program yearly to broaden our reach and create greater impact. As of 2020, our program has inspired over 78,000  
students across the U.S. to become the  
next generation of inventors. Through collaborations with public, private, and nonprofit organizations, we now have  
a celebrated network of 16 Thinkabit Lab  
sites and 30 trained instructors at  
schools, universities, and libraries in  
five states nationwide.   
We formed new partnerships and built on 
existing collaborations to broaden our reach and deepen our impact. We added new content to engage learners of different ages, like our “What is 5G?” video which explains this transformative fifth generation of wireless technology and its potential to reinvent education. 
We collaborated formally for the first time 
with the San Diego chapter of the Computer Science T eachers Association (CSTA) and Code.org to collectively support teachers in San Diego County. More than 40 CSTA members representing K-16 education learned about resources at the Thinkabit Lab Learning Center and how to get involved with the FIRST Robotics Competition, which 
Qualcomm supports.
We enabled teachers across all  
grade levels to incorporate new coding 
activities during Computer Science Education Week—including Hour of Code  
—and beyond by placing Thinkabit Lab hardware kits in their hands so they could pilot new coding activities.  
We continued to tap into Qualcomm 
employees' passion and commitment to inspire the next generation of inventors to help us expand our reach in local communities. Our network of 53 Thinkabit Lab ambassadors collectively volunteered over 250 hours of their time engaging with 
schools and organizations to build STEM capacity among teachers and educators in communities inside and outside the U.S. They participated in speakerships, summer camps, workshops, family nights, and other onsite events, prior to the pandemic and virtually during the pandemic.   
In the fall of 2019, we celebrated National 
STEM Day by participating in a STEM fair on the lawn at our Company’s headquarters in San Diego. We featured 5G Game, which underscores Qualcomm’s role in developing 5G technology. The purpose of this fair was to highlight the programs of Qualcomm’s non-profit and internal STEM partners,  
and to promote volunteer opportunities to employees, which generated 25 new  
STEM ambassadors. 
Our online Learning Center  continues to 
provide educators, librarians, youth 
organization leaders, and community members with access to a variety of fun  
and free coding activities which can be downloaded for use in their classroom,  
home or organization.  
28
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsConfidence in Coding  
and Engineering:  
 "I want our students to realize 
that there are endless possibilities for their future,  
even if they don’t see it in their community. The Qualcomm Thinkabit Lab program provides our students with resources to explore careers as well as completing hands-on coding and engineering activities. You can see the students’ confidence grow as they progress through the activities. Hearing students say, “I’m good at this!” or  
“My ‘geniusness’ works!”  
makes my heart smile. "
–  Middl e School Thinkabit Lab 
Program Administrator   T aking STEM  
Education Virtual
When COVID-19 hit, we further expanded 
our summer program with new online and virtual activities that enabled many more future inventors across the U.S. to participate. We shared our 10 best remote learning practices for teaching STEM with other educators to support teachers  
starting a new academic year teaching  
their students remotely.   
We are particularly excited about our new 
virtual learning approach which engaged close to 350 students in 19 virtual week-long camps across seven Thinkabit Lab sites, including our long-standing collaboration with the American Association of University Women’s T ech T rek program for girls.  
Our three-month summer offerings marked  
a 325 percent increase compared to student participation the previous summer.  
The program’s success was highlighted  
on Qualcomm’s Podcast Channel.    
STEM Camp culminated in student programming and building one of three different types of robotic inventions:   
•
 T
ech for Good. Campers used  
Io T and Sustainability frameworks to  
solve a problem within one of the five 
sectors that align with our Company’s Wireless Reach initiative—health care, entrepreneurship, public safety,  
education, and the environment.  
•
 A
g T ech for Good. Campers  
used frameworks of Ag T ech Io T  
technology to solve a problem  
within sustainable agriculture.  
•
 W
earable T ech. Campers used a  
wearable tech/consumer electronic sectors to create automated  
wearable hats that represented  
their strengths, interests, and values.  Career aspirations: 
 "My day at the lab was hard but 
inspiring. We chose a really hard thing – a coffee machine. We failed  
a lot but when we finally succeeded,  
it was great! Now I want to be  
an inventor!"
–  4th Gr ade Student, The T ech Lab  
@ Cedar Point Elementary  
 “I enjoyed the opportunity to go to  
the Qualcomm Thinkabit Lab because it helped me solidify my plans around my educational and career aspirations. I also loved the  
hands-on, interactive aspects of  
the experience. ”
–  6th Gr ade Student, Thinkabit Lab at  
the Virginia T ech Roanoke Center 
Thinkabit Lab Makes a Difference in Students' Lives
29
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsFIRST – Fostering  
a pipeline of  
STEM leaders 
Our ongoing collaboration with FIRST   
(For Inspiration and Recognition of Science 
and T echnology) is another important way that we’re investing in programs that increase access to STEM education and  
help to build a pipeline of STEM leaders across the globe.  
FIRST is the world's leading youth-serving 
not-for-profit organization advancing STEM education. FIRST engages students in 
grades K-12 in mentor-based robotics programs that help them become science and technology leaders as well as well-rounded contributors to society. In addition to supporting events and programs in eight countries, and thousands of teams globally, Qualcomm deploys hundreds of employees to help provide real world mentorship to increase students' understanding of  
STEM concepts and inspire them to  
pursue STEM fields.
2020 marked our sixth year as FIRST T ech 
Challenge Season Presenting Sponsor. FIRST T ech Challenge teams create and control their robots using smartphones powered by a Snapdragon processor. This integration puts our technology in the hands of more than 55,000 students in 25 countries each year with a cumulative reach of more than 305,000 students in more than 27 countries over the last five years.  
During the 2019-2020 season, more than 
200 Qualcomm employees in four countries donated more than 15,000 hours of volunteer time to support FIRST participants as 
mentors, volunteers, and judges. While some students were not able to finish their season due to the pandemic, most teams had completed their season by March.  
Our 2019-2020 total global team and 
student impact:
•
 117
,566 students  
•
 11,
937 teams  
•
 29 coun
tries 
Igniting a passion for STEM
The spark that lit Joy’s passion for engineering occurred during her  
high school orientation. “The high school's FIRST robotics team rolled in 
their 5-foot robot and started to shoot T-shirts and soft sponge balls from their robot, ” she said. “That was the moment that captivated me.  
I thought, I HAVE TO do that. ” 
Joining the electrical sub-team of her school’s FIRST Robotics team 
when she was a sophomore changed Joy’s life. The more she learned, the more confident she felt. She volunteered at FIRST events every year, serving as a role model and mentor to others. Her passion for electrical engineering eventually led to her participation in a hackathon where she and a friend met Qualcomm campus recruiting team lead,  
Courtney Lach. 
 “Courtney invited both of us to the Qualcomm
® Student Accelerator 
program where we got the opportunity to interview and get an 
internship, ” said Joy. “Now I work full-time with the Product & T ools Stability T est T eam at Qualcomm. I enjoy what I do, and I think  
that is a blessing in life. A STEM program like FIRST, where they motivate students to work, compete, and have fun together in STEM, allowed me to take the first step towards this path. ”
30
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsSTEM Community 
Partnerships Across the World 
San Diego, United States
When schools closed in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the USS Midway Museum’s STEM education in-person field trips for students and teachers came to an abrupt halt. A long-time partner to the Midway, Qualcomm sponsored the transition of the Midway’s STEM education onboard field trip curriculum to a virtual platform  
for the 2020-2021 school year. T o ensure educators and students from all backgrounds could access and utilize the curriculum, Qualcomm created the Qualcomm Scholarship Fund to underwrite  
participation costs for the first 250  
school groups that register for the new  
virtual STEM education experiences.  
The Midway’s highly acclaimed  
Education Programs reach over  
50,000 students each year.  
Cambridge,  
United Kingdom
Cambridge, United Kingdom has been 
identified as the UK’s most unequal city according to research by an independent, non-partisan research organization. As a result, the Qualcomm Cambridge office has focused its STEM engagement efforts on partnering with organizations that are working with socioeconomic groups that would not typically have access to STEM programs or activities.  
Through these partnerships, we have 
brought STEM engagement and career advice to over 738 students and have donated over 225 volunteer hours.  
Cork, Ireland
I WISH is a volunteer-led community committed to showcasing the power of STEM to female secondary school students (ages 14-16). Qualcomm Cork has participated in I WISH since its inception in 2015 as it fits in with our priorities to cultivate tomorrow’s workforce by promoting and improving STEM education at all levels and to expand opportunities for underrepresented students. Our engineers participate as role models through presentations, panel sessions, and mentoring in teacher zones.   
I WISH to date has hosted 22,000 girls  
from 26 counties and welcomes over  
300 teachers per year.
Shanghai, China 
With the continuous development of cutting-
edge technologies such as 5G, innovative and talented people with STEM backgrounds are in high demand. China's Ministry of Education has also stressed in national plans the need to explore new educational models such as STEM and Maker education. Qualcomm’s continuing collaboration with the Shanghai Adream Charitable Foundation trains teachers and educators in China to implement STEM curriculum and activities in schools and community centers. In 2020, Adream Foundation organized trainings to 80 teachers and community workers.   
By the end of 2020, around 187 schools and 
10 community centers have implemented “STEM & Maker” curriculum, benefiting around 40,000 students aged from 10 to 15. 
Hyderabad, India 
Qualcomm India launched its flagship program, Aqriti, in 2017 to provide underprivileged girls in India with increased access to STEM education. The program supports the government’s efforts to enhance girl child education. Prior to the COVID-19 health crisis, Qualcomm employees conducted in-person robotics workshops, career guidance sessions for students, and in-person workshops for teachers to train them in the STEM learning materials. When schools closed in response to the pandemic, the Aqriti program provided students and teachers with self-learning materials to ensure continued engagement in STEM until schools resumed normal operations.  
Since its inception, Aqriti has impacted more 
than 56,000 children and more than 2,200 teachers across 278 schools in Hyderabad, Bangalore, Mumbai, and Chennai.
New Partnerships 
Million Girls Moonshot seeks to re-imagine who can engineer, who can build and who can make. It aims to inspire and prepare the next generation of innovators by engaging one million more girls in STEM learning opportunities through afterschool and summer programs over the next 5 years.  
Qualcomm supported the launch of 
Moonshot’s transformative programming as an inaugural funder and visionary leader. In our role as a founding member of the initiative, we will help create a coalition of like-minded organizations and individuals sharing our vision of STEM equity.   
Moonshot aligns with our Company’s goal to 
increase diversity of talent in the STEM workforce pipeline. We are very excited about the new opportunities this partnership creates for our Company and employees.  
We will be able to deliver proven programming to more than a million underserved young people and educators, with a girls-centric focus and a focus on engineering and technology. We will also be able to develop high-quality opportunities  
for Qualcomm employees to engage in hands-on, afterschool programming and serve as role models and mentors for participating students.  
31
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsWe uphold the highest level  
of integrity, respect human  
rights, protect privacy, and 
sustain the environment. 
We push the boundaries of what’s possible  
in mobile technology. We never push the 
boundaries on ethics. We’re committed to creating products in ways that do not harm the environment, while upholding human rights in our operations, supply chain, and communities. We work to protect privacy and secure data, which are critical for success in the wireless industry.
Addressing the 
Climate Crisis 
In 2020, we saw a shift in the climate  
change conversation: the link between 
climate risk and a company's long-term success came to the forefront and the transition to a low-carbon economy  
became more important than ever.   
While we have been committed to 
minimizing our impact on the planet for many years, we renewed our commitment in 2020 by voluntarily disclosing under the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards. These frameworks are standardizing data in a meaningful and actionable way. 
Responsible  
Business
2020 Goals: 
We will have a comprehensive understanding of the 
sustainability impacts in our supply chain, our human rights impacts and opportunities, and our carbon and water footprints across our value chain.  
Our ethics and compliance standards will continue to be fully 
integrated into our global business operations where we have a controlling interest.  
Key stakeholders will have a thorough understanding of our 
programs and priorities. 
Successes:    
• E ach year, we collect data from suppliers (top 90 percent  
of total product-related spend) on supply chain GHG emissions and water use attributable to Qualcomm.  
•
 W
e conducted two Human Rights Impact Assessments 
(HRIA), one on a company-wide basis and one on a market-level basis, to identify and address salient human rights risks in our direct and indirect operations.  
•
 W
e determined our carbon and water footprints across our 
global operations. 
•
 E
very two years we revise The Qualcomm Way:  
Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC), and 99 percent of employees completed a policy training and certification process accordingly.  
•
 E
ach year, we provide information on our programs  
and priorities to stakeholders through our Corporate Responsibility Report.2025 Goals: 
Ensure 100 percent of primary semiconductor manufacturing suppliers are audited every two years for conformance  
to the Supplier Code of Conduct.   
Reduce our absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from our global operations by  
30 percent, compared to a 2014 baseline. Reporting on the successes of our  
2020 Corporate Responsibility GoalsIntroducing our 
2025 Corporate Responsibility Goals
31
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsWe also conducted our first company-wide 
climate scenario analysis (CSA). Our qualitative evaluation included 1.5°C, 2°C and 4°C warming scenarios. Under the 4°C scenario, global warming reaches 4°C by 2100, relative to pre-industrial temperatures, and climate policy is less ambitious. In the 2°C scenario, global warming reaches 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and climate policy is more aggressive compared to the 4°C policy. In the 1.5°C scenario, global warming will be limited to rising well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century, and it is generally assumed that society acts rapidly to limit GHG emissions. We assessed a limited set of risks: price of carbon (transition risk), coastal flooding, high heat days, water stress, extreme cold days, average temperature, and air pollution (physical risks). 
As we evaluated the impacts to our business 
under these three scenarios, we focused on the potential for increased operating costs and increased business interruption across our operations. We leveraged standardized, third-party climate modeling data, such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs), and applied internal data sources such as our global greenhouse gas emissions, water use, and facilities data.  
Potential Impacts:•
 W
ater stress in India, China, Germany, 
Singapore, and the United States, where 
high-value operations are located, will pose an escalating risk of business interruption and increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario.
•
 An incr
eased number of high heat days  
in the United States, Singapore, and India will pose an escalating risk of business interruption and increased operating costs in both 4°C and 2°C CSAs, but will occur earlier and be greater in magnitude in the 4°C CSA.
•
 An incr
ease in average temperatures in 
the United States and Germany will pose an escalating risk of business interruption and increased operating costs in both 4°C and 2°C CSAs, but will occur earlier and be greater in magnitude in the 4°C CSA.•
 Coas
tal flooding and sea level rise 
threaten host cities in T aiwan, China, India, the United States, and the United Kingdom with an escalating risk of business interruption and increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario.
•
 W
orkforce exposure to air pollution in  
the United States, China, and India will continue to pose a moderate risk of business interruption and increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario. 
•
 The risk o
f increased operating costs due 
to the price of carbon primarily occurs for facilities in Germany and China in the 4°C CSA and the 2°C CSA. This risk is greater in magnitude in the 1.5°C CSA for high emissions facilities in India, China, and  
the United States.
We are in the process of applying this analysis and are identifying potential strategic changes to address the plausible risks and opportunities identified in these scenarios.  In addition to looking at long-term climate risks and opportunities, we’re continually looking for ways to conserve water, minimize energy consumption, lower emissions, and reduce waste in the near term. As we design, build, and operate our facilities, we keep environmental performance top of mind.  
We look for opportunities to incorporate  
the highest levels of energy and water efficiency into all our new construction and tenant improvement projects.  
On our path to achieving our 2025 GHG 
reduction goal, we've reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by approximately  
14 percent, and we achieved The Climate Registry's (TCR) Climate Registered™ Gold status. Additionally, with the closure of our acquisition of RF360 Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. (“RF360”), we reviewed and revised our GHG reduction goal baseline. This re-baselining was conducted with a third-party to ensure that our GHG inventory adheres to The Climate Registry General Reporting Protocol. Our GHG reduction goal baseline year remains 2014, but now includes RF360 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.  
32
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsIn India, we reduced our GHG emissions by 
approximately 22,485 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO
2e) through the purchase of 
solar energy for our Bangalore offices. This represents the third year of output from our 10-year power purchase agreement to increase our renewable energy consumption. We also own and operate several on-site solar generating systems in San Diego, Bangalore and Hyderabad which are helping us achieve our GHG goal.  
We’ve earned Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certifications for New Construction on several of our facilities in San Diego and India. All of our current and future interior design projects include the use of recyclable and recycled materials, no or low volatile organic compound (VOC) products and strive to follow LEED guidelines even if we don’t plan to certify the project with the local Green Building Council entities.   
As our Company continues to grow, we work 
to be as eco-friendly as possible as we build new offices to accommodate our growth. Approximately 63 percent of our employees worldwide work in Qualcomm locations outside the United States, and most of these people work at our campus in Bangalore, India. The campus is in a “Water Scarcity” area, meaning water must be trucked into the area from other locations therefore, we work with the local community to mitigate our impact. We’ve collaborated with different non-profit organizations in installing a sewage treatment plant near Kundalahalli Lake. We also implement different water efficiency measures across our offices.  
In San Diego, which has a semi-arid climate 
and gets 12 inches of rain, on average, per year, potable water is a precious commodity. In 2020, we completed construction on reclaimed water connections from our buildings to the City of San Diego’s purple pipe system. This significantly reduces our potable water consumption and replaces it with reclaimed water for industrial (cooling towers) and irrigation use. Annually, we will decrease our use of potable water by more than 80 million gallons while reducing our water spend.   
We continue to reduce our waste to landfill 
through an active recycling campaign and food composting program. In San Diego,  
we have been able to divert more than 1022 tons from the landfill last year alone.  
These programs helped Qualcomm to recycle 216 tons of both lab and office E-waste, as well as another 11 tons of batteries, bulbs and other waste from our lab and facility operations. Our lab recycling also includes 20 tons of scrap metal, 16 tons of cardboard and  2 tons of lab plastics. Through these efforts we managed to drive our overall hazardous waste recycling rate to 97 percent (which includes our regulated e-waste), and our combined recycling rate to 56 percent for all of San Diego’s solid waste.    
We also continue to participate in a Green 
Waste diversion program. These contributed to our composting 113 tons of food waste.  
Our on-site oil filtration service reduces cooking oil consumption with over 12,800 pounds of waste oil collected and recycled and reducing consumption by 9,800 pounds of oil through extending the life of the oil. This also represents eliminating over 1,250 pounds of plastic and cardboard every year from packaging.     
Our Ongoing 
Commitment to Respect and Promote Human Rights  
We have long been committed to respecting 
human rights throughout the Company’s value chain and have articulated this commitment in The Qualcomm Way:  
Our Code of Business Conduct, our Supplier Code of Conduct, and our Human Rights Statement. We believe human rights are fundamental rights, freedoms, and standards of treatment to which all workers are entitled, including without limitation, women, temporary, migrant, student, contract, and direct employees.  
As part of the implementation of this 
commitment, we engaged Article One in 2016 to conduct our first formal corporate-wide human rights impact assessment (HRIA). Building on this initial assessment,  
in 2020, we re-engaged Article One to conduct a market-level HRIA of our operations in China to identify and address salient human rights risks across our direct and indirect operations.   Results of the market-level HRIA indicated that indirect salient risks exist, primarily in supply chains and with local community members. While we may not have direct control over or causal relationship with  
these risks, we are committed to raising expectations wherever we do business and working toward mitigating any link or contribution that might be present.   
In 2020, we also revised our Human Rights 
Statement to reiterate our commitment to promoting and respecting all internationally recognized human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse throughout our Company, our operations, and our business relationships, including our subsidiaries, partners, customers, and supply chain.   
Our values and approach to these issues 
continue to adhere to the articles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the eight Core Labor Standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the UN Global Compact Principles. We are active members of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and the UN Global Compact, which further augment our efforts.  
Privacy and 
Security  
We believe that a strong foundation of 
privacy and security is critical to the growth and success of the wireless industry; it supports user trust and the adoption of new and exciting mobile technologies. We are committed to processing personal data responsibly and making data more secure.  
Our approach to responsible privacy and 
data security practices are informed by  
the following guiding principles:  
•
 T
ransparency in the collection, use,  
and sharing of personal information;  
•
 Pr
oviding or enabling meaningful choices 
over the collection, use, and sharing of 
personal information;  
•
 Pr
oviding or enabling value to data 
subjects when using their personal information;  
•
 Saf
eguarding personal information from 
existing and emerging threats;   
33
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key Accomplishments• Main taining the accuracy, quality, and 
integrity of the data we collect; and,  
•
 R
esponsible stewardship of personal 
information including limiting our 
collection, use, sharing, and retention  
of personal information.   
We’ve made significant efforts to incorporate privacy and security measures across our Company, in our products and services, and within the broader mobile industry. For example, we’ve designed and maintained information technology (IT) infrastructure and information security management systems using international standards and regularly obtain external audits of these systems. We also conduct vulnerability analysis, including third-party penetration tests which simulate hacker attacks. On the product side, our Secure Processor capability is certified to the Common Criteria (CC) Evaluation Assurance Level (EAL).  
We are members or sponsors of several 
organizations advancing responsible privacy and security practices including:  International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAAP), Future of Privacy Forum, Centre for Information Policy Leadership, Systems Audit, and Control Association (ISACA), the San Diego Cyber Center of Excellence (CCOE), cyber Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISAC), as well as subgroups of industry associations focused on privacy and security issues such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Information T echnology Industry Council, Digital Europe, and others. In 2020, we conducted mandatory cybersecurity training for all our employees worldwide and participated in a third-party assessment of our cybersecurity program. The assessment validated the measures we put into place to secure our intellectual property. We also performed cybersecurity and privacy assessments for several hundred of our vendors and key suppliers. 
We engineer our security solutions for 
maximum protection. Our Qualcomm
® 
Processor Security T echnology is the security foundation for billions of devices using Snapdragon processors. It is designed to provide a high level of security, robustness, and high performance while maintaining power efficiency. And our Qualcomm
® 
Biometric Authentication Suite are designed to make more accurate and reliable authentication possible for the world’s mobile devices. Our biometrics technologies offer higher levels of security and enhanced authentication experiences. They’re leading the way toward a better digital life—  
one without passwords and PIN codes.  
Sustainable  
Product Design  
We are focused on creating products that have a positive impact on individuals, communities and the environment.  
As part of this effort, we are committed  
to integrating principles of sustainability  
and responsibility into our products and supply chain.   We’re a Full Member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and require all our semiconductor manufacturing suppliers to adopt either the RBA Code of Conduct or a similar code. The RBA Code of Conduct, which serves as our Supplier Code of Conduct and The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct, have been cornerstones  
of our commitment to RBA and responsible supply chain management for many years. 
In 2020, we launched the Qualcomm T aiwan 
Sustainability Collaboration Project in partnership with SPIL and other companies based in T aiwan. The overall goal is to support small and medium enterprises (SME). SPIL and SMEs are part of the Qualcomm supply chain and are committed to advancing the use of renewable energy  
and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. 
Under the Qualcomm T aiwan Sustainability 
Collaboration Project, we sponsor the installation of solar power equipment and/or waste heat recovery system, as well as chiller optimization system, at select supplier facilities that will increase the use of renewable energy and reduce GHG emissions. The program is a collaboration with SPIL and ten other companies from T aiwan. 
The program demonstrates Qualcomm’s 
efforts to drive sustainable manufacturing in its global supply chain and underpins its commitment to collaborate with suppliers in these efforts. Qualcomm CDMA T echnologies COO and SVP , Roawen Chen, said, “We are very happy to see that Qualcomm’s vision to promote renewable energy in our global supply chain has been acknowledged and supported by so many corporate partners, allowing us to successfully launch the Qualcomm T aiwan Sustainability Collaboration Project. All levels of the  
society must take consistent action  
because climate change is a serious  
threat against the environment, society,  
and our economy. Qualcomm has put environmental sustainability first when it comes to the design, construction, and operation of facilities. "  
Qualcomm Processor Security and Qualcomm Biometric Authentication Suite are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
34
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsEthics and 
Governance  
We believe that ethical governance is a core 
requirement of doing business, a competitive advantage, and the right thing to do.  
Ethical leadership inspires confidence in  
our Company's future and creates a safe, supportive work environment for our employees. Our Code of Business Conduct serves as a guideline and sets expectations for employee conduct that aligns with our Company values. Ethical conduct is a performance imperative for our employees.  Our ethical, resilient, and collaborative Company culture encourages us to speak  
up when we see something that doesn't seem right. T ransparency around incidents  
of misconduct and our Company's response to those incidents fosters an environment where employees can feel comfortable raising concerns. Our employees  
trust that if they voice a concern,  
their concern will be fully investigated  
and appropriately remediated.  
In 2020, we joined the Society of Corporate 
Compliance and Ethics and organizations worldwide in the celebration of Corporate Compliance & Ethics Week. "I 
 Compliance: 
Ethics & Compliance Awareness Week 2020, " marked our third annual event to educate and raise awareness of compliance and ethics issues. The week featured a virtual celebration honoring the first-ever Champions in our Lead the Way program, which recognizes employees who exhibit upstanding and ethical behavior and serve as examples of our Company values in action. We also marked the one-year anniversary of The Open Door initiative, which is an internal website dedicated to sharing lessons learned from internal ethics investigations.  
We want our employees to be aware of  
and educated on our Company's policies, 
procedures, and controls in order to protect the Company, employees, and other stakeholders from potential legal, regulatory, reputational, or disciplinary risks. T o this end, we require our employees and temporary workers to complete a policy training and certification process every 12-24 months covering our Code of Business Conduct and our Global Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Anti-Corruption Policy and program. In addition, 67 instructor-led training sessions on Qualcomm's Global FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance program were offered and attended by 3,265 employees in "high risk" business and 
assurance functions (Sales, Business Development, Marketing, Government Affairs, Ventures, Procurement, Legal, Finance, Accounting, Internal Audit) in 2020.  
35
2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Key AccomplishmentsESG 
Performance Summary
Our performance metrics gauge our 
progress over the past three fiscal years, and enable us to report more transparently across a variety of ESG topics.
36 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    ESG Performance SummaryOur Company Units 2020 2019 2018
T otal Consolidated 
Revenues by Country  
(in millions)
1T otal dollars (in millions) 23,531 24,273 22,611
China (including Hong Kong) dollars (in millions) 14,001 11,610 15,149
South Korea dollars (in millions) 2,964 2,400 3,175
United States dollars (in millions) 1,129 2,774 603
Ireland2dollars (in millions) 867 2,957 1
Other Foreign dollars (in millions) 4,570 4,532 3,683
Revenues by 
Reportable Segment  (in millions)T otal dollars (in millions) 23,531 24,273 22,611
QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) dollars (in millions) 16,493 14,639 17,282
QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) dollars (in millions) 5,028 4,591 5,042
QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) dollars (in millions) 36 152 100
Other3dollars (in millions) 1,974 4,891 187
T otal Capitalization (in millions)Stockholders' Equity dollars (in millions) 6,077 4,909 807
Our Products and Suppliers Units 2020 2019 2018
Quantity of  Product Shipped  (in millions)MSM™ Chipsets4# of products 575 650 855
Privacy and SecurityCertified Information Privacy Professionals # of 8 8 8
Privacy T raining # of hours 1,309 125 337
Privacy T raining Sessions Offered # of 16 6 16
Targeted Security T raining Campaigns # of 9 9 14
Targeted Employees T rained in Security # of 38,320 30,281 9,298
Requests for Customer Information Received from 
Government/Law Enforcement Agencies5# of 0 0 0
Complaints (Breaches of Customer Privacy) 
Received from Outside Parties and Substantiated by Qualcomm
6# of 0 0 0
Complaints from Regulatory Bodies7# of 0 0 0
Information Security Breaches Involving Customers' Personally Identifiable Information
8# of 0 0 0
Information Security Breaches or Other Cybersecurity Incidents
9# of 0 0 0
Amount of Fines/Penalties Paid in  Relation to Information Security Breaches  or Other Cybersecurity Incidentdollars
0 0 0ESG Performance Summary
37
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    ESG Performance Summary1  We report revenues from external customers by country based 
on the location to which our products or services are delivered, which for QCT is generally the country in which our customers manufacture their products, and for licensing revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. As a result, the revenues by country presented herein are not necessarily indicative of either the country in which the devices containing our products and/or intellectual property are ultimately sold to consumers or the country in which the companies that sell the devices are headquartered. For example, China revenues could include revenues related to shipments of integrated circuits for a company that is headquartered in South Korea but that manufactures devices in China, which devices are then sold to consumers in Europe and/or the United States.2  Qualcomm discloses revenues by each region as required by 
U.S. GAAP. 
3  Other revenues include revenues from nonreportable 
segments and certain revenues (and reduction to revenues) that were not allocated to our segments in our management reports because they were not considered in evaluating segment results.
4  MSM is a product of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
5  Limited to formal subpoenas, court orders, or similar  obligatory document or information demands regarding  end-user consumer personal information issued by governmental or law enforcement.6  Customer privacy is defined as end-user consumers of a Qualcomm technology.
7  Refers to formal legal proceedings initiated by regulatory bodies pertaining to privacy and/or data protection compliance related to end-user consumers of Qualcomm technology.
8  Limited to potentially material instances involving end-user consumers of Qualcomm technology.
9  Limited to potentially material instances.Our Products and Suppliers Units 2020 2019 2018
Supplier Metrics10 Suppliers Who Complete the RBA SAQ11% 100 100 100
Suppliers with All Low-risk Manufacturing Facilities 
per RBA SAQ11% 100 100 100
Suppliers Who Provided Us with Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data%
100 100 100
Suppliers Who Provided Us with Water Use Data % 100 100 100
Suppliers Who have an ISO 14001 Certification12% 100 100 100
Suppliers Who have Completed an RBA VAP Audit in the Last Two Years
13% 67 85 67
Conflict Free 
Minerals14RMAP-Conformant Processing Facilities15# of 258 249 252
RMAP-Conformant Processing Facilities15% 81 83 82
Supplier DiversityDiverse Suppliers Registered (U.S. only) # of 844 791 830
Spending on U.S. Government Subcontract Work 
Directed at Diverse Businesses (U.S. only) 16% 43 23 52
Our Environment Units 2020 2019 2018
Energy and Air 
Quality17Electricity Avoided as a Result of  
Our Energy Saving Initiativesmegawatt hours 59,577 53,878 53,501
Emissions Avoided as a Result of  
Our Energy Saving Initiativestons 16,495 15,214 16,070
Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) Emissions18CO₂e per Gross Square Foot of  
Facilities Space (Scope 1 & 2)CO2e metric tons 0.0247 0.0172 0.0176
Total Scope 1 - Direct GHG Emissions by Weight (Includes Purchased Carbon Offsets)CO
2e metric tons 112,479 75,290 73,832
Total Scope 2 - Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight (Market Based: Emission Factors Where Available, On-site Solar Energy and Purchased International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECSs))CO
2e metric tons 203,047 114,060 120,771
Total Scope 3 - Other Indirect GHG Emissions  by Weight
19CO2e metric tons 86,790 112,252 112,252
 Scope 3 - Ups
tream  
T ransportation and DistributionCO2e metric tons 10,270 - -
Scope 3 - Waste Generated  in OperationsCO
2e metric tons 3,975 - -
Scope 3 - Business T ravel CO2e metric tons 16,427 80,928 80,928
Scope 3 - Employee Commuting CO2e metric tons 27,287 30,324 30,324
 Scope 3 - Do
wnstream  
T ransportation and DistributionCO2e metric tons 28,831 - -Our Products and 
Suppliers
38
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    ESG Performance Summary10  Number represents calendar year data. Suppliers represent 
the top 90 percent of total product-related spend.
11  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ).
12  International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 is the international standard for environmental management systems (EMS).
13  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Validated Assessment Program (VAP).
14  Amount represents prior-year calendar year data as of January 31, 2020.15  Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP).
16  Increase in small business percentage for FY20 is a result of unique supplier lab build-up procurement. 
17  Annual avoided emissions of CO₂e due to cumulative investments made for energy and water efficiency for  global facilities. 
18  2020 amount represents fiscal year data for global facilities. 2019 and 2018 amounts represent prior-year calendar data for global facilities. 
19  In 2020 we expanded our reporting of Scope 3 emissions to include the following categories. Amount reported in 2019 and 2018 represents estimated employee business air travel, business car rental and employee commuting. Our Environment Units 2020 2019 2018
Direct Energy 
Consumption  by Primary  Energy Source
18Natural Gas (Facilities) MMBtu 1,258,346 1,268,903 1,226,741
Jet Fuel (Aviation Related) gallons 315,101 740,002 976,158
Vehicle Gasoline (Shuttle/Test Vehicles) gallons 29,204 45,307 45,296
Diesel Fuel (Cars/T rucks) gallons 5,278 8,466 8,456
Diesel Fuel (Generators) gallons 62,691 50,136 17,625
Propane Vehicles (T ruck) gallons 0 131 131
Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) gallons 8,116 6,520 -
Renewable Energy - On-site Generation (Owned) megawatt hours 253 430 647
Carbon Offsets (Purchased) CO2e metric tons 5,000 3,000 2,260
Indirect Energy Consumption  by Primary  Energy Source
18Non-renewable Electricity (Purchased) megawatt hours 403,638 246,675 261,994
Renewable Energy - Power Purchase Agreements 
(Purchased) megawatt hours 26,268 12,331 0
Renewable Energy - International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs) (Purchased) megawatt hours
21,862 12,000 9,900
Indirect Heating (Purchased for Leased Sites) megawatt hours 31,764 21,168 21,828
Significant Air 
Emissions20NOx tons 9.87 8.06 7.95
SOx tons 0.33 0.34 0.32
VOC tons 9.34 0.69 0.67
Waste ManagementNon-Hazardous Waste Generated metric tons 2,948 3,767 3,678
Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled metric tons 1,564 1,699 1,517
Non-Hazardous Waste to Landfill metric tons 1,384 2,068 2161
Hazardous Waste Generated metric tons 693 37 63
Hazardous Waste Recycled metric tons 234 31 56
Employee Engagement EventsPersonal Paper Shredding Collection Events  
for Employeestons 0.5 1.5 2.6
Personal E-waste Collection Events for Employees pounds 975 5,689 6,156
E-Waste CollectionE-waste Collection pounds of waste 413,590 523,887 533,925
Water 
Management21Total Water Withdrawals million gallons 635 171 161
Potable Water Withdrawals - Water Utilities million gallons 551 99 120
Reclaimed Water Withdrawals -  
Water Utilities million gallons 84 72 41
Water Consumed million gallons 218 86 85
Water Discharged million gallons 417 85 76
39
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    ESG Performance Summary20  All NOx SOx and VOC data includes manufacturing sites.
21  2020 water data represent global operations. 2019 and 2018 
water data represents both owned and leased facilities in San Diego, San Jose, and Santa Clara, California.  Our Workplace Units 2020 2019 2018
WorkforceTotal Employees # of 40,905 37,200 31,100
Regular Employees % 92 91 90
Temporary Employees % 8 9 10
Employees by Region - United States % 37 37 46
Employees Outside of U.S. by Region - Americas22% 1 - -
Employees Outside of U.S. by Region - APAC23% 21 - -
Employees Outside of U.S. by Region - EMEA24% 9 - -
Employees Outside of U.S. by Region - India % 32 - -
Employees Who are Foreign Nationals  % 13 - -
Ethical 
EmploymentEmployee Involuntary T urnover Rate % of total 1 4 9
Employee Voluntary T urnover Rate % of total 5 7 9
Employees Responding to Employee Survey25% of total 60 80 43
Inclusion and DiversityNationalities Represented # of 109 117 113
Languages Spoken # of 74 74 74
Women on the Board of Directors % of total 25.0 25.0 16.7
Women - Overall % of total 22.3 19.7 19.0
Leadership % of total 16.9 16.4 16.8
Technical % of total 17.3 16.4 15.4
Minority employees - Overall (U.S. only) % of total 69.5 68.5 66.3
Native American or Alaska Native  
(Not Hispanic or Latino) - Overall% of total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Leadership % of total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Technical % of total 0.1 0.1 0.1
Asian (Not Hispanic or Latino) - Overall % of total 60.9 60.0 58.2
Leadership % of total 49.5 49.1 47.1
Technical % of total 66.1 65.6 64.1
Black or African American  
(Not Hispanic or Latino) – Overall% of total 1.5 1.5 1.4
Leadership % of total 1.3 1.3 1.1
Technical % of total 1.4 1.3 1.2
Hispanic or Latino - Overall % of total 4.7 4.6 4.4
Leadership % of total 4.0 3.9 3.8
Technical % of total 3.7 3.6 3.4
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander  
(Not Hispanic or Latino) - Overall% of total 0.2 0.3 0.3
Leadership % of total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Technical % of total 0.2 0.2 0.3
Two or More Minority Groups  (Not Hispanic or Latino) – Overall% of total
2.0 1.9 1.9
Leadership % of total 1.6 1.4 1.5
Technical % of total 1.6 1.5 1.5
People with Disabilities % of total 2.7 3.0 1.6
Protected Veterans % of total 1.9 2.4 2.4
40
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    ESG Performance Summary22  Countries included in Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, 
and Mexico
23  Countries included in APAC: Australia, China (PRC), Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, and Vietnam.24  Countries included in EMEA: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Finalnd, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom25  2020 survey covered all employees (full census). 2019 survey covered all employees (full census). 2018 survey covered randomly selected samples of employees (pulse).Our Workplace Units 2020 2019 2018
Employee 
DevelopmentT raining Statistics
Classroom T raining Course Enrollments # of 69,988 74,166 87,188
Classroom T raining Course Enrollments - 
Instructor Led Session# of 1,763 1,303 1,178
Classroom T raining Course Enrollments -  Online Course# of
16,320 14,945 26,030
T raining by Employee Group
T raining by Employee Group -  Individual Contributorhrs./employee
13 13 14
T raining by Employee Group - Management hrs./employee 14 16 14
T raining by Employee Group - Executive hrs./employee 8 6 11
Employees Receiving T raining  
with Mandatory Programs% of total 95 100 100
Employees Receiving T raining  
without Mandatory Programs% of total 74 75 82
Workplace SafetyLost Time Injury and Incident Rate  per  200,000 hrs. worked 0.17 <0.01 0.05
Total Recordable Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs. worked 0.01 0.34 0.4
Our Community Units 2020 2019 2018
PhilanthropyEmployees Participating in Matching and 
Community Service Grant Programs# of 2,739 2,910 3,664
Nonprofit Organizations Helped by Matching  and Community Service Grant Programs# of
1,544 1,659 2,102
Annual Charitable Giving Contributions26 dollars 21,043,375 - -
Community 
EngagementEmployees Involved in  
Qualcomm Ambassador Program
 #  of 193 157 -
Employees Involved as Volunteers with FIRST # of 206 259 -
Employee FIRST Volunteer Hours
 #
 of 15,735 12,361 -
Wireless Reach27 Stakeholders # of 674 655 660
Projects # of 126 119 119
Countries # of 48 47 47
Beneficiaries (Direct and Indirect) # of 22,961,434 20,161,333 15,773,740
41
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    ESG Performance Summary26  Cumulative data since 2006.
27   Total contributions from Qualcomm  
and the Qualcomm Foundation.Global Reporting 
Initiative Content Index
42 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Global Reporting Initiative Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
General Disclosures
Organizational 
Profile102-1 Name of the organizationQualcomm Incorporated
102-2 Primary brands, products, and servicesWe are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments.  We conduct business primarily through our QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) semiconductor business and our QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) licensing business. QCT develops and supplies integrated circuits and system software based on 3G/4G/5G and other technologies for use in mobile devices, wireless networks, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices, other devices used in IoT and automotive systems for telematics and infotainment. QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. Our QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. We also have nonreportable segments, including Qualcomm Government Technologies or QGOV, our cloud AI inference processing initiative, and other technology and service initiatives.
102-3 Location of headquartersSan Diego, California
102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with significant operationsWe operate in 27 countries. Our headquarters and certain research and development, manufacturing, and network management hub operations are located in San Diego, California. Additionally, our QCT segment’s non-United States headquarters is located in Singapore. We also operate leased manufacturing facilities in Germany, China, and Singapore. We also own and lease properties around the world for use as sales and administrative offices and research and development centers, primarily in the United States, India, and China.
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal formWe incorporated in California in 1985 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1991. 
We operate our businesses through our parent company, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and multiple 
direct and indirect subsidiaries. We have developed our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operational, and other matters. Substantially all of our products and services businesses, including QCT, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (QTI), a wholly-owned subsidiary of QUALCOMM Incorporated, and QTI’s subsidiaries. QTL is operated by QUALCOMM Incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Neither QTI nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power, or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by QUALCOMM Incorporated.
102-6 Markets served (including geographic locations where products are offered, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries)Our technologies and products are offered in more than 100 countries and are used in mobile devices and other wireless products, including network equipment, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices, and other connected devices. We collaborate across the ecosystem, including with manufacturers, operators, developers, channel partners, enterprises, system integrators, cloud providers, governments, and industry standards organizations, to enable a global environment to drive continued progress and growth.
102-7 Scale of the organization  (including total number of employees, total number of operations, net sales, total capitalization  broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products  or services provided)In Fiscal 2020:
Total number of employees: 40,905Total number of operations: we have operations in 27 countriesTotal consolidated revenues: 23,531 million USDTotal capitalization: 6,077 million USDQuantity of products shipped: 575 million GRI Standard
43
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
102-8 Information on 
employees and  other workersTotal number of permanent employees, by gender: 
Male: 29,190Female: 8,323
Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region:
Americas: 14,636 regular, 819 temporaryAPAC: 8,441 regular, 288 temporaryEMEA: 3,610 regular, 143 temporaryIndia: 10,826 regular, 2,142 temporary
Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender (excludes 
RF360): 
Male: 26,258 full-time, 51 part-timeFemale: 6,666 full-time, 36 part-time
Employment data is as of October 1st, 2020.
We collect gender data for permanent employees only.
Countries included in Americas: United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, and Mexico.
Countries included in APAC: Australia, China (PRC), Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan,  
Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, and Vietnam. 
Countries included in EMEA: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany,  
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,  and United Kingdom.
102-9 Description of  the organization’s supply chainOther than for our RFFE modules and RF filter products, QCT utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Therefore, we primarily rely on third-parties to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-parties for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. The primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, RF and PM integrated circuits are Global Foundries, Samsung Electronics, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC), Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), and United Microelectronics. The primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, Siliconware Precision Industries, and STATSChipPAC. The majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the Asia-Pacific region. 
QCT primarily uses internal fabrication facilities to manufacture RFFE modules and RF filter products, 
and its manufacturing operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. The front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in Germany and Singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate wafers with the structure and circuitry required for the products to function (also known as wafer fabrication). The back-end processes include the assembly, packaging and test of RFFE modules and RF filter products and their preparation for distribution. The back-end manufacturing facilities are located in China and Singapore.
102-10 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership,  or supply chainNo significant changes to the organization's size, structure, ownership, or supply chain have occurred during the reporting period.
102-11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organizationWe practice the “precautionary principle” of identifying and taking preventative measures regarding chemicals, including in circumstances in which there is a high degree of scientific uncertainty regarding potentially hazardous chemicals. Our own policies are often more stringent than applicable law. We continuously monitor opportunities to improve our products and make them as sustainable as technically and economically feasible.
44
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
102-12 List of externally-
developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses.Our 2020 Memberships and Industry Affiliations
102-13 List of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international advocacy organizationsOur 2020 Memberships and Industry Affiliations
Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainabilityA statement from our CEO can be found on our Corporate Responsiblity website.
Ethics and Integrity102-16 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes  of ethics.Qualcomm values are: Purposeful Innovation, Passionate Execution, Collaborative Community,  and Unquestioned Integrity. 
The Qualcomm Way is our Code of Business Conduct, which serves as a guide for our everyday 
work, helping us through ethical challenges and offering reminders and best practices along the way. It aims to build integrity into everything we do as a company. 
Our Code of Ethics promotes honest and ethical conduct; full, fair, accurate, timely, and 
understandable disclosures; holds all employees and members of our Board of Directors accountable for compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations; prompt internal reporting of violations of the Code; and accountability for adherence to the Code. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which embodies the principles of the Responsible Business Alliance 
(RBA) Code of Conduct, provides clarity with regard to labor, health and safety, environmental, ethics, and management expectations of our suppliers.
102-17 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity; and reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity.We have a formal, third-party operated grievance and remedy mechanism, our Business Conduct Hotline. The hotline is a comprehensive and confidential reporting tool available for anyone, external or internal, to raise concerns, ask questions or seek guidance anonymously, to the extent permitted by local law. Our Open Door Philosophy encourages our employees and other third-party stakeholders to feel comfortable speaking up and raising concerns and makes resources available to provide guidance and support for reporting concerns to managers, any member of management, the Human Resources Department, the Legal Department, and the Office of Compliance. 
Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body and committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics.The highest governance body is the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Qualcomm Incorporated. The present standing Board committees are: the Audit Committee, the HR and Compensation Committee, and the Governance Committee. The Governance Committee's authority and responsibilities include reviewing, at least annually, the Company’s Environmental, Social  and Governance (“ESG”) policies, programs, initiatives, and reporting.
Stakeholder Engagement102-40 List of stakeholder groups engagedOur key stakeholders include our employees, investors, customers, suppliers, government officials,  and representatives of nonprofit organizations, among others.
102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreementsNone of our United States employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Outside the United States, less than 50 percent of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We are compliant with all collective agreements regarding significant operational changes as required by country laws and regulations.
102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholdersOur approach to identification and selection of stakeholders includes consideration of people, organizations and communities that can affect or be affected by our Company's operations, products, or services. These include our employees, investors, customers, suppliers,  government officials, and representatives of nonprofit organizations, among others.
45
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagementConversations with our key stakeholders are essential to assuring that our corporate responsibility strategy aligns with the current needs of our business and meets the expectations of the people, organizations, and communities that have an interest in our Company. 
We consistently seek ways to better communicate with stakeholders and obtain their feedback on  
a variety of corporate responsibility-related topics. Some examples of how we engage: 
•
 W
e meet regularly with policymakers globally to discuss relevant public policy issues and 
engage with numerous public policy organizations.
•
 W
e work with investors and research firms to continue enhancing our openness, transparency 
and accountability in a timely manner.
•
 W
e disclose important corporate responsibility information, including our political 
contributions and data on our greenhouse gas emissions.
•
 W
e participate in cross-industry forums to help us identify, adopt, and further develop best 
practices in corporate responsibility.
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and organization’s responseThe materiality assessments described in Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities incorporated key issues raised through stakeholder engagement. Our response to these issues is contained on our Corporate Responsibility website.
Reporting Practice102-45 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents We operate our businesses through our parent company, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries. We have developed our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operational, and other matters. Substantially all of our products and services businesses, including QCT, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (QTI),  a wholly-owned subsidiary of QUALCOMM Incorporated, and QTI’s subsidiaries. QTL is operated  by QUALCOMM Incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Neither QTI nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or  to any patents owned by QUALCOMM Incorporated.
102-46 Process for defining report content and topic boundariesWe strengthen our approach to corporate responsibility by undertaking regular, third-party materiality assessments. These exercises include research, interviews with key leaders from across the Company and engagement with stakeholders. The findings help us prioritize the corporate responsibility issues that are most important to our business and our key stakeholders. By identifying our top corporate responsibility priorities, we can then focus our resources, programs and reporting on these core topics. 
We worked with consultants from Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit 
business network dedicated to sustainability, to conduct materiality assessments in 2013, 2015,  and 2018. 
102-47 List of material  topics identified in  the process for defining report contentPurposeful Innovation, Diversity and Inclusion, Ethics and Governance, Sustainable Product Design, Privacy and Security, and Public Policy and Regulation.
102-48 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reportsNone.
102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in list of material topics and topic boundariesThere have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries.
102-50 Reporting period This report covers our 2020 fiscal year: September 30, 2019 to September 27, 2020.  In some instances, data is collected and reported on a calendar rather than a fiscal year basis.  Such exceptions, as well as any other exceptions to the reporting period, are noted within the report. Financial data is reported in U.S. dollars. The information and data in this report includes Qualcomm Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
102-51 Date of most recent previous reportOur 2019 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report covers events and highlights occurring in our 2019 fiscal year: from October 1, 2018 to September 29, 2019.
102-52 Reporting cycle Since our founding in 1985, Qualcomm has been committed to bettering the societies where  we live and work. We have been producing an annual sustainability/corporate responsibility  report since 2006.
102-53 Contact point  for questions  regarding report
We welcome your comments and feedback at qsr@qualcomm.com.
46
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
102-54 “In accordance” option This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: 
Core option.
102-55 GRI Context Index Our GRI Content Index is included in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report and on our 
Corporate Responsibility website.
102-56 Policy and current 
practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the reportUse of external assurance is noted in our Corporate Responsibility Report where it is used,  though the Corporate Responsibility Report as a whole has not been externally assured.
T opic - Specific Standards
Qualcomm Material T opic: Purposeful Innovation
103-1 Explanation of material 
topic and its boundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Purposeful Innovation102-50102-54102-56
103-2 Management approach 
and its components
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Wireless Reach
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approachOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supportedWireless Reach brings advanced wireless technologies to people and communities who need it most. Wireless Reach programs demonstrate pioneering uses of our Company’s mobile innovations to help drive human and economic progress in underserved areas globally.
203-2 Significant indirect economic impactsOur Wireless Reach programs have benefitted more than 20 million people in 48 countries on five continents through the application of our technology across education, entrepreneurship, healthcare, public safety, and environmental sustainability.
Qualcomm Material T opic: Ethics and Governance    
103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Ethical Governance102-50102-54102-56
103-2 Management approach 
and its components
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
10-K/Annual ReportProxy StatementCorporate GovernanceThe Qualcomm WayCode of EthicsRBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
205-1 Operations  assessed for risks related to corruptionAt least annually, we evaluate our Company for risks related to corruption.
We also assess additional risk areas on a case-by-case basis.
205-2 Communication  
and training about  
anti-corruption  policies and proceduresQualcomm requires our employees and temporary workers to complete a policy training and certification process every 12-24 months covering our Code of Business Conduct and our Global Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Anti-Corruption Policy and program. As of September 30, 2020, 99 percent of Qualcomm employees and temporary workers completed the 2019 Global FCPA and Anti-Corruption Policy T raining and Certification requirement, which was sent out to all employees and temporary workers on October 30, 2019, and to all new employees upon hire. In addition, 67 instructor-led training sessions on Qualcomm's Global FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance program were offered and attended by 3,265 employees in "high risk" business and assurance functions (sales, business development, marketing, GA, ventures, procurement, legal, finance/accounting) in FY20.
47
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
205-3 Confirmed incidents  
of corruption and actions takenNone
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practicesInformation about legal and regulatory proceedings can be found in our Annual Report/Form 10-K.
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areaNone
Qualcomm Material T opic: Sustainable Product Design
103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Sustainable Product DesignHuman Rights102-50102-54102-56
103-2 Management approach 
and its components
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
The Qualcomm WayRBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of ConductHuman Rights StatementCommunication on Progress
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsQualcomm received no significant monetary fines and no non-monetary sanctions for  non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2020.
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteriaAny new suppliers that would represent the top 90 percent of total product-related spend were screened using environmental criteria.
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions takenAny new suppliers that would represent the top 90 percent of total product-related spend were screened for environmental impacts. In 2020, no suppliers were identified as having significant actual or potential negative environmental impacts.
407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant riskQualcomm is unaware of any operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and/or collective bargaining are at significant risk.
408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child laborQualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a significant risk for incidents of child labor.
409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory laborQualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor.
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteriaAny new suppliers that would represent the top 90 percent of total product-related spend were screened using social criteria.
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions takenAll suppliers representing the top 90 percent of total product-related spend were screened for social impacts. In 2020, no suppliers were identified as having significant actual or potential negative  social impacts.
48
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
416-1 Assessment of the 
health and safety impacts of product and service categoriesQualcomm addresses the sustainability of our products through our Environmental Management System and various hazardous-substance elimination programs. We strive to apply the “precautionary principle.” We take preventative measures regarding certain chemicals, even if  science hasn’t indicated clear environmental or health hazards. Our own requirements are often more stringent than applicable law.
416-2 Incidents of  non-compliance concerning the health and safety impact of products and servicesZero
Qualcomm Material T opic: Public Policy and Regulation
103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Public PolicyEthical Governance102-50102-54102-56
103-2 Management approach 
and its components
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
10-K/Annual ReportProxy StatementCorporate GovernanceThe Qualcomm WayCode of EthicsRBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
415-1 Political contributions Disclosures Under Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy
Qualcomm Material T opic: Privacy and Security
103-1 Explanation of material topic and its boundary Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Privacy and Security102-50102-54102-56
103-2 Management approach 
and its components
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Privacy PrinciplesPrivacy PolicyThe Qualcomm WayRBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures100 percent of security personnel are trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer dataWe did not receive any substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or data in 2020 or in the three years prior.
49
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexGRI 
StandardDisclosure NumberDisclosure Title Response
Qualcomm Material T opic: Diversity and Inclusion
   
103-1 Explanation of material 
topic and its boundaryOur Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Global Inclusion and Diversity102-50102-54102-56
103-2 Management approach 
and its components
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative ActionSupplier Diversity PolicyThe Qualcomm WayRBA Code of Conduct/Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the 
management approach
Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Priorities
405-1 Composition of governance bodies and employeesQualcomm Board of Directors:
% male: 75% female: 25% over 50 years old: 100% minority: 8
Qualcomm Employees (Leadership):
% male: 83.1% female: 16.9% under 30 years old: 0.4% 30-50 years old: 73.4% over 50 years old: 26.2% minority: 7.2
Qualcomm Employees (Technical):
% male: 82.7% female: 17.3% under 30 years old: 26.7% 30-50 years old: 62.1% over 50 years old: 11.2% minority: 6.9
Minority data is United States only. 
Minority on the Board of Directors is defined as non-white.Minority in leadership and technical employees is defined as American Indian/Alaska Native, Black/
African American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, or two or more minority groups.
Age data excludes RF360.
406-1 Incidents of 
discrimination and corrective actions takenQualcomm has never been found by a court to have unlawfully discriminated against any of  our employees.
50
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    GRI Content IndexSustainability 
Accounting Standards Board Index
51 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Sustainability Accounting Standards Board IndexT opic SASB Code Metric Response
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions TC-SC-110a.1 (1)  Gr oss global Scope 1 
emissions
(2)  
Amount of total 
emissions from perfluorinated compounds
Metric tons (t) CO2e(1) Total gross Scope 1 emissions for Qualcomm globally are 112,479 tCO
2. 
(2) Total emissions from perfluorinated compounds for Qualcomm globally are 41,771 tCO2.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions TC-SC-110a.2 (1) 
 Discussion o
f long-
term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, 
(2) 
 emission r
eduction 
targets, and 
(3) 
 an anal
ysis of 
performance against those targets
Discussion & analysis(1) 
 Discussion o
f long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions.
Other than for our RFFE modules and RF filter products, our QCT semiconductor business utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Because we are primarily fabless, our Scope 2 emissions are more significant than our Scope 1 emissions. Thus, our GHG goal represents a company-wide absolute target related to both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions: Our goal is a 30 percent reduction in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from our global operations, compared to a 2014 baseline, by 2025.
With the completion of our acquisition of the remaining interest in RF360 Holdings Singapore Pte. 
Ltd. (“RF360”), we reviewed and revised our GHG reduction goal baseline. This re-baselining was conducted with a third-party to ensure that our GHG inventory adheres to The Climate Registry General Reporting Protocol. Our GHG reduction goal baseline year remains 2014, but now includes RF360 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. The result of the recalculation is an increase of approximately 130,000 metrics tons of CO2e to our baseline.
Qualcomm uses different methods to drive investment in emissions reduction activities. These include:
•
 In
ternal finance mechanisms: To accomplish our emission reduction goals, Qualcomm's 
primary focus is energy efficiency, and the positive financial analysis makes a strong case for  
our investments.
•
 Compliance with r
egulatory requirements/standards: Qualcomm has complied with 
California's Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) since January 2010, contributing to a reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions. Our provider is also on track to ramp up to approximately 60% by 2030, in line with California’s RPS goals.
•
 Dedicat
ed budget for energy efficiency: Qualcomm’s energy efficiency savings across our 
building space in California and Bangalore, India have realized approximately $7.5 million  in avoided costs each year.
•
 T
echnology improvements: Qualcomm continues to invest in leading-edge technology. 
Many of these technologies offer increased capability while, at the same time, attain power consumption efficiencies. Qualcomm Snapdragon chipsets are industry-leading in their power consumption optimizations, also enabling longer battery life and increasing the time the device can be in use before needing recharging. Note: Qualcomm Snapdragon and other Qualcomm products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated) and/or its subsidiaries.
•
 Incr
ease renewable energy purchases: Qualcomm continues to evaluate our operations 
globally, to explore opportunities for increasing our renewable energy purchases. In Bangalore, India we signed a 10-year power purchase agreement in 2018 to increase our renewable energy consumption. We seek to expand our renewable energy purchases across our global portfolio.
(2) emissions reduction targets 
Type: Absolute Target T arget coverage: Company-wideScope(s): 1+2 (market-based)T argeted reduction from base year (%): 30% Timelines: Base year: 2014; Start year: 2015; Target year: 2025Base year emission covered by target (metric tons CO2e): 368, 547 tCO2eScope 1: 112,479 tCO2eScope 2 market based: 203,047 tCO2eT arget Status: UnderwaySustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
52
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 2T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions (continued)(3) an analysis of performance against those targets
One of the ways we are achieving our GHG goal is by designing energy efficiencies into our facilities 
infrastructure. For example, our combined heat and power plants enable us to self-generate  electricity to meet our site needs, while efficiently utilizing the waste heat to provide cooling to our headquarters’ buildings. 
Our manufacturing facilities in China, Germany and Singapore, have been International Organization 
for Standardization (ISO) 14001 (Environmental Management System Standard) certified since 1999. We plan to certify our production sites in Germany, Singapore, and China according to ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety standard) by January 2021. Additionally, our Germany facility has been ISO 50001 (Energy Management System standard) ertified since 2014 and we plan to expand  our ISO 50001 certification to our Singapore and China facilities by 2023.
We reduced our GHG emissions in India alone by approximately 22,485 tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO2 e) through the purchase of solar energy for our Bangalore offices. This represents the second year of output from our 10-year power purchase agreement signed in 2018 to increase our renewable energy consumption. We also own and operate several on-site solar generating systems in San Diego, Bangalore, and Hyderabad which are helping us achieve our GHG goal.
Qualcomm’s strategy for complying with regulatory carbon trading systems in both California and the 
EU is to follow all applicable guidance and directives issued by the CA and EU systems. Qualcomm has also proactively collaborated with regulators to ensure compliance; for example, by determining which of our California operations are subject to Ca T regulations, in consultation with regulators, and which are exempt.  
We will continue to deploy activities and invest in programs that support our advancement in  
the reduction of our emissions. We will continue to opt, where possible, for the generation of clean energy and the deployment of new technologies to reduce our environmental impact, among other measures. We are committed to taking action and making a positive contribution in the fight against climate change. 
For more information on Qualcomm’s environmental responsibility efforts,  
please see: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design/environment
Energy Management in ManufacturingTC-SC-130a.1 (1) 
 
total energy 
consumed, 
 (2) 
 per
centage grid 
electricity 
 (3)  
percentage 
renewableFor our manufacturing sites,  (1) total energy consumed is 628,471.75 GJ this includes 
(2) 97 percent of grid electricity and (3) 3 percent from renewable energy sources 
Water 
Management in ManufacturingTC-SC-140a.1 (1) 
 
total water 
withdrawn, and
 (2)  
total water 
consumed, % of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Thousand cubic meters (m
3), Percentage (%)For our manufacturing sites,  (1) total water withdrawn is 1,518,257.65 m
3, 
(2) 
 t
otal water consumed is 524,946.90 m³. 0 percent of our manufacturing sites are in regions declared  
as High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Areas according to the World Resources  Institute (WRI).
Waste Management in ManufacturingTC-SC-150a.1 (1) 
 Amoun
t of hazardous 
waste from manufacturing, and
 (2) percentage recycled
Metric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)For our manufacturing sites,  (1) total hazardous waste is 672.64 metric tons; 
(2) 25 percent recycled
53
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 3T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Employee 
Health & SafetyTS-SC-320a.1 Description of efforts to assess, monitor and reduce exposure of employees to human health hazardsEmployee Health and Safety 
At Qualcomm, we conduct our operations and activities in a manner that provides and maintains  
safe, healthful, and productive working conditions, protects the environment and the communities in which we work, and conserves natural resources. Through our Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy, we work to fulfill relevant and applicable legal and other requirements, and to continually improve our performance. 
Our policy includes the commitment to proactively manage workplace risk in order to create 
and maintain a safe and healthful workplace while continually improving our established EHS management systems to maintain compliance with applicable legal and other requirements, monitor and improve EHS performance, eliminate hazards and risks, and incorporate industry best practices.  
In addition to operating under the same scope of our EHS Policy, our manufacturing sites, located 
in Germany, Singapore, and China, are certified to internationally recognized frameworks for occupational health and safety management systems, where there are requirements to improve employee safety, reduce workplace risks and create better, safer working conditions. These sites are transitioning from OHSAS 18001 certification and working towards obtaining certification to ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety standard) by January 2021.
For more information on Qualcomm's Environment, Health and Safety Policy:  
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/media/documents/files/environment-health-and-safety-policy.pdf
Product ResponsibilityAt Qualcomm, we address the sustainability of our products through the company’s Environmental 
Management System and various hazardous-substance elimination programs. We strive to apply the “precautionary principle.” We take preventative measures regarding certain chemicals, even if science has not indicated clear environmental or health hazards. Our own requirements are often more stringent than applicable law. 
Qualcomm has been proactive in removing lead from our products since 1999. We introduced lead-free 
flip-chips in 2010. Since then, we have been incorporating a lead-free design into our new integrated-circuit products whenever technically and economically feasible. Regulations do not prohibit the use of all brominated and chlorinated compounds in our products. Nevertheless, we’ve been proactive in eliminating them because of the potential hazards they pose. 
For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner, please 
see our Sustainable Product Design webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design
Note: Qualcomm products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of Qualcomm 
Incorporated) and/or its subsidiaries.
Employee Health & SafetyTS-SC-320a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceeding associated with employee health and safety violations(1) 0 in Fiscal Year 2020
54
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 4T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Recruiting 
& Managing Global and Skilled Workforce TC-SC-330a.1 (1) 
  P ercentage of 
employees that are foreign nationals and
(2) 
 P
ercentage of 
employees that are located offshore(1) 13% of employees globally are foreign nationals. 
(2) 
 Empl
oyees in the US: 37%
Employees outside of US by region - Americas: 1%Employees outside of US by region - APAC: 21%Employees outside of the US by region - EMEA: 9%
Employees outside of the US by region - India: 32%Implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues 
are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to innovate which includes our ability to identify, attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees. Highly skilled talent, especially in the areas of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) is vital to the success of our industry and to the future of technological innovation around the world. Thus, market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive.
Finding top engineering talent is key to our success at Qualcomm. More than two-thirds of our 
employees are engineers. To ensure that we can attract top talent, we must be able to hire the best engineers, regardless of their country of origin. Beyond fierce competition for talent across our industry and with our competitors, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign nationals, making the pool of available talent even smaller. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. Additionally, increased competition to recruit highly skilled and talented individuals can increase costs. 
At Qualcomm, we address this risk by supporting existing and future employees through a dedicated 
team of talent acquisition specialists including immigration specialists. We also have experts in immigration law across our legal team that support our company’s hiring and recruitment efforts  from a legal compliance perspective. This management approach is critical to ensure minimal  impact from currently existing outdated immigration rules that do not reflect current economic realities.
Qualcomm has been a committed partner to countries around the world for more than 30 years, 
supporting policies that encourage innovation, foster the proliferation of mobile technology, and  enable business-friendly environments globally. We engage in public policy efforts to support regulations that are aligned to today’s economic reality. Our Government Affairs team participate in diverse advocacy efforts that contribute to helping us ensure that immigration laws support our Company’s ability to develop leading edge technologies specifically and our innovation-based, global economy in general. Our advocacy efforts, as they relate to immigration laws and recruiting a global workforce, are generally implemented through collaborations with trade associations and diverse coalitions of employers.
For more information on our public policy efforts around immigration, please visit Qualcomm’s public 
policy webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/public-policy  
For more information on risk factors related to retaining and attracting talent, please visit our latest  
10-K: https:/ /investor.qualcomm.com/sec-filings/annual-reports 
Product Lifecycle and ManagementTC-SC-410a.1 (1) 
 P
ercentage of 
products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable substances(1) products representing 17% of our revenues contain IEC 62474 declarable substances. 
For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner,  
please see our Sustainable Product Design webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design  
Note: Qualcomm products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of Qualcomm 
Incorporated) and/or its subsidiaries.
55
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 5T opic SASB Code Metric Response
Product 
Lifecycle and ManagementTC-SC-410a.2  (1) 
  Pr ocessor energy 
efficiency at a system-level  for servers, 
(2) 
 
Processor energy 
efficiency at a system-level for desktops, and
(3) 
 Pr
ocessor energy 
efficiency at a system-level  for laptopsWe do not disclose single percentages for these product categories as defined by this metric.  Due to the numerous and diverse types of products in our portfolio, as well as the continued release of new products to the market, we believe it is more relevant to report on our efforts around product efficiency in performance and discuss our sustainable product design efforts. 
For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner,  
please see our Sustainable Product Design webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design 
For more information on Snapdragon 8cx Gen 2 5G compute platform which combines the best of the 
smartphone with performance and efficiency for premium ultrathin laptops with an Always On, Always Connected PC experience, please see our 8cx Gen 2 5G compute platform webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/products/snapdragon-8cx-gen-2-5g-compute-platform.  
For more information on our Artificial Intelligence (AI) related products and power efficiency as a 
primary area of AI research and development, please see our Artificial Intelligence website:  https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/invention/artificial-intelligence     
For more information on Qualcomm's efforts around 5G IoT, including our latest 212 LTE IoT modem, 
the world's most power-efficient, single mode, NB2 IoT chipset, please see our 5G IoT webpage: https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/invention/5g/internet-of-things  
Note: Qualcomm products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of Qualcomm 
Incorporated) and/or its subsidiaries.
Materials SourcingTS-SC-440a.1 (1) 
 Descrip
tion of  
the management  of risks associated with the use of critical materialsQualcomm is aware of concerns that minerals mined in conflict areas in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries may be making their way into the electronics industry supply chain and may be fueling human rights violations and environmental degradation in the DRC region. Qualcomm strives to provide DRC conflict free products. We support industry-wide efforts to drive transparency in the supply chain.  As part of our commitment to sourcing excellence, we’re working to ensure that the minerals in our products were not mined in ways that contribute to human rights violations in the DRC region. We expect our suppliers to obtain materials from environmentally and socially responsible sources, including conflict free sources within the DRC and adjoining countries.
Our conflict free minerals policy communicates the expectation that our direct suppliers obtain 
materials from environmentally and socially responsible sources, including conflict free sources within the Covered Countries. Our due diligence measures have been designed to conform, in all material respects, to the framework provided by the OECD Guidance.
More information about our conflict free mineral efforts including more details on our due diligence 
process as well as measures we performed for the reporting period to exercise due diligence on the source and chain of custody of our necessary conflict minerals that may have originated in the Covered countries can be accessed in our conflict free minerals webpage:  https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/sustainability/products/conflict-free-minerals
And conflict-free minerals report:  
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/media/documents/files/2019-conflict-minerals-report.pdf     
Note: Qualcomm products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated) and/or its subsidiaries.
IP Protection and Competitive BehaviorTS-SC-520a.1 (1) 
 T
otal amount of 
monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive behavior regulationsInformation related to litigation and legal proceedings is disclosed in our 10-K Annual Report and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. This documentation is publicly available through our Investor Relations website. 
FY20 10-K Annual Report: https:/ /investor.qualcomm.com/sec-filings/annual-reports/
content/0001728949-20-000067/0001728949-20-000067.pdf  (pp.40, pp.F-15)
Investors Relations Website 10-Q Forms:  https:/ /investor.qualcomm.com/sec-filings/all-sec-filings?form_type=10-Q&year= 
56
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 6T ask Force on 
Climate-related 
Financial  Disclosures  Index
57 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures IndexTCFD 
RecommendationQualcomm  Disclosure Disclosure  Source
Governance: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities
a)  Describe the board’s 
oversight of climate-
related risks and opportunitiesThe Governance Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) provides oversight on environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) matters, including climate-related issues. The Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee is composed of executives and senior management from across the Company, including human resources, legal, government affairs, supply chain, ethics and compliance, investor relations, operations, and finance. This Committee reports at least annually on the Company’s ESG policies, programs, initiatives, and reporting, including climate change and water-related issues, to the Governance Committee of the Board. 2020 CDP Climate  Change Survey 
Questions C1.1a and C1.1b
b) 
 
Describe the 
management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities.The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Beginning in FY20, the CFO provides overarching guidance on ESG matters, including climate-related issues and have these responsibilities because they hold the highest management-level position on the Corporate Responsibility Leadership Committee and are part of Qualcomm’s Executive team. 
2020 CDP Climate  Change Survey 
Question C1.2a
Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planning.
a)  Describe the climate-
related risks and 
opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium and long term.
b) 
 Describe 
the impact of 
climate-related risks  and opportunities on  the organization’s businesses, strategy  and financial planning.Qualcomm defines short, medium and long-term time horizons as follows:
Short-term: 0 – 5 yearsMedium-term: 5 – 10 yearsLong-term: 10 – 15 yearsClimate-related Risks Impact: Qualcomm has not identified any inherent climate-related risks with the potential to have a substantive 
financial or strategic impact on our business in the short, medium or long-term.
Climate-related Opportunities: Opportunity type and driver: Development of new products or services through R&D and innovation.Primary potential impact: increased revenues through access to new and emerging markets.Description: Applications of IoT, such as smart metering or improved efficiency from connected vehicles, 
represent a significant climate-related opportunity; In FY20, Qualcomm’s IoT (internet of things) revenues exceeded $3 billion USD.
Opportunity type and driver: Development of new products or services through R&D and innovation.Primary potential impact: Increased revenues resulting from increased demand for products and services.Description: Qualcomm has leadership in technologies that will improve energy efficiency in mobile devices 
and other applications. For example, the Snapdragon 5G Mobile Platforms feature a comprehensive modem-to-antenna system solution for 5G multimode devices, designed to intelligently work together to consistently deliver high cellular speeds, superior coverage, and outstanding power efficiency across numerous applications. Similarly, Qualcomm Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (C-V2X) technology continues to become the preferred technology for vehicles to communicate with one another and with their surroundings and promote improved safety, traffic efficiency, and support for automated vehicles. This technology allows vehicles to work closely with traffic signal controllers, ensuring reduction in carbon emissions and optimization of traffic efficiency. The lowered emissions impact of these technologies is described in the “Strategy to Realize Opportunity” section.
Note: Qualcomm Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (C-V2X) and other Qualcomm products are products of 
Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated) and/or its subsidiaries.
Opportunity type and driver: Resources efficiency through the use of more efficient production and  
distribution processes.
Primary potential impact: Reduced indirect (operating) costs.Description: Recognizing the growing importance of efficient, low-emission operations,  
Qualcomm has implemented a number of more efficient building systems across its facilities portfolio.2020 CDP Climate  Change Survey 
C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3b,  
C2.4, C2.4aQualcomm TCFD Index
58
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures IndexTCFD 
RecommendationQualcomm  Disclosure Disclosure  Source
c)  Describe the potential 
impact of different 
scenarios, including  a 2⁰C scenario,  on the organization’s businesses, strategy  and financial planning.In 2020, we conducted our first company-wide climate scenario analysis (CSA). Our qualitative evaluation included 1.5°C, 2°C, and 4°C warming scenarios. Under the 4°C scenario, global warming reaches 4°C by 2100, relative to pre-industrial temperatures, and climate policy is less ambitious. In the 2°C scenario, global warming reaches 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and climate policy is more aggressive compared to the 4°C policy. In the 1.5°C, global warming will be limited to rising well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century, and it is generally assumed that society acts rapidly to limit GHG emissions. We assessed a limited set of risks: price of carbon (transition risk), coastal flooding, high heat days, water stress, extreme cold days, average temperature, and air pollution (physical risks). 
As we evaluated the possible impacts to our Company under these three scenarios, we focused on the 
potential for increased operating costs and increased business interruption across our operations. We leveraged standardized, third-party climate modeling data, such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs), and applied internal data sources such as our global greenhouse gas emissions, water use, and facilities data.  
Potential Impacts:
•
 W
ater stress in India, China, Germany, Singapore, and the United States, where high-value 
operations are located, will pose an escalating risk of business interruption and increased operating 
costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario.
•
 An incr
eased number of high heat days in the United States, Singapore and India will pose an 
escalating risk of business interruption and increased operating costs in both 4°C and 2°C CSAs but will occur earlier and be greater in magnitude in the 4°C CSA.
•
 An incr
ease in average temperatures in the United States and Germany will pose an escalating 
risk of business interruption and increased operating costs in both 4°C and 2°C CSAs but will occur earlier and be greater in magnitude in the 4°C CSA.
•
 Coas
tal flooding and sea level rise threaten host cities in Taiwan, China, India, the United States, and 
the United Kingdom with an escalating risk of business interruption and increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario.
•
 W
orkforce exposure to air pollution in the United States, China, and India will continue to pose a  
moderate risk of business interruption and increased operating costs, regardless of the future climate warming scenario. 
•
 The risk
 of increased operating costs due to the price of carbon primarily occurs for facilities in 
Germany and China in the 4°C CSA and the 2°C CSA. This risk is greater in magnitude in the 1.5°C CSA for high emissions facilities in India, China, and the United States.
We are in the process of applying this analysis and are identifying potential strategic changes to address the plausible risks and opportunities identified in these scenarios. Information on our climate scenario analysis can be found on our Corporate Responsibility Website and in our latest Corporate Responsibility Report.
Risk Management: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks.
a)  Describe the 
organization’s process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
b) 
 
Describe the 
organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks.
c) 
 Describe ho
w processes 
for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.To determine which risks and/or opportunities could have a substantive financial or strategic impact, potential risks are classified either as company-level, when evaluated during the materiality assessment process (see below), or asset-level, when evaluated through Qualcomm’s Business Continuity Program.
Company-level risks: Qualcomm regularly conducts materiality assessments to determine which 
corporate responsibility impacts we consider to be substantive at the corporate level. During the materiality assessment process, risks are evaluated based on a combined score from two indices of importance: importance to business success and importance to stakeholders. Importance to business success includes considerations such as impact on manufacturing and operations, technology and innovation, revenue, and cost. Importance to stakeholders includes considerations such as governmental regulations, environmental agreements, and corporate responsibility-related investment decisions. Materiality is determined by combining a risk’s scores on a variety of business and environmental indices according to a proprietary weighting formula. A risk is considered to be material in part if it has a significant impact in any of these categories, and the magnitude of corporate responsibility risks (including climate-related risks) are considered with equal weight as the risk’s importance to business success. 
Note: The definition and use of “materiality” above is not the same as the Company uses for financial 
reporting purposes.
Asset-level risks: Qualcomm’s Business Continuity Program utilizes a risk/hazard assessment process to 
identify and evaluate such risks on a regional basis. The risk/hazard assessment process ranks manmade and environmental risks (including climate-related risks) using quantifiable resources to determine the likelihood of occurrence. Consultation with site leads are completed to rate the potential size and scope of specific impacts. This process is completed on a recurring basis, and the outputs are presented to the regional business continuity management teams. Qualcomm manages risks based on the outcome of the risk analysis conducted. The Business Resilience Program helps document recovery guidelines and procedures to allow Qualcomm to continue critical business functions in the event of disaster. Disasters include local incidents like building fires, regional physical incidents like earthquakes, or national incidents like pandemic illnesses, including impacts based on climate change. The output is presented to the regional business resilience management teams. Those management teams utilize the risk assessment process to mitigate, insure or accept asset risks. In addition to risk management through the Business Resilience Program process, Qualcomm also uses the results of annual sensitivity analyses around each identified risk to inform its strategic planning.2020 CDP Climate  Change Survey
C2.2, C2.2a
59
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures IndexTCFD 
RecommendationQualcomm  Disclosure Disclosure  Source
Metrics and T argets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.
a)  Discl ose the metrics used 
by the organization to 
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk-management process.
b) 
 Discl
ose Scope 1,  
Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.
c) 
 Describe the t
argets used 
by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities  and performance  against targets.CO₂e Metric  Tons 2020CO
2e Metric  
Tons 2019*CO2e Metric  Tons 2018* Our climate-related metrics and targets can be found  on our Corporate Responsibility Website and in our latest Corporate Responsibility Report.Total Scope 1 —  Direct GHG  Emissions by weight (includes purchased carbon offsets). 112,479 75,290 73,832
Total Scope 2 —  Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight (market-based: emission factors where available  and purchased International renewable Energy Certificates  and Emission Reduction Credits)203,047 114,060 120,771
Total Scope 3 — Other Indirect GHG Emissions by Weight86,790*** 112,252** 112,252*
*Amount represents prior-year calendar data. 
**Amount represents estimated emissions across business travel and employee commuting.***In 2020 we expanded our reporting of Scope 3 emissions to include upstream and downstream 
transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations, business travel, and employee commuting.
We continually look for ways to reduce our global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Set in 2015, our GHG 
reduction goal is to reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from our global operations by 30 percent, compared to a 2014 baseline, by 2025.  
We've reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by approximately 14 percent.
60
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures IndexAppendix
61 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    AppendixOur Support of the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals
UN SDGs addressed in this report:
End poverty in all  
its forms everywhere.
Ensure healthy lives and  
promote well-being for all  
at all ages.
Ensure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities 
 
for all.
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.
 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.
Ensure access to affordable,  
reliable, sustainable and  
modern energy for all.
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.
Reduce inequality within and  
among countries.
Make cities and human  
settlements inclusive, safe,  
resilient and sustainable.
Ensure sustainable consumption  
and production patterns.
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.
Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.
Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize 
 
the global partnership for sustainable development. 
To learn more about all 17 SDGs, please visit the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals website .
62
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    Appendix 
Our 2025 Goals
Enrich the lives of 27 million people  
by continuing to bring technology  
to underserved communities around 
the world through Wireless Reach.
Increase Representation of Women in Leadership* by 15 percent.
Increase Underrepresented Minorities 
(URM**) Leadership representation by 15 percent. 
Increase overall URM representation 
by 20 percent.
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and  
Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions by 30 percent from our global operations compared to a 2014 baseline.Reduce power consumption by  
10 percent, every year***, in our flagship Snapdragon products. Ensure 100 percent of primary semiconductor manufacturing suppliers are audited every 2 years  
for conformance to the Supplier Code of Conduct.
Continue to inspire the next generation of inventors by engaging 1.5 million students and teachers across the globe in our strategic STEM initiatives: our home-grown Thinkabit Lab, our collaboration  
with FIRST™, and our STEM 
community partnerships.
  * L eadership is defined as individuals at the Principal and above level in technical roles, and Director and above in non-technical roles
 ** F
or technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and American Indian or Native American. For non-technical positions, “URM” includes Black, Latinx, Native 
Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, American Indian or Native American, and Asian.   ***Given equivalent features.
63
 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    AppendixBoundary and Scope
This report covers our 2020 fiscal year: September 30, 2019 to September 27, 
2020. In some instances, data is collected and reported on a calendar rather than a fiscal year basis. Such exceptions, as well as any other exceptions to the reporting period, are noted within the report. Financial data is reported in U.S. dollars. The information and data in this report includes Qualcomm Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
Disclosure and Assurance
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. 
The content of this report was developed using the GRI’s “principles  
for defining report content”: materiality, completeness, stakeholder 
inclusiveness and sustainability context. Our use of the materiality principle encompassed our whole value chain, both within and outside the Company, and is described further in the Corporate Responsibility Priorities section of this report. 
Use of external assurance is noted in the report where it is used,  
though the report as a whole has not been externally assured. Additional information about our operations and financial statements  
is available in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.Additional information about corporate responsibility at Qualcomm  
is available at https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-
responsibility .
We welcome your comments and feedback  
at qsr@qualcomm.com.Since our founding in 1985, Qualcomm has been committed to 
bettering the societies where we live and work. We have been producing an annual corporate responsibility report since 2006. About This Report
64 2020 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report    |    AppendixWe welcome your comments  
and feedback at qsr@qualcomm.com.
© 2019-2021 Qualcomm Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
Qualcomm, Snapdragon, Snapdragon Ride, Adreno, Qualcomm Spectra, 
MSM, Wireless Reach, Thinkabit Lab, and Aqriti are trademarks or registered trademarks of Qualcomm Incorporated. Other products may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners. 
References in this report to “Qualcomm” may mean Qualcomm Incorporated, 
Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc., and/or other subsidiaries or business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable.
Qualcomm Incorporated includes our licensing business, QTL, and  
the vast majority of our patent portfolio. Qualcomm T echnologies, Inc.,  
a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, along with its subsidiaries, 
substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions,  
and substantially all of our products and services businesses, including our QCT semiconductor business.
Qualcomm Headquarters
5775 Morehouse Drive  
San Diego, CA 92121  
Phone 858-587-1121  
https:/ /www.qualcomm.com/
company/corporate-responsibility