2019  
Annual Review and Environmental,  
Social and Governance ReportHow We Are Generating 
Consistent, Sustainable,  
Long-Term Performance®About This Report
For the first time, we are publishing our Annual 
Review and Environmental, Social and Governance 
Report as a combined document to better meet 
the needs of our stakeholders, in particular the 
investment community. Regions uses the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, along with 
broader concepts from guidelines and frameworks 
established by other standards-setting organizations, 
to guide the content of this report. An index indicating 
where our Company’s reports and disclosures, 
including this report, align with the GRI framework 
can be found in the Appendix to this document.
The goals discussed in our ESG disclosures are 
aspirational; as such, no guarantees or promises 
are made that these goals will be met. Furthermore, 
statistics and metrics included in these disclosures 
are estimates and may be based on assumptions. This 
report uses certain terms, including those that the 
GRI Guidelines refer to as “material” topics, to reflect 
the issues of greatest importance to Regions and our 
stakeholders. Used in this context, these terms are 
distinct from, and should not be confused with, the 
terms “material” and “materiality” as defined by or 
construed in accordance with securities law or as used 
in the context of financial statements and reporting.
This report is not comprehensive and, for that reason, 
this report should be read in conjunction with our 
2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q 
for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 (particularly the 
“Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Factors” 
sections of both filings), 2020 Proxy Statement, 
2019 Community Engagement Highlights, 2019 CDP 
Climate Change disclosure and 2018 Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Disclosure, 
all of which can be found at ir.regions.com.CONTACT US
With teams across the Company dedicated to maintaining relationships, we interact with several stakeholder groups 
on a regular basis, responding to the issues and concerns brought to our attention. If you would like to provide us with 
feedback, here are a few ways to contact us:
REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION
1900 Fifth Avenue North
Birmingham, Alabama 35203
CORPORATE SECRETARY AND CHIEF GOVERNANCE OFFICER
Attention: Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer
governance@regions.com
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Attention: Investor Relations
investors@regions.com
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
c/o Office of the Corporate Secretary
Attention: Charles D. McCrary, Independent Chair of the Board
governance@regions.com
OFFICE OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
Attention: Office of Customer Satisfaction
ocs@regions.comMEDIA RELATIONS
1-205-264-4551
CUSTOMER SERVICE
1-800-REGIONS (734-4667)
SOCIAL MEDIA
 @askRegions
 @RegionsNews
 Regions Bank
 Regions Bank
The terms “Regions, ” the “Company, ” “we, ” “us” and “our” as used herein refer 
collectively to Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation, together with 
its subsidiaries, including Regions Bank (the Bank), when or where appropriate.© 2020 Regions Bank. Regions®, the Regions logo 
and the LifeGreen bike are registered trademarks of 
Regions Bank. The LifeGreen color is a trademark of 
Regions Bank. Other words or symbols in this report 
that identify other parties’ goods or services may be 
trademarks or service marks of those other parties.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
  BUSINESS OVERVIEW  . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS ....... 18
  RESPONSIBLE BANKING ......... 42  ASSOCIATES .................... 53
  COMMUNITIES .................. 70
  ENVIRONMENT ................. 77
  APPENDIX ...................... 93
2
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsRegions’ culture of continuous improvement means our team approaches their work with one mission top- 
of-mind: How can we serve our stakeholders better today than yesterday?
At Regions it means leaning into our strengths — strong customer relationships, attractive growth  
markets, top banking talent and a winning culture. It also means operating in socially responsible and 
environmentally sound ways that make life better for all. Here is how the Regions team is continuously 
improving to generate consistent, sustainable, long-term performance.
IMPROVE. CONTINUOUSLY.  
EVERY DAY.How We are Generating 
Consistent, Sustainable, Long-Term Performance
3
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsOperating more efficiently positions our business to 
consistently grow and perform through business cycles, and 
operating more effectively positions us to better serve our 
customers — both key to sustaining long-term performance. 
And, both recognize that that we need to make banking easier 
for our customers and associates. Through our Continuous 
Improvement initiative, also referred to as Simplify and Grow, 
we are streamlining the organization, simplifying systems 
and reducing layers — all of which make Regions run better 
and faster. We are more than two years into this and realizing 
meaningful bottom-line impacts from a combination of 
revenue-generating and expense-saving initiatives. 
PROGRESS:
27 of 67 Continuous Improvement initiatives completed
Eliminated 650,000 feet of corporate and retail spaceReduced commercial loan approval times from  
nine to three days 
Up to 15% savings through strategic sourcingKeep It 
Simple.
4
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsSuperior customer service has long been a hallmark of Regions’ success.  
Today, delivering great service is a multi-channel proposition — in the  
branch, at an ATM, on mobile and online banking platforms and through  
call centers — that requires great technology. That is why we are  
prioritizing investments in innovation, technology and talent that  
ensure we are providing our customers with digital experiences  
that are seamless, smooth, fast, secure and convenient.
PROGRESS:  
8% of workforce technology-focused
JD Power - #1 in Online BankingGo Digital — 
Here, There and 
Everywhere.
19% increase YTD in checking accounts opened 
through digital channels 2.7 million active digital users
63% YOY increase in consumer  
on-line applications 
5
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsBy leveraging artificial intelligence, machine learning and data 
and analytics, we are making more efficient and better-informed 
decisions. As an example, our contact center virtual banker, an 
AI tool named ReggieSM, handles frequently asked online banking 
questions, processes customer profile updates and performs 
bank card maintenance activities. Its counterpart, ROSIESM 
(Regions Optimal Solutions Intelligence Engine), scours big data 
to deliver personalized recommendations in less than a second 
to our bankers, who, in turn, present them to customers. The 
result is advanced technological insight that helps us deliver a 
higher degree of personalization to our customers.
PROGRESS:  
1.5 million customer calls handled by Reggie
38 million recommendations presented to customers by a banker65 million personalized recommendations delivered to bankers
7% more revenue produced on a per-customer basisGrow
More Intelligent.
6
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsA better customer experience. A more efficient banking transaction.  
A positive environmental benefit. Those are the types of win-win-
win results we believe that innovation is delivering for Regions. 
The use of eSignature capabilities for services such as consumer 
lending is an example of how digitizing and scaling a common 
banking transaction also enables us to be better stewards of our  
environment through reduced paper usage. We are also addressing 
our environmental impact through continued progress toward our 
energy and emissions reduction goals. 
PROGRESS:
28% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions since 2015
1.18 million transactions completed using 
eSignature in 201919% reduction in energy usage since 2015Bank
More Sustainably.
7
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsOur ability to deliver consistent, sustainable, long-term performance remains dependent on our 
robust culture, a talented and engaged team and strong banking communities. In 2019, we have 
made significant investments that benefit associates and their families. We are also increasing 
training to help associates advance in their careers today and be well prepared for a future that 
will be increasingly technology-driven. In our communities, we have made improvements and 
investments that create new community development lending and investment opportunities 
and that bring greater strategic focus and impact to the activities of the Regions Foundation®. 
PROGRESS:  Invest to
Make a Difference.
Increased entry-level wage to $15 an hour
Increased the Regions Foundation  
endowment to $100 millionExpanded parental leave
Increased 401(k) Plan match from 4% to 5%
Donated 88,000 hours in 
volunteer service
8
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsAt Regions, we strive to put people first and do what  
is right. As of the date of this report, our top priorities 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic have been to protect 
the health and safety of customers and associates and  
to provide financial access, assistance and guidance for 
customers, businesses and the communities we serve. 
The Regions Pandemic Response Team is providing an 
organized response to the constantly evolving global health 
crisis. Based on this team’s work, Regions has taken steps 
to protect our associates and position ourselves to help 
prevent the virus from spreading further, while still giving 
us the ability to support our customers and provide them 
with the resources they need. Some of these steps include 
creating and implementing plans to ensure all critical 
business operations are staffed appropriately, while 
allowing a meaningful number of Regions associates to 
work remotely; limiting in-person branch banking services 
to drive-through options or in-office appointments; and 
enhancing facility cleaning, supplemented by providing 
uniform guidance to associates regarding social distancing 
and other measures recommended by the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (OSHA).
Throughout this report, readers can find additional 
information about how Regions is currently responding  
to the evolving nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and 
working to enhance our business resiliency.
• For discussions on Board oversight and on business 
and corporate resiliency, see pages 25 and 40.
• To learn about how we are supporting our customers, 
see page 45.
• To see how we are supporting our associates, see  
page 67.
• For steps we have taken to help our communities,  
see page 74.
Further discussion of our business as it relates to the 
COVID-19 pandemic can be found in our Form 10-Q for the 
quarterly period ended March 31, 2020, which was filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2020.Respond Responsibly
to COVID-19.
9
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsReflecting on these tragic events and our path 
forward, I am even more proud of the culture 
of inclusion we are building at Regions. 
Dedicating time, as we have, to deeper 
conversations and richer dialogue around 
culture and heritage is helping us better 
understand each other. In turn, we must 
take those conversations back to our 
homes and communities, in hopes that 
we can do our part to drive change…
Now, more than ever, is the time for us 
all to further strengthen our commitment 
to diversity and inclusion. We must 
have a collective purpose to ensure we’re 
fostering a culture that acknowledges 
the pain and struggle people around us are 
experiencing. I’m confident as a Regions team, 
we will act on this purpose and bring to life our 
values and mission in a way we haven’t seen before.
John Turner, 
President and Chief Executive OfficerFurther, recent events have reminded us why 
it’s so important to build on what we are 
doing at Regions by having an open, honest, 
and ongoing conversation about diversity 
and inclusion. Through dialogue in our 
Conversations with Clara series and 
Table Talks, we are working to help us 
all understand, accept, and embrace 
our differences and the histories 
that have shaped who we are…
We encourage everyone to commit 
to learn more about the culture and 
heritage of people from different 
backgrounds. We encourage you to 
challenge your own thinking — and consider 
how you can be a part of positive change.
Clara Green, 
Executive Vice President and Head of Diversity and InclusionIn the days following the deadly arrest of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Americans across the country 
took to the streets to protest racial injustice. Following are excerpts of messages sent to associates 
by Regions’ leadership to reaffirm our position on diversity and inclusion and to reiterate the 
importance of accelerating dialogue for change.Stand
Together.
10
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Introduction Business Overview Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsA letter to our customers, associates,  
communities and shareholders from our  
President and CEO, John Turner, discussing  
our strategic initiatives and priorities, 2019 
accomplishments and future goals, can be  
found at ir.regions.com/~/media/Files/R/Regions-IR/
documents/ceo-letter-2020.pdf .EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
John M. Turner, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer
Leroy Abrahams
Head of Community Affairs;  
President and Chairman,  
Regions Foundation
C. Ward Cheatham
Head of Corporate Banking Business  
and Specialized Industries
Brett D. Couch
Head of Corporate Real Estate  
and Procurement
Kate R. Danella
Head of Corporate Strategic Planning and 
Head of Consumer Bank Products and 
Origination Partnerships
Amala Duggirala
Chief Operations and Technology Officer
Barb Godin
Deputy Chief Risk Officer and  
Chief Credit OfficerDavid R. Keenan
Chief Human Resources Officer
C. Matthew Lusco
Chief Risk Officer
John B. Owen
Chief Operating Officer
Scott M. Peters
Head of Consumer Banking Group
Tara A. Plimpton
General Counsel
William D. Ritter
Head of Wealth Management Group
Ronald G. Smith
Head of Corporate Banking Group
M. Deron Smithy
Treasurer
David J. Turner, Jr.
Chief Financial Officer
 John M. Turner, Jr.
President and Chief 
Executive OfficerA Message from John Turner
11
Introduction
 Business Overview
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsRegions at-a-Glance
All data as of December 31, 2019, except for deposit and market share data, which is as of June 30, 2019.
Regions Financial Corporation 
(NYSE:RF) is a member of the 
S&P 500 Index and conducts 
its banking operations through 
Regions Bank (the Bank) across 
the South, Midwest and Texas.
Total Assets$126 Billion
Total Deposits$97 BillionAssociates19,564
Branch Outlets1,428
ATMs2,028
Learn more:
regions.com/personal-bankingLearn more:
regions.com/commercial-bankingLearn more: 
regions.com/wealth-managementAverage Assets Net Income Average Assets Net Income Average Assets Net IncomeCONSUMER BANKING CORPORATE BANKING WEAL TH MANAGEMENT
STL
ATL
ORL
HOUST . LOUIS  Regions  
       Bank  
       Branches
ATLANTA ORLANDO HOUSTONPRIORITY GROWTH MARKETS87% OF DEPOSITS IN 7 STATES
Top 5 or better market share in approximately 
70% of Metropolitan Statistical Areas Ranked 16th nationally in total deposits
Approximately 70% of deposits in 
markets without a significant money 
center bank presenceLA
AR MS AL GA FL TN
Full-Year 
Average Loans$83 Billion
Households4.8 Million
$35 Billion $863 Million $54 Billion $650 Million $2.2 Billion $110 Million
12
Introduction
 Business Overview
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and Ethics2019 Performance Dashboard
$1.6 Billion  
Net Income from Continuing 
Operations
$1.50
Earnings per Share 
112%  
Shareholder Returns
58% 
Adjusted Efficiency Ratio1
28%  
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions  
since 2015
19%  
reduction in energy use 
since 2015
46% 
reduction in internal copy 
paper use over the past  
five years#75
Barron’s 100 
Most Sustainable 
Companies
5-TIME
Gallup Great 
Workplace Award 
winner and Certified 
by the Great Place to 
Work Institute
100%
Human Rights 
Campaign 
Foundation™ 2020 
Corporate Equality 
Index
#7
out of 47 banks
3BL Media Best 
Corporate CitizensFINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
ENVIRONMENTRECOGNITION
80%+  
of all customer interactions
are digital
72.1% 
increase in digital loan 
applications$17.4 Million  
in philanthropic and 
community giving by 
Regions Bank and the 
Regions Foundation
1.3 Million  
people received financial 
education from Regions
88,000 
community service hours 
by Regions associates
CUSTOMERSCOMMUNITIES
42%  
Board diversity based on  
gender, ethnicity, race and  
sexual orientation
92% 
independent Directors
92%  
average attendance at 2019 Board 
and committee meetings
5%  
401(k) Plan matching  
contribution — up from 4%
763,583  
associate training  
hours completed 
10 
Diversity Networks  
in operationCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ASSOCIATES
(1) Non-GAAP; see reconciliation in Regions’ Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 17, 2020. 
13
Introduction
 Business Overview
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsBusiness Strategy Overview
Regions is focused on generating 
consistent, sustainable, long-
term performance through 
every business cycle. This 
focus, along with our vision, 
mission and values, are the 
foundational elements guiding 
our strategy. During 2019, our 
day-to-day operations continued 
to execute against the following 
strategic priorities and realize 
measurable progress:LEANING INTO OUR STRENGTHS
Leveraging our customer focus, team, culture, markets and enterprise risk management, we:
•  Applied our Regions360® approach to identify needs and provide unique solutions to help customers reach their financial goals.
•  Invested in our associates through expanded benefits and enhanced professional development programs.
CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING
Making banking easier for our customers and more efficient and effective for our bankers by:
•  Leveraging our digital platform, which saw full-year checking account production increase 19% and credit card production 
increase 65%. 
•  Completing over one-third of identified revenue-generating or expense-saving initiatives, resulting in a net impact of  
$232 million through the end of 2019.
•  Adding associates in Corporate, Wealth, Mortgage and Digital Banking.
DRIVING INNOVATION THROUGH DIGITAL AND DATA
Enhancing the digital customer’s experience and investing in artificial intelligence (AI) and data analytics through:
•  Enhanced eSignature functionalities to make loan closing and associated documentation easier for customers and associates.
•  Deploying capabilities of our virtual banker and customer AI tool, Reggie, to enhance customer experience and improve overall 
effectiveness and efficiency of customer interaction through our Contact Center.
•  Introducing Regions Client IQ, a new tool for commercial bankers that leverages data and analytics to deliver client insight  
that is easy to understand, relevant and actionable.
MAKING STRATEGIC AND DISCIPLINED INVESTMENTS
Redeploying savings from simplified initiatives into targeted investments to facilitate growth, Regions:
•  In 2019, acquired Highland Associates, a leading institutional investment firm that provides objective investment counsel for 
nonprofit healthcare entities and missions-based organizations.
•  Continued expansion into high-growth priority markets, including Atlanta, Orlando, Houston and St. Louis — consumer  
deposits and checking accounts in these markets are growing more than two times faster than the Consumer Bank average.
•  Began a multiyear process to replace our core loan and deposit systems.
•  In 2020, acquired Ascentium Capital LLC, an equipment finance lender providing financing of essential-use equipment for small 
business customers through a technology-enabled model that delivers same-day credit decisions and funding.
•  Directed investments into customer-facing digital enhancements, such as eSignature, to save time and resources for our 
customers as well as our associates.
•  Strengthen Financial 
Performance
•  Focus on the 
Customer 
•  Enhance Risk 
Management
•  Build the Best Team
•  Continuously Improve
14
Introduction
 Business Overview
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsApproach to Shared Value
The concept of shared value is that business is 
done well when all stakeholders benefit. For 
Regions, this means our customers, shareholders, 
communities and associates. Our strategy is 
market-driven, and we fundamentally believe 
that our business can only be as strong as 
the communities in which we operate.
This is how we define a sustainable business and 
underscores our belief that decent profits must be 
made in decent ways. If the products and services 
are priced fairly, then they will provide value to 
our customers and to the Bank, while benefiting 
shareholders and communities appropriately. 
OUR VISION
Regions aims to be the premier regional financial institution 
in America by being deeply embedded in its communities, 
operating as one team with the highest integrity, providing 
unique and extraordinary service to all of its customers, and 
offering unparalleled opportunities for professional growth for 
its associates.
OUR MISSION
To achieve superior economic value for our shareholders over 
time by making life better for our customers, our associates 
and our communities, and creating shared value as we help 
them meet their financial goals and aspirations. We do this 
by providing competitive financial products, excellent service 
and trusted financial advice.
OUR VALUES
PUT PEOPLE 
FIRSTENJOY 
LIFEREACH  
HIGHERFOCUS ON YOUR 
CUSTOMERDO WHAT IS 
RIGHT
15
Introduction
 Business Overview
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsStakeholder Engagement
We believe that engaging with our stakeholders should 
be a long-term, ongoing and two-way communication 
process. We proactively seek out mutual learning 
opportunities with stakeholders that allow us to exchange information about our respective viewpoints, strategies 
and practices. The following chart sets forth some of the 
methods we use to engage our stakeholders, as well as a 
non-exhaustive listing of compelling topics we regularly discuss during our engagements with our stakeholders.  
To learn more about our engagement with stakeholders, 
see the Responsible Banking (page 42), Associates (page 53) 
and Communities (page 70) sections of this report.
WHO WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE SAMPLE ENGAGEMENT TOPICS
Shareholders• Corporate governance events
• Investor Day
• Director-shareholder engagement
• Board presentations from shareholders
• Sell-side conferences
• Roadshows• Investor visits
• Quarterly earnings calls
• Annual shareholder meeting
• In-person meetings
• Outreach calls
• Update emails• Financial performance
• Strategy
• Executive compensation
• ESG
• Human capital management
• Climate change
Customers• Personal banking relationships
• Surveys
• Voice of the Customer
• Social media• Centralized Customer Complaint Program
• Annual event with Board at off-site meeting
• Selected quarterly client events• Customer banking needs
• Access to banking
• Fair and Responsible Banking
• Product needs, characteristics  
      and limitations
• Financial literacy
Associates• Engagement surveys
• Conversations with Clara
• Regions Edge™ learning and development system
• Intranet site
• Monthly discussion guides for managers to share information  
with teams
• Business group newsletters
• Monthly Company-wide meeting led by our CEO
• Office of Associate Conduct
• Better Life Award, a monthly award given to associates for  
outstanding dedication to customers and the community, as  
well as job performance
• Regions Dependent Scholarship Program• Evergreen Week, a week dedicated to showing management’s 
appreciation of associates
• Matching Gifts Program
• Report It! Hotline and online portal
• United Way giving
• Doing More Today® website focusing on Regions’  
community engagement
• Regions Alerts, email notifications of changes in  
organizational information
• Share the Good®
• What a Difference a Day MakesSM
• Annual event with Board at off-site meeting• Benefits and wellness
• Flexible work environment
• Diversity and inclusion
• Learning and development
• Environmental sustainability
• Community engagement
• Talent management
Regulators, Policymakers,  
State and Federal Legislators  
and Agencies• Management meetings and briefings
• Management and committee reports
• Targeted exams• Continuous monitoring meetings with management 
• Management and committee report submissions
• Responding to proposed rules through comments during  
the notice-and-comment rulemaking process• Capital planning and positions
• Liquidity management and positions 
• Governance and controls
• Regulatory compliance
• Trade association engagement on legislation  
and regulatory policy
• Legislation and regulatory policy
• Risk management (Credit, Model, Operational, etc.)
Communities and 
Nonprofit Organizations• Funding support of community programs and initiatives
• Volunteer, community service and board membership  
by associates
• Relationships with local market executives and bankers
• Partnerships with local community relations officers and  
community development managers• Collaborations with Regions Disability Services and  
Outreach Manager and Regions Service Members and  
Veterans Affairs Manager
• Guidance from the Regions Community Development  
Corporation• Economic and community development
• Education and workforce readiness
• Financial wellness
• Disaster relief and recovery
• Diversity and inclusion
16
Introduction
 Business Overview
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsCORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
FORUMS AND ESG OUTREACH
Regions engages with shareholders 
through our involvement with and 
participation in corporate governance 
and ESG organizations, such as:
•  Broadridge Independent 
Steering Committee
•  Council of Institutional Investors
•  Harvard Law School Corporate 
Governance Roundtable 
•  International Corporate 
Governance Network
•  John L. Weinberg Center for 
Corporate Governance
•  Society for Corporate Governance
•  Stanford Law School Institutional 
Investors’ Forum
Throughout the year, Regions also engages 
with third-party ESG rating organizations; 
standards-setting organizations, such as 
SASB; and proxy advisory firms. Each of 
these stakeholders plays an important 
role in our governance strategies and 
initiatives. Our engagement with ESG data 
providers like Sustainalytics and MSCI is primarily focused on providing accurate 
and complete data to our shareholders and 
the general public. These engagements 
afford us the opportunity to discuss 
best practices in corporate governance 
and ESG reporting and disclosure.
In addition, Regions is a Ceres Company 
Network Member. Ceres is a sustainability 
nonprofit organization that works 
with investors and companies to build 
leadership and drive sustainability 
solutions. Through this membership, 
Regions leverages Ceres’ in-house expertise 
and relationships with shareholders and 
other stakeholders in order to gain insights 
into ESG best practices, stakeholder 
expectations and other ESG-related 
guidance. Ceres is currently providing 
input to our cross-functional collaboration 
focused on current environmental and 
social risk management processes with 
an emphasis on climate change. 
17
Introduction
 Business Overview
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Governance and EthicsGOVERNANCE  
AND ETHICS
IN THIS SECTION
   A Few Words From Board Leadership
   Regions Board of Directors and Profile
   Governance Overview
   Board Structure
   Board Oversight of ESG Matters
   Executive Compensation
   Ethical Business Conduct
   Corporate Political Activity
   Risk Management and Compliance
  Information Security and Privacy
18
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewA Few Words From Board Leadership
Carolyn Byrd 
Chair of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee remains 
committed to carrying out its 
critical responsibility to provide 
oversight of Regions’ financial 
reporting process, including 
assessing relevant risks and 
complying with legal and 
regulatory requirements. The 
Audit Committee Chair meets 
regularly with the leadership 
team from Internal Audit, 
executives and other members 
of management, as well as the 
independent auditing firm, 
to preview meeting topics 
and materials and to gain 
valuable insight on the scope 
and results of audit activities.
Don DeFosset
Chair of the Compensation and 
Human Resources Committee
In 2019, the Compensation 
and Human Resources 
(CHR) Committee continued 
its oversight of executive 
compensation and 
strengthened its oversight 
of the Company’s human 
capital management (HCM). 
Through its oversight, the CHR 
Committee strives to strengthen 
the effectiveness of our HCM 
strategies and their alignment 
with our corporate culture and 
long-term strategic priorities.
Charles McCrary 
Independent Chair of the Board
With oversight from the 
Board of Directors and 
each of its committees, 
the Company continued 
its focus on responding 
to both our shareholders 
and our stakeholders with 
comparable and decision-
useful environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) and 
sustainability disclosures that 
align with our strategic focus 
to continuously improve.
Ruth Ann Marshall
Chair of the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee
The Nominating and Corporate 
Governance (NCG) Committee 
has diligently exercised its 
oversight responsibilities 
throughout 2019, particularly 
in the areas of shareholder 
engagement and ESG. In 
2019, the NCG Committee 
oversaw Regions’ adoption 
and disclosure of a Human 
Rights Statement and 
Vendor Code of Conduct, 
both important elements of 
the Company’s operations. 
Regions also published its 
first Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) 
disclosure in 2019. These 
disclosures complement the 
Environmental Sustainability 
Policy Statement and Goals 
that were already in place.
Johnny Johns 
Chair of the Risk Committee
In alignment with our 
established risk appetite, the 
Risk Committee has effectively 
overseen the key risks to the 
Company over the last year 
by reviewing critical business 
functions, including, but not 
limited to, customer privacy 
and fair banking, interest 
rate risk management, credit 
policy and underwriting, 
data governance, cyber and 
information security and third-
party risk management and 
conducting recurring reviews 
of risk factors associated 
with business changes 
made in connection with the 
Company’s strategic priority 
to Continuously Improve.
19
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRegions Board of Directors and Profile
Carolyn H. Byrd 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
GlobalTech Financial, LLC
Don DeFosset 
Retired Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer, Walter Industries, Inc.
Samuel A. Di Piazza, Jr. 
Retired Global Chief Executive Officer, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Retired Vice Chairman, Global Corporate  
and Investment Bank, Citigroup Inc.Zhanna Golodryga 
Chief Digital and Administrative Officer,  
Phillips 66
John D. Johns 
Retired Chairman, President  
and Chief Executive Officer,  
Protective Life Corporation
Ruth Ann Marshall
Retired President, The Americas,  
MasterCard International, Inc.Charles D. McCrary
Independent Chair of the Board,  
Regions Board of Directors
Retired Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer, Alabama Power Company
James T . Prokopanko 
Retired President and Chief Executive Officer, 
The Mosaic Company
Lee J. Styslinger III
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  
Altec, Inc.José S. Suquet
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, 
Pan-American Life Insurance Group
John M. Turner, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer,  
Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank
Timothy Vines
President and Chief Executive Officer,  
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama
BOARD PROFILE1
(1) Data is as of the 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held April 22, 2020.Average Age65 Years
Average Tenure8 YearsAppointed Since 201550%
10 or Fewer Years of Service75%  25% Female
Gender Diversity  42%   
Overall Diversity  92%   
Independent
20
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewAt Regions, we strive to use our corporate  
values as a lens through which decisions  
should be made. Regions’ Board provides 
guidance for sound decision-making and 
accountability and oversees management, 
who work to help ensure we are in compliance 
with laws and regulations. Maintaining legal and 
regulatory compliance is a minimum standard, 
and we endeavor to exceed this baseline by 
implementing leading governance practices.Further, we strive to conduct business according to 
the highest ethical standards, as evidenced by our  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of  
Conduct) applicable to all associates, as well as  
our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. 
Our associates and Directors take these ethical 
responsibilities seriously and are mindful of 
our values, in particular, to do what is right. 
We maintain an environment of openness and 
transparency and take every opportunity to protect our culture by promoting Regions’ 
values. Our customers, shareholders, 
communities and associates expect no less  
of us if they are to continue giving us their  
trust and confidence.
The Board and management understand 
that good governance is the foundation of 
sustainable business and is necessary for 
creating shareholder value over the long term.
21
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business Overview
Governance OverviewThe Board assumes an active role in providing 
oversight of, and guidance to, our executive 
management team and in maintaining a strong 
system of checks and balances. The Board believes 
that an appropriate Board leadership structure includes 
a substantial majority of independent Directors with 
diverse backgrounds and experiences; extremely capable 
committee chairs; and strong independent leadership 
provided by either an independent, non-executive Chair 
of the Board or a Lead Independent Director. The Board’s 
current leadership structure meets these objectives. 
The Board believes that its leadership structure should be 
flexible to accommodate different approaches based on 
its evaluation of the best interests of the Company and 
our stakeholders at any given time. The Board carefully 
considers its leadership structure and composition each 
year in consultation with the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance (NCG) Committee as part of its continuous 
succession planning process. A critical aspect of the Board’s 
leadership structure analysis is determining how best to 
honor the Board’s commitment to maintaining robust 
independent leadership, given the present needs of the 
Company. After undertaking such an evaluation in 2019 
and again in 2020, the Board continues to believe that 
the Company’s interests are best served at this time by 
having an independent, non-executive Chair to provide 
independent leadership to the Board, while the Company’s 
CEO continues to participate in the Board’s activities and 
operations as a Director. Our 2020 Proxy Statement includes information about the 
Board and its standing committees and their respective  
responsibilities, as well as a Board Skills and Composition 
Matrix that sets forth, on a Director-by-Director basis, the 
diversity of expertise and skills that each Director 
contributes to the Board’s oversight of the Company. 
Though Director evaluations are year-round, Directors 
undergo a robust annual evaluation process to help 
ensure each is actively contributing to the Board’s 
operations and that all necessary skills are present. The 
evaluation process includes one-on-one discussions 
between the independent Chair and each independent 
Director; one-on-one discussions between each 
committee Chair and their members; full Board and 
committee evaluations; and follow-up action items.
The NCG Committee, which oversees the Board evaluation 
process, is also responsible for identifying and assessing 
potential candidates for Directorship using the criteria 
established by the Board and set forth in the Corporate 
Governance Principles. Since 2015, the Board has appointed 
six new Directors. Each of these new Directors has provided 
unique skills and backgrounds that complement those  
of the other Directors, thus providing the Board with 
additional diverse points of view when making decisions 
and providing oversight.
COMMITMENT TO LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY — 
THE ROONEY RULE IN ACTION
In 2019, the NCG Committee and Board amended the 
Corporate Governance Principles to reaffirm the Board’s commitment to diversity (including gender, race and 
ethnicity) by adopting a version of the “Rooney Rule. ” 
Pursuant to the revision, the NCG Committee will endeavor 
to include diverse candidates in the pool from which Director 
nominees are chosen. Similarly, third-party firms used to 
compile a pool of Director candidates will be requested to 
include such individuals. In addition, when searching for 
candidates for a Section 16 Executive Officer position, 
including the CEO’s successor, Regions will endeavor to 
include candidates who reflect diverse backgrounds in the 
pool from which the officer is chosen. These changes further 
the NCG Committee’s, Board’s and executive management’s 
already-established practice of considering diversity when 
recruiting and nominating individuals for Directorship or 
Section 16 Executive Officer positions.
Board Structure
Charles McCrary
Independent Chair of the Board
22
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewBoard Oversight of ESG Matters
Our Board and each of its committees oversee 
matters related to Regions’ ESG practices, 
performance and disclosures.  The Board and 
its standing committees receive regular updates 
on ESG progress, including stakeholder feedback, 
programmatic updates and ratings assessed by 
various ESG data providers. The Board, as overseers 
of risk and stewards of long-term enterprise value, 
play an important oversight role in assessing our 
environmental and social risk management practices 
and understanding the potential impact of ESG 
issues on the Company’s operations and business. The Board and its committees also oversee the Company’s 
ongoing efforts to provide our stakeholders with comparable 
and decision-useful ESG and sustainability disclosures that 
align with our strategic focus on Continuous Improvement. 
For example, Regions was one of the first U.S. regional banks 
to release disclosure using the SASB standards. Regions’ 
disclosure incorporates elements of the SASB industry-specific 
standards for Commercial Banks, Consumer Finance and 
Mortgage Finance, each of which the Company has identified 
as being highly relevant to its operations and business.  
Our SASB disclosure, CDP Climate Change disclosure and 
Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement and Goals  
are published on our website at ir.regions.com/governance.
NOMINATING AND CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
The NCG Committee is responsible 
for overseeing the Company’s 
practices and reporting with respect 
to environmental topics, such as 
climate change, and corporate 
social responsibilities that are of 
significance to the Company and 
its stakeholders — our customers, 
shareholders, associates and 
communities. The NCG Committee 
also assists the Board in establishing 
and maintaining effective corporate 
governance policies and practices.COMPENSATION AND HUMAN  
RESOURCES COMMITTEE
The CHR Committee oversees Regions’ 
strategies and policies regarding 
corporate culture and other HCM 
functions, including associate conduct, 
engagement and career progression; 
diversity and inclusion initiatives and 
results; talent acquisition, development  
and retention; performance management;  
and employment practices.RISK COMMITTEE
The Risk Committee is responsible 
for the oversight of the Company’s 
risk management practices, including 
the review and approval of the 
Risk Management Framework, the 
Enterprise Risk Appetite Statement  
and significant risk management 
policies and limits that guide the 
prudent pursuit of risk and reward 
across the Company. This includes 
environmental and social risk 
management topics, such as  
climate change.AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is responsible 
for ensuring that the Company’s 
policies, procedures and controls that 
protect our customers and associates 
are functioning at an optimal level. 
The Audit Committee also oversees 
the disclosures of matters significant 
to our Company, including ESG-
related matters, through our financial 
statements and reports.REGIONS BOARD OF DIRECTORS OVERSIGHT OF ESG MATTERS
Although the Company has made considerable progress 
on its ESG disclosures over the last few years, we recognize 
that Regions benefits from continuously improving its 
ESG performance and reporting efforts. To that end, and 
acknowledging the societal need to confront climate 
change, plans are underway at Regions to complete 
a stand-alone, climate-related risk disclosure that is 
aligned with the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. 
The Board believes that responsible and responsive 
corporate governance practices enable companies to 
generate consistent, sustainable, long-term performance 
and that enhanced disclosures provide our shareholders 
with a more transparent look at the Company.
23
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewOur Board also receives educational presentations 
and information frequently. For example, to further 
broaden its own understanding of ESG topics, the Board 
participated in an educational seminar led by Ceres 
on the role of boards in overseeing ESG matters. Our 
Board and committees also regularly discuss ESG topics 
with our management and subject-matter experts. 
Examples of ESG topics discussed with and reported 
to the Board and its committees in 2019 include:
• The development of Regions’ Human Rights 
Statement and Vendor Code of Conduct
• The Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement 
and related environmental goals, as well as 
associated energy efficiency programs
• Human capital management matters
• Environmental and social risk management 
practices, including how environmental and social 
risks are managed in the Regions Risk Framework
• Effectiveness of Regions’ Code of Conduct 
and related ethics programs
• Information technology, cyber and information 
security, business resilience and privacy• Political contributions
• Regions’ initial SASB disclosure, as well as ongoing 
monitoring of ESG reporting, scores and rankings
Beginning in 2018, the Board expanded the scope of our 
CHR Committee beyond its traditional role to include 
oversight of all HCM efforts within the Company. Since its 
charter’s expansion, the CHR Committee has strategically 
conducted reviews of talent management, succession 
planning, associate conduct, associate learning and 
development, diversity and inclusion and associate 
retention. Notably, in 2019, the CHR Committee further 
strengthened its oversight of associate-related areas 
through the implementation of an HCM Dashboard that 
it reviews periodically throughout the year. The HCM 
Dashboard includes a mixture of trending and point-
in-time metrics designed to provide information and 
analysis including, but not limited to, the following:
•  Workforce composition (diversity and inclusion, etc.)
•  Workforce stability (retention, turnover, etc.)
•  Associate engagement
•  Learning and development•  Compensation
•  Benefit and wellness program utilization
Through monitoring, subject-matter reviews, and 
discussions with management, the CHR Committee 
ensures that the effectiveness and continuous 
improvement of our HCM strategies and policies  
align with our corporate culture and long-term  
strategic priorities.
2019 BOARD AND COMMITTEE ESG PRESENTATIONS
Environmental (E)
• Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement and 
related environmental goals
• Energy efficiency programs
• Environmental and social risk management practices
• Regions’ first SASB disclosure
• ESG reporting, scores and rankingsSocial (S)
• Regions’ Human Rights Statement
• Regions’ Vendor Code of Conduct
• Human capital management matters
• Effectiveness of Regions’ Code  
of ConductGovernance (G)
• Regions’ Code of Conduct and related ethics programs
• Information technology, information security, business 
resilience and privacy
• Political contributions
• ESG reporting
24
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewDIRECTOR-ASSOCIATE ENGAGEMENT
The Board and management set a “tone at the top” that 
is characterized by, among other hallmarks, open and 
transparent communications across all levels of the 
Company. Throughout the year, Directors interact with 
associates in a variety of ways, and the Company regularly 
provides specific opportunities for Director-associate 
engagement. For example, associates will regularly attend 
and present at Board and committee meetings to provide 
subject-matter expertise and additional insights into items 
being discussed. In addition to the Board and committee meetings, small group meetings or one-on-ones are 
arranged with associates without executive management 
present to discuss topics of interest to Directors. 
Associates also regularly attend the Board dinners and 
breakfast breakout sessions that typically coincide with 
quarterly on-site Board and committee meetings.
Throughout their tenure, Directors also are encouraged 
to visit various Regions facilities, including the Regions 
Operations Center, and to meet with associates. This 
provides Directors the opportunity to observe the 
customer experience in action, as well as operational 
processes and, most importantly, to interact directly with 
our associates. Each October, the quarterly in-person 
Board and committee meetings are typically held in a 
different city throughout the Regions footprint, together 
with customer events. These off-site meetings and events 
provide the Directors with another opportunity to interact 
directly with associates, as well as customers within our 
footprint. In addition to these arranged interactions, all 
Board members have full and free access to contact and 
meet with any Regions associate.
Finally, the independent Chair of the Board sends 
an annual memo to the Executive Leadership Team 
reminding them that they may speak directly and 
confidentially to the Board regarding any substantial 
concerns that are irresolvable among management.
Regions hopes to continue this level of in-person contact 
throughout 2020, but, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue to assess what is most protective of the 
health and safety of our Directors and associates.
ESG DATA GOVERNANCE
Regions recognizes that governing our ESG data 
collection and reporting processes so as to promote 
accuracy is critical to maintaining the trust between 
Regions and our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Through accurate collection of year-over-year data, we 
are better able to track progress against both formal and 
informal goals and identify emerging trends. 
To further enhance the quality and accuracy of our ESG 
disclosures, we follow rigorous internal control processes, 
and apply our “lines of defense” approach for our proxy 
statement and this report, the two documents that rely 
most on our ESG data. For more discussion on our “three 
lines of defense” approach, please see pages 35-36. 
This internal control process includes contributions and 
certifications provided by Regions’ internal subject-matter 
experts, who are the first line of defense; multiple rounds 
of drafting and revisions by individuals who form a second 
line of defense to better ensure clarity of disclosures; 
and additional reviews by our internal Disclosure Review 
Committee, which is tasked with reviewing certain of 
Regions’ regulatory and nonregulatory disclosures for 
accuracy and clarity. Members from our Internal Audit 
group, a third line of defense, also participate in certain 
portions of this process.
Regions’ Response  
to COVID-19
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
Board has maintained diligent oversight of 
Regions’ response to the constantly changing 
environment. The Board holds biweekly update 
calls to discuss broad COVID-19 responses and 
impacts, with targeted discussions pertaining to 
specific business units. Directors are provided 
with written materials, including a COVID-19-
specific dashboard with applicable metrics, 
to enhance their oversight during these 
unprecedented times.
For more information on Regions’ current 
response to COVID-19, see page 9 .
25
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewExecutive  
Compensation
Our ability to successfully compete and grow 
our business greatly depends on the skill, 
acumen and motivation of our executives 
and their ability to develop and execute a 
dynamic strategic plan. With this in mind, the CHR 
Committee established the following guiding principles 
of compensation to serve as the foundation of our 
compensation philosophy:
•  Compensation targets should be transparent and set  
at competitive levels.
•  Actual compensation should pay for performance 
based on goals that are clear and focused. As an 
associate’s business responsibilities increase, the mix of 
compensation should be more heavily weighted toward 
variable compensation that is considered “at risk, ” 
based on corporate and individual results.
•  Compensation programs should promote shared value 
through alignment of the long-term interests of our 
shareholders, customers and associates.
•  Compensation programs should be balanced, 
incentivizing sustainable, profitable growth without 
encouraging associates to take unreasonable 
risks that may damage the long-term value of the 
Company. To ensure programs remain consistent 
with the safety and soundness of the Company, compensation programs will be subject to robust risk 
management and governance frameworks, including 
oversight by the CHR Committee of the Board.
•  Compensation programs should be fair, equitable and 
align with our corporate values.
 
The CHR Committee provides oversight for executive 
compensation and has designed a balanced program 
that provides competitive fixed-base compensation, 
as well as incentive compensation opportunities for 
performance over the short- and long-term. To establish 
target pay levels, the CHR Committee considers market-competitive pay and practices, then uses formulaic 
determinations and discretionary factors to determine 
actual compensation for the year. The CHR Committee 
considers an objective evaluation of performance based 
on business results to be critical; however, it also believes 
in the importance of applying discretion, flexibility, and 
judgment in the decision-making process to ensure 
executive compensation is balanced between near-term 
performance and progress toward longer-term objectives.
In providing oversight, the CHR Committee considers 
feedback from independent compensation consultants, 
proxy advisory firms, shareholders and regulators.
26
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewEthical Business Conduct
We value our relationships with 
associates, customers, vendors and 
the communities where we work and 
live. In every interaction, Regions must be 
regarded as trustworthy, honest and fair. 
By having a strong Code of Conduct, we 
demonstrate that do what is right is not just 
a slogan — it is the way we do business. 
The Code of Conduct is designed to 
provide resources and guidance to help 
ensure, among other matters, that: 
•  Regions and its associates remain in compliance 
with all applicable laws and regulations.
•  Regions is a safe and nondiscriminatory 
place to work and conduct business. 
•  Confidential and proprietary 
information is protected.
•  Inappropriate gifts or favors are 
not accepted or given. 
•  Conflicts of interest are avoided.
 
The Code of Conduct is about more than 
compliance; it is about what is expected of 
each associate and how we maintain trust 
with those we serve. Associates are required 
to complete annual Business Conduct and 
Ethics training and attest they have read and 
understand the Code of Conduct. The CHR 
Committee reviews all revisions to the Code of Conduct annually and receives an annual report 
on the status of Regions’ ethics objectives. 
Allegations of associate misconduct are 
investigated by the Office of Associate Conduct 
(OAC), with assistance from other business units 
as appropriate. The OAC, led by our Associate 
Conduct Officer, serves as the daily oversight 
function of all matters involving associate 
misconduct. The OAC provides balanced 
consultation and effective solutions on associate 
conduct matters, and the Associate Conduct 
Roundtable monitors complaints, trends 
and emerging issues. Investigations protect 
confidentiality to the extent possible, and 
remedial action is taken when appropriate. 
Our executive-level Ethics Council is responsible 
for enforcing Regions’ standards of conduct 
and considering all potential violations of the 
Code of Conduct that could have a material 
effect on Regions, including the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC reporting violations, 
internal insider trading policy violations and 
matters involving significant Code of Conduct 
violations by executive-level associates. The 
Council meets on a quarterly basis, or more 
frequently if necessary, and provides quarterly 
reports to the CHR Committee on all matters 
presented, as well as an annual report regarding 
the overall status of Regions’ ethics objectives.
Raising Issues and 
Reporting Violations
Regions encourages and expects all associates to raise ethical 
concerns about matters such as accounting, internal controls, 
auditing, discrimination and harassment, as well as report 
violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations, the 
Code of Conduct, or other Regions policies or procedures. We 
offer several channels through which associates and others 
may raise ethical concerns and report associate misconduct: via 
the HR Connect online portal, telephone or email; to our Office 
of Associate Conduct (OAC); or anonymously by calling the 
Report It! Hotline or submitting a Report It! complaint online.
The Report It! Hotline is a toll-free number that is available  
24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year and is 
highlighted in multiple annual training courses required to 
be taken by Regions’ associates. Regions uses an outside 
third party to receive and catalog Report It! complaints.
Regions does not permit retaliation of any kind for good-
faith reports of ethical violations or misconduct of others.
We recognize the important role our customers can play 
in ensuring we are meeting the obligations of our Code of 
Conduct. The Regions Centralized Customer Complaint 
Program is used to identify opportunities to enhance our 
products, services, and the customer experience. This 
enterprise-wide program helps us ensure that each individual 
customer complaint is addressed, and it also allows us to 
identify complaint trends and areas for improvement.
27
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewANTICOMPETITIVE ACTIVITIES
Antitrust laws prohibit agreements among competitors to 
restrict competition. Regions strictly prohibits associates 
from conspiring with any of Regions’ competitors to 
fix prices, allocate markets and customers, or refuse to 
deal with particular suppliers or customers. When in 
contact with Regions’ competitors, associates must avoid 
discussing how Regions conducts its business.
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS
All associates must abide by the laws, regulations,  
and policies impacting the financial services industry, 
as well as other more broadly applicable federal and 
state laws and regulations, including employment laws, 
antitrust laws, privacy laws, insider trading laws, and 
criminal laws governing fraud, embezzlement, anti-
corruption and bribery.
Regions provides multiple channels for associates to file 
complaints and report suspected violations of the Code of Conduct, potentially suspicious behavior or unlawful 
or illegal conduct by customers, associates or vendors. 
Two of these channels, the Report It! Hotline and the 
Report It! website, are administered by a third party and 
are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to enable 
associates to make reports anonymously. Associates may 
also anonymously report suspected ethical violations or 
unlawful or illegal conduct by sending a letter directly to 
the Associate Conduct Officer.
NO-HARASSMENT POLICY
We are confident that we have a strong, positive culture 
of respect, which is the product of sound policies and 
practices; however, we recognize we cannot be complacent. 
Continuing to maintain a culture of respect will require us 
to remain focused. We believe our culture is the result of a 
strong “tone at the top” and efforts to create and maintain 
a robust, effective risk framework that reflects our values, 
especially the values to put people first and do what is 
right. Our Code of Conduct and other written guidelines 
and policies form the foundation of this framework.
Our No-Harassment Policy, which is applicable to 
associates, customers, and vendors alike, prohibits any 
form of harassment based on race, sex, national origin, 
age, disability, religion, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, pregnancy, protected veteran status, genetic 
information or any other characteristic that is protected 
by applicable law. It defines “sexual harassment” and 
what conduct is prohibited. This policy states Regions’ 
commitment to providing a work environment that is 
free from harassment and that fosters our associates’ 
ability to devote their full attention and best efforts 
to their jobs. We encourage associates to report 
harassment of any kind, and we strive to create a culture that empowers associates to come forward when 
they feel that one of the safeguards we have sought to 
establish has been breached.
To address the 
potential risks 
presented by 
a consensual 
relationship between 
associates, including 
the risk of sexual 
harassment, we 
also have a Personal 
Relationships in the 
Workplace guideline 
that requires 
associates to report 
these relationships 
and provides that 
an associate may not occupy a position in the same 
department as, work directly for, or supervise another 
associate with whom they are personally involved.Regions does not 
require associates 
to sign mandatory 
arbitration agreements 
as a condition 
of employment 
or continued 
employment and does 
not require associates 
to arbitrate claims 
of discrimination or 
harassment.  
28
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewWe want our associates to understand what our policies 
prohibit and to feel comfortable reporting violations. Our 
policies provide multiple examples of what is prohibited 
at Regions and give associates different avenues to make 
a report. Associates are annually assigned “Respect in 
the Workplace” training as a supplement to our annual 
“Business Conduct and Ethics” training to ensure 
associates understand our policies and guidelines, as well 
as the conduct that is expected of them.
NO-RETALIATION POLICY
Regions considers retaliation to be a serious violation 
of Company values and the Code of Conduct. Regions 
prohibits retaliation of any kind for good-faith reports of 
alleged ethical violations or unlawful or illegal conduct. 
Regions’ No-Retaliation Policy is set forth in the Code of 
Conduct as well as in other Company policies.
We want associates to be comfortable reporting potential 
policy violations, and we protect the confidentiality of 
complaints we receive to the extent possible. Regardless of 
the method used to report a complaint, the OAC is notified 
so that harassment and all other associate misconduct 
complaints are investigated promptly and fairly. Oversight by the OAC helps ensure that our preventive measures, 
complaint handling and resolution efforts are effective.
At Regions, do what is right is not just a platitude; it 
is at the heart of all we do. We believe that our actions 
have yielded positive results in the form of a culture that 
reflects our values, and we will continue to review our 
processes and policies to ensure their effectiveness in 
reinforcing that culture.
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION
Our Code of Conduct prohibits associates from engaging 
in bribery or corruption of any type. The Code of Conduct 
expressly prohibits associates from giving gifts to or 
accepting gifts from government officials. Associates who 
are offered a gift or other item of value that would result in 
a violation of Regions’ policies are required to immediately 
report the incident to the Ethics Program Manager. 
Regions also has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 
Officer, who reports through Financial Crimes Risk 
Management. We instituted an Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption Policy, which requires associates to comply 
fully with all applicable anti-bribery laws, including the 
Bank Bribery Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 
This Policy, which incorporates the guidance contained in 
our Code of Conduct, establishes Regions’ requirements to 
conduct business activity in an honest and ethical manner, 
with a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
VENDOR CODE OF CONDUCT
In early 2019, we adopted a Vendor Code of Conduct, 
which reiterates the expectation that vendors in our supply 
chain adhere to all applicable provisions of our Code of 
Conduct. The Vendor Code of Conduct also sets forth 
our expectations for working conditions, human rights, 
ethical business practices and 
environmental conservation. At 
a minimum, Regions requires its 
vendors and their subcontractors 
to fully comply with all laws and 
regulatory requirements applicable 
to their business activities. We 
emphasize, however, that we seek 
to do business with vendors that 
go beyond legal compliance and 
help us achieve our commitments to  
environmental and social objectives.
HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT
Honoring and affirming protections for human rights is 
embodied in our values and mission. Regions’ support of 
fundamental rights is also reflected in our policies and 
in our everyday interactions with associates, vendors, 
customers and the communities where we do business.
We strive to conduct business in a manner that is consistent 
with fundamental human rights principles, such as those 
stated in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
We are committed to maintaining a work environment 
where every associate at every level is treated with dignity 
and respect, free from discrimination and harassment, 
and can devote their full attention and best efforts to 
their job. These same standards apply to our interactions 
with customers and others with which we do business, 
including vendors, contractors and subcontractors. Regions 
expects that the entities with which we do business also 
respect individual human rights and conduct their business 
operations free from human rights abuses, such as forced 
or child labor, human trafficking and slavery.
Learn more about 
how Regions 
promotes diversity 
among its vendors 
and suppliers on  
page 65
29
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewPRINCIPLES GUIDING REGIONS’ ETHICAL USE 
OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Regions believes that there are certain aspects of banking 
that should never change: Trust. Security. Service. Value. 
Convenience. At the same time, however, banking should 
constantly evolve in ways that better meet—and even 
anticipate—people’s needs. One of the ways that Regions is 
tackling this dual challenge is through investing in, building 
and using Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools to help ensure a 
more consistent, efficient and secure banking experience 
for our customers. We utilize AI solutions to help us perform 
multiple important functions, like protecting our customers 
from fraud, connecting customers with the products and 
services that will best suit their needs and developing an 
“AI-ready” workforce.The importance of these resources only underscores the 
need to use them ethically. Regions makes it a priority to 
use AI in a manner that is consistent with our values as an 
organization, and, as a result, the ethical use of AI receives 
significant attention at Regions. We are committed to 
strong AI ethics and AI governance; to demonstrate these 
commitments, we have developed and adhere to core 
principles that drive our ethical use of AI:
• Values. At Regions, we have a set of core values that 
drive everything we do: put people first, do what is right, 
focus on your customer, reach higher and enjoy life. We 
apply these same values to the building and use of AI at 
Regions by adopting a people-first, technology-second 
approach. We view AI as one important tool among many options designed to meet customer needs, and we 
carefully consider the impact on customers before building 
or using any AI. 
• Governance. The development and use of AI tools at 
Regions is well governed. At the starting point, one of 
our business units identifies a customer need. Then, an 
analytical team architects a solution, considering AI as one 
of many potential components thereof. At that point, risk 
management evaluates any resulting AI tools for privacy, 
bias, potential risk, mathematical soundness and other 
considerations. Throughout the process, our builders 
and users of AI follow clear guidelines on the ethical 
creation and use of algorithms. A management-level 
committee provides oversight of the entire AI lifecycle, 
from development/acquisition to implementation and 
30
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewmonitoring. Together, these strong preventative and 
detective controls help us keep our focus on the customer 
while improving services.
• Rigorous Testing. Regions is committed to rigorous 
testing of AI tools, whether developed internally or 
sourced externally. As an initial standard, Regions will 
abstain from using any AI unless our risk management 
function can perform rigorous testing and detect 
transparency in the AI’s decisioning. We take advantage 
of advancements in the fields of data science and 
model risk management, leveraging performance and 
explainability tools and algorithms to provide insight 
into how the AI makes decisions. Regions tests model 
design, data, ongoing monitoring, re-tuning and re-
training, hyperparameters, edge-cases and limitations, 
model stability, implementation and multiple other 
aspects of all AI tools. 
• Diverse and Inclusive Teams. It is crucial that AI be built 
in a thoughtful, fair and reliable manner and evolve to be  
non-discriminatory. Part of how Regions seeks to 
achieve these aims is by developing diverse and 
inclusive analytical teams, reflecting the diversity of 
the communities we serve. These teams provide clear 
insights into using AI in a manner that offers consistent 
benefit throughout our customer base. The teams’ 
work is supplemented by enhanced training, thorough 
consideration of customer impact, preventative and 
detective controls and the ability to address potential 
issues rapidly.• Continuous Learning. Continuous learning is a 
cornerstone of Regions’ analytical capabilities. Ongoing 
training opportunities, which are arranged and offered 
internally by numerous analytical teams, include Data 
Science Days, Knowledge Cafes, Analytics Advantage 
Newsletters, Quant Summits and dozens more. One 
such training, our Regions Analytics Institute, is a 
12-week training program that further enhances our 
associates’ skills at building algorithms with high levels 
of transparency, explainability and replicability, as 
well as how to test algorithms and data for bias. More 
than 50 data scientists at Regions have been trained 
on building ethical AI algorithms through the Institute. 
These ongoing learning events track the evolution of 
technology, complementing Regions’ overall culture of 
continuous improvement.AI can be used to uncover insights from data that can 
greatly benefit our customers. All consumers should 
expect that this AI is being implemented in a responsible 
manner. At Regions, we are committed to meeting this 
expectation and doing what is right for our customers. In 
that same vein, Regions envisions the evolution of these 
principles as time and experience prompt the evolution of 
AI, both at Regions and in the surrounding environment. 
31
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewProactive 
Initiatives to
Fight Human 
TraffickingHuman trafficking is one of the largest criminal industries in the world, 
and as a financial institution, we play a role in helping to recognize and 
report suspicious activity. Our efforts span a variety of initiatives. Some 
are part of our daily operations that monitor unusual banking activity, 
such as the use of funnel accounts in which a deposit is made in one 
market and then multiple withdrawals occur in other markets. 
Certain of our efforts are specifically designed around 
combating human trafficking. Knowing how to identify the 
methods used by traffickers requires specialized training. 
To better equip our associates on how to spot victims of, and 
participants in, human trafficking, we have partnered with Hope 
for Justice, a Nashville-based nonprofit that works to end human 
trafficking. Over the past two years, more than 400 Regions associates 
— from the Executive Leadership Team to our Corporate Security and 
Compliance teams — have completed Hope for Justice training. We also 
have required training for approximately 8,700 frontline associates in 
our branches.
In addition, we have worked with a cyber forensics third party to 
investigate suspicious accounts. This team scours the internet to 
compile news articles, online advertisements, social media posts and 
public records, including business licenses and arrest 
records, into intelligence reports that can be used to 
further our own internal investigations. 
Recognizing the increased risk for human 
trafficking activity associated with large events, 
Regions joined with other banks to work with the Deliver 
Fund, a nonprofit, anti-human trafficking organization, 
before, during and after the 2019 and 2020 Super Bowls. This 
partnership enabled participating banks to receive alerts from federal, 
state and local law enforcement officials to enhance vigilance in efforts 
to reduce human trafficking activity around these high-profile events. 
While uncovering any type of fraudulent financial activity is a critical 
aspect of our compliance functions, going the extra mile to help combat 
human trafficking is of particular importance for our compliance team 
and associates.
32
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewCOMPLIANCE TRAINING 
Regions strives to remain a leader in the banking industry, 
and for us, leadership and learning go hand-in-hand. 
Continuing education is a critical component of our 
culture, and we help associates reach higher by providing 
them with opportunities to learn more about the business 
of banking; staying aware of the risks Regions faces; and 
better understanding our responsibilities to protect our 
customers and comply with laws and regulations.
In addition to job-specific training, we require that 
associates complete six Mandatory Annual Compliance 
(MAC) training courses. Additional MAC courses are 
required for many associates based on their business units, 
roles and functions. All of Regions’ MAC online courses 
are revised in response to regulatory changes, industry 
events, and evolving risks. Completion of MAC training is a 
condition of continued employment at Regions; new hires 
must complete this training within 30 calendar days of 
their start date, and then again annually. In 2019, Regions 
associates completed 238,337 total hours of MAC training.
The following course descriptions provide the major 
topics contained within the six MAC courses required of 
every Regions associate.
Business Conduct and Ethics emphasizes every 
associate’s responsibility and accountability in the areas 
of conflicts of interest, insider trading/insider information, 
incentive program ethics, fair and consistent treatment 
and discrimination and harassment prevention. Associates 
are also required to certify that they have read and 
understand the Regions Code of Conduct and the General 
Policy on Insider Trading.Fair and Responsible Banking explains the importance of 
providing Regions’ customers with a fair and responsible 
banking experience, including, among other things, fair 
billing. Associates are provided with the tools to identify 
and apply key aspects of fair and responsible banking 
regulations and policies and to understand their effects 
on Regions and our customers. The course also provides 
guidelines for avoiding discrimination and unfair, 
deceptive or abusive acts or practices and for properly 
reporting customer complaints through the Centralized 
Customer Complaint Database.
Fundamentals of Risk Management reminds associates 
how sound risk management affects our ability to serve our 
customers and protect Regions. The course explains the 
three lines of defense concept, the importance of a strong 
risk culture and how shared value helps build that culture. 
Financial Crimes Corporate Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-
Money Laundering (BSA/AML) and Office of Foreign 
Assets Control (OFAC) Compliance covers the purpose 
of the BSA, the USA PATRIOT Act and Customer Due Diligence requirements as they relate to recognizing, 
reporting and reducing money laundering and other 
financial crimes. In addition, the course covers OFAC’s 
requirements, how to comply with OFAC and Regions’ 
OFAC compliance strategy.
Information Security provides associates with training 
and information on Regions’ information security 
and protection strategy. The course explains user 
identification and passwords, personal computers, 
mainframe, e-mail, internet and intranet, remote access 
and business recovery.
Privacy explains Regions’ Privacy Pledge and when to 
provide it to our customers, as well as the associate’s 
responsibilities related to customer data privacy and 
security preferences, which includes how and when we 
communicate with consumers. In addition, this course 
discusses the red flags for potential identity theft and 
appropriate associate responses.
33
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewCorporate Political Activity
Regions believes that transparency regarding 
our political contributions is important to 
our shareholders and other stakeholders, so we 
regularly publish a Government Affairs Report through 
the Governance Overview page on the Investor Relations 
section of our website. The report, which contains the 
Company’s Policy on Political Contributions and our 
related activities, has been published annually beginning 
in 2014 and semiannually since 2017. In the report, the 
Company also sets forth a description of our oversight 
process for political contributions and a summary of 
independent expenditures and corporate political 
giving over the report’s covered period. These reports 
also disclose trade associations to which Regions paid 
more than $25,000 in annual dues and the portion of 
those dues that were non-deductible under the Internal 
Revenue Code (IRC) as attributable to lobbying expenses. 
We believe that these disclosures offer transparency with 
respect to the Company’s public policy advocacy, and that 
both our advocacy work and related transparency benefit 
our shareholders, the Company, our associates and our 
customers. Regions’ Policy on Political Contributions and 
our Code of Conduct collectively govern and promote the 
highest standards of behavior by the Company and our 
associates with regard to political activities. These policies 
also support our compliance with all applicable federal 
and state campaign finance laws. Like most other public companies, Regions recognizes 
that decisions made by governmental agencies and 
lawmakers can have a significant impact on our 
operations, customers, shareholders and associates. 
Accordingly, we monitor and track issues that affect 
our business and express our views to lawmakers 
and regulators. Regions may make corporate political 
contributions in states where permissible. These 
contributions may be directed to state party organizations 
and candidates for statewide offices, state legislatures 
and, in rare instances, local offices. Also, where legally 
permitted, Regions may make independent expenditures 
or corporate contributions in connection with state and 
local ballot initiatives and referenda on important policy 
issues likely to impact our business and our stakeholders. 
Regions does not, however, make contributions to single-
issue political entities organized under Section 527 of the 
IRC or to special interest lobbying groups organized under 
Section 501(c)(4) of the IRC to support political activities, 
even when legally permissible. 
Contributions are overseen by a committee comprised of 
members of the Executive Leadership Team, the Head of 
Government Affairs, and the Manager of State Government 
Affairs. The Board receives a report on the Company’s 
annual corporate contributions and non-deductible 
portions of trade association dues. Reports are reviewed 
and certified to be in compliance with the Policy on Political 
Contributions annually by Regions’ General Counsel.
Trendsetter
Center for Political Accountability
2019 CPA-Zicklin Index 
34
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRisk Management and Compliance
One of Regions’ strategic priorities is to Enhance 
Risk Management. Our strong risk culture is supported 
by a risk governance process, a clear “tone at the top, ” 
associate ownership, escalation expectations and open 
communication and in-depth training. Our Risk Management 
Framework outlines our approach for managing risk, which 
includes four components:
Collaborative Risk Culture. A strong, collaborative risk 
culture provides a focus on risks, including environmental 
and social risks, in all activities and encourages a mindset 
and behaviors to enable effective risk management and 
promote sound risk-taking within the bounds of our risk 
appetite. Our risk culture dictates that risks be promptly 
identified, escalated and challenged, thereby benefiting  
our overall performance. This culture is demonstrated by 
our concept of clearly defined roles and responsibilities, 
which are critical to the effective management of risk.
Sound Risk Appetite. Our Enterprise Risk Appetite 
Statement, which incorporates environmental and social 
risks, defines the types and levels of risk we are willing to 
take to achieve our strategic objectives and business plans. 
The risk appetite must also be consistent with Regions’ 
mission and values.
Sustainable Risk Processes. Effective risk management 
requires consistent processes and tools to effectively identify, 
measure, mitigate, monitor and report environmental and 
social risks. Associates leverage this cycle to manage risk and 
thereby help protect the interests of our shareholders.Responsible Risk Governance. Governance 
serves as the foundation for 
comprehensive management of 
the risks that we face. It outlines 
clear responsibility and 
accountability for managing, 
monitoring, escalating and 
reporting both existing 
and emerging risks. It also 
provides a robust challenge 
process which better 
allows us to reach our full 
potential as risk managers.
CLEAR ROLES  
AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Clearly defined roles and responsibilities are 
critical to the effective management of risk. This approach 
is put into practice through the concept of the “three lines 
of defense. ” Associates in the business groups, who deal 
with our customers daily, form the first line of defense. 
They identify and address risks ranging from fraud to 
credit decisions. Risk Management forms the second line 
of defense, acting as coaches and guides to, and monitors 
and challengers of, the first line. Internal Audit and Credit 
Review form the third line, providing an independent 
review of the work of the first two lines.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL  
RISK MANAGEMENT
Regions provides financial products and services to 
companies in diverse industries, including energy and 
natural resources. As a lender, we acknowledge the unique risks and concerns surrounding the environmental 
and social impact of our lending practices. Our 
Risk Management Framework is designed to 
promote environmentally sustainable and 
socially responsible business practices 
with our customers, communities and 
other stakeholders. Furthermore, we are 
committed to appropriately managing 
the potential risks we encounter to 
most effectively serve our customers. 
As environmental and social risks 
continue to evolve, we will work to ensure 
that our Risk Management Framework 
properly captures and addresses these 
risks in line with our broader strategic goals.
Environmental and social risks are embedded throughout 
our Risk Inventory and are managed in accordance 
with our existing enterprise-wide framework of risk 
management tools and programs. The identification of 
existing and emerging environmental and social risks is 
ongoing and will continue to shape our Risk Inventory  
and Risk Management Framework.
A few examples of our commitment to effective 
management of environmental and social risks in  
our lending practices include:
•  A dedicated risk industry team, the Energy and Natural 
Resources Group (ENRG), that underwrites exposure to 
energy and natural resources clients. This focused effort 
includes expanded underwriting requirements and 
certain elevated approvals from senior credit executives.Collaborative
Risk Culture
Sustainable Risk
ProcessesResponsible Risk
GovernanceSound Risk
Appetite
35
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business Overview•  A dedicated industry team, the Natural Resource and Real Estate 
Group (NRRE), responsible for the prudent and sustainable 
management of natural resources assets held in a fiduciary 
capacity and/or owned by our banking clients.
•  Due diligence on energy sector loans for which real estate serves 
as collateral, including those clients with an indirect link to the 
energy sector.
•  Our Credit Moratoriums policy identifies industries, products 
and transaction types that present increased risk, including 
consideration of environmental and social risks, which we address 
by instituting a limited credit appetite and elevated approval and 
exception tracking requirements. The policy is reviewed, updated 
and approved at least biennially by the Credit Risk Committee.
•  A current lending moratorium on coal mining and coal-related 
activities and enhanced due diligence on high-risk loans, as  
defined by the Credit Risk Committee.
•  A specialized Credit Portfolio Management team that serves 
as a second-line-of-defense function in Risk Management and 
assesses macroeconomic factors and other early warning 
indicators to establish a methodical approach to risk, including a 
concentration limit structure and risk measurement framework 
utilizing a scheduled reporting frequency.
•  Designated resources to begin building out a dynamic scenario 
analysis related to environmental risks, including climate change, 
as relevant. By using a combination of technology and in-house 
associate talent, Regions can begin to better understand exposure 
to potential acute and chronic physical risks of climate change.
•  A cross-functional working group that is performing an 
enterprise-wide assessment of our environmental and social risk 
in lending practices.
As demonstrated by the example in the chart on the right, 
environmental and social risk management is also integrated 
into our defined roles and responsibilities process, including 
designations within each of the three lines of defense:RESPONSIBILITIES
•  Creates policies and guidance as part of aggregate oversight of risk (e.g., environmental risk).
•  Monitors performance against limits and engages with ENRG when action should be taken to 
lessen or mitigate an exposure.
•  Reports on material environmental risks and issues (e.g., policy exceptions and limit breaches)  
to aggregate risk oversight committees chaired by Risk Management leadership.2Risk ManagementSECOND LINE OF DEFENSERESPONSIBILITIES
•  Works with Strategic Planning and Risk Management on desired customer profile.
•  Engages in transactions with clients and is responsible for the identification and ownership of  
all risks, including those related to climate change.
•  Monitors risk performance in conjunction with partners from Risk Management, and reports  
on an as-needed basis on topics like environmental risk to applicable Business Risk Committees  
with participation across the lines of defense.1 Energy and Natural Resources Group (ENRG)FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE
RESPONSIBILITIES
•  Independently reviews adherence to policies and risk limits by the first line of defense and the 
quality of risk oversight from the second line of defense.
•  Issues audit findings when deficiencies are identified to ensure corrective actions are taken.3AuditTHIRD LINE OF DEFENSE
36
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewSOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Regions manages social risk as part of the 
Reputational Risk component of Regions’ overall 
Risk Management Framework approved each year by 
the Board’s Risk Committee. Regions’ definition of 
reputational risk emphasizes that reputational risk 
management is the responsibility of all associates, 
who are expected to conduct themselves in a manner 
that reflects positively on Regions. Associates identify 
social and reputational risks and refer issues to 
our Reputational Risk Management (RRM) team.
We take a deliberate, prescriptive approach to 
building long-lasting customer relationships. 
RRM has primary responsibility for assessing and 
escalating matters as needed and providing effective 
challenge to the first-line units’ assessment of 
reputational risk. RRM collaborates with enterprise 
partners to identify enterprise and industry trends 
and to respond to reputational risk events and 
issues. Depending on the issue, RRM will participate 
in customer site visits and other due diligence 
to develop an understanding of each identified 
problem. Quarterly, RRM reports significant issues, 
events and trends to the Board’s Risk Committee.
Additionally, the Regions Human Rights Statement 
helps provide direction for managing social risk 
and reiterates our mission and values, which 
are the foundation of our conceptualization 
of Reputational Risk. It also states that we 
expect the entities with which we do business 
to respect individual human rights and conduct 
business free from human rights abuses.
Coal Mining and Mountain 
Top Removal
Regions’ Energy and Natural Resources White Paper, an 
internal document that defines our risk appetite with 
respect to lending in this area, identifies many of the 
heightened environmental risks in lending to coal mining 
companies. This document is updated periodically and 
reflects Regions’ decision to not lend to companies that 
use mountaintop removal mining practices to extract 
more than 5 percent of their total annual tonnage. 
In addition, extensions of credit to coal companies 
require enhanced due diligence with respect to legal and 
environmental compliance, as well as approval from 
Credit Officers within the ENRG approval chain.
Regions manages its coal exposure as part of the Energy 
and Natural Resources portfolio, and commitments to 
coal companies are reported on a quarterly basis to 
senior management.
Learn more about Regions’ Sustainable Financing 
activities on page 84.PRODUCT LIFECYCLE GOVERNANCE
Throughout the lifecycle of any product or service 
we offer, there are guardrails to help ensure its 
soundness, quality, and safety. At Regions, one of the 
primary mechanisms with respect to new or modified 
initiatives is our New Initiative Risk Assessment 
Program (NIRA). NIRA, which is administered by 
Enterprise Risk Management and reports to the 
New Initiative Risk Assessment Committee (NIRAC), 
is used to evaluate new, modified and expanded 
products, services, strategic relationships or new 
and/or innovative technology projects as well as 
modification and/or expansion to existing products, 
services, strategic relationships or technology 
projects implemented by the Company. 
In addition to the actual vetting of new 
initiatives, subject-matter experts in Risk 
Management support various business groups 
by attending their staff meetings and working 
alongside them on new initiatives.
Once a new, modified or expanded initiative has 
been reviewed by NIRA, it is subject to regular 
performance monitoring by business-level risk 
committees. Further, our Compliance and Internal 
Audit groups conduct regular compliance reviews 
and audits, respectively. Read more about Regions’ 
Customer Protection and Sales Practices on page 46.
FINANCIAL CRIMES RISK MANAGEMENT
Regions is committed to complying with both the 
letter and the spirit of the laws and regulations that 
govern sanctions and prohibit money laundering 
37
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewand terrorist financing. We continuously 
review our Financial Crimes Risk Management 
policies and procedures and update them 
as needed. Regions remains committed to 
ensuring not only that all our policies and 
procedures fully comply with rules and 
regulations, but also that these policies 
and procedures are clearly communicated 
and accessible to our associates. 
Our comprehensive, Company-wide, Corporate 
BSA/AML and OFAC Programs consist of 
corporate policies and standards applicable 
to all Regions associates, management, 
affiliates, subsidiaries and business units. 
The Corporate BSA/AML and OFAC Policies 
and Standards, as well as Business Unit BSA/
AML and OFAC Procedures are posted on 
our intranet, life@regions. Additionally, as 
part of our effort to ensure that the BSA/AML 
and OFAC Programs are widely understood 
and observed, we track participation in 
Regions’ mandatory BSA/AML and OFAC 
training programs. We also provide targeted, 
supplemental training for certain associates. 
BSA/AML and OFAC risk governance is 
accomplished through formal oversight by 
the Board and its Risk Committee, which 
approve the BSA/AML and OFAC Programs. 
The Risk Committee receives reports related 
to BSA/AML and OFAC from management 
on at least a quarterly basis. We also have 
a Financial Crimes Risk Management department responsible for BSA/AML and 
OFAC Compliance oversight, a BSA/AML/
OFAC Operations department, a Corporate 
BSA/AML Officer and OFAC Officer, and a BSA/
AML Oversight Committee (BAOC), which is a 
management-level special purpose committee. 
All of these governing bodies and their roles 
are intended to oversee and monitor the 
effectiveness of the controls and processes in 
place to identify, measure, mitigate, monitor 
and report on BSA/AML and OFAC risks. 
The effectiveness of the BSA/AML and OFAC 
Programs, as well as associates’ adherence 
to the requirements of these programs, is 
subject to ongoing testing by our Internal 
Audit department. Regions is also subject 
to periodic BSA/AML- and OFAC-focused 
regulatory examinations. Our Board and 
senior management receive regular reports 
on regulatory submissions filed by Regions 
as required by various laws and regulations 
and by our BSA/AML and OFAC Programs. 
Individual recognition and accountability are 
paramount to the success of our BSA/AML and 
OFAC Programs. Accordingly, Regions has a 
program that is administered by Corporate 
Security, with oversight by BAOC, to reward 
associates for exceptional efforts in monitoring 
and referring potentially suspicious activity. 
Additionally, adherence to the requirements 
of the BSA/AML and OFAC Programs is built 
into associates’ performance evaluations.
38
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewInformation Security and Privacy
In a digitally connected world, information 
and cyber security present ongoing risks and 
threats to our capital markets and to companies 
operating in every industry, including the 
financial services industry. Privacy, in particular, is 
a vital concern as we deploy advanced technologies to 
collect more data and use our customers’ and associates’ 
personal information for both conventional business 
purposes, such as processing transactions, as well as those 
enabled by innovative technologies. While consumer and 
regulator expectations around acceptable data use evolve 
over time and can vary by country and sector, there is a 
proliferation of privacy and data protection laws emerging 
around the world that impose complex compliance 
requirements on organizations. As technology further evolves into a new age of advanced 
automation and artificial intelligence, organizations that 
effectively and appropriately manage and use data will 
continue to increase market power and revenue. Failure to 
collect and process information globally, effectively, and 
in compliance with increasingly complex global privacy 
regulations could threaten business survival. Similarly, we 
treat the integrity and quality of our information security 
function as a core business imperative by continuously 
evaluating our capabilities for areas to enhance operational 
resilience. Successful programs for privacy and data 
protection governance consider the lifecycle of personal 
data and the risks and regulatory issues that arise at each 
stage, from collection to data retention or destruction.BUSINESS AND CORPORATE RESILIENCE
Business interruptions can occur as a result of natural or 
human events and can range from minor to catastrophic. 
Regions is committed to providing essential business and 
technology services in the event of business interruptions 
in order to support our customers and associates. These 
efforts are supported through strong, cross-functional 
partnerships between Risk Management, Information 
Technology and Corporate Security.
Business resilience and contingency planning are integral 
components of our operations; it is a critical responsibility 
of business unit management to minimize disruptions 
of service to our customers, ensure timely resumption 
39
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewof operations and limit related losses in times of crisis. 
Regions has an established Business Resilience Program, 
which directs the internal planning processes related to 
business continuity, crisis management, cyber security 
incident response, disaster recovery, pandemic planning 
and general emergency management. As a part of 
this effort, the Business Resilience Management team 
develops and implements Regions’ approach to managing 
internal business resilience risk.
All Regions business units are responsible for developing 
and maintaining business continuity plans to help protect 
critical business functions in the face of temporary or 
permanent business interruptions, which can range 
from loss of physical workspace to loss of information 
technology resources. The Business Continuity 
Management team, a part of Risk Management reporting 
to the Director of Corporate Security, assists business 
units in the development of business unit-specific 
continuity plans.
PRIVACY
Our Privacy Policy governs all business groups and 
associates and is a statement of our commitment to 
controlling and mitigating privacy risks. This commitment is 
an important part of Regions’ dedication to promoting the 
highest standards of behavior in all aspects of our practices. 
The Privacy Policy is reviewed annually by the Compliance 
Risk Management Committee, and all associates and third-
party vendors must adhere to this policy. 
In addition, the Regions Privacy Pledge, also referred to 
as the privacy notice, is provided to all customers upon 
establishing a new consumer relationship or account 
with Regions. It explains how we collect, use and share information. The Privacy Pledge also provides customers 
with instructions on how they can limit certain types of 
information-sharing. We post the Privacy Pledge, along 
with other helpful privacy, security and fraud prevention 
resources, on our website. 
Regions understands consumers’ awareness of the 
collection and use of their personal data, as well as  
their rights regarding access and control of such data. 
Regions is committed to continuously enhancing its 
privacy program to further develop a holistic principles-
based approach that aligns strategic business objectives 
and consumer expectations in a rapidly evolving 
regulatory environment.
In 2019, Regions’ Privacy Compliance and Data  
Analytics teams, as well as other stakeholders, worked 
with consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers to assess 
and strengthen the Bank’s data privacy compliance 
program, including our compliance with the California 
Consumer Privacy Act.
These privacy programs and policies are overseen by  
the Enterprise Privacy Compliance Office. The Chief 
Privacy Officer, who leads the office, is responsible  
for ensuring that: 
•  Associate training is effective and administered 
annually to all associates 
•  Policies and standards reflect legal and regulatory 
requirements 
•  Privacy risk tolerance and control environments are 
established as part of day-to-day operations
•  Procedural and transactional reviews and testing of 
businesses are performed routinely to ensure the Bank 
is compliant with our policies and processes •  Privacy issues, trends or incidents are escalated for 
prompt attention and resolution
 
CYBER AND INFORMATION SECURITY
We believe that information and cyber security risk is a 
key operational risk to our industry. For this reason, we 
have incorporated cyber security risk into our enterprise-
wide risk management framework, which is articulated 
by management and approved at least annually by our 
Board’s Risk Committee. To mitigate this risk, and to 
honor our responsibilities to those whose data we
safeguard, we have developed and implemented policies 
and procedures designed to permeate the systems, 
operations and governance structures throughout  
the Company.
Information Security 
During COVID-19
To date, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Regions has experienced a modest increase 
in cyber events, such as phishing attacks 
and malicious traffic from outside of the U.S. 
The Company’s layered control environment 
has effectively detected and prevented any 
material impact to the Company related to 
these events.
For more information on Regions’ current 
response to COVID-19, see page 9.
40
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRegions has aligned its information security program 
with the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure 
Cybersecurity and NIST Special Publication 800-53. We 
regularly assess threats and vulnerabilities to our systems, 
so we can maintain an appropriate control environment 
to effectively mitigate these risks. The Information 
Security Program includes layered controls of network 
intrusion detection and prevention, enterprise malware 
protection, advanced persistent threat monitoring and 
data protection capabilities; further, this program adopts 
the philosophy of least privileged, which is the practice 
for limiting access rights for users to the minimum 
permissions needed to perform work responsibilities. 
These controls provide comprehensive technical, 
administrative and physical directives designed to 
ensure the security and confidentiality of our corporate, 
customer and associate information and related 
information systems. Regions regularly tests our detection 
and response capabilities through annual penetration 
tests, ongoing vulnerability scans and engagement of 
third-party vendors to perform red-team testing. The 
Information Security Program is subject to multiple 
internal and external audits, reviews and exams annually.
The increasing adoption of technological innovation, 
transformation and interconnectedness has resulted in 
a continuing evolution in the cyber threat landscape. 
Attacks are becoming more frequent, widespread, 
sophisticated and harder to defend. Ransomware, 
internet-wide vulnerabilities, supply chain compromises, 
cloud security, mobile malware, politically motivated 
attacks and high-profile data breaches have become prevalent. Company perimeter defenses and traditional 
security controls no longer provide the same level 
of protection as they did just a few years ago. A new 
approach and vision, ongoing awareness, continuous 
adaptation and effective tools, processes and 
governance are all necessary to ensure that our data and 
information systems are protected. 
This is why we maintain a formal Cyber Incident Response 
Plan and Crisis Management Team to evaluate and 
respond to significant events and incidents that may 
impact Regions or our customers. We also maintain a 
Business Resilience Policy that provides for resilience 
planning and emergency management. Additionally, we 
have placed a computer forensics firm and an industry-
leading consulting firm on retainer in case of a breach 
event. Internally, we regularly provide our associates with 
cyber security training and education opportunities to 
ensure they can effectuate our internal controls and risk 
management efforts.
Our Information Security organization operates under our 
Head of Enterprise Technology and Operations and is led 
by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). The CISO 
develops and executes an enterprise-wide information 
security strategy that helps protect our customers’ 
information, while also complying with applicable 
legal and regulatory standards. As part of this role, the 
CISO manages the development, implementation and 
maintenance of the information security infrastructure; 
oversees the protection of Regions’ electronic assets 
by providing monitoring, detection, analysis, event 
handling and containment of security incidents; monitors information security trends internally and externally; 
and reports to senior leadership and the Board about 
information security issues and activities affecting  
the organization.
Our system of internal controls incorporates organization-
wide reporting and escalation of information security 
matters to management and the Board. The Board also 
considers cyber and information security, along with 
related risk considerations and mitigation efforts, as part 
of its annual review of the Company’s strategic plan. The 
Board considers cyber and information security as part 
of its annual self-evaluation, and several of our Directors 
have considerable cyber security experience. We also 
provide the Board with ongoing education on information 
and cyber security to ensure they are equipped with the 
information they need to oversee our operational risk. 
The Risk Committee of the Board oversees information 
technology activities and risks including information 
security, disaster recovery, operational resiliency 
and crisis management. As part of its oversight 
responsibilities, the Risk Committee annually reviews 
and approves the Information Security Policy, as well as 
the Business Resilience Policy. The Risk Committee also 
receives quarterly enterprise risk assessments from the 
Chief Risk Officer, as well as an annual update dedicated 
to information technology risk management. In addition, 
on a regular basis, the Audit Committee reviews our cyber 
security risk management practices, primarily by receiving 
reports on our cyber security management program. 
These reports are prepared not only by the CISO but also 
by our Risk Management and Internal Audit functions.
41
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Governance and Ethics Introduction Responsible Banking Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewIN THIS SECTIONRESPONSIBLE 
BANKING
   Overview
   Focus on the Customer
   Consumer Protection
   Expanding Access Through 
Financial Inclusion
42
Responsible Banking
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewOverview
As a financial institution, customer trust is paramount. We work daily to 
earn that trust by providing our customers with a banking experience that is 
convenient, fast, safe, secure, insightful and tailored to their specific needs. 
Today, superior customer service is a strength and key differentiator for 
Regions, while at the same time a focus of continuous improvement. We 
never rest on what we have done for customers, but rather always ask what 
more we can do and how to better anticipate their evolving needs. 
2019 Greenwich 
Excellence Awards
Winner of 10 Awards for Small Business 
and Middle Market Banking
2019 Greenwich Best 
Brand Awards
Winner of 3 Awards for Small Business 
and Middle Market BankingCUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  
2019 Javelin 
Online and Mobile 
Banking Awards
Kantar
2018-19 Highest-Rated Traditional 
Bank in Customer Experience+ 
for Top 10 U.S. Retail BanksMarketforce 
Information
2019 Customer Experience 
Leadership Award Large 
Retail Banking SegmentNational Winners/one.num2019 Greenwich Excellence Awards
for U.S. Middle Market Banking
Among More Than 600 Banks Evaluated, 33 Have Distinctive Quality
Ease of Product
Implementation
First Horizon
Frost Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
Pinnacle Financial
Synovus FinancialOverall Satisfaction 
Ally Bank
BB&T now Truist
City National Bank (CA)
First Citizens Bank
First Horizon
FNB Corporation
Frost Bank
Fulton Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
M&T Bank
Pinnacle Financial
PNC Bank
Synovus Financial
Likelihood to
Recommend/two.num 
BB&T now Truist
City National Bank (CA)
First Citizens Bank
First Horizon
Frost Bank
Fulton Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
M&T Bank
Pinnacle FinancialCASH MANAGEMENT
Overall Satisfaction 
BB&T now Truist
City National Bank (CA)
First Citizens Bank
First Horizon
Frost Bank
Fulton Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
M&T Bank
Pinnacle Financial
PNC Bank
UMB Bank
Zions Bancorporation
RM Provides Data &
Analytics Driven Advice
BB&T now TruistProduct Capabilities
Bank of America
First Horizon
Frost Bank
Hancock Whitney
Pinnacle Financial 
Synovus Financial
Digital Product
Capabilities
Bank of AmericaCredit Process
*
Overall Satisfaction
with CM Specialist
Frost BankRM Proactively
Provides Advice
Hancock Whitney
Pinnacle Financial
Synovus FinancialOverall Satisfaction
with RM  
BB&T now Truist
First Horizon
Frost Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
Pinnacle Financial
Synovus Financial
Customer Service 
BB&T now Truist
City National Bank (CA)
Frost Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
Pinnacle Financial
Regions Bank
Synovus Financial
Inquiries can be directed to Kevin Seiler (kevin.seiler@greenwich.com) at Greenwich Associates — +1 203.625.5177
Note: *Performance evaluations did not yield statistically diﬀerentiated providers. /one.sup_altComparisons are based on all banks covered across the United States.
/two.supPromoters on the net promoter scale. Based on over 13,000 interviews with businesses with sales of $10–500 million across the country.
The ﬁndings reported in this document reﬂect solely the views reported to us by the research participants and do not represent opinions or endorsements
by Greenwich Associates or its staﬀ.
 Doc ID 20-4008Page 1 © 2019 Javelin Strategy & Research 
www.javelinstrategy.com 2019 ONLINE BANKING AWARD 
BEST IN CLASS 
BANK OF AMERICA 
ANNOUNCING THE 2019 ONLINE BANKING AWARD WINNERS  
Javelin identiﬁes leaders overall and in each category. For the third year in a row, Bank of America earned “Best 
in Class” and it was a lead er in ﬁve of the six categories. The othe r two overall leaders were BB&T and USAA. 
Bank of the West, BBVA USA, Citi, Co merica, Huntington Bank, Regions, Su nTrust, and Wells Fargo each also 
ranked as a leader in at least one category. 
 
Javelin’s trends and recommendations for online banking span the following six categories: 
Ease of Use: A customer-friendly experi ence, including transaction review and search.  
Security Empowerment: Functionality within online banking that builds customer conﬁdence and control. 
Financial Fitness: Insights and tools that reinforce healthy ﬁnancial habits and provide a comprehensive 
ﬁnancial picture. 
Money Movement: Transactional capabilities, in cluding Zelle and bill pay. 
Customer Service: Digital and physical channel integration an d steps toward the next era of banking. 
Account Opening: Ways to reduce abandonment and implemen t cross-channel application assistance. 
 
FIs can make concrete improvements in the near term . In Money Movement, they can roll out the full Zelle 
feature set. In Security Empowerment,  they can centralize security features in a hub. Other areas will take time. 
Financial Fitness has yet to address the problems of re al people with pocketbooks.  Ease of Use will develop 
with the evolution of search and other experiential el ements.  Customer Service w ill require advancements in 
virtual assistants and cross-channel support to steer cust omers to the right resources. With few exceptions, this 
vision of the future has yet to take hold. Javelin’s scorecard details the st ate of the industry and shows how to 
set the foundation for the long-t erm evolution of online banking. In this mobile-ﬁrst era, online bank ing is still the workhorse channel an d the dominant di gital touchpoint. 
Although growth tapered off years ago, this domina nce will continue for the foreseeable future. Javelin 
estimates that by 2021 online banking will serve 199 million U.S. adults. Success in online banking will be 
measured by how FIs pick and promote features  that cultivate custom er relationships.  
 
In concert with the Mobile Banking Scorecard, Javelin’s Online Banking Sc orecard provides a multichannel road 
map. It evaluates solutions offered by the top 25 U.S. FIs and examines 17 trends in online banking, 
encompassing over 200 features across six categories: Ease of Use, Securi ty Empowerment, Financial Fitness, 
Money Movement, Customer Service, and Account Openin g. Javelin recommends wa ys that FIs can address 
these trends, rationalize investments in digital channels , highlight competitive threats, isolate features for 
product managers to prioritize, and draw out talk ing points for the marketing of digital banking. 
Page 1 © 2019 Javelin Strategy & Research 
www.javelinstrategy.com 2019 MOBILE BANKING AWARD 
BEST IN CLASS 
BANK OF AMERICA 
ANNOUNCING THE 2019 MOBILE BANKING AWARD WINNERS  
Javelin identiﬁes leaders overall and in each category. For the third year in a row, Bank of America earned “Best 
in Class” and it was a lead er in ﬁve of the six categories. The othe r two overall leaders were BB&T and USAA. 
Chase, Citi, BBVA USA, Regions, and Wells Fargo each also ranked as a leader in at least one category. 
 
Javelin’s trends and recommendations for mobile banking span the following six categories: 
Ease of Use: Help users locate information and functionality with search, sort, and ﬁlter and simplify and 
consolidate account views. 
Security Empowerment: Provide a security hub within the app, build out card contro ls, and promote the 
value of security alerts. 
Financial Fitness: Deliver detail and depth in categorized spendi ng, and upgrade ﬁnancial insights and push 
notiﬁcations. 
Money Movement: Offer P2P ﬂexibility on par with other transa ctional features and support for recurring 
payments. 
Customer Service: Improve mobile proﬁle management and self -service options to keep customers from 
unnecessarily turning to call centers. 
Account Opening: Create a clean, more detaile d in-app shopping experience. 
 
Certain aspects of mobile banking fu nctionality are growing rapidly. Fina ncial Fitness has emerged as the new 
battleground for mobile customer engagement. Account Opening leaders are creating streamlined experiences 
delivered entirely within the mobile app. As apps have  become more complex, Ease of Use has suffered, and 
best-practice banks have stepped up with in-app search and virtual assistant capabilit ies. Customers, however, 
continue to endure quirks and inco nveniences that limit overall satisf action. Javelin’s scorecard evaluates 
industry offerings and shows what FI s should prioritize to build intu itive mobile banking experiences. Mobile banking has become indispensabl e, but growth in adoption is levelin g off. Banks must turn from adding 
basic functionality to developing solu tions that drive customer engagement . The best banks in the country are 
investing in mobile as a standalone banking channel and supporting customers’ full relationship needs. 
 
In concert with the Online Banking Scorecard, Javelin’s 13th annual  Mobile Banking Scor ecard illuminates the 
best digital banking offerings in the U.S. It evaluates so lutions offered by the top 25 U.S. FIs and examines 17 
trends in mobile banking, encompa ssing over 200 features across six ca tegories: Ease of Use, Security 
Empowerment, Financial Fitness, Money Movement, Cust omer Service, and Account Opening. Javelin’s deep 
dive into the leading mobile apps reveals areas of co mmon focus, category stando uts, and best practices. 
 
Best Brand—Overall
Bank of America
Chase2019 Greenwich Best Brand Awards
for U.S. Middle Market Banking
Among More Than 600 Banks Evaluated, 16 Have Distinctive Quality
Doc ID 20-4007Best Brand
Best Brand— Trust
BB&T now Truist
Bank of Oklahoma
City National Bank (CA)
First Citizens Bank
First Horizon
Frost Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
M&T Bank
Pinnacle Financial
Synovus FinancialBest Brand—Loans/Lines of Credit
Bank of America
ChaseBest Brand—Cash Management
Bank of America
Chase
Best Brand—Ease of Doing Business
BB&T now Truist
First Horizon
FNB Corporation
Frost Bank
Fulton Bank
Hancock Whitney
IBERIABANK
Pinnacle Financial
Regions Bank
Synovus Financial
Inquiries can be directed to Kevin Seiler (kevin.seiler @greenwich.com) at Greenwich Associates — +1 203.625.5177
Best Brand— Overall and by product is awarded to providers that are statistically diﬀerentiated in earning consideration among customers and non-customers.
Best Brand— Ease of Doing Business and Trust awards are based on distinctive customer ratings.
The ﬁndings reported in this document reﬂect solely the views reported to Greenwich Associates by the research participants. They do not represent opinions or endorsements by
Greenwich Associates or its staﬀ.Based on over 13,000 interviews with businesses with sales of $10– 500 million across the country. Comparisons are based on all banks covered across the United States.
43
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewFocus on the Customer
Relationship banking has defined Regions throughout its 
long history. Today these relationships are the focus of 
Regions360® , which puts customers’ needs at the center 
of every interaction and shapes the way we cultivate 
relationships. By taking a deliberate, prescriptive approach 
to identifying customer needs, our bankers work as a team to 
bring customers our best: our best thinking, our best products, 
our best services and our best solutions. Customers benefit 
from practical solutions they need and will use, and Regions 
benefits from broadening customer relationships that 
deliver long-term quality growth. Regions360 delivers 
shared value for customers and our Company because we 
are doing what is right for customers and helping them 
succeed financially by providing competitive products 
in a transparent and trustworthy manner. Identifying customers’ financial 
goals and needs through  
quality conversations 
Providing practical  
and balanced solutions 
to help meet those goals 
 Introducing expertise by bringing 
in the right Bank partners to help 
meet complex needs with a  
“one Bank, one team”  
approach Offering  
customers the 
best experience 
possible through 
relationship teams 
who are committed 
and engaged
  Offering financial advice and 
guidance to help customers  
make better financial  
decisions 
A NEW WAY TO BANK
Today’s customers expect to bank with us however, 
whenever, and wherever they choose. This drives the 
need for us to provide a diverse set of traditional banking 
channels, including branches, automated teller machines 
(ATMs) and call centers, as well as nontraditional banking 
channels like online and mobile web applications. While 
more and more customers prefer to do their banking 
remotely through digital channels, many still want the 
option of talking to a banker at a branch, especially for 
more complex needs, such as financial advice and loans. 
Regardless of the channel, our goal is to ensure that 
every interaction exemplifies our value to focus on your 
customer and exceed their expectations.
Our 
bankers bring 
 
to life every 
day by:
44
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewTo adapt to this broader array of banking options, all 
of our branch associates are trained through our Build 
the Best Banker program to handle the full spectrum 
of customers’ needs and help them with a range of 
transactions, from opening an account and cashing 
a check, to applying for a mortgage and retirement 
planning. Our newly designed branches do away with 
the teller lines and instead use private workstations to 
allow bankers to engage in more personal conversations 
with customers, including discussions about their life 
and financial goals and how Regions can help them 
meet those goals. 
We are also investing in video banking ATMs. Through 
these ATMs, customers throughout our footprint can 
interact with a live banker. Not only can customers 
complete more complex transactions through this 
service, but it also extends our banking hours, with 
video bankers available until 9 P .M. ET during the  
week and 6 P .M. ET on weekends.BANK YOUR WAY
In 2019, we launched Bank Your Way, a new approach 
aimed at making banking easier for our customers and 
ensuring that they know about the services and options 
available to them. Bank Your Way focuses on bankers 
educating customers — both new and existing — about 
what we offer and showing them how to use our services 
on their mobile device, online, or at our ATMs. It is 
designed to capitalize on opportunities that come up 
every day in our branches and to use those opportunities 
to add additional value to customers’ relationships by 
showing them faster and more convenient ways to meet 
their needs. For example, instead of simply offering to 
process a transaction request for a customer, our bankers 
will show the customer options on how to handle those 
types of transactions faster and easier, such 
as taking the customer through the steps of 
depositing a check with the Regions Mobile App.ONLINE AND MOBILE 
WEB APPLICATIONSIN-BRANCH BANKING
TELEBANKING ATMBANK YOUR WAY
To assist our customers during this difficult time, 
Regions draws from its established Customer 
Assistance Program and our bankers who have 
experience working with customers through natural 
disasters and market disruptions to address their 
specific needs. Other COVID-19-specific efforts, each 
of which is subject to terms and conditions, to assist 
those impacted include:
•  Allowing penalty-free CD withdrawals
•  Waiving standard fees for excessive withdrawals 
from all savings and money market accounts
•  Deferring and granting extensions on loan 
payments with no late fees
•  Granting extensions on payment for credit card 
accounts with no late fees
•  Offering consumer mortgage payment relief for 
 90 days and up to 180 days for certain loans
•  Suspending initiation of new repossessions of 
automobiles and other vehicles for 60 days
•  Suspending new residential property foreclosures 
on consumer real estate loans for 90 days
•  Providing an array of deposit account fee waivers, 
available based on customer need
For more information on Regions’ response to 
COVID-19, see page 9.
Regions’ Response 
to COVID-19
45
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewConsumer Protection
Regions’ customers and communities are  
at the heart of our businesses, and we are 
strongly committed to treating prospective and 
existing customers in a manner that is equitable, 
transparent, fair and consistent with consumer 
protection laws and regulations. Regions is 
committed to offering products and services based on an 
assessment of customer needs, and we have prohibitions 
against engaging in any predatory or unfair, deceptive or 
abusive acts or practices (UDAAP). All Regions associates 
are expected to adhere to both the letter and spirit of 
fair and equal treatment laws and principles, not simply 
because they are the law, but because fair and responsible 
banking principles are built into Regions’ corporate values.
Regions established a Fair and Responsible Lending 
(FRL) Policy to which all business groups are expected 
to adhere. Additionally, Regions is strongly committed 
to making the financial products and services we offer 
available to prospective and existing customers on 
a fair and responsible basis. Accordingly, Enterprise 
Customer Protection and Privacy Compliance (ECPPC), 
a component of Risk Management, is an essential 
part of Regions’ business and growth strategies. The 
ECPPC team identifies, measures, mitigates, monitors 
and reports compliance with all fair lending laws and 
UDAAP . Regions, as part of its overall Compliance 
Management Program, works to foster and promote a 
culture of compliance with regulatory requirements, 
internal policies and industry guidance impacting 
consumer and business products and services. Regions associates are required to complete Mandatory 
Annual Compliance (MAC) courses related to Fair  
and Responsible Banking, Risk Management, and 
Business Conduct and Ethics. Every associate  
also has a responsibility to adhere to Regions’ FRL 
Policy, as well as to ensure all aspects of the lending 
process, including application, underwriting, closing, 
servicing and beyond, are executed consistently, 
fairly and accurately without regard to any specific 
characteristics or basis as prohibited by law. 
Regions’ commitment to fair and responsible lending 
is incorporated throughout the product lifecycle, 
including product development, advertising, 
marketing, training and established Customer 
Assistance Program. Regions also established credit 
policies, procedures and product guidelines that 
direct all phases of the lending process and govern 
activities such as pricing, product eligibility, servicing 
and other functions of offering and extending credit. 
In an effort to better understand our customers, 
Regions captures concerns and feedback to identify 
opportunities to improve our products, services and 
processes. This includes capturing issues raised by 
our customers in the Centralized Customer Complaint 
(CCC) database. In addition, we conduct customer 
surveys and participate in national syndicated studies, 
and then use this information to measure satisfaction 
and further enhance our customer service.Our Mortgage team has a programmatic focus on meeting 
Regions’ fair and responsible banking commitment. The 
program includes a needs-based, customer-focused strategy 
designed to further transparency and clarity throughout 
the loan process. Our online mortgage application, along 
with the consumer portal, creates increased efficiencies and 
allows borrowers to track loan progress and receive the 
information necessary to make informed decisions during 
the origination process. A communication and training 
plan also helps ensure all mortgage associates understand 
our fair and responsible banking/lending commitment. To 
read more about the efficiencies provided by eSignature 
to our mortgage lending program, see page 82.
Fair and Responsible Banking Objectives 
•  Inform customers about products and services that 
meet their needs and give them the information 
they need to use these solutions appropriately 
•  Share product communications and 
disclosures in a clear, transparent way 
•  Deliver financial education to customers and communities 
•  Improve customer satisfaction and loyalty through 
fair and responsible banking practices 
•  Comply with all regulations and laws related to fair  
and responsible banking  
46
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRegions’ customer clarity documents, in both English 
and Spanish, tell customers, in straightforward language, 
about our products and services. These Regions Quick 
Guides® support our Regions Simplicity Pledge®, which 
is our commitment to providing customers with the 
information they need to make good financial decisions 
and to understand how their accounts and services 
work — simply, clearly and using plain language.
CENTRALIZED CUSTOMER 
COMPLAINT PROGRAM
Regions’ CCC Program is one of our many Voice of the 
Customer programs, which are designed to gather the 
opinions and thoughts of our customers in order to help 
us measure and enhance our products, services and the customer experience. All associates, regardless of their 
role, are trained on the CCC Program and have access 
to and a responsibility to record customer complaints 
in the CCC database. Through the CCC Program, we 
can more thoroughly document and address each 
individual customer complaint; further, the CCC Program 
allows us to identify emerging trends and areas for 
improvement. Key components of the program include:
•  A centralized application, the CCC database, that 
is used to record customer complaints and any 
actions taken to resolve the customer’s concerns
•  A process to ensure every customer complaint is 
reviewed for timely and thorough resolution
•  Root cause analysis that is performed by 
leadership and subject-matter experts throughout 
the Company — analysis is used to identify and 
correct issues, and find ways to enhance our 
customers’ experience, products and services
SALES PRACTICES
A company can be successful in a variety of ways, 
but how it achieves that success is just as important 
as the success itself. At Regions, our values and our 
culture serve as the foundation for how we want 
to be successful — by listening to our customers, 
understanding their needs and meeting those needs. 
Placing the customer first — before our products or 
services — ensures that we are furthering their 
interests and helping them reach their unique 
financial goals. This service-centric culture is 
reinforced through a series of checks and balances 
that help make sure we work in our customers’ best 
interests. Such checks and balances include:• Consumer Services Team. The Consumer Services 
team monitors associate incentives and management 
metrics for potential unintended outcomes. Where 
appropriate, our bankers only receive incentives 
for opening accounts that result in the customer 
using the account or keeping required balances. 
And, for most products, if a customer closes an 
account in a predetermined timeframe, incentive 
credit is charged back to the associate. 
• Retail Integrity Team. As part of our commitment 
and corporate value to do what is right for our 
customers, our Retail Integrity Team uses a systematic 
model and analytics-based review process to uncover 
potential deviation from the spirit and intent of the 
incentive plan or our approach to meeting customer 
needs. We created this Retail Integrity Team within 
Consumer Services to continue evolving our banker 
oversight program with the changing environment. 
The Team is tasked with identifying potential risks 
and elevating them for appropriate action.
• Routes for Protection. We use information from our 
CCC Program and internal Report It! associate hotline 
to help identify potential instances of sales practices 
not aligned with our needs-based approach. 
• Training. All retail associates, including those 
working at our branch locations, as well as our 
Consumer Banking executives, must complete, at a 
minimum, a semiannual training on retail integrity. 
Completion and attestation of this training is required 
for associates to participate in the incentive plan.
47
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewExpanding Access Through Financial Inclusion
The financial needs of the communities that 
Regions serves are as diverse as the tools 
required to meet those needs. Regions has 
displayed a commitment to providing all customers —  
from the unbanked and 
underbanked to the very 
wealthy, and from small 
businesses to corporate 
clients — access to the 
preferred financial tools, 
industry-leading products, 
and the expert advice and 
guidance we have to offer. 
Today, Regions is a model for 
the industry in offering a full 
range of alternative financial services to customers who 
do not have an account relationship with the Bank. 
REACHING THE UNBANKED  
AND UNDERBANKED
According to the latest Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation’s (FDIC) Survey of Unbanked and Underbanked 
Households (2017), there are approximately 8.4 million 
unbanked households, defined as one in which no member 
of the household has a bank account, and approximately 
24.2 million underbanked households, where the 
household uses a combination of bank products and 
alternative financial services, in the United States.
These individuals typically struggle to use mainstream 
financial products because of one or more challenges. Learn more about 
how Regions 
expands financial 
inclusion and 
education in our 
communities on 
page 73They may have low- or volatile-income constraints, 
such as workers whose hours change weekly, perform 
seasonal work or rely on service tips for the majority of 
their income. Others may have credit challenges such as 
subprime credit, thin credit or no credit file at all.
To serve this population within our footprint, Regions 
has created an innovative way to provide unbanked and 
underbanked customers access to alternative financial 
services from a trusted financial institution, at a lower 
cost, while offering a pathway to becoming fully banked in 
the future. This unique commitment to financial inclusion 
has made Regions a leader among financial institutions.
For millions of households, managing money means using 
cash-based alternative financial services. With Regions 
Now Banking ®, we offer these services without requiring 
the customer to have an existing account relationship 
with us. Once enrolled, Regions Now Banking customers 
have access to services such as prepaid cards, check 
cashing, money remittances, in-person bill payments, 
and money orders. In addition, Regions Now Banking 
customers can take advantage of Regions’ financial 
education and other tools. Regions Now Banking helps 
customers take control of their finances and reach their 
goals using products and services of their choice, with the 
service, security, strength and stability of a reputable and 
trusted financial partner like Regions. In 2020, we plan to 
add Regions Now Banking enrollment to our self-serve 
digital “join the bank” process.REGIONS NOW BANKING SERVICES  
Full-Service Check Cashing. Ability to cash any 
check, for any amount, with fees lower than most check-
cashing stores
Money Remittance. Ability to send money to almost 
anyone for pickup as cash at over 500,000 Western Union 
locations worldwide
Regions Now Card®. A reloadable prepaid Visa®  
debit card that can be used for everyday spending 
and ATM access; the card is safe, secure and has no 
overdraft fees
Money Orders. An affordable alternative to writing 
personal checks
In-Person Bill Payment. Ability to make cash 
payments for bills such as utilities, consumer loans  
and student loans
Regions Explore® Visa® Credit Card. A savings-
secured credit card that allows customers who may not 
otherwise qualify for a credit card to build or rebuild 
their credit
48
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRegions’ commitment to financial inclusion requires 
more than simply having services available. It is critical 
for Regions to build trust 
with customers who may feel 
intimidated by or suspicious 
of banks. Regions associates 
are trained to understand and 
empathize with the unbanked 
customer. As part of our needs-  
based conversation process, 
associates explain how the  
Regions Now Banking products  
can meet various customer 
needs, as well as other services  
that can help the formerly 
unbanked customer. At the  
same time, Regions Now 
Banking products are subject  
to rigorous internal compliance  
and risk oversight. The Regions  
Now Banking customer 
segment is one of the  
fastest-growing within the Company, and it includes  
both previously unbanked consumers and existing  
Bank customers using Regions Now Banking services. 
HOME OWNERSHIP
For many who live within the markets we serve, home 
ownership is an elusive dream. Market perceptions 
regarding down payment requirements and overall 
home affordability, especially among the unbanked 
and underbanked, discourage many from becoming 
homeowners. However, Regions believes home ownership 
provides a pathway to true financial wealth, which, in 
Regions  
Now Banking 
customers  
who opened  
a traditional 
deposit account 
within the last  
12 months20%
A Day in the Life of an 
Unbanked Customer
For the past two years, we have 
conducted “A Day in the Life of the 
Unbanked Customer” workshops 
with both Regions senior leaders and 
front-line associates. This workshop 
challenged participants to complete 
a variety of financial transactions 
without using a bank or bank account. 
Teams were given a check to cash as 
well as a list of financial tasks, with 
two hours to complete the exercise. 
By conducting real world transactions 
just as an unbanked customer would, 
these associates gained insights and empathy for consumers and the challenges they 
face managing money. Afterwards, associates shared 
their experiences and observations. They discussed 
how Regions Now Banking compared to using a non-
bank provider. And lastly, they brainstormed ways they 
could use this experience in their day-to-day jobs.
Regions Now 
Banking 
households556,000turn, strengthens our communities. As a result, Regions is 
fully committed to helping our customers achieve home 
ownership and, in furtherance of this commitment, took 
the following actions in 2019: 
•  Implemented a standardized sales, service and 
coaching process so our conversations with borrowers 
are focused on their financial needs and the optimal 
financial solutions Regions can deliver.
•  Improved the Regions360® Branch-to-Mortgage 
referral process. In 2019, closed mortgage referrals had 
already seen a 119 percent increase year-over-year, with 
improved results reported across Regions’ footprint.
•  Evaluated mortgage-related initiatives through the  
cross-functional Unbanked and Underbanked 
Taskforce to meet the home financing needs of the 
unbanked and underbanked population.•  Expanded our internal Community Reinvestment Act 
(CRA) and Fair Housing Consumer Banking Playbook 
to emphasize a broader and stronger commitment 
to serving the financial needs of both our low- and 
moderate-income (LMI) and minority borrowers.
•  Hosted an inaugural Consumer Fair Lending Summit 
bringing leaders from various areas of the Bank 
together to define strategies to ensure superior 
lending and service results to these market segments. 
•  Developed a strategic marketing plan to support 
the Regions Affordable Mortgage product suite, 
which provides financing to LMI borrowers or to 
those borrowers purchasing homes in designated 
LMI census tracts. This plan is scheduled for 
implementation in 2020.
49
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewOur Mortgage team supports home ownership in our 
emerging markets by offering a variety of products, 
including affordable mortgage products, which seek to 
meet the specific needs of LMI borrowers. Through our 
own Affordable Mortgage suite of portfolio products, 
Regions provides these borrowers the opportunity to 
become home owners with a cash investment of as little 
as $500, based on borrower eligibility, without the added 
cost of mortgage insurance.SMALL BUSINESSES
Regions recognizes the role that small businesses play in 
supporting economic development and job creation, and 
we are committed to providing the tools and support, 
including financial education, which allow small businesses 
to grow and move forward. As part of our Regions360® 
approach to banking, our bankers provide small business 
customers with advice, guidance and education, and 
work to understand and uncover their needs in order to 
provide them with the best products and services to meet 
their financial goals. Regions’ Small Business products 
and services include business banking services; lending and 
credit opportunities; and tools for managing cash and assets, 
payroll and benefits. Regions provides a variety of small 
business financing options, starting with loans as low as 
$5,000. Additionally, as a lender certified by the Small Business 
Administration, Regions has and will continue to assist 
its customers by providing federally guaranteed loans for 
small businesses through the Paycheck Protection Program, 
which was established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and 
Economic Security (CARES) Act. For more information about 
Regions’ participation in this program, please refer to Regions’ 
Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 31, 2020.
Regions also shows our support for small businesses and 
community cultivation through our investments. Within 
our portfolio of agency-backed products, Regions invests 
in CRA-eligible residential and commercial mortgage-
backed securities that help fund affordable housing in the 
United States. In 2019, Regions invested approximately 
$500 million in CRA investments. Regions also makes CRA-
qualified community development investments through our 
investment in Small Business Investment Companies (SBIC) 
funds, which help finance small businesses. Regions invested 
approximately $16 million in CRA-eligible investments that 
supported the growth of small businesses during 2019.
 All data as of December 31, 2019Mortgage Lending 
Originations
Total 
Affordable 
Loan 
ProductionBILLION 
Minority 
Borrowers
BILLION 
Home Mortgage  
Lending Involving  
More Than 22,000 Loans
MILLION 
Borrowers in Majority-
Minority Census TractsMILLION 
Borrowers in LMI 
Census Tracts 
MILLION 
LMI
Borrowers21%
$669$502.5
$68423%$1.4
$5.72019 AFFORDABLE MORTGAGE LENDING
50
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewSUPPORTING OUR SERVICE MEMBERS  
AND VETERANS 
At Regions, we are committed to supporting the men  
and women of the U.S. military and their families. We 
understand that service members face unique challenges. 
Frequent moves, active duty requirements, overseas 
deployment — all of these can make managing finances 
more complicated. We are proud to help support the 
members of the military, veterans and their families 
through financial benefits, community involvement  
and a dedicated Service Members and Veterans Affairs 
Manager, whose job is focused on the needs of this group. 
Read more about Regions’ commitment to service members 
at regions.com/about-regions/military-commitment . 
Regions is also a proud sponsor of the annual Birmingham 
Veterans Day parade, the largest in the nation.• Inner City Capital Connections.  One of the ways 
Regions supports small businesses is through our 
partnership with Inner City Capital Connections (ICCC). 
In 2019, Regions and community partners brought 
two no-cost business training programs to nearly 150 
business owners in Memphis and St. Louis. Through 
these programs, entrepreneurs in or near urban or 
economically underserved communities received 
business training, insights on management and 
marketing and one-on-one coaching to strengthen their 
businesses. ICCC training is provided by noted business 
school professors, leaders in the fields of management 
and finance and our bankers. Customized coaching is 
also delivered by local professionals whose expertise can help small-business owners develop 
strategies to reach more customers 
and, over time, create more jobs. We 
have been a major sponsor of ICCC 
programs since 2014.
• Financial Wellness Seminars.  Through the Regions Next 
Step® Elevate program, our bankers conduct financial 
education seminars and provide other solutions for 
businesses seeking to foster the financial wellness of 
their employees, all at no cost to the employer. Regions’ 
financial wellness relationship managers work with 
small businesses and other employers to help their 
employees take control of their financial future, while 
encouraging their success in the workplace and beyond.
®
51
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewACCESSIBILITY OF  
BANKING SERVICES
Regions provides special accommodations 
for certain Bank services, facilities, privileges 
and products so that our customers with 
disabilities can bank independently and 
with ease. As a part of our commitment 
to accessibility, the Bank’s 2,000 ATMs 
have speech-output and voice-instruction 
capability, with earphone jacks for privacy. 
For persons who are blind or have low 
vision, we offer braille, large-print or 
audio CD bank statements; online PDF 
bank statements for savings and checking 
accounts; general-purpose reloadable debit 
cards in a text-to-speech format; sight checks 
printed with raised lines; and assistance 
with reading, filling out and completing 
forms. For persons who are deaf or hard 
of hearing, Regions offers the acceptance 
of telecommunication relay service calls, 
Teletype/Telecommunications Device for 
the Deaf (TTY/TDD) connectivity through the 
Regions Contact Center and a sign language 
interpreter upon request in advance. 
Regions’ Autism Awareness Initiative, 
launched in 2016, strives to make our 
facilities accommodating to people with 
autism. We work to raise awareness about 
the condition and to create a friendly and 
welcoming environment in our facilities. 
This initiative includes:• Training for Regions branch associates 
to recognize autism and know how to 
react to situations and communicate 
appropriately.
• Offering sensory packs with a stress ball, 
sunglasses and noise-canceling earbuds 
at branches to assist customers with 
autism who may experience sensory 
episodes due to noise, lights and  
other factors.
• Designated quiet areas in branches that 
guests and loved ones accompanying 
them can use until an episode passes.
• Producing an instructional video to 
explain autism and offer suggestions to 
Bank associates about how to approach 
an individual experiencing an episode.
• Partnering with physicians at the 
University of Alabama at Birmingham 
and the Autism Society of Alabama to 
develop and build upon this initiative.
52
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Associates Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewIN THIS SECTION
   Overview
   Associate Engagement
   Recruiting Talent
   Talent Management
   Diversity and Inclusion
  Benefits and WellnessASSOCIATES
53
Responsible Banking
 Associates
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewOverview
We are in the business of managing financial 
capital, which we are able do from a position 
of strength because of investments in our 
human capital — the nearly 20,000 associates 
who compose the Regions team. Just as we 
are devoted to helping our customers and 
clients optimize their financial capital, we are 
dedicated to developing our associates and 
assisting them in realizing their full potential 
All data as of December 31, 2019.Full-Time 
Equivalent19,564
Average 
Number 
of Open 
Positions1,252
Total Hires6,611
Million 
Spent on 
Development 
and Training$20
of Hires Were 
Internal Fills43.1%THE REGIONS TEAM 
AT-A-GLANCE
2019  in a dynamic, diverse and inclusive work 
environment that positions them for success.
We believe that associates are at their best 
when they are successful at work and at 
home, which is why we provide them with 
both opportunities and tools that they can 
use to invest in themselves. Throughout an 
associate’s career, we offer and encourage professional development through technical, 
individual, management and leadership training 
programs, as well as talent and performance 
management processes, all of which allow for 
sustainable associate career paths. We also 
recognize the importance of our associates’ 
personal development and well-being, so 
we promote a culture of caring in which our 
associates can feel connected and supported.
54
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewAssociate Engagement
Engaged associates are our greatest resource.  
They care about Regions’ success, and the enthusiasm and 
dedication they bring to work makes life better for their 
fellow associates, our customers and the communities we 
serve. We believe that in order to drive engagement, we must 
live our values and focus on our strategic priority of Build 
the Best Team. We do this through our efforts to maintain 
a culture that best positions us to attract, engage, develop 
and retain top talent. We celebrate the contributions and 
achievements of all of our associates as a Company and 
reward exemplary performance. We regularly measure our 
performance in this area and use the results to recognize 
top performers and to facilitate honest conversations 
and team impact planning. Guided by values and driven by performance, the culture we are creating at Regions is 
unique. It engages the people who come to work here every 
day and differentiates who we are to our customers.
ASSOCIATE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY
A fundamental component of building the best team is 
understanding what parts of our culture drive associate 
motivation and engagement. Measuring engagement helps 
us understand what we are doing well and how we can 
improve and strengthen our culture and fulfill our mission. 
To this end, Regions distributes an anonymous online 
Team-Associate Engagement Survey annually to measure 
engagement. Through this survey, associates answer 
questions that enable us to capture how they feel about 
their workplace experience at Regions. The first  
12 questions, known as the Q12, remain the same from 
year-to-year for comparison purposes. Up to 10 customized 
questions are also included and vary yearly, generally 
reflecting focus areas for the organization. In 2018-2019, 
these customized questions focused on effective leadership 
behaviors, diversity and inclusion and Company advocacy;  
in 2020, they will focus on culture, diversity and inclusion 
and well-being, among other topics. 
Anonymous survey results and resources are provided to 
managers, who then share the results with their respective 
teams for group discussion. Teams are encouraged to 
use the group discussion to have a meaningful dialogue 
that celebrates the great things they are doing and 
includes identification of new practices that will drive 
engagement and positively impact their day-to-day work 
and performance over the following year. By determining 2019 ASSOCIATE  
ENGAGEMENT HIGHLIGHTS
Average Associate  
Participation Rate 85%
Gallup Manager of  
the Year Nominees7
Great Place to  
Work-CertifiedTM 2019
Gallup Great Workplace Award
Five Consecutive Years
Regions’ strategic focus on engagement was 
recognized in 2019 with our fifth consecutive 
Gallup Great Workplace Award. This recognition is 
awarded to organizations that cultivate a culture 
of engagement and put people at the heart of their 
business strategy. Additionally, Regions received 
the newly renamed Gallup Exceptional Workplace 
Award again in 2020. Regions was one of only 38 
companies in the world to receive the award under 
its new name, which is meant to accurately reflect 
what recipient organizations have achieved — 
being truly exceptional.a specific plan of action and establishing individual 
ownership, teams can become unified in achieving 
shared goals. Once a plan is put into action, teams can 
regularly discuss progress and recalibrate as needed.
The engagement survey provides important 
benchmarks about associate engagement, but 
the team discussions, plans of action and follow-
up efforts ensure continuous improvement and 
55
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewsustained engagement. The real work of engagement 
is managed through our leaders, their teams and a 
shared desire to make life at work better to ensure 
continued success. Regions’ leaders receive a variety 
of tools and resources to engage their teams. In 2019, 
3,000 managers completed a leadership development 
workshop focusing on manager development as part of 
an associate engagement initiative that began in mid-
2018. This initiative has helped us better understand how 
engagement impacts associates in different departments 
and roles, as well as our overall performance, so that 
we can develop resources to support associates and 
managers alike.
In April 2020, we conducted a Gallup pulse survey of our 
associates regarding COVID-19. Over 14,700 associates 
responded to the survey, which places Regions above 
Gallup’s national average in response rate. Here are a  
few highlights:
• 89% of associates agreed or strongly agreed that ‘My 
employer has communicated a clear plan of action in 
response to COVID-19’
• 85% of associates agreed or strongly agreed that ‘I feel 
well prepared to do my job’
• 91% of associates agreed or strongly agreed that ‘My 
immediate supervisor keeps me informed about what is 
going on at my company’
• 83% of associates agreed or strongly agreed that ‘My 
company cares about my overall well-being’
Regions is extremely proud of the overwhelmingly 
positive results from this pulse survey because we 
believe it reflects, among other things, our strong 
associate culture. Additional pulse surveys are planned for May and June to continue gathering important 
feedback from our associates during these challenging 
times. We have also made tools and resources available 
to managers, in order to encourage effective leadership 
through trust, compassion, stability and hope — the four 
needs of followers.
EVERGREEN WEEK
Although associate appreciation takes place throughout 
the year, Regions specifically honors all associates 
every September during Evergreen Week. This week is 
a time when managers thank associates for their hard 
work and dedication, celebrate how associates work 
together to deliver the best results in the right way, and 
show appreciation for associates’ unique talents and 
contributions to our Company. Each year, we develop 
a new Evergreen theme that guides the activities for 
the week. In 2019, the theme was Shared Value. Shared 
Success. We celebrated associates and how their shared 
contributions added to our success as an organization. 
Together, we make life better for each other and the 
customers and communities we serve — creating shared 
value for everyone. All associates also receive an extra day 
of paid vacation as part of Evergreen Week.
BETTER LIFE AWARD
The Better Life Award is the top award given by Regions to 
associates for outstanding dedication to customers and 
the community, as well as job performance. Presented 
monthly to one associate who lives the Company’s values 
in an exceptional way, the award recognizes associates 
who have gone beyond what is required by their day-to-
day jobs and whose contributions make life significantly 
better for others. All associates are eligible to nominate 
a coworker — or be nominated — for the award. Our 
CEO honors recipients at the Company’s headquarters 
during a meeting broadcast to all offices. Each recipient 
receives an additional week of paid vacation and a $1,000 
donation made in the recipient’s name to the nonprofit 
organization of their choice.
John Turner, President and CEO, speaking with Clara Green, Executive Vice President and Head of Diversity and Inclusion.
56
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRecruiting Talent
Regions’ centralized Talent Acquisition team 
strives to identify and implement innovative talent 
solutions that support the building of a diverse, 
engaged workforce. Our associates are a key element of 
our success, and we seek to recruit a diverse group of talent 
that shares our values and mission to make life better. We 
offer performance-driven individuals a place where they can 
build a career — a place to expect more opportunities.
EMERGING TALENT PROGRAM
One way we recruit top talent is through the Emerging 
Talent Program. This career development program 
is designed to refine technical knowledge to fit the 
current and prospective needs of our business, enhance 
participants’ individual talents, encourage collaboration 
and networking and model Regions’ values. Entry into 
the Emerging Talent Program is accomplished through 
either an internship or a full-time, line-of-business-specific 
development program. Most full-time development program 
positions will have a one- to two-year rotational aspect.
RECRUITING TALENT FOR  
A DIVERSE WORKFORCE
Regions is committed to hiring candidates with diverse 
backgrounds and experience. We make a concentrated 
effort to attract diverse talent through various recruiting 
initiatives and collaborative efforts. Our Talent Acquisition 
team partners closely with our Diversity and Inclusion Center 
of Expertise (the D&I Center) to execute our strategies to 
attract diverse talent to Regions in a variety of ways. 
The D&I Center works closely with community 
organizations in our footprint to present job readiness 
programs, mock interview sessions and resume-
building workshops in an effort to support our 
community while attracting new talent to Regions.
For the past two years, Regions has accepted the 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) 
Partnership Challenge, an effort by the Congressional 
Bipartisan HBCU Caucus to encourage corporations 
to make greater investments in HBCUs. Since making 
this commitment, in 2019 we introduced an HBCU 
recruitment strategy focusing on strategic relationships 
with 10 HBCUs across the Regions footprint.
Regions also works closely with National Pan-
Hellenic Council (NPHC) organizations to attract their 
membership to our Emerging Talent Programs. For 
example, we engage with undergraduate students to offer leadership development and demonstrate 
career paths in banking through our relationship 
with the Kappa Alpha Psi® Fraternity, Inc. and 
its national programs, including Lead Kappa 
and the Undergraduate Leadership Institute.
In the summer of 2019, City of Birmingham Mayor 
Randall Woodfin launched Birmingham Promise: 
an initiative to create new career and college 
opportunities for students in Birmingham City Schools. 
The program also helps meet the workforce needs 
of Birmingham’s current and future employers. In 
addition to providing students with a clear pathway 
from high school to a rewarding career, the initiative 
provides more inclusive prosperity in the Birmingham 
metro area that also strengthens employers through 
a diverse, qualified workforce, which in turn helps 
fuel long-term economic growth. Regions was a 
proud member of the group of 21 companies that 
57
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewparticipated in the 2019 pilot program 
by welcoming one student during 
the summer to get valuable on-site 
experience, and we have plans to welcome 
five new students in Spring 2020.
In addition to our work with community 
organizations and educational initiatives, 
Regions is also committed to employing 
veterans and military members who are 
seeking opportunities in the financial 
services industry. Regions has publicly 
stated its support of these efforts through 
the Employer Support of the Guard and 
Reserve (ESGR) and has issued a separate 
statement of support through Military.
com. We engage with this group of talent 
through military-focused career programs, 
fellowships, and on-base recruiting. In 
2019, we launched BRAVE — Building 
Regions Associate Veterans Experience. 
This new military transition program 
includes a new military recruiting page 
on regions.com, veteran-to-veteran 
mentorship, a military-to-banking 
development program and easy access  
to military life events resources for 
associates on our HR Connect life events 
page. Read more about BRAVE on page 65.
Finally, we are equally committed to 
supporting employment for individuals 
with disabilities. In 2019, we strengthened 
our relationships with local departments of rehabilitation by hosting a summer work 
program and updating our regions.com/
careers page to affirm our commitment 
to employing people with disabilities.
DEPLOYING NEW 
RECRUITMENT STRATEGIES 
We are excited about the potential for 
new initiatives to further enhance our 
talent recruitment process going forward. 
In 2019, we launched a new Corporate 
Alumni Program, which increases our 
ability to stay in touch with associates 
who choose to leave or retire. Alumni 
have access to a portal where they 
can remain connected to Company 
news and information. The Program 
will also serve as a recruitment tool by 
including job postings and connecting 
with previously employed talent.
We also plan to develop and launch a 
formalized Internal Mobility Strategy in 
2020 aimed at putting a career roadmap 
in front of all Regions associates. This 
will build upon our already strong 
pipeline of internal talent as evidenced 
by the fact that 43.1 percent of open 
requisitions were filled by existing 
Regions associates in 2019.
58
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewTalent Management
Regions’ Talent Management Program strives 
to optimally deploy talent across Regions by 
focusing on where our associates excel; helping 
them find the best roles for them at each step 
of their careers; and building talent pipelines to 
meet the future demands of our business. Through 
this Program, Regions employs a consistent, continuous 
approach to talent identification, assessment and 
development. Because we believe talent management 
is something that should be done well every day 
to maximize the potential of our human capital, we 
assist managers in identifying the events and actions 
throughout the year that are appropriate for performing 
assessments, engaging in impactful conversations and 
providing productive feedback.
The most critical associate development planning event in 
our talent management process is the career check-in. At 
all levels of the organization, managers and associates are 
encouraged, at least annually, to pause and discuss their 
career goals. Associates, who are expected to drive their 
career planning, take the first step by completing a guide 
and setting time with their manager to have a discussion.  
These discussions are unique to each associate-manager 
pairing, but they provide an opportunity to drive 
collaborative planning and create commitments to 
associate development. In 2019, we incorporated 
automated next-step guidance to managers based on 
the outcomes of their career check-in conversations.
Engaging in talent discussions throughout the course of a 
year provides the best opportunity for managers to dive more deeply into the most critical pools of talent within 
their organizations. Whether the focus is on emerging 
talent efforts, diversity, high/low performers or associates 
ready to move up or across to another role, each business 
unit matches its talent discussions to the current and 
prospective needs of the business. Similarly, succession 
planning focuses first on the most critical positions with 
the greatest possibility for turnover and ensures that 
experienced and capable talent is prepared to assume 
critical roles as needed. Incorporating plans that attempt 
to match our best suited talent for our most critical 
positions allows us to prioritize our resources and effort 
into those situations that will generate the greatest return 
for our associates, the organization and our shareholders. 
Regions also implements a progressive discipline model, 
emphasizing learning and self-improvement, to address 
performance gaps within our associate population.
In order to best evaluate and support talent decisions and 
internal mobility, talent managers routinely  assess associate performance, behaviors, competencies 
and skills. Associates play their part in the process by 
regularly updating in Regions’ systems their career 
interests, mobility preferences, training, education 
and certifications. To better assist associates who 
are interested in exploring internal opportunities as 
part of managing their careers, we began offering 
virtual career fairs. In 2020, these career fairs will offer 
automated skills- and career-matching technology to 
recommend exploratory career options to associates.
PREPARING FOR A CHANGING 
WORK ENVIRONMENT
Automation, cognitive technologies and the open talent 
economy are reshaping the future of work. While we 
recognize the importance of technology to enrich the 
customer experience, we believe our associates remain 
our greatest competitive advantage and serve as a 
59
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewresource to our customers that cannot be matched. For 
these reasons, we continue to invest in our associates so 
that they are empowered with the best skills and tools 
— including digital technologies — to more efficiently 
and effectively meet the needs of our customers. 
We are committed to preparing our workforce for a rapidly 
changing environment and understand that reskilling and 
upskilling is crucial to staying competitive and to retaining 
valued associates. To support this need, Regions has 
established a new learning ecosystem Regions Edge™ — a 
customized learning experience platform that provides 
the tools to measure, build, and communicate skills inside 
the organization. This tool is designed to empower our 
associates to drive their own careers through associate-
led personalization of learning plans based on their roles 
and interests. Regions Edge provides a wide variety of 
learning experiences: articles, podcasts, online training, 
online coursework and peer-to-peer interactions that 
create an inclusive, robust learning experience. Currently, 
Regions Edge is available to about 11,000 associates, 
with plans to expand access to all associates by 2021.
Organizationally, Regions Edge provides the ability 
to inventory the skills our associates have and target 
development efforts toward specific areas where elevated 
skills are needed now and in the future. Regions  
leverages a combination of internally developed 
learning assets focused on Regions-specific content 
along with content developed and curated by key 
subject-matter experts throughout the organization. 
Additionally, strategic relationships with training 
vendors such as LinkedIn Learning and Harvard 
ManageMentor offer more than 12,000 learning 
opportunities across a wide variety of subjects. In recognizing the importance of technology, we have 
engaged Pluralsight and other specialized technology 
training vendors to provide more than 6,000 on-demand 
courses that offer intensive learning in application 
development, information technology operations, 
information security and technology architecture.
ASSESSING SKILLS FOR  
FUTURE BUSINESS NEEDS
In late 2019, we embarked upon an initiative to identify 
the future skills required to effectively execute on our 
business strategy and develop the learning pathways 
necessary to upskill our associates. Our approach to 
accomplish these goals uses the following process:
•  Accurately projecting the knowledge and skills we need 
to develop as an organization
•  Using analysis to align individual associates with the 
knowledge and skills that they need to be successful
•  Prescribing learning content for associates that targets 
their individual needs based on skills assessments
•  Monitoring progress and creating accountability at all 
levels for achieving capability milestones
The first upskilling initiative was launched with our 
Information Technology team. We began by identifying 
and defining the current and future knowledge, skill 
and ability needs of more than 400 associates. In the 
next phase, we plan to assess those areas, resulting in 
individualized learning plans created to upskill these 
associates. The upskilling initiative will continue to 
expand to other functional areas in 2020 and beyond. 
In addition to ensuring that we are appropriately 
preparing for our future business needs, performing 
the work of assessing current skills and implementing upskilling and reskilling programs will better position 
us to avoid costly hiring initiatives, reductions in force 
and position eliminations. Where upskilling or reskilling 
may not be an option, Regions utilizes a formal process 
for reviewing plans for reductions in force and position 
eliminations. This procedure requires a business 
justification for the reduction or elimination and review 
by multiple departments. Regions also offers a severance 
program for affected associates.
CONTINUING TO VALUE IN-PERSON LEARNING
The Regions Learning and Development team continues 
to offer high-value in-person learning experiences that 
incorporate relevant scenarios in order to practice desired 
behaviors to meet customer needs. By using an adaptive 
approach to learning and embedding it within business 
units, we can meet current learning and development 
objectives while anticipating business skills needed in 
the future. In particular, we are enhancing investments 
in critical positions such as application development, 
emerging talent, business analysts, fraud prevention, 
diversity and inclusion, and strengths-based development.
During 2019, we fully utilized a progression curriculum 
in our branch network. The progression curriculum 
aligns learning with career paths and advancement 
through five levels of a single job family. The learning 
experience is provided through traditional means, 
both online and in-person, and made more relevant 
by manager reinforcement and practice in experiential 
opportunities that assess skills development progress.
60
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewHIGH PERFORMANCE TEAMS —  
LEADING THE REGIONS WAY
Regions’ leaders are expected to deliver performance 
outcomes through a strengths-based, engagement-
focused, performance-oriented and inclusive 
approach to managing talent. We believe these four 
management principles can inspire true performance 
growth for associates, teams and the Company. 
“Leading the Regions Way” is a new leader and 
manager development program created to help people 
managers understand how to evaluate performance 
by leveraging strengths-based, engagement-focused 
and performance-oriented coaching conversations. Foundational to “Leading the Regions Way” are two 
courses: High Performance Teams and Building a 
Bank for All. High Performance Teams is an in-person 
course, adaptable for remote learning, that defines 
behaviors of great managers and teaches the essentials 
of effective coaching conversations through a clear 
framework. The information included is enhanced 
by Building a Bank for All, which focuses on creating 
respectful, inclusive teams and work units. By the 
end of 2019, every manager had participated in High 
Performance Teams; in total, over 2,700 managers 
participated across 66 job families. Both courses are 
now required of all people managers at Regions.The “Leading the Regions Way” curriculum goes beyond 
these two courses and includes a variety of instructor-led 
and online trainings, podcasts, learning pathways and 
toolkits, all reinforcing Regions’ Leadership Model. The 
curriculum encourages a balance of the three roles of 
leadership as seen in the graphic below. 
We begin the new decade with a fresh outlook and renewed 
emphasis on developing the skills and abilities of leaders 
who have been identified to fill critical succession roles in 
the future.
BUILDING THE BEST BANKERS
The Build the Best Banker program is a series of learning 
solutions that prepares bankers to help customers make 
better financial decisions through consistent advice, 
guidance and education. The series includes training 2019 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT
$20 Million
763,583 Training Hours
    57% eLearning
    34% Instructor-Led
    6%   Self-Study
    3%   WebEx  
                 and OtherTraining Hours by Category
447,000 Skills-based
280,000 Compliance
19,000 Leadership
17,000 Professional Development
Training Hours by Delivery Method
All data as of December 31, 2019A LEADER
who is  
engagement-  
focused, collaborative  
and inclusive
LEADING THE
REGIONS 
WAY A MANAGER
who is  
results-driven and 
performance-orientedA COACH
who is  
strengths-based and 
development-minded
61
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewon Regions’ digital capabilities, which is 
imperative given consumers’ increasing 
engagement in technology-driven 
transactions. We believe teaching our 
bankers to use technology well enhances 
the value of a personal, trusted relationship 
between the customer and banker. The 
Build the Best Banker learning journey 
equips bankers to meet the needs of our 
customers, both today and into the future.
 
COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY 
RELATIONSHIPS
We work with universities and institutions 
to provide associates with additional 
learning and educational opportunities 
specific to their roles.  
These include: 
•  Kennesaw State University. Regions 
works with the University to conduct 
Family Enterprise Advisor training to 
equip Relationship Managers and  
Wealth Advisors with skills to be 
distinctive in their approach to 
delivering financial services.
•  Vanderbilt University. Through this 
executive development training program 
for our Client Advisors, senior sales 
professionals gain valuable knowledge, 
experience, and additional consultative 
skills that make them better business 
advisors to Regions’ clients. 
•  Samford University. Regions works with 
Samford’s Brock School of Business to 
develop and deliver professional and technical skills training to associates  
and managers. 
•  Harvard ManageMentor®. All  
associates are provided with access  
to ManageMentor, a premier on-demand 
learning and performance resource  
for leadership and management  
skill development.
•  Human Capital Institute Corporate 
Memberships. These memberships  
are made available to human resources 
professionals and business leaders 
to provide them with resources that 
help build deep expertise in key 
functional areas; expand knowledge 
and networks; stay on top of current 
trends; and gain fresh insights 
and learn about best practices. 
In addition to our direct third-party 
programs, Regions also maintains 
a tuition reimbursement program. 
All associates are eligible for up to 
$5,000 each year in reimbursement 
for business-related undergraduate 
degree courses. In 2019, associates were 
reimbursed approximately $345,000.
62
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewDiversity and Inclusion
Diversity and inclusion (D&I) are 
fundamental to our corporate strategy 
and human capital management, 
and Regions values and benefits from 
the diversity of our associates, our 
customers and the communities we 
serve. Our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion starts at the top of our organization, 
with oversight of our initiatives provided by the 
Board’s Compensation and Human Resources 
Committee. This commitment is implemented 
and supported throughout our outstanding team 
of management and associates.
One of the primary ways we execute our Build 
the Best Team strategic initiative is by aiming 
for associates to leverage a diverse workforce to create a full range of thoughts, backgrounds 
and perspectives. As we strive to enhance our 
foundational diversity and inclusion culture, 
we have asked associates to focus on making 
a positive individual impact to these efforts. 
In 2019, Regions’ President and CEO John M. 
Turner, Jr. joined the CEO Action for Diversity 
& Inclusion™ , the largest CEO-driven coalition 
to advance diversity and inclusion within the 
workplace. Through this commitment, Mr. 
Turner has pledged to continue to cultivate 
a workplace that supports open dialogue on 
diversity and inclusion, implement and expand 
unconscious bias educational trainings and 
share best practices and lessons learned with 
the collective business community.DIVERSITY SNAPSHOT
GENDER
    65% FEMALE  
    35% MALEMINORITY
    66% NON-MINORITY1  
    34% MINORITY
GENDER
    54% MALE 
    46% FEMALEMINORITY
    79% NON-MINORITY1  
    21% MINORITY
All data as of December 31, 2019. 
(1) The Non-Minority percentage includes 2% “unknown” responses.
(2) “Officials and Managers” includes data gathered for the “Executive/Senior Level Officials 
and Managers” and “First/Mid-Level Officials and Managers” job classifications as defined 
by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.TOTAL WORKFORCE
OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS2
Commitment to Leadership Diversity  
with a Version of the Rooney Rule
When searching for new Director candidates, 
the NCG Committee shall endeavor to include 
highly qualified candidates who reflect diverse 
backgrounds (including gender, race and ethnicity) 
in the pool from which nominees are chosen.When searching for candidates for a Section 16 
Executive Officer position, including a CEO 
successor, Regions shall endeavor to include 
similarly diverse candidates in the pool from 
which the candidate is chosen.
63
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRegions earned a top score of 100 and the 
distinction of being named one of the “Best 
Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality” in the Human 
Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality 
Index. This national benchmarking tool on 
corporate policies and practices pertinent to 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer 
(LGBTQ) employees spans nearly every industry 
and geography.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION  
CENTER OF EXPERTISE
Regions’ D&I Center has two core pillars to its 
strategy — building a culture of inclusion and 
belonging, and diverse talent management. By 
establishing integrative partnerships across the 
Company and through the community, the D&I 
Center is working toward strengthening these 
pillars. Specifically, the D&I Center partners with 
the Talent Management team and the Talent 
Acquisition team on succession planning, diverse 
talent retention and creating strategies to attract 
Examples of the D&I Center’s Work 
in 2019 Include:
• Integrated D&I discussion in business groups’ strategic 
planning process, which contributes to Regions’ overarching 
strategic plan.
• Establishment of bi-annual meetings with business group 
leaders to establish their D&I goals for the year and follow-up 
discussions on progress they have made.
• Facilitation of nine Conversations with Clara, which are 
hosted by Regions’ Head of Diversity and Inclusion and offer 
transparent dialogue on D&I. In 2019, these focused on helping 
associates understand common cultural similarities and 
differences, stereotypes, biases and more. The conversations 
covered specific concepts and events like Black History Month, 
LGBTQ+ Pride, Hispanic Heritage Month, Asian Pacific American 
Heritage Month, Disability Awareness Month, Female Leaders 
and D&I as a business priority. It even included a special 
Conversation with Clara where Regions hosted Dr. Condoleezza 
Rice in 2019.
• Hosted 10 Diversity Networks, representing 11,000+ associates 
that play a critical role in associate engagement and driving 
the commitment to inclusion and belonging.
• Focused learning and development, including 14 Lunch 
& Learns, four D&I advocacy workshops, comprehensive 
e-learning programming (both required and voluntary) and 
other D&I-facilitated workshops focused on building an 
inclusive culture and eliminating unconscious bias.
• Development and delivery of D&I programming to provide 
development, mentoring and exposure opportunities  
to associates.
• Introduced D&I commitment statement and pledge.
• Began efforts to attract and retain military and differently 
abled talent bases.
• Leadership engagement in inclusion programs and  
training initiatives.diverse talent. This includes:
• Attending conferences like the National  
Black MBA Conference and the Veteran  
MBA Conference, and working with HBCUs,  
NPHC organizations and state vocational 
rehabilitation organizations.
• Identifying, developing and providing visibility 
to existing diverse talent. 
• Driving accountability in the hiring process by 
initiating an open role acknowledgment letter 
sent to hiring managers, asking them to include 
diverse representation on candidate slates and 
the interview panel.
DISABILITY SERVICES AND OUTREACH
The D&I Center’s work in 2019 included disability 
services and outreach as well as inclusion efforts. 
Actions included: 
• Hosting a Conversation with Clara event with 
guest speaker David Cooks on disability, 
featuring disability in the video series “Don’t 
Judge What You See, Get to Know Me. ”
• Hosting “Try on a Disability” where associates 
participated in a series of activities that offered 
a taste of what life is like for someone living with 
different disabilities, such as visual impairment 
or multiple sclerosis. These activities were held 
during World of Regions, an annual event held 
in multiple cities throughout our footprint that 
brings teams together for engaging activities. 
The goal is to help us explore shared 
connections and better understand the valuable 
contributions our diverse teams make on behalf 
of everyone we serve. 
64
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business Overview• Updating the regions.com/careers page to 
more clearly communicate our commitment to 
employing people with disabilities.
• Hosting a disability instructor-led training course 
called “Who me, I’m Not Biased, ” in collaboration 
with Alabama Department of Rehabilitation, 
for Talent Acquisition, Human Resources and 
Community Engagement team members.
• Leveraging automated technology that replicates 
our job postings and posts them on state and local 
government disability job boards and sends them 
directly to our disability employment contacts.
• Launching a campaign to encourage associates to 
self-disclose their disability in an effort to establish 
a baseline for future goal setting.
Our disability-related efforts extend beyond our 
associates and to our customers and communities. 
Regions has a dedicated Disability Services and 
Outreach Manager who maintains relationships with 
advocates for accessibility, staying abreast of their 
concerns and working alongside Regions’ internal 
partners to address those concerns so that we can 
ensure we are providing accessible banking services. 
Our commitment includes raising awareness of autism 
spectrum disorders and creating an autism-friendly 
environment in our branches, as well as investing 
in programs that promote independent living and 
increase access to job readiness and employment.VETERANS OUTREACH
Regions seeks to serve members of the U.S. 
military and their families by providing targeted 
financial guidance and education. Our work in this 
area focuses on providing financial support, job 
readiness training, and opportunities to cultivate 
entrepreneurial activities 
within this population. In 
2019, we launched BRAVE 
— Building Regions 
Associate Veterans 
Experience. This program 
helps transitioning 
military service members 
build a successful career 
at Regions. We are 
committed to matching talents and experience 
to associate and leadership positions that best 
fit career goals and interests while also helping 
associates meet and overcome challenges they  
may face. BRAVE program benefits include:
•  Targeted veteran transition development 
programs in Regions Edge™, the Regions 
interactive training platform
•  Veteran-to-veteran mentoring through MentorcliQ, 
a new Regions mentoring platform
•  Easy access to military-specific resources, 
such as benefits, military leave and specialized 
components of our Employee Assistance Program
•  Support from Regions’ Diversity Networks
•  Community engagement opportunities
•  Veteran JAM page for networking and storytelling
•  New Military Careers Page on regions.com/about-
regions/careers/job-opportunities-for-veterans
Supplier Diversity
We view our vendors and suppliers of goods and services 
as extensions of Regions. We expect them to maintain our 
same high standards of integrity, operate responsibly and 
support our mission to create shared value.
Regions is committed to increasing supply chain 
opportunities for certified diverse suppliers by providing 
access to contracting opportunities and supporting supplier 
development. The supplier diversity initiative at Regions 
focuses on building supplier relationships with U.S.-based 
small and disadvantaged businesses and those that are 
owned and controlled by minorities, women, veterans, 
disabled individuals, and LGBTQ+ individuals.
In carrying out our day-to-day business, Regions contracts 
with thousands of suppliers, many of whom subcontract 
goods and services related to the work they perform for 
us. Several measures have been incorporated into our 
processes to encourage our prime suppliers to create more 
subcontracting opportunities for high-performing diverse 
business enterprises. We also continually strive to increase 
our own minority supplier spend.  
In 2019, we continued our efforts with Regions’ own Building 
Your Future Program, providing business development 
opportunities to enhance diverse supplier relationships. 
We also enlisted additional resources to support our efforts 
to comply with federal regulations and industry standards 
establishing 16 different industry classifications to small 
businesses that wish to participate as Minority-Owned, 
Female-Owned, Service-Disabled, LGBT-Owned and 
Disability-Owned Business Enterprises through our Tier 1 and 
Tier 2 programs. All of these initiatives are helping us realize 
our objective to grow diverse suppliers as a percentage of 
total spend to industry standards.Read more 
about how 
Regions supports 
diversity and 
inclusion in our 
communities on 
page 75
65
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewBenefits and Wellness
We believe that supporting our communities 
and maintaining a sustainable business begins 
with contributing positively to our associates’ 
well-being. In 2019, we raised the entry-level wage 
to $15 an hour. Benefits of tax reform allowed us to 
accelerate our plans to increase wages and make this 
investment in our associates sooner than initially 
planned. This change benefited approximately 25 percent 
of our workforce and represents an investment of more 
than $20 million a year in our community economies.
We strive to make life better for associates by offering a 
benefits package that: 
Prepares associates for retirement. Over 90 percent of 
Regions associates participate in our 401(k) Plan. For 
eligible associates who are not accruing a benefit in 
the Regions Financial Corporation Retirement Plan, a 
defined benefit plan closed to new participants, we make 
an annual 2 percent contribution to their 401(k) Plan, 
regardless of whether or not they contribute themselves. 
We also increased our associate match contributions from 
4 percent to 5 percent beginning in 2019.
Supports them in balancing their personal responsibilities 
and work life. We provide a range of programs to help 
associates and their families get more out of life. Some 
examples include:
•  Employee assistance program
•  Associate financial fitness program•  Tuition reimbursement program, through which associates 
are eligible for up to $5,000 per year in reimbursements for 
business-related undergraduate degree courses
•  Regions Dependent Scholarships Program
•  Adoption assistance
•  Company match for eligible charitable contributions of 
up to $1,000 a year
•  $5,000 forgivable loan to make it easier for qualifying 
associates to purchase a home
•  TeamGreen Banking, which provides associates with 
discounts on home equity loans, mortgage loans, and 
other banking services 
Promotes health and wellness. We provide access to 
health insurance coverage to associates working at least 30 
hours per week that is both comprehensive and affordable 
to them and their families. Associate health insurance costs 
are progressively aligned with compensation so that entry-
level associates pay the lowest available out-of-pocket 
premium. We also offer wellness programs and incentives 
that encourage healthy choices to associates. 
The Regions Corporate Wellness program,  
Wellness@Regions, gives associates access to multiple 
options for improving and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. 
The program includes initiatives in the areas of nutrition, 
physical well-being, emotional health and overall well-
being, providing associates with resources to enjoy life to 
the fullest with a healthy focus.Wellness@Regions offers healthy, fun and rewarding 
initiatives. From an interactive well-being platform 
with rewards to team weight loss challenges, condition 
coaching and wellness champions, exciting programs are 
available. Wellness@Regions communicates launch dates 
and special events on Vitality, life@regions, HR Connect 
and benefits.regions.com, as well as via email.
66
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewWellness@Regions Programming includes:
• Active&Fit Direct is a fitness center discount program 
with more than 9,000 participating centers to choose 
from nationwide.
• Baby Yourself is a prenatal wellness program offered 
through our health insurance provider that helps 
expectant mothers receive the best possible care  
during pregnancy.
• Chronic condition support is designed to assist 
associates and dependents manage a chronic  
illness through early intervention, education and 
lifestyle changes.
• Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is a free and 
confidential assessment, counseling and referral service 
for associates and eligible dependents who need short-
term assistance in a variety of areas, including marital 
and family issues, stress management, emotional 
issues, personal growth, work/life balance and more.
• Fitness Connect is an online resource for finding local 
fitness events, joining local fitness groups, posting area 
wellness discounts, sharing team photos, accessing 
health and fitness information and more.
• Flu shots are provided to Regions associates free of 
charge via workplace flu shot clinics, retail pharmacy 
programs, network doctors’ offices or reimbursement  
for those not on one of Regions’ available health 
insurance plans.
• Pack Health Coaching matches participating 
associates with a personal health coach for help on a 
variety of topics from exercise and nutrition to stress 
and pain management.
• Preventive care and preventive screenings, offered 
through our health insurance provider, can help find 
health problems before they become serious.• Tobacco cessation provides support and tools to help 
associates be successful in quitting tobacco.
• Vitality is a comprehensive, interactive and 
personalized wellness platform that rewards associates 
for making healthy choices.
ASSOCIATE HEAL TH AND SAFETY  
IN THE WORKPLACE
Regions is committed to providing a safe and secure work 
environment in accordance with applicable labor, safety, 
health, anti-discrimination and other workplace laws. 
Established workplace safety and security procedures and 
protocols help to provide a governance framework for 
associate and customer safety, including but not limited 
to worksite opening and closing procedures, restricted 
access, weather monitoring, comprehensive security 
monitoring and engagement of third parties for property 
management. Regions has written policies, guidelines and 
standards on the following workplace safety topics:
• Workplace abusive conduct
• Threatening conduct, workplace violence and 
prohibition of weapons
• Tobacco- and vapor-free workplace
• No-retaliation
• No-harassment
• Inclement weather and disasters
• Drug-free workplace 
The Regions Corporate Security Department annually 
inspects branch facilities for any security needs or 
enhancements and conducts after-hours depository 
reviews and assessments of incidents at Regions ATMs. 
In 2020, Regions released new required training for 
associates that focuses on best practices in active 
aggressor situations. The training takes associates 
Regions’ Response to 
COVID-19
Banks are considered a critical part of our country’s 
infrastructure, and as a result, we have remained 
open throughout the pandemic. In recognition of the 
essential front-line role our branch associates play, 
we are providing financial incentives to associates 
working at branch locations and operational facilities 
that play a role in meeting customers’ critical needs.
To further assist our associates during this difficult 
time, we have expanded our health benefits 
program to address issues specifically related to 
the coronavirus, because our associates’ health and 
well-being is paramount. These temporary benefits 
allow associates to receive coronavirus testing and 
treatment at no charge, as well as the ability to use 
Teladoc® free of charge.
For more information on Regions’ response to 
COVID-19, see page 9.
67
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business Overviewthrough real-world scenarios to advise 
them on how to react to an active 
aggressor based on their circumstances. In 
addition to this new mandatory training for 
associates, associates who are assigned to 
work in a branch environment are required 
to complete an additional annual training 
on branch security.
As a part of the Corporate Real Estate Risk 
Mitigation Program, Regions facilities are 
inspected throughout the year for any 
workplace hazards, including potential 
life safety and personal liability risks. 
Examples of issues that may arise include 
slip/fall hazards, trip hazards and property 
damage. After a potential risk is identified, 
documentation is collected and a plan 
for resolution is created. Annual exterior 
lighting inspections are conducted to 
provide well-lit areas around ATMs and 
night deposit boxes, and mitigation 
actions are taken where light levels do  
not meet our corporate standards.
Regions also holds annual natural disaster 
resiliency scenario planning sessions. 
These sessions bring together associates 
from different areas to consider potential 
disasters and discuss best reactions to 
them. This process also includes discussion 
on actions that could mitigate impact of 
future disasters.FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS
Regions further supports work-life 
balance through a range of work 
schedules and remote working situations 
dependent on position, eligibility 
and suitability. Alternatives include 
flexible work schedules, compressed 
work weeks, alternative daily work 
schedules and telecommuting.
Our corporate workplace model has 
changed to suit our associates’ needs and 
preferences. Our updated workspaces 
include assigned desks, unassigned 
desks for those associates with flexible 
work arrangements, standing desks, 
social centers and more small conference 
rooms. This work environment offers 
associates the opportunity to choose the 
environment where they can be most 
productive. These opportunities create 
multiple benefits for Regions as well, 
including operational efficiencies and 
savings, more options for hiring new 
talent and retaining existing talent and a 
more productive, devoted workforce.
SUPPORTING PARENTS
Regions’ support of parents begins before 
their child’s birth with a prenatal wellness 
program, Baby Yourself. The service 
provides expectant parents with support 
and educational materials, including 
68
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewRegions also provides a means for our associates to lend 
a helping hand to other associates who are personally 
impacted by natural disasters events through the 
Associate Relief Fund (ARF). Regions has the ARF in  
place to serve as a financial bridge for associates until 
insurance companies issue payments in the event of 
a natural disaster or severe weather event. Impacted 
associates use a standard process to request relief from 
the ARF, namely, up to $3,000 cash assistance and up 
to $5,000 for bill payment on eligible requests. To date, 
associates have received more than $100,000 from the 
ARF. Regions relies on the generosity of associates to build 
the ARF back up after it is depleted; donations, which are 
tax-deductible, can be made easily via one-time check or 
through recurring payroll deductions.
To learn how Regions supports our communities during 
times of disaster, see page 74.
curriculum and discuss eco-healthy practices with 
children when the opportunity arises. 
DISASTER PREPAREDNESS AND RECOVERY 
RESOURCES FOR ASSOCIATES
Our associates’ ability to adapt to, withstand and  
rapidly recover from a disaster or catastrophic event 
is important for both the resiliency of our business 
and our associates’ well-being. While events like these 
are unpredictable and can impact our associates in 
drastically different ways, there are some constants in 
how our associates can best prepare. We include these 
in our Regions Next Step® program materials, which are 
distributed to our associates and include how to create 
a disaster preparedness plan, the components of the 
plan and the essential need to create the plan prior to 
a disaster occurring. Associates receive guidance on 
evaluating insurance policies and assessing the need  
for changes, itemizing belongings and creating an 
emergency contact listing.access to a personal nurse that they can call with 
questions or concerns throughout their pregnancy.
We recognize that the birth or adoption of a child can 
be a stressful time of transition financially and from 
a work-life balance perspective. As a result, we have 
expanded our parental leave benefits to reflect our 
commitment to support our associates and their growing 
families. In 2019, we began providing 12 weeks of fully 
paid leave for birth mothers and six weeks of fully paid 
leave for birth parents, including domestic partners and 
adoptive parents. As a result nearly 700 associates — 
mothers and fathers — were able to take advantage of 
maternity and bonding leave programs during the year.
Once parents return to work, our support continues 
through on-site and highly subsidized child care at two of 
our largest office locations in the Birmingham area. The 
Regions TodayCare program is offered to support working 
parents by providing high-quality, accessible childcare 
options for full-time, summer or backup purposes. The 
program accepts children from six weeks old through 
pre-K age year-round and school-age children during the 
summer and on many school holidays.
TodayCare has an open-door policy for parents, 
welcoming them to visit at any time to spend one-on-one 
time with their child(ren). They offer dedicated, private 
space for new moms to nurse their babies and use eco-
healthy practices such as washing fruits and vegetables 
before consumption; purchasing non-toxic toys and 
art supplies; monitoring daily outdoor air quality; and 
using less toxic, fragrance-free cleaning products when 
possible. TodayCare also includes Earth Day in their 
69
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Responsible Banking
 Associates Governance and Ethics Introduction Communities Environment Appendix Business OverviewIN THIS SECTION
   Overview
   2019 Community Engagement Highlights
   Investing in Our Communities
   Diversity and Inclusion Community Outreach
   Our Associates in the CommunityCOMMUNITIES
70
Associates
 Communities
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Environment Appendix Business OverviewOverview
Our commitment to the communities where we live and work reflects our mission to make 
life better and create shared value for our customers, associates, shareholders and the 
communities we call home. We believe that our community investments result in both 
measurable and immeasurable returns to our stakeholders.
SHARED VALUE LEADS  
TO PROFITABLE AND 
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
Community Impact
For our communities, our investments reflect 
our mission to make life better by helping 
people and businesses prosper and thrive. For our associates, our commitment reflects our 
values of put people first and do what is right. It 
helps strengthen our culture, build associate affinity 
with Regions and in turn increase our associates’ 
engagement.For our business, our active engagement leads to 
strong local ecosystems where our Bank grows and 
thrives along with our customers and neighbors. 
Increasingly, we are seeing the rise of community 
engagement as a lever in business success.Associate Engagement Business Growth
Leroy Abrahams
Head of Community Affairs;  
President and Chairman, Regions FoundationGood stories. Better insights. 
More possibilities. 
Regions.DoingMoreToday.com
71
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Associates
 Communities Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Environment Appendix Business Overview2019 Community Engagement Highlights
community service 
hours logged by our 
associates to make 
life better in our 
neighborhoods88,000 $17.4
MILLIONin-person 
financial wellness 
workshops led by 
Regions associates
donated to more 
than 150 United Way 
chapters in 15 states 
by Regions Bank and 
our associates164,000
$5.4 MILLION
All data as of December 31, 2019.
(1) CRA-qualified investments include support for affordable housing developments through Low Income Housing Tax Credits 
(LIHTC); Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs); Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs); Qualified Zone 
Academy Bonds (QZABs); and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities (MBS).Source: 2018 Gallup U.S. Retail Banking Industry Study.
Source: Gallup survey of nearly 250,000 Regions branch customers  
conducted in 2019.    29% Product and Service  
     Satisfaction
    24% Corporate Social  
      Responsibility
    24% Financial Well-Being
    23% OtherIMPACT ON CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT
90%
of branch customers who strongly agree 
that “Regions makes a positive impact in 
your community” are loyal to Regions.
AND the loyalty penalty is high when 
customers are unable to see Regions 
contributing locally.
in support of 
local chambers of 
commerce and civic 
organizations$4.1 
MILLIONCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT DRIVES  
CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT AND LOYAL TY
As customers look to engage or remain with a bank, that bank’s 
demonstrated level of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has 
roughly equal impact on the customer’s decision as core product 
and service satisfaction, and how they perceive the bank improves 
their financial well-being.
in home lending
•  $684 million to low- and 
moderate-income borrowers$5.7 BILLION
1.3 MILLION
people received financial 
education from Regionsin philanthropic and 
community giving 
by Regions Bank and 
Regions Foundation 
•  $8.8 million in grants 
and contributions 
by Regions Bank and 
Regions Foundation
•  $8.6 million in 
corporate sponsorships 
by Regions Bank$3.14 
BILLION
in community 
development
• $831.8 million in CRA-
qualified lending
• $532.1 million in CRA-
qualified investments1
• $9.4 million in CRA-
qualified contributions
• $1.77 billion in small 
business and small  
farm lending
72
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Associates
 Communities Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Environment Appendix Business OverviewInvesting in Our 
CommunitiesIn 2019, we continued our purpose-led and performance-driven focus in our community 
investment strategy. We supported programs and services that were intentional in achieving 
short-term outcomes and long-term impact around our three community investment 
strategic priorities:
ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY THROUGH:EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE READINESS
CAREER PROSPERITY THROUGH:FINANCIAL WELLNESS
FINANCIAL PROSPERITY THROUGH:
•  Affordable housing
•  Job creation
•  Small business 
development•  Student competency and 
skill building
•  College and career 
readiness
•  Educational access  
and success•  Financial education 
to youth, adults and 
vulnerable populations•  Homebuyer education  
and retention
•  Neighborhood 
revitalization and 
stabilization•  Credentials and 
employment 
•  Educator training and 
resources•  Financial planning tools 
and resources
•  Integrated asset-building
ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND SMALL BUSINESS 
INITIATIVES:
•  Inner City Capital Connections conference in St. 
Louis and Memphis, where 147 small business owners 
completed a “mini-MBA in a day” program to propel them 
to the next level of success (Missouri and Tennessee);
•  Central Florida Disability Chamber’s Veterans’ Business 
Initiative that helped veterans and their spouses become 
successful business owners in Orlando (Florida); and
•  Junior Achievement (JA) entrepreneurship and financial 
literacy programs, such as the JA Business Challenge in 
Birmingham, JA Biztown in Charlotte, JA Finance Park in 
Nashville, and JA in a Day classroom activities across the 
footprint (Alabama, North Carolina, Tennessee).EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE TRAINING 
PROGRAMS:
•  Jeremiah’s Hope Academy where low- and moderate-
income individuals were trained in entry-level healthcare 
careers and assisted in securing employment (Alabama); 
•  Paulding County School District’s Rising Professionals 
Work-Based Learning Employability Skills Seminar that 
helped students develop workforce readiness skills and 
build competitive resumes (Georgia); and
•  Regions Foundation provided a grant to Pellissippi State 
Community College to help establish a new Workforce 
Development Center (Tennessee). FINANCIAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING:
•  EverFi programs provided financial education to over 
26,000 high school and college students and 40,000 
adults in the 2018-19 school year for a total of 288,000 
learners since 2011. Students gained financial knowledge, 
confidence and habits to help build financial capability;
•  Operation HOPE provided financial education, credit 
counseling, homeownership workshops and small 
business training to more than 16,000 community 
members at Regions HOPE Inside locations throughout 
the footprint; and 
•  Financial Fitness FridaysSM celebrated its seventh year 
in 2019, offering events every Friday in January, such as 
financial checkups and customized one-on-one advice to 
people interested in improving their finances and reaching 
their long-term goals.
More stories about our investments in the community can be found in our Community Engagement Report, available at ir.regions.com.
73
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Associates
 Communities Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Environment Appendix Business OverviewREGIONS’ FINANCIAL EDUCATION STRATEGY: 
REGIONS NEXT STEP®
Regions Next Step is a Company-wide financial wellness 
program designed to help students, adults, and business 
professionals take strides toward achieving their unique 
financial goals. Through Next Step programming, Regions 
creates shared value by helping our associates, customers 
and the communities we serve achieve financial wellness.As a key component of how Regions seeks to make life 
better, various areas of the Bank contribute to financial 
wellness programming. Regions Next Step serves as 
a unifying umbrella, connecting our many financial 
education offerings and different audiences. This holistic 
approach provides operational efficiencies, creating 
synergy, as well as a common framework and focus in 
programming. Regions Next Step audience segments 
include students from kindergarten to college and adults 
at various life stages and income levels. Regions Next Step 
also provides resources for businesses of all sizes. 
Delivering financial education with a customer-centric 
approach is what makes the Regions Bank approach to 
financial education unique. During 2019, we continued 
to engage our audiences through in-person seminars 
at businesses and community organizations, as well as 
through relevant digital programming, including the launch 
of a new Regions Next Step landing page and podcasts. 
The open accessibility of our resources to all, regardless 
of whether they are a Regions customer, reinforces our 
dedication to inspiring, motivating and helping everyone 
during their individual financial wellness journey. 
Every Regions associate brings different perspectives, 
backgrounds and skills to our team, but we unite with a 
passion to serve via Regions Next Step. More information 
on Regions Next Step content and tools are available at 
regions.com/nextstep .DISASTER RECOVERY AND STORM 
PREPAREDNESS
A disaster can strike anywhere, anytime. A community 
that suffers a disaster is at risk of losing population, 
schools, businesses and revenue, so providing a quick 
response in emergency situations is imperative. Regions 
and the Regions Foundation have a history of working 
with nonprofit organizations in the community to 
expedite financial support to aid in relief recovery. In 
2019, we stepped up our investments, loans, technical 
assistance and flexible banking to communities 
impacted by tornadoes in Alabama and Missouri, floods 
in Arkansas and Louisiana and a hurricane in Florida.
We maintained this resolve to respond quickly as other 
severe weather events affected areas in our footprint 
during 2020. In March, tornadoes ravaged Middle 
Tennessee, and the Regions Foundation provided 
$250,000 in grants to support nonprofit organizations 
working on the ground to help those who were affected. 
We assisted in long-term recovery efforts following 
tornadoes in Louisiana and Arkansas, floods in Mississippi 
and a second tornado in Tennessee. In addition to 
assisting our communities through funding of community 
organizations, Regions announced a series of disaster 
recovery financial services to help people and businesses 
during their economic recovery from these events.
To see how we support our associates during disasters,  
see page 69.people who have received financial education from Regions 1.3 Millionin-person financial wellness workshops led by associates 164,000 
page views of Regions digital financial education resources 3.3 Millionfinancial education volunteer service hours 20,000
Regions’ Response to COVID-19
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Regions and 
the Regions Foundation announced the development 
of a $5 million fund to support our communities. These 
funds support many nonprofit organizations across our 
16-state footprint. Assistance has looked different in each 
community, depending on what that community needed 
most: providing diapers for families in need, supporting 
food banks as they face increased demand, rental 
assistance and funding to help childcare providers stay 
open safely in order to support essential workers. 
Our commitment includes a $500,000 match for 
donations made by Regions associates to collaborating 
organizations. Within six weeks, our associates donated 
more than $215,000 to help their communities. Their work 
is even more hands-on, as there are numerous examples 
from across our footprint of associates providing 
technical assistance to groups in our communities 
as they navigate through the crisis.
For more information on Regions’ response to  
COVID-19, see page 9.
74
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Associates
 Communities Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Environment Appendix Business OverviewDiversity and Inclusion Community Outreach
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion 
is reinforced through ongoing efforts to 
reflect, anticipate, and adapt to the changing 
demographics of the communities where 
we live and work. We work with local, state and 
national organizations to provide financial education 
and community development technical assistance 
to diverse communities. These organizations include 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities and the 
National Urban League and its affiliates. The strength 
of these collaborations provides a positive impact with 
financial wellness, workforce development, community 
revitalization and small business development. 
SUPPORTING PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
We advocate for the needs of people with disabilities 
through accessible banking solutions and investments 
that help our communities 
overcome financial 
barriers. Regions’ 
Disability Services and 
Outreach Manager 
maintains relationships with advocates for accessibility, staying abreast of 
their concerns, and working alongside internal Regions 
partners. We provide governance and leadership support 
to organizations such as Disability Rights and Resources 
(Alabama), Paraquad (Missouri) and Arts4All (Florida). 
Regions has worked with physicians at the University 
of Alabama at Birmingham and the Autism Society of 
Alabama to develop and build upon the established 
Regions Autism Awareness Initiative, which was  
launched in 2016 and strives to make our facilities  
more accommodating to people with autism.
We continue to provide financial support and volunteers 
to organizations across the footprint that provide services 
such as job readiness and employment to individuals  
with a disability.
SUPPORTING VETERANS IN THE COMMUNITY
Regions also seeks to serve members of the U.S. military, 
veterans and their families through targeted financial 
guidance and education. Regions’ Service Members and 
Veterans Affairs Manager understands their unique needs 
and seeks ways to help them stay in financial control. 
This includes providing financial support, job readiness In addition, Regions, in collaboration with the Association 
of Military Banks of America, has an agreement with the 
U.S. Veterans Benefit Administration to provide banking 
and financial services to Veterans Affairs beneficiaries.H.E.R.O.E.S. Care in 
Missouri
Heroes First Foundation  
in Georgia 
Veterans Business 
Initiative of the  
Florida Disability and 
Inclusion NetworkRead more about 
Regions’ diversity 
and inclusion among 
our associates 
and suppliers on 
pages
63-65
training, and opportunities to cultivate entrepreneurial 
activities for community organizations such as:
75
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Associates
 Communities Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Environment Appendix Business OverviewOur Associates in the Community
Regions associates come to work every day 
motivated not only to meet the needs of our 
customers, but also to help our neighbors 
beyond the walls of our Bank. Thousands of 
associates contribute their time, talent, and finances 
throughout the year. We are proud to support 
the needs of our local communities and help all 
members achieve their visions of a better life.
•  Volunteerism. In 2019, associates contributed 88,000 
hours of community service, with approximately 
4,500 of those hours in Junior Achievement 
classroom activities across our footprint. 
•  Share the Good®. This annual campaign results in 
hundreds of initiatives in communities across the 
footprint. The goal is the same: to encourage Regions 
associates to use their time and talents, as well as 
the resources the Bank devotes to the program, to 
make a meaningful difference in the lives of others. 
•  What a Difference a Day MakesSM. The What a Difference 
a Day Makes program provides associates with the 
opportunity to take one paid day off each year to 
make life better by volunteering with nonprofit 
organizations in their communities. Offered to all 
full-time associates, this program allows us to partner 
with them as they help others. We feel confident that 
having this option in our benefits package aligns with 
associate and community expectations of corporate 
citizenship. In addition, we believe it also assists us in 
attracting and retaining talent while making life better. 
•  The Regions Matching Gifts Program. Available to 
all full-time Regions associates and recent retirees 
(within the past five years), the program provides its participants the opportunity to make an even greater 
impact on our communities by matching their tax-
deductible contributions to their favorite qualifying 
nonprofit organizations. Regions matches gifts of 
$25 or more to eligible nonprofit organizations, up 
to $1,000 per program participant annually. Eligible 
organizations include education and arts and culture 
nonprofit organizations and accredited educational 
institutions located within Regions’ footprint.
•  United Way. In addition to volunteering with agencies 
funded by United Way, Regions associates are long-
term financial supporters of these organizations 
through personal giving to local United Way chapters 
throughout our footprint. Associates come together annually for our United Way fundraising campaign 
that supports the United Way and their network 
of member agencies in their efforts focused on 
the health, education and financial stability of the 
individuals in the communities we serve. Associates 
can elect to have United Way allocate their donations 
based on the organization’s strategic programming 
or focus their donations in areas associates are 
interested in supporting, such as education, 
financial literacy, youth programming and affordable 
housing. In 2019, Regions supported more than 
150 United Way chapters across our footprint.
®
76
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Associates
 Communities Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Environment Appendix Business OverviewENVIRONMENT
IN THIS SECTION
   Overview
   Energy and Emissions
   Resource Use and Waste
   Sustainable Financing
   Environmental  
Performance Metrics  
and T ransparency  
in Reporting
77
Communities
 Environment
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewOverview
Regions recognizes the environmental challenges 
that face our planet and is committed to 
reducing our environmental footprint and to 
enhancing our environmental reporting. To 
support this commitment, we have published 
an Environmental Sustainability Policy 
Statement, set energy and emissions reduction 
goals and disclosed progress across a range 
of environmental metrics. Further, we hope to 
disclose climate-related risks in line with the 
Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) disclosure 
framework within the next year. Beyond our operational footprint, we also recognize the 
opportunity for our financial products and 
services to advance a lower-carbon economy and 
offer several sustainable financing initiatives in 
place to support these efforts.
The Regions Environmental Sustainability Policy 
Statement highlights our commitments to: 
•  Reducing emissions and energy use;
•  Assisting in the transition to a low-carbon 
economy;
•  Conserving resources and reducing waste; 
•  Promoting awareness and engagement; and
•  Reporting and transparency. To help us implement and effectuate the 
goals set forth in the policy statement, 
we established a cross-departmental 
Environmental Working Group that reports 
directly to executive leadership. The working 
group’s objectives are to identify and develop 
priorities for the Company’s environmental 
initiatives; promote awareness and engage 
with associates on sustainability, resource 
conservation, and recycling; and identify 
internal and external collaborations to help 
advance our environmental efforts.
REDUCING
emissions and 
energy useASSISTING
in the transition to a 
low-carbon economyCONSERVING
resources and 
reducing wastePROMOTING
awareness and 
engagementREPORTING
and 
transparencyREGIONS’ ENVIRONMENTAL  
SUSTAINABILITY POLICY STATEMENT
78
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewEnergy and Emissions
As a financial services company, our carbon 
footprint is not as carbon intensive as many other 
businesses. Yet, we believe all businesses should 
do their part to reduce energy consumption and 
associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
To this end, we are working towards goals to reduce our 
energy use and Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions each by  
30 percent by 2023 against a 2015 baseline. Through 2019, 
we are pleased to report that we have achieved a  
28 percent reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions,  
while also decreasing our energy use by 19 percent.
For more than a decade, Regions has focused on 
reducing the Company’s energy consumption and  
GHG emissions through: 
•  Energy-efficient lighting and automatic controls 
•  HVAC and mechanical efficiency upgrades and 
improvements 
•  Building intelligence and remote controls 
•  High-performance building envelope upgrades 
•  Education and awareness for continuous improvement 
of control processes 
•  Real estate portfolio optimization 
•  Renewable energy
We continue to focus on these efforts and evaluate 
additional opportunities to help us meet our 2023 goals. 
In 2019, Regions planned and began work at 12 sites, 
using a new approach to branch renovations. These 
renovations take a more holistic approach to evaluating energy and water efficiency needs in branches identified 
as environmentally poor-performing sites or where 
renovations are already scheduled. Among the energy- 
and water-related aspects of these renovations are the 
installation of rooftop solar panels, web-based HVAC 
controls, power monitoring, LED lighting and controls, and 
irrigation monitoring and controls. Preliminary results of 
these renovations indicate monthly reductions in grid-
based electricity by up to 58 percent.
BETTER BUILDINGS CHALLENGE 
Regions is a member of the Atlanta Better Buildings 
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS REDUCTION1
2015 - 2019
28% REDUCTION 2023 GOAL OF 30%
Challenge (ABBC), an effort by the U.S. Department of 
Energy partnered with the City of Atlanta to promote 
energy efficiency in commercial buildings, with a 10-year 
goal of reaching a 20 percent energy use reduction by 
2020. As a member of the ABBC, Regions committed 
to setting energy goals, developing innovative energy 
efficiency resources and adopting advanced cost-effective 
technologies and practices. For the second year in a row, 
10 Regions branches were recognized as Top Performers by 
exceeding the ABBC’s 20 percent energy savings targets.
ENERGY USE2,3
2015 - 2019
19% REDUCTION 2023 GOAL OF 30%
(1) Compared against a 2015 baseline. These targets cover properties for which Regions is responsible for direct payment of utilities. 
(2) Energy use goal applies to electricity and natural gas. 
(3) Progress as of December 31, 2019.
79
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewENERGY AND EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
Cumulative Energy Cost  
Savings Since 2008$78 MILLION
GHG Emissions Over  
2008 Baseline52% Reduction
Building Energy
Purchased From Grid91%
Energy Efficiency  
Investments in 2019$2.2 MILLIONAll data as of December 31, 2019.
    49% BRANCH
    24% OFFICE1
    24% OPERATIONS
    3% OTHER2
(1) “Office” includes branches that are in the same facility.
(2) “Other” includes parking, land and ATMs.ELECTRICITY USE BY FACILITY TYPEANNUAL ENERGY COST SAVINGS
($ MILLIONS OVER 2008 BASELINE)
ENERGY USE
’15 ’14 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’1924681012
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
20147.21010.611.2
9
6.5
80
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewEnergy Engagement 
in the Community
In 2019, Regions and CBRE, our third-party 
real estate and energy and sustainability 
vendor, hosted an Alabama Commercial 
Energy Code Training session in Birmingham 
in collaboration with Southface Institute, a 
regional leader in the research, design and 
implementation of a regenerative economy 
for the Southeast. This workshop-style  
training brought together local building 
science professionals and contractors and 
focused on the scope, application and 
methods of demonstrating compliance with 
the 2015 IECC and ASHRAE 90.1-2013 national 
model energy codes. Attendees also learned 
building science basics and strategies for a 
more efficient building envelope, as well as 
efficiency techniques on HVAC and lighting 
systems.BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
Our standards for building construction of new branches 
and renovations focus on energy efficiency and water 
conservation and the adoption of other sustainability 
building practices. In 2019, we completed the construction 
of more than 30 facilities using the following green 
building design elements, among others: 
•  100% LED light fixtures 
•  ENERGY STAR®-compliant window glazing 
•  Carbon-neutral carpet tiles 
•  Ultra-high efficiency HVAC systems with  
demand control ventilation
•  Light colored thermoplastic roofing materials 
•  Recycled content ceiling tiles, ceiling grid, carpet tile 
and wall base
REDUCING TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS
While transportation is not a significant contributor to 
our overall greenhouse gas emissions, we recognize 
that we need to do our part in reducing these emissions. 
Regions uses approximately 160 vehicles for corporate 
and branch security, to service Bank facilities, and to 
operate the alternative-fueled associate shuttle service at 
our Birmingham office complexes. We continue to identify 
opportunities to reduce fuel use through more efficient 
routes and service frequencies. Further, the expanded 
deployment of web-based controls for HVAC systems is 
expected to help us reduce the number of branch visits required of our Facilities Management team by allowing 
for remote management of the systems.
Regions also encourages our 
associates to reduce their 
transportation emissions. We 
currently provide 14 charging 
ports at our large Birmingham and 
Nashville campuses for electric 
vehicles (EVs) that are available to 
approximately 3,200 associates. 
To increase awareness about the environmental and 
economic benefits of EVs and plug-in hybrid EVs, 
we hosted two major demonstration events where 
associates were able to view and learn more about EVs.
Our associates in the Birmingham area also have 
the opportunity to participate in CommuteSmart, an 
initiative of the Regional Planning Commission of Greater 
Birmingham aimed at helping alleviate traffic congestion 
and reduce air pollution. The program offers a variety of 
smart commuting options such as vanpools, carpooling, 
walking, biking and mass transit. Associate participation 
in this program during 2019 reduced miles traveled by 
almost 365,400, saving 13,000 gallons of fuel, 223 metric 
tons of CO2e and 183 tons of other criteria pollutants. 
Travel MilesIn 2019, CommuteSmart Saved
Gallons of Fuel365,400
13,000
81
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewResource Use and Waste
We are continuously reviewing opportunities 
to reduce the paper usage in our offices and in 
our interactions with customers. Our main focus 
areas are to reduce associate printing and to transition 
customers to online banking and digital delivery of 
documents and statements. 
To reduce associate printing, we have a print optimization 
program that reviews overall printing needs and identifies 
opportunities to reduce printing. In addition, we use a 
managed print program, which defaults computers to non-
color, double-sided printing and requires that associates 
release the print job at a network printer. If a print job is not 
released within 24 hours, it is automatically deleted by the 
print management solution. The eSignature Program is a foundational investment in 
technology that allows Regions to meet customers when 
and where they want to do business, in a more time- 
and resource-efficient manner. The eSignature tool also 
expedites the completion of necessary documentation 
for our customers, thereby providing them with access 
to our products and services on a shorter timeline; 
this, in turn, benefits the Company by requiring fewer 
associate hours, conserving paper usage and reducing 
mailing expenses associated with each transaction that 
uses eSignature. Beyond saving customers’ time, this 
technology provides them with flexibility to bank at their 
convenience, offering the review and signature process 
digitally, both in branch and remotely, as well as receiving 
their copies electronically. It also allows Regions to reduce the amount of paper printed, securely deliver and store 
sensitive documents and automate many processes that 
have been manual in the past. By negating the need to 
mail, file and store important personal information, the 
program offers an important layer of information security 
protection to our services.
The core business objectives for the eSignature program 
are not only to launch this technology to business units, 
but also to review our business processes to ensure we 
are delivering the most efficient processes to both the 
Bank and our customers. The program made strategic 
changes in 2019 to better facilitate the expansion of 
eSignature usage throughout the Company, to include 
both externally- and internally-facing business groups.
Looking ahead, our priorities for eSignature include 
upgrading the eSignature core system and converting 
all existing business units to its newest version; 
onboarding at least 10 new business units; continuing 
to add functionality in business units that already offer 
eSignature; and enhancing functionality by providing a 
customizable reporting dashboard to business groups. 
eSIGNATURE 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
eSignature Packages 
Completed755,080 
Business Units 
Added eSignature 
Functionality7 
Consumer Direct 
Loans Closed via 
eSignature 31,165 
Expense 
Reduction$508,924 
Available for 
eSignature Within 
Sales and Service+ More  
FormsFrom May 2019 to May 2020, we reduced  
our paper and copying expenses by 
70% 
— an annualized savings of 
$2.4 MillionIn that same time period, we reduced our 
expenses related to office supplies by 
$300,000 
— an annualized savings of 
$3.6 Million
82
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewRECYCLING
When reducing use is not an option, we strive to 
divert waste from landfills through recycling. Regions’ 
confidential waste program is our most widespread 
recycling program, resulting in more than 8.3 million 
pounds of paper and other confidential materials  
being recycled in 2019. 
POUNDS OF PAPER RECYCLED 
(IN MILLIONS)
(1)  2017 was the first year that we included confidential waste  
that is associated with clean-out projects (e.g., stored records  
that were destroyed due to office closures) in our paper  
recycling calculation. 
Beyond paper and confidential materials, our Facilities 
recycling program includes cardboard, aluminum cans, 
plastic bottles and personal electronic waste from 
home. Recycling stations are provided in our major office 
buildings, operations centers and in some branches 
where local haulers support this program. We continue to 
work closely with our waste hauling vendors to optimize 
our Facilities’ recycling capabilities and landfill diversion 
rates while also engaging our associates on proper 
methods of recycling to reduce contamination rates.ELECTRONIC WASTE
Regions strives to reuse electronic equipment whenever 
possible. In 2019, we redeployed 536 computers internally 
and resold 1,522 pieces of IT hardware. When reuse or 
resale is not feasible, we recycle using approved hardware 
recycling vendors that are Sustainable Electronics 
Recycling International R2:2013 Standard-certified. By 
using certified vendors, we ensure that our electronic waste 
is properly managed and that valuable raw materials are  
recovered and reused. Through this program, Regions 
recycled approximately 24,547 pieces of IT hardware. 
In addition, we held three associate electronic waste 
recycling events at our Birmingham campuses, resulting 
in 2,977 pounds of associates’ personal electronic waste 
being recycled. Not only does this enable associates to 
properly dispose of unwanted electronics, but it also 
provides an opportunity for us to engage our associates 
on the topic of sustainability. 
The World Games 
2022 Birmingham 
Since 1981, The World Games (TWG) have 
provided a unique setting for thousands of athletes 
from different sports and countries to join in a 
celebration of unity and friendship across all 
boundaries. TWG are held in four-year intervals 
and span 11 days. A wide variety of sporting events 
such as aikido, bodybuilding, canoeing, handball 
and squash provide a unique sporting experience. 
Regions associates are serving in volunteer roles 
on the Sustainability Task Group in support 
of the development and implementation of 
the Environmental Sustainability Plan of TWG 
2022 (the Plan). The Plan strives to deliver a 
sustainable event that will leave a lasting legacy 
of sustainable consciousness and awareness 
among Birmingham citizens. Integrating 
measures into all stages of TWG 2022, the 
Plan focuses on minimizing the environmental 
footprint of the event, increasing stakeholder 
engagement with sustainable practices, and 
leaving a positive environmental, social and 
economic impact on Birmingham. 
RECYCLED PAPER
’15 ’16 ’171 ’181’19124681012
12.8 12.311.410.1
8.3
83
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewSustainable Financing
Regions recognizes the role 
financial institutions play in the 
transition to a lower-carbon 
economy. Our customers depend on 
us to provide opportunities they are 
interested in pursuing related to this 
transition. In the past several years, we 
have seen growth in sustainable lending 
and asset management and expect to see 
more in coming years.
RENEWABLE ENERGY LENDING
Regions supports the development and 
implementation of clean energy solutions 
through our Solar Power Finance Team 
and Energy and Natural Resources Group 
(ENRG). The Solar Power Finance team 
at Regions supports the development 
and implementation of clean energy 
solutions for 
our Corporate 
Banking 
clients. Since 
2016, Regions 
has provided 
lease financing 
for utility 
scale and 
commercial 
photovoltaic 
(PV) solar projects across the U.S. By arranging 
financing for these projects, a portion of 
the traditional power supply is offset by 
carbon-free generation. This financing 
has funded 53 solar projects that generate 
480 megawatts of capacity, which is sold 
to universities, local school districts, 
corporations, U.S. military bases, utilities, 
and electric cooperatives.
In 2019, we provided $198 million in 
funding for 13 individual PV solar projects 
located in Georgia, Mississippi, North 
Carolina and Tennessee. These ground-
mounted PV solar farms developed in 
rural areas provided an overall generating 
capacity exceeding 110 megawatts. 
ENRG specializes in tailored financing 
products and services for renewable 
energy projects. Our offerings include 
advisory and financing services to energy 
companies in conjunction with mergers 
and acquisitions, as well as issuances 
of bonds. The ENRG works closely with 
the Solar Power Finance team and 
Commodities team to raise capital for 
renewable energy clients with solutions 
ranging from highly structured project 
finance to standard financing offerings.  Learn more about 
Regions’ approach 
to environmental  
and social risk 
management, 
including climate 
change, on 
page 35
84
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business Overview•  A portion of the timberland acres managed by 
Regions’ foresters is certified under the 2015-2019 
Sustainable Forestry Initiative Standard or the 2015-
2020 American Tree Farm Certification Standard. Both 
third-party certification systems promote sustainable 
forestry practices aimed at protecting water quality, 
biodiversity, wildlife habitat, species at risk and forests 
with exceptional conservation value.
•  Regions NRRE staff also includes property managers who 
are certified farm managers responsible for the oversight 
and management of more than 200,000 acres of farmland 
across the footprint. A majority of Regions’ farm tenants 
utilize advanced technologies and equipment in their 
farming practices known as “precision agriculture, ” which  
maximizes crop yields while minimizing the use of 
pesticides, fertilizers and water. 
In 2019, ENRG committed or closed over $80 million in 
construction or revolving financing for solar PV projects or 
solar independent power producers. Additionally, Regions 
participated in raising $600 million in a green bond 
issuance for a leading utility company. As our platform 
continues to grow, we expect to continue to increase our 
advisory and capital markets assignments, as well as 
permanent debt, in 2020.
RESPONSIBLE ASSET MANAGEMENT
Regions’ Asset Management business group provides 
individuals and institutions with products and services 
to help them manage and grow their assets. Synergies 
in how Asset Management and their internal partners 
are leveraging technology and working to meet growing 
investor demands for ESG investing are helping Regions 
expand the solutions we can offer to grow relationships 
and meet client needs. To that end, Asset Management 
expanded its lineup of recommended offerings for clients 
in 2018 to include four ESG-focused products: two equity 
and two fixed income products.
In 2019, Regions experienced a 437 percent year-over-year 
growth in client assets allocated to these four ESG-focused 
products. While this high growth rate may be due to the 
newness of the products, this growth also highlights that 
our customers are interested in the ESG-related, socially 
responsible and impact-focused investment opportunities 
we provide. Education of investors will continue to be a 
focus area to ensure potential and current investors are fully 
aware of details that may impact return and results, such as 
the methodology used to construct funding indexes.
On a broader basis, we employ an environmentally 
enhanced due diligence approach to collateral pledged for loans, which reinforces our commitment to adhere to 
federal and state environmental laws and regulations.
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY
The Natural Resources and Real Estate (NRRE) Group within 
Wealth Management manages natural resources properties 
held in trusts, estates and agency accounts. Relying on 
a staff of more than 40 natural resource professionals 
and registered foresters, Regions is responsible for the 
sustainable management of approximately 1 million acres 
of timberland across 15 states. As one of only a few banks 
that directly manages land and timber for clients, Regions 
demonstrates a commitment to sustainability and forestry 
best practices. Some examples of this commitment include:
•  Regions adheres to all applicable state Best 
Management Practices (BMPs) for Forestry that 
contribute to water quality, carbon sequestration  
and wildlife habitat protection. 
85
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewEnvironmental Performance Metrics 
and Transparency in Reporting
Regions’ commitment to thoughtful and 
meaningful environmental stewardship not 
only encompasses our sustainability practices 
but extends to our efforts at maintaining and 
enhancing transparency in reporting our 
environmental performance. In furtherance of 
this goal, Regions intends to disclose its climate-related 
risks in line with the standards promulgated by the TCFD 
within the upcoming year; in the meantime, however, 
we wanted to provide our stakeholders with an interim 
disclosure utilizing the TCFD framework. Our TCFD-
aligned disclosure will concentrate on our underlying 
governance framework, strategy and risk management 
practices as described in this ESG report, with the goal of 
helping our shareholders, associates, customers and the 
communities we serve better understand and evaluate 
how Regions assesses and manages its climate-related 
risks and opportunities. We look forward to sharing the 
full disclosure with everyone soon.
GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT OF 
ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Board of Directors. Regions’ Board of Directors (Board) 
and each of its committees oversee matters related to 
Regions’ ESG practices, performance and disclosures. The 
Board, as overseer of the Company’s risk management 
and steward of long-term enterprise value, plays an 
important oversight role in assessing our environmental 
and social practices and understanding the potential impact of ESG issues on the Company’s operations and 
business. To aid in the exercise of this oversight, the 
Board and its committees receive regular updates from 
the Company’s senior management on progress achieved 
in specific ESG strategies and initiatives, including 
shareholder engagement on ESG concerns; updates on 
programmatic initiatives focused on ESG awareness and 
education within our stakeholder groups; and ratings that 
Regions has been assessed by various ESG data providers.
• The Nominating and Corporate Governance (NCG) 
Committee is responsible for overseeing the Company’s 
practices and reporting with respect to environmental 
topics, such as climate change, and corporate social 
responsibilities that are of significance to the Company 
and its stakeholders — our customers, shareholders, 
associates and communities. The NCG Committee 
also assists the Board in establishing and maintaining 
effective corporate governance policies and practices. 
Additionally, the NCG Committee reviews our 
Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement and 
related goals and performance.
• The Compensation and Human Resources (CHR) 
Committee oversees Regions’ strategies and policies 
regarding corporate culture and other human capital 
management functions, including: (i) associate conduct, 
engagement and career progression; (ii) diversity and 
inclusion initiatives and results; (iii) talent acquisition, 
development and retention; (iv) performance 
management; and (v) employment practices.• The Risk Committee is responsible for the oversight of 
the Company’s risk management practices, including 
the review and approval of the Risk Management 
Framework, the Enterprise Risk Appetite Statement, 
and significant risk management policies and limits that 
guide the prudent pursuit of risk and opportunity across 
the Company. This includes environmental and social 
risk management topics, such as climate change.
• The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that 
the Company’s policies, procedures and controls that 
protect our customers and associates are functioning 
at an optimal level. The Audit Committee also oversees 
the disclosures of matters significant to our Company, 
including ESG-related matters, through our financial 
statements and reports.
Senior Management.  We recognize the environmental 
challenges that face our planet and are committed 
to reducing our environmental footprint; these 
commitments start at the management level and are 
furthered through the efforts of our entire associate 
population. Generally, we view ESG as a Company-wide 
imperative, and ensure that it permeates our business 
model appropriately through the development of an 
organizational Risk Management Framework. The 
Risk Management Framework has been designed to 
promote environmentally sustainable and socially 
responsible business practices across our Company. 
Accordingly, several members of leadership spanning 
86
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business Overviewmultiple areas of focus are charged with implementing 
the Framework, thereby allowing the Framework’s most 
effective execution through subject-specific expertise. 
The members of senior management entrusted to lead 
our ESG initiatives are our Corporate Secretary and Chief 
Governance Officer; our Chief Risk Officer; our Chief 
Human Resources Officer; and our Head of Corporate 
Real Estate and Procurement.
Thought Leadership. To encourage creative and 
innovative thought leadership at various levels of the 
organization in the evolving area of ESG, Regions has 
assembled a cross-departmental Environmental Working 
Group, whose objectives are to identify and develop 
priorities for the Company’s environmental initiatives; 
promote awareness and engage with associates on 
sustainability, resource conservation and recycling; 
and identify internal and external partnerships and 
collaborations to help advance our environmental efforts. 
A separate cross-functional working group is performing 
an enterprise-wide assessment of environmental and 
social risks associated with our lending practices. 
Regions also leverages cross-functional working groups 
to promote shared value and strategically advance our 
community engagement priorities. These working groups 
focus on specific subject areas, such as Economic and 
Community Development; Education and Workforce 
Readiness; and Financial Wellness.
INCORPORATING ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP INTO BUSINESS STRATEGY
Regions’ Internal Sustainability Strategy
We recognize the environmental challenges that face 
our planet, and we are committed to reducing our
environmental footprint. Over the past few years, we have taken meaningful steps to advance our 
sustainability efforts. To support our commitment to 
environmental stewardship, in 2018, we adopted an 
Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement. At its 
core, this policy statement embodies our value of do 
what is right. We recognize the environmental challenges 
that face our planet and are committed to operating our 
business responsibly. This will help Regions create long-
term and sustainable value for our Company by reducing 
costs, increasing revenue, reducing risks, enhancing our 
reputation, strengthening our communities and helping 
us meet the expectations of our shareholders, customers, 
associates, communities and future generations. To 
demonstrate our commitment to long-term, sustainable 
value creation through environmental stewardship, 
we have set the following environmental goals to be 
completed by 2023:
• A 30% reduction from our 2015 baseline in greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1 and 2) where Regions is 
responsible for direct payment of utilities; and
• A 30% reduction from our 2015 baseline in electric and 
natural gas energy use.
Through 2019, we are pleased to report that we have 
achieved a 28 percent reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions, while also decreasing our energy use  
by 19 percent.
Property Management. For more than a decade, 
Regions has focused on reducing the Company’s energy 
consumption and GHG emissions through:
• Energy-efficient lighting and automatic controls
• HVAC and mechanical efficiency upgrades  
and improvements
• Building intelligence and remote controls• High-performance building envelope upgrades
• Education and awareness for continuous improvement 
of control processes
• Real estate portfolio optimization
• Renewable energy
We continue to focus on these efforts and evaluate 
additional opportunities to help us meet our 2023 goals.
In 2019, Regions planned and began work at 12 sites, 
using a new approach to branch renovations. These 
renovations take a more holistic approach to evaluating 
energy and water efficiency needs in branches identified 
as environmentally poor-performing sites or where 
renovations are already scheduled. Among the energy- 
and water-related aspects of these renovations are the 
installation of rooftop solar panels, web-based HVAC 
controls, power monitoring, LED lighting and controls,  
and irrigation monitoring and controls. Preliminary  
results of these renovations indicate monthly reductions 
in grid-based electricity by up to 58 percent.
87
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewBuilding Construction. Our standards for construction 
of new branches and renovations focus on energy 
efficiency, water conservation and the adoption of other 
sustainability building practices. In 2019, we completed 
the construction of more than 30 facilities using the 
following green building design elements, among others:
• 100% LED light fixtures
• ENERGY STAR®-compliant window glazing
• Carbon neutral carpet tiles
• Ultra-high efficiency HVAC systems with  
demand control ventilation
• Light colored thermoplastic roofing materials
• Recycled content ceiling tiles, ceiling grid, carpet tile 
and wall base
Reducing Transportation Emissions. While transportation 
is not a significant contributor to our overall GHG emissions, 
we recognize that we need to do our part in reducing these 
emissions. Regions uses approximately 160 vehicles for 
corporate and branch security, to service Bank facilities and 
to operate the alternative-fueled associate shuttle service at 
our Birmingham office complexes. We continue to identify 
opportunities to reduce fuel use through more efficient 
routes and service frequencies. Further, the expanded 
deployment of web-based controls for HVAC systems is 
expected to help us reduce the number of branch visits 
required of our Facilities Management team by allowing for 
remote management of the systems.
Regions also encourages our associates to reduce 
their transportation emissions. We currently provide 
14 charging ports at our Birmingham and Nashville 
campuses for electric vehicles (EVs) that are available to 
approximately 3,200 associates. To increase awareness 
about the environmental and economic benefits of EVs and plug-in hybrid EVs, we hosted two major 
demonstration events where associates were able to  
view and learn more about EVs.
Our associates in the Birmingham area also have 
the opportunity to participate in CommuteSmart, an 
initiative of the Regional Planning Commission of Greater 
Birmingham aimed at helping alleviate traffic congestion 
and reduce air pollution. The program offers a variety of 
smart commuting options such as vanpools, carpooling, 
walking, biking and mass transit. Associate participation 
in this program during 2019 reduced miles traveled by 
almost 365,400, saving 13,000 gallons of fuel, 223 metric 
tons of CO2e and 183 tons of other criteria pollutants.
Recycling. When reducing use is not an option, we strive 
to divert waste from landfills through recycling. Regions’ 
confidential waste program is our most widespread 
recycling program, resulting in more than 8.3 million 
pounds of paper and other confidential materials being 
recycled in 2019.
Beyond paper and confidential materials, our recycling 
program includes cardboard, aluminum cans, plastic 
bottles and electronic waste. It is provided in our major 
office buildings, operations centers and in some branches. 
We continue to work to expand our recycling capabilities 
while also engaging our associates on proper methods of 
recycling to reduce contamination rates.
Paper Reduction. In addition to reducing our carbon 
footprint, we are taking meaningful steps to reduce our 
paper use, focusing on reducing associate printing and 
encouraging customers to transition to online banking and 
the digital delivery of documents and statements. Thanks 
in part to our customers, our efforts have resulted in:• 46% reduction in internal copy paper use over the  
past five years
• 92 million sheets of paper saved in 2019 as a result of 
customer accounts moving to electronic statements
• 1.18 million transactions completed using eSignature  
in 2019
The eSignature Program. The eSignature tool expedites 
the completion of necessary documentation for our 
customers, thereby providing them with access to our 
products and services on a shorter timeline; this, in turn, 
benefits the Company by requiring fewer associate hours, 
conserving paper usage and reducing mailing expenses 
associated with each transaction that uses eSignature. 
This technology provides customers with flexibility 
to bank at their convenience, offering the review and 
signature process digitally both in branch and remotely, as 
well as receiving their copies electronically. It also allows 
Regions to reduce the amount of paper printed, securely 
deliver and store sensitive documents, and automate 
many processes that have in the past been manual. In 
2020, we aim to upgrade the eSignature core system, 
onboard at least 10 new business units and continue to 
add and enhance the tool’s functionality.
Some highlights achieved through the eSignature 
program in 2019 include:
• 755,080 eSignature packages completed
• Seven business units added eSignature functionality
• More forms available for eSignature within  
Sales and Service
• 31,165 Consumer Direct Loans closed via eSignature  
(a 53% adoption rate)
• $508,924 expense reduction
88
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewElectronic Waste. Regions strives to reuse electronic 
equipment whenever possible. In 2019, we redeployed 
536 computers internally and resold 1,522 pieces of IT 
hardware. When reuse or resale is not feasible, we recycle 
using approved hardware recycling vendors that are 
Sustainable Electronics Recycling International R2:2013 
Standard-certified. By using certified vendors, we ensure 
that our electronic waste is properly managed and that 
valuable raw materials are recovered and reused. Through 
this program, Regions recycled approximately 24,547 
pieces of IT hardware.
In addition, we held three associate electronic waste 
recycling events at our Birmingham campuses, resulting 
in 2,977 pounds of associates’ personal electronic waste 
being recycled. Not only does this enable associates to 
properly dispose of unwanted electronics, but it also 
provides an opportunity for us to engage our associates 
on the topic of sustainability.
Sustainable Financing
Regions understands the role financial institutions play 
in the transition to a lower-carbon, sustainable economy. 
Our customers depend on us to provide opportunities 
they are interested in pursuing related to this transition. 
We have seen growth in our sustainable lending and 
asset management areas in the past few years, and we 
expect continued growth.
Renewable Energy Lending. Regions supports the 
development and implementation of clean energy 
solutions through our Solar Power Finance Team and our 
Energy and Natural Resources Group (ENRG).The Solar Power Finance Team provides lease financing 
for utility scale and commercial photovoltaic (PV) solar 
power projects across the U.S. In 2019, the Solar Power 
Finance Team provided $198 million in funding for PV 
solar projects located throughout the U.S. with overall 
generating capacity exceeding 110 megawatts.
ENRG specializes in tailored financing products and 
services for renewable energy projects. Offerings include 
advisory and financing services to energy companies in 
conjunction with mergers and acquisitions, as well as 
issuances of bonds. In 2019, ENRG committed or closed 
over $80 million in construction or revolving financing 
for solar PV projects or solar-based independent power 
producers. Additionally, Regions participated in raising 
$600 million in a green bond issuance for a leading utility 
company. In 2019, Regions’ Consumer Banking group 
introduced a new electric vehicle (EV) loan product, which 
offers a discounted rate for loans used to purchase all-
electric and plug-in hybrid EVs.
Sustainable Forestry. The Natural Resource and Real 
Estate Group (NRRE) within Wealth Management manages 
natural resources properties held in trusts, estates 
and agency accounts. Regions is responsible for the 
sustainable management of approximately 1 million acres 
of timberland across 15 states, as well as oversight and 
management of over 200,000 acres of farmland. As one of 
only a few banks that directly manages land and timber 
for clients, Regions demonstrates a commitment to 
sustainability and forestry best practices. Some examples 
of this commitment include:
•  Regions adheres to all applicable U.S. state Best 
Management Practices (BMPs) for Forestry that 
contribute to water quality, carbon sequestration and 
wildlife habitat protection.•  A portion of the timberland acres managed by 
Regions’ foresters is certified under the 2015-2019 
Sustainable Forestry Initiative Standard or the 2015-
2020 American Tree Farm Certification Standard. Both 
third-party certification systems promote sustainable 
forestry practices aimed at protecting water quality, 
biodiversity, wildlife habitat, species at risk and 
forests with exceptional conservation value.
•  A majority of Regions’ farm tenants utilize advanced 
technologies and equipment in their farming practices 
known as “precision agriculture, ” which maximizes crop 
yields while minimizing the use of pesticides, fertilizers 
and water.
Coal Mining and Mountain Top Removal. Regions’ Energy 
and Natural Resources White Paper, an internal document 
that defines our risk appetite with respect to lending in 
this area, identifies many of the heightened environmental 
risks in lending to coal mining companies. This document 
is updated periodically and reflects Regions’ decision to 
not lend to companies that use mountaintop removal 
mining practices to extract more than 5 percent of their 
total annual tonnage. In addition, extensions of credit 
to coal companies require enhanced due diligence with 
respect to legal and environmental compliance, as well as 
approval from Credit Officers within the ENRG approval 
chain. Regions also manages its coal exposure as part of the 
Energy and Natural Resources portfolio, and commitments 
to coal companies are reported on a quarterly basis to 
senior management.
89
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewMANAGEMENT OF CLIMATE-RELATED  
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Risk Management Framework. Regions provides financial 
products and services to companies in diverse industries, 
including energy and natural resources. As a lender, we 
acknowledge the unique risks and concerns surrounding 
the environmental and social impact of our lending 
practices. Our Risk Management Framework is designed 
to promote environmentally sustainable and socially 
responsible business practices with our customers, 
communities and other stakeholders. Furthermore, we are 
committed to appropriately managing the potential risks 
we encounter to most effectively serve our customers. 
As environmental and social risks continue to evolve, we 
will work to ensure that our Risk Management Framework 
properly captures and addresses these risks in line with our 
broader strategic goals.
Our Risk Management Framework outlines our approach 
for managing environmental and social risk in our lending 
practices, which includes the following four components:
• Collaborative Risk Culture. A strong, collaborative 
risk culture provides a focus on risks, including 
environmental and social risks, in all activities and 
encourages a mindset and behaviors to enable effective 
risk management and promote sound risk-taking 
within the bounds of our risk appetite. Our risk culture 
dictates that risks be promptly identified, escalated and 
challenged, thereby benefiting our overall performance. 
This culture is demonstrated by our concept of clearly 
defined roles and responsibilities, which are critical to 
the effective management of risk.• Sound Risk Appetite. Our Enterprise Risk Appetite 
Statement, which incorporates environmental and 
social risks, defines the types and levels of risk we 
are willing to take to achieve our strategic objectives 
and business plans. The risk appetite must also be 
consistent with Regions’ mission and values.
• Sustainable Risk Processes. Effective risk 
management requires consistent processes and tools 
to effectively identify, measure, mitigate, monitor 
and report environmental and social risks. Associates 
leverage this cycle to manage risk and thereby help 
protect the interests of our shareholders.
• Responsible Risk Governance. Governance serves as 
the foundation for comprehensive management of the 
risks that we face. It outlines clear responsibility and 
accountability for managing, monitoring, escalating 
and reporting both existing and emerging risks. It also 
provides a robust challenge process which better allows 
us to reach our full potential as risk managers.
Environmental and social risks are embedded throughout 
our Risk Inventory and are managed in accordance 
with our existing enterprisewide framework of risk 
management tools and programs. The identification of 
existing and emerging environmental and social risks is 
ongoing and will continue to shape our Risk Inventory 
and Risk Management Framework. A few examples of our 
commitment to effective management of environmental 
and social risks in our lending practices include:
• A dedicated risk industry team, ENRG, that underwrites 
exposure to energy and natural resources clients. 
This focused effort includes expanded underwriting 
requirements and certain elevated approvals from senior 
credit executives.• A dedicated industry team, NRRE, responsible for 
the prudent and sustainable management of natural 
resources assets held in a fiduciary capacity and/or 
owned by our banking clients.
• Due diligence on energy sector loans for which real 
estate serves as collateral, including those clients with 
an indirect link to the energy sector.
• Our Credit Moratoriums policy identifies industries, 
products and transaction types that present increased 
risk, including consideration of environmental and social 
risks, which we address by instituting a limited credit 
appetite and elevated approval and exception tracking 
requirements. The policy is reviewed, updated and 
approved at least biennially by the Credit Risk Committee.
• A current lending moratorium on coal mining and coal-
related activities and enhanced due diligence on high-
risk loans, as defined by the Credit Risk Committee.
• A specialized Credit Portfolio Management team that 
serves as a second-line-of-defense function in Risk 
Management and assesses macroeconomic factors and 
other early warning indicators to establish a methodical 
approach to risk including a concentration limit 
structure and risk measurement framework utilizing 
a scheduled reporting frequency.
• Designated resources to begin building out a dynamic 
scenario analysis related to environmental risks, including 
climate change, as relevant. By using a combination of 
technology and in-house associate talent, Regions can 
begin to better understand exposure to potential acute 
and chronic physical risks of climate change.
• A cross-functional working group that is performing an 
enterprisewide assessment of our environmental and 
social risk in lending practices.
90
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewProduct Lifecycle Governance. Throughout the 
lifecycle of any product or service we offer, including our 
sustainable lending efforts, we have instituted guardrails 
to help ensure its soundness, quality and safety. At Regions, 
new or modified initiatives are subject to our New Initiative 
Risk Assessment Program (NIRA), which is administered 
by Enterprise Risk Management. Through the NIRA, any 
new, modified or expanded products, services or strategic 
relationships, as well as any new and/or innovative 
technology projects, are reviewed by subject-matter 
experts. Once a new, modified or expanded initiative 
has been reviewed through NIRA, it is subject to regular 
performance monitoring by business-level risk committees 
alongside reviews and audits by our Compliance and 
Internal Audit groups, respectively.
Operational Resilience. Business interruptions can 
occur as a result of acute and chronic natural events 
and can range from minor to catastrophic. Regions 
is committed to providing essential business and 
technology services in the event of business interruptions 
in order to support our customers and associates; 
for that reason, business resilience and contingency 
planning are integral components of our operations. 
Regions has an established Business Resilience Program, 
which directs the internal planning processes related to 
business continuity, crisis management, cyber security 
incident response, disaster recovery, pandemic planning 
and general emergency management. Additionally, all 
Regions business units are responsible for developing 
and maintaining business continuity plans to help protect 
critical business functions in the face of temporary or 
permanent business interruptions, which can range 
from loss of physical workspace to loss of information technology resources. For more on the support we offer 
our stakeholders preceding and following climate-related 
events, please see the Responsible Banking section, the 
Associates section and the Communities section of  
this report.
METRICS AND TARGETS
At Regions, our mission and business strategy are based 
on the concept of shared value — that what we do as a 
business should benefit our customers, Company and 
shareholders, as well as the communities in which we 
operate. We recognize the environmental challenges 
that face our planet and believe that doing our part in 
addressing them is an extension of shared value. Thus, in 
April 2019 we published an Environmental Sustainability 
Policy Statement and accompanying goals, which 
incorporate the following commitments.
We are committed to operating our business responsibly 
in order to create long-term and sustainable value for 
our Company. To support our commitment to operate 
responsibly, we will endeavor to:
• Take steps to understand the environmental risks and 
opportunities associated with our business practices;
• Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 
responsibility and continuously evaluate opportunities 
to enhance our processes;
• Seek opportunities to support the development 
and dissemination of environmentally beneficial 
technologies; and
• Promote awareness and engage with our associates 
and customers regarding sustainability and our  
related initiatives.We are committed to adopting practices that help 
mitigate the risks associated with climate change and 
to identify associated opportunities. To support our 
commitment to promoting energy efficiency and lowering 
our GHG emissions, we are endeavoring to:
• Measure, monitor and reduce our energy consumption 
and associated greenhouse gas emissions;
• Evaluate opportunities to provide financial products 
and services to assist in the transition to a lower-carbon 
economy; and
• Assess the risks that climate change poses to our 
operations, including regulatory, compliance, economic 
and physical risks, and if necessary, develop strategies 
and processes to manage such risks.
To support our commitment to resource conservation, we 
will endeavor to:
• Evaluate and identify opportunities on an ongoing basis 
to reduce the use of natural resources in our operations;
• Seek opportunities to expand access to recycling programs  
and the types of materials accepted for recycling;
• Seek to construct, retrofit and maintain branches and 
offices following design standards that minimize waste 
and improve efficiency;
• Seek to reduce water consumption through the use of 
water-efficient technology; and
• Engage associates and raise awareness about  
resource conservation and recycling to promote 
responsible behavior.
91
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business Overview2008 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
GENERAL INFORMATION1
Associates (full-time equivalent)230,784 23,393 22,166 21,714 19,969 19,564
Real Estate (square feet, thousands)313,224 11,943 11,784 11,611 11,102 10,870
Annual Revenue ($MM) 6,916 5,335 5,635 5,735 5,754 5,861
INTERNAL PAPER USE AND RECYCLING
Copy Paper Sheets (thousands) N/A 237,783 216,679 192,017 158,316 128,907
Copy Paper Sheets (pounds, thousands) N/A 9,511 8,667 7,681 6,333 5,156
Forest Stewardship Council Certified N/A 90% 92% 93% 99.7% 95.6%
Per Associate N/A 10,165 9,775 8,843 7,928 6,589
Confidential Waste Recycled (pounds, thousands)4N/A 12,828 12,316 11,400 10,096 8,375
EMISSIONS (Metric tons CO2e) - Scope 1 and 2
Total Direct Emissions (Scope 1)58,222 6,224 5,647 5,092 6,164 6,032
Natural Gas 5,893 3,918 3,115 2,593 3,860 3,508
Other Direct Sources 2,329 2,305 2,532 2,500 2,304 2,524
Total Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 196,264 129,815 115,498 105,978 102,979 92,321
Total Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 204,486 136,039 121,145 111,070 109,143 98,353
Per 1,000 Square Feet315.46 11.39 10.28 9.57 9.83 9
Per Associate 6.64 5.82 5.47 5.12 5.47 5.03
Per Revenue 29.57 25.50 21.50 19.37 18.97 16.78
BUILDING ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh)
Total Energy Consumption (metered space)5358,397 255,711 245,129 224,724 225,454 206,056
Electricity 325,756 234,005 227,875 210,362 204,073 186,622
Natural Gas 32,641 21,706 17,254 14,362 21,381 19,434
Per 1,000 Square Feet327.10 21.41 20.80 19.35 20.31 18.96
Per Associate 11.64 10.93 11.06 10.35 11.29 10.53
Per Revenue 51.82 47.93 43.50 39.18 39.18 35.16
EMISSIONS (Metric tons CO2e) — Scope 3
Total business travel6N/A N/A N/A N/A 9,095 8,444
Air N/A 2,908 2,589 2,920 2,898 2,765
Car (rental vehicles) N/A N/A N/A N/A 2,890 2,802
Car (personal vehicles) N/A 4,811 4,214 4,032 3,308 2,876
Per Associate N/A N/A N/A N/A 0.46 0.43
(1) The associates, real estate, and annual revenue metrics may not match those reported in Regions’ financial statements, as prior years’ associate count and annual revenue have not been adjusted in financial statements to 
reflect divestment of businesses. For the purpose of measuring our environmental footprint, we did not use the adjusted metrics. Real estate square footage is only for areas where Regions is responsible for paying utilities  
and has operational control over the space. In 2019, this segment of real estate accounted for about 88 percent of Regions’ real estate portfolio.
(2) Regions did not start using full-time equivalent metrics until 2015. The 2008 metric is based on total headcount, which reflects active full-time and part-time associates.
(3) Based on real estate square footage where we are responsible for paying utilities and have operational control over the space.
(4) 2017 is the first year that we included confidential waste that is associated with clean-out projects (e.g., stored records that were destroyed due to office closures). The 2017 figure (11,400,000 pounds) includes  
874,000 pounds of waste related to these projects; 2018 (10,096,000) includes 711,000 pounds of waste related to these projects; and 2019 (8,375,000) includes 46,000 pounds of waste related to these projects.
(5) Increase in Scope 1 emissions and energy consumption was prompted by the colder temperatures experienced in 2018, resulting in increased use of natural gas (primarily used for heating purposes).
(6) 2018 is the first year that we calculated business travel emissions. Information prior to 2018 is incomplete, as it was not collected by our vendor. For part of the rental vehicle emissions, we were only able to collect  
emissions for fourth quarter 2018. To estimate full-year emissions, we multiplied that quarter’s emissions by four.While many successes of our ESG program are set out in the Incorporating Environmental Stewardship into Business Strategy section above, in an effort to enhance 
our reporting transparency, we also wanted to provide the following numerical metrics that quantify some of our most vital measures as an organization:
92
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report
Communities
 Environment Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Appendix Business OverviewGRI Content Index
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
101: Foundation
101:  
Foundation[GRI 101 does not include any disclosures]
102: General Disclosures
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Regions Financial Corporation
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (page 6);  
2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (pages 10-11)
102-3 Location of headquarters Birmingham, Alabama
102-4 Location of operations 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (page 6);  
2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (page 10)
102-5 Ownership and legal form Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (page 10)
102-6 Markets served 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (page 10)
102-7 Scale of the organization 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (page 6);  
2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (pages 10-11 and page 19) and “Properties” section (page 34)
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section
102-9 Supply Chain 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Market For Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity  
Securities” section (page 37) and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 39-40)
102-12 External initiatives 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 33); 2019 Community Engagement Report;  
Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct ; Regions’ Doing More Today website
102-13 Membership of associations 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 33); 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2020 CEO’s Letter , as provided on Regions’ website and linked in the 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section
102-15 Key Impacts, risks, and opportunities 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, throughout; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 33-35 and  
pages 37-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 51 and pages 54-58); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Risk Factors” section  
(pages 20-33) and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 37-40)
93
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
GENERAL DISCLOSURES (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, throughout; 2020 Proxy Statement , inside front cover, Letter from the Chair of the Board, “Proxy  
Summary” section (pages 6-7), “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-40), and “Corporate Governance” section (page 49); 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers; Regions Human Rights Statement ;  
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct ; Regions’ Doing More Today website
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 39); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 35) and “Corporate Governance” section (throughout); Corporate Governance Principles; “Governance Overview” page on Regions’ website
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic,  
environmental, and social topicsPrimary responsibility for the governance of these areas is vested in the Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, the Chief Human 
Resources Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, and the Head of Corporate Real Estate and Procurement. For more information, please see the 2019 
Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section.
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental,  
and social topics2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(page 35) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 50)
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its  
committees2019 Annual Report and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate Governance” section  
(pages 69-74); Corporate Governance Principles; Committee Charters for each of the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee, Compensation and 
Human Resources Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Committee
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate Governance” section  
(pages 53-54); Corporate Governance Principles
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proposal 1” section (pages 15-19) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 59-60, page 62, and page 73);  
Corporate Governance Principles; Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 39), “Corporate Governance” section (page 49 and pages 62-67), and “Ownership of Regions Common Stock” section  
(pages 75-77); Corporate Governance Principles; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose,  
values, and strategy2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board and  
“Corporate Governance” section (pages 48-49); Corporate Governance Principles
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-19),  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 35), and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 59-60 and page 63);  
Corporate Governance Principles
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 2020 Proxy Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 59-60); Corporate Governance Principles
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental,  
and social impacts2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section and “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental 
and Social Practices” section (page 33 and page 35) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 48-52 and pages 54-58); 2019 Community 
Engagement Report; Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 35, page 37, and page 42) and “Corporate Governance” section 
(pages 48-49 and pages 54-58)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 35) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 71-74)
94
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
GENERAL DISCLOSURES (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Governance  (continued)
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 35) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (pages 39-40); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Risk Factors” section (pages 20-33) and “Note 24 - Commitments, Contingencies  
and Guarantees” section (pages 164-165); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
102-35 Remuneration policies 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (pages 12-13), “Proposal 
1” section (pages 26-27), “Proposal 3” section (page 32), “Corporate Governance” section (page 69), “Ownership of Regions Common Stock” 
section (pages 75-77), “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 79-100), and “Compensation of Executive Officers” section  
(pages 101-112); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related  
Stockholder Matters” section (page 174)
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (pages 12-13), “Proposal 
1” section (pages 26-27), “Proposal 3” section (page 32), “Ownership of Regions Common Stock” section (pages 75-77), “Compensation Discussion 
and Analysis” section (pages 79-100), and “Compensation of Executive Officers” section (pages 101-112)
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proposal 3” section (page 32), “Corporate Governance” 
section (pages 50-52), and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 82-85); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Security Ownership 
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” section (page 174)
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2020 Proxy Statement , “Compensation of Executive Officers” section (pages 103-104)
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 2020 Proxy Statement , “Compensation of Executive Officers” section (pages 103-104)
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(page 35) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 50); 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Regions associates are not subject to collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(page 35 and page 47) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 50); 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, throughout; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 35 and pages 39-47) 
and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 50-54); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (pages 10-19)
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, throughout; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-47) and  
“Corporate Governance” section (pages 50-54)
95
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
GENERAL DISCLOSURES (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Reporting Practices
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Regions Financial Corporation Subsidiaries at December 31, 2019, filed as Exhibit 21 to 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries The 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report’s content and topic boundaries were determined based on an evaluation of Regions’ operations,  
emerging trends and stakeholder feedback, peer analysis, and evaluation of disclosure standards, such as those developed by the  
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. For more information, please see “About This Report” at the beginning of this report.
102-48 Restatement of information Regions Financial Corporation has not been required to file any financial restatements since issuing its last ESG Report in 2018.
The 2018 ESG Report (pages 36-37) stated Regions invested $3.4 billion in small business and small farm lending, contributing to a total of  
$4.9 billion invested in community development. On that same topic, the 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report states Regions invested $2 billion  
in small business and small farm lending, contributing to a total of $3.6 billion invested in community development.
102-49 Changes in reporting As compared to the 2018 ESG Report , the 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report has been expanded to include materials previously published  
separately as an Annual Review (see Regions’ website for previous years’ Annual Reviews). The Annual Review and ESG Report has also been 
enhanced to provide additional information about corporate governance and stakeholder engagement, human capital management,  
customer and community involvement, and environmental metrics and performance.
102-50 Reporting period January 1 through December 31, 2019, unless otherwise noted
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle Annually since 2009
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Hope Mehlman — Corporate Secretary, Chief Governance Officer and Deputy General Counsel
governance@regions.com; 1-800-REGIONS (734-4667)
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report references the GRI Standards (2016).
102-55 GRI content index 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “GRI Content Index”
102-56 External assurance The 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report was not externally assured.
96
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Economic Performance
201: Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, "Business Overview" section; 2020 Proxy Statement , "Proxy Summary" section (pages 6-9);  
2019 Community Engagement Report; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" section  
(pages 91-95); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; 2018 SASB Disclosure
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 
to climate change2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, "Environment" section; 2020 Proxy Statement , "Environmental and Social Practices" section  
(page 35 and page 37) and "Corporate Governance" section (page 54); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, "Forward-Looking Statements"  
section (page 8) and "Risk Factors" section (page 21); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; 2018 SASB Disclosure
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Proposal 1” section (pages 26-27), “Environmental and 
Social Practices” section (page 41), “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 77-100), and “Compensation of Executive 
Officers” section (pages 101-112); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 53-54), “Financial 
Statements and Supplementary Data” section (page 105), and “Note 18 — Employee Benefit Plans” section (pages 144-148)
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Regions did not receive financial assistance from any government besides the United States during the reporting period. No governmental  
entities own shares in the Company at this time. Regions discusses tax credit investments in the “Business” section (page 11), “Financial  
Statements and Supplementary Data” section (pages 104-105), “Note 2 — Variable Interest Entities” section (page 115), and “Note 20 —  
Income Taxes” section (pages 149-152) of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Indirect Economic Impacts
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Responsible Banking” section and “Communities” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Responsible Banking” section and “Communities” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Responsible Banking” section and “Communities” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report
203: Indirect Economic Impacts
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Responsible Banking” section and “Communities” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
"Environmental and Social Practices" section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Responsible Banking” section and “Communities” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
"Environmental and Social Practices" section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report
97
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Procurement Practices
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board and “Environmental and 
Social Practices” section (page 39); Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board and “Environmental and 
Social Practices” section (page 39); Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board and “Environmental and 
Social Practices” section (page 39); Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
204: Procurement Practices
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section
Anti-Corruption
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
205: Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and procedures2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 39); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Material events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Evaluation of incidents and appropriate courses of action are made in conformance with 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Anti-Competitive Behavior
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
206: Anti-competitive Behavior
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesMaterial events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
98
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Tax
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” 
section (pages 54-55) and “Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” section (pages 104-105)
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” 
section (pages 54-55) and “Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” section (pages 104-105)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” 
section (pages 54-55) and “Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” section (pages 104-105)
207: Tax
207-1 Approach to Tax 2019 Annual Report and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section and “Governance and Ethics” section; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (page 37, page 41, pages 48-49, and pages 54-55), “Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting 
Policies” section (pages 104-105), “Note 2 — Variable Interest Entities” section (page 115), and “Note 20 — Income Taxes” section (pages 149-152)
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management 2019 Annual Report and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section and “Governance and Ethics” section; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (page 37, page 41, pages 48-49, and pages 54-55), “Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting 
Policies” section (pages 104-105), “Note 2 — Variable Interest Entities” section (page 115), and “Note 20 — Income Taxes” section (pages 149-152)
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of  
concerns related to tax2019 Annual Report and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section and “Governance and Ethics” section; 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K,  
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (page 37, page 41, pages 48-49, and pages 54-55), “Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting 
Policies” section (pages 104-105), “Note 2 — Variable Interest Entities” section (page 115), and “Note 20 — Income Taxes” section (pages 149-152)
99
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
ENVIRONMENT
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Materials
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental  
and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response;  
Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental  
and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response;  
Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental  
and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response;  
Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
301: Materials
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38); 
2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
Energy
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
302: Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
302-3 Energy intensity 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , "Environmental and Social Practices" section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
100
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
ENVIRONMENT (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Emissions
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
305: Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
Effluents and Waste
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 36-38) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 54-56); 2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
306: Effluents and Waste
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Environment” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 36-38); 2019 CDP Climate Change Response; Environmental Sustainability Policy Statement, Goals, and Performance
101
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
ENVIRONMENT (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Environmental Compliance
307: Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Since our last report, Regions has not been assessed any fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations that had  
a material adverse effect on our operations.
Supplier Environmental Assessment
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 39);  
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 39);  
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 39);  
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using  
environmental criteria2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain  
and actions taken2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
102
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Employment
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social 
Practices” section (page 35 and pages 41-44), “Corporate Governance” section (pages 55-57 and page 72), and “Compensation Discussion and 
Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social 
Practices” section (page 35 and pages 41-44), “Corporate Governance” section (pages 55-57 and page 72), and “Compensation Discussion and 
Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social 
Practices” section (page 35 and pages 41-44), “Corporate Governance” section (pages 55-57 and page 72), and “Compensation Discussion and 
Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
401: Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provid-
ed to temporary or part-time employees2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” (pages 41-42);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
401-3 Parental leave 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” (page 42);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Labor/Management Relations
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 41-42 and page 47) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 55-57 and page 72);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 41-42 and page 47) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 55-57 and page 72);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 41-42 and page 47) and “Corporate Governance” section (pages 55-57 and page 72);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
402: Labor/Management Relations
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Regions follows all applicable state and federal employment requirements including those found in the federal Worker Adjustment and Training 
Notification (WARN) Act. Regions associates are not subject to collective bargaining agreements.
103
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Occupational Health and Safety
403: Occupational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 40); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and  
incident investigation2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 40); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
403-3 Occupational health services 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-42); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication  
on occupational health and safety2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-42); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 40); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
403-6 Promotion of worker health 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and 
Social Practices” section (pages 39-42) and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; 
Regions Human Rights Statement
403-10 Work-related ill health 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 41-42)  
and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Training and Education
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 35 and pages 39-44); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  
Regions Human Rights Statement
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 35 and pages 39-44); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  
Regions Human Rights Statement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (page 35 and pages 39-44); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  
Regions Human Rights Statement
404: Training and Education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section;  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assis -
tance programs2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(pages 41-42 and page 44); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(page 41); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
104
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy 
Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board, “Proxy Summary” section (pages 10-11), “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-19), “Environmental  
and Social Practices” section (page 35 and pages 39-44), “Corporate Governance” section (pages 48-49, page 52, page 62, and page 72), and  
“Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy 
Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board, “Proxy Summary” section (pages 10-11), “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-19), “Environmental  
and Social Practices” section (page 35 and pages 39-44), “Corporate Governance” section (pages 48-49, page 52, page 62, and page 72), and  
“Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy 
Statement , Letter from the Chair of the Board, “Proxy Summary” section (pages 10-11), “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-19), “Environmental  
and Social Practices” section (page 35 and pages 39-44), “Corporate Governance” section (pages 48-49, page 52, page 62, and page 72), and  
“Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (pages 10-11), “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-25), “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (pages 39-44), “Corporate Governance” section (page 49 and page 52), and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79); 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Non-Discrimination
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy 
Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (pages 10-11), “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-25), “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-
44), “Corporate Governance” section (page 49 and page 52), and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy 
Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (pages 10-11), “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-25), “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 
39-44), “Corporate Governance” section (page 49 and page 52), and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Associates” section; 2020 Proxy 
Statement , “Proxy Summary” section (pages 10-11), “Proposal 1” section (pages 16-25), “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 
39-44), “Corporate Governance” section (page 49 and page 52), and “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section (page 79);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement
406: Non-Discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Material events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Evaluation of incidents and appropriate courses of action are made in conformance with 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
105
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be at riskRegions associates are not subject to collective bargaining agreements. On suppliers, see the Regions Vendor Code of Conduct .
Child Labor
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
408: Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents  
of child laborNone known at this time. For more information, please see the Regions Human Rights Statement and the Regions Vendor Code of Conduct .
Forced or Compulsory Labor
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section 
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory laborNone known at this time. For more information, please see the Regions Human Rights Statement and the Regions Vendor Code of Conduct .
106
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Security Practices
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate Governance” section (pages 57-58);  
Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate Governance” section (pages 57-58);  
Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate Governance” section (pages 57-58);  
Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
410: Security Practices
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies  
or proceduresSee, generally, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Regions Human Rights Statement , and Regions Vendor Code of Conduct .
Human Rights Assessment
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section  
(page 37 and page 39) and “Corporate Governance” section (page 73); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; 
Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
412: Human Rights Assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessments2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct ; Regions Human Rights Statement
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 39); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Regions Human Rights Statement ; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that  
include human rights clauses or that underwent human 
rights screeningSee, generally, the Regions Human Rights Statement and the Regions Vendor Code of Conduct .
107
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Local Communities
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Responsible Banking” section, and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report;  
Regions’ Doing More Today website
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Responsible Banking” section, and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report;  
Regions’ Doing More Today website
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Responsible Banking” section, and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 45-46); 2019 Community Engagement Report;  
Regions’ Doing More Today website
413: Local Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact  
assessments, and development programs2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Business Overview” section, “Responsible Banking” section, and “Associates” section;  
2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 45-46); 2018 SASB Disclosure; 2019 Community Engagement  
Report; Regions’ Doing More Today website
Supplier Social Assessment
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the  management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
414: Supplier Social Assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Associates” section; Regions Vendor Code of Conduct
Public Policy
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 47); 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 47); 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 47); 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
415: Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Environmental and Social Practices”  
section (page 47); 2019 Government Affairs Annual Report
108
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Customer Health and Safety
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Questions 
and Answers” section (page 117)
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Questions 
and Answers” section (page 117)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Questions 
and Answers” section (page 117)
416: Customer Health and Safety
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product  
and service categories2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and  
safety impacts of products and servicesMaterial events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Evaluation of incidents and appropriate courses of action are made in conformance with 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Marketing and Labeling
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-40); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-2 The management approach and its components 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-40); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-40); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
417: Marketing and Labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information  
and labeling2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section and “Responsible Banking” section; 2020 Proxy Statement ,  
“Environmental and Social Practices” section (pages 39-40); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 
information and labelingMaterial events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Evaluation of incidents and appropriate courses of action are made in conformance with 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing  
communicationsMaterial events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Evaluation of incidents and appropriate courses of action are made in conformance with 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
109
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business OverviewGRI Content Index
SOCIAL (continued)
GRI 
Standard 
(2016)Disclosure URL/Response
Customer Privacy
103: Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Regions Privacy Pledge; 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate  
Governance” section (pages 57-58); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (pages 17-18), “Risk Factors” section (pages 26-27), 
and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 83-84); 2018 SASB Disclosure; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-2 The management approach and its components Regions Privacy Pledge; 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate  
Governance” section (pages 57-58); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (pages 17-18), “Risk Factors” section (pages 26-27), 
and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 83-84); 2018 SASB Disclosure; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Regions Privacy Pledge; 2019 Annual Review and ESG Report, “Governance and Ethics” section; 2020 Proxy Statement , “Corporate  
Governance” section (pages 57-58); 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Business” section (pages 17-18), “Risk Factors” section (pages 26-27), 
and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” section (pages 83-84); 2018 SASB Disclosure; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
418: Customer Privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer dataMaterial events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Evaluation of incidents and appropriate courses of action are made in conformance with 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Socioeconomic Compliance
419: Socioeconomic Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 
economic areaMaterial events are disclosed in the “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” footnote (pages 164-165) to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Determination of incidents and appropriate courses of action are made in conformance 
with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
110
Environment
 Appendix
Regions Financial 2019 Annual Review and Environmental, Social and Governance Report Communities Associates Responsible Banking Governance and Ethics Introduction Business Overview