REGIONS  CORPORATE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2016 Page
SRG 1.1
Letter from the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 1
SRG 2.1-5, 2.7-8, 2.10 Company Profile
Regions Financial Corporation — Company Profile 2
SRG 3.1-4   Report Profile  3
PERFORMANCE AREAS
EC9 — Indirect Economic Impacts 4
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
EN1 — Materials Used by Weight or Volume 7
EN2 — Percentage of Materials Used That Are Recycled Input Materials 7
EN4 — Indirect Energy Consumption by Primary Source 9
EN5 — Energy Saved Due to Conservation and Efficiency Improvements 10
EN6 — Initiatives to Provide Energy-Efficient or Renewable Energy-Based Products and Services 10
EN7 — Initiatives to Reduce Indirect Energy Consumption 12
EN9 — Water Sources Significantly Affected by Withdrawal 12
EN22 — Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method 13
EN26 — Mitigate Environmental Impacts 13
EN30 — Total Environmental Protection Expenditures and Investments by Type 14
LA10 — Training and Education 15
LA11 — Programs for Skills Management and Life-long Learning 15
LA13 — Diversity and Equal Opportunity 15
SO3 — Anti-Corruption Training 19 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES 
AND PERFORMANCE AREASSRG 1.1
Regions’ focus on our customers and communities goes far beyond meeting their needs for financial services. While 
we proudly offer great products and advice with outstanding customer service, we’ve made a broader commitment 
to creating shared value for the people, institutions and businesses we serve. We believe it is vital to maintain high 
standards as a good neighbor, because it is good for business and because it is the right thing to do.
 This sustainability report highlights some of the ways our business touches our customers, shareholders 
and the communities where we work and live — and helps them secure a brighter future.
 Regions is committed to preserving our environment, whether through reduced energy use, recycling or 
encouraging paperless interaction. For example, in 2016:
• Regions reduced overall solid waste generation by 4 percent over 2015 figures, a difference of over 500 
tons, and we kept 47 percent of facility-related solid waste from landfills through a combination of building 
recycling programs and confidential waste recycling. This is a 4 percent increase from 2015 figures.
• Our Confidential Trash Program collected more than 12.3 million pounds of paper, which saved 104,000 
trees, 2.3 million gallons of oil, 18,400 cubic yards of landfill space, more than 24.5 million kilowatts of 
energy and more than 43 million gallons of water.
• Through our Energy Management Program, Regions used 3.7 percent (8 million kWh) less electricity in 
2016 than in 2015 when comparing the same buildings. This is enough electricity to power over 722  
average homes for a year.
• Regions increased our use of solid-state (LED) lighting technology in 2016, to include more interior  
and exterior applications. Virtually every exterior lighting project in 2016 included this high-efficiency  
technology. Overall, the systems installed in 2016 use at least 40 percent less energy than the previous 
systems, while increasing light levels for our customers.
• Regions’ energy consumption program has been comparing the same buildings since 2008 and for the 
11.5 million square feet being tracked, even with rate increases, the cost of electricity for this same group 
of buildings was $800,000 less in 2016 than in 2008.
• Vehicles used to service bank facilities in 2016 used 1,607,710 gallons of gasoline, a 30 percent decrease 
in sheer consumption as the bank’s facilities fleet dropped from 131 vehicles to 84, and facilities teams 
adjusted to even more efficient routing and service frequencies.
• Regions has a program to reduce water consumption at facilities nationwide and  we have targeted irrigation 
water use for reduction. Approximately 10 percent of facilities have received either soil moisture sensors or 
smart, monitored irrigation controls systems. Through November 2016, 11 million fewer gallons were used in 
2016 than the same period in 2015.
All these efforts help us provide an exceptional experience for our customers and communities. They make a 
lasting, positive impact and are an essential part of being a high-performing financial institution.
GRAYSON HALL
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Regions Financial Corporation1
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT 
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
SRG 2.1-5, 2.7-8, 2.10  Company Profile
As a company that has been around since 1856, we know that banking relationships are founded on trust. Our 
customers have the added assurance that our financial strength and stability give them a safe place to keep their 
money. In addition they have the peace of mind knowing deposits at Regions are FDIC insured.
 For the full year 2016, Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion and 
ended the year with total shareholder return of over 50 percent. We grew net interest income 3 percent versus 
2015, and we also grew adjusted non-interest income 7 percent. Our adjusted non-interest expenses increased 
just under 2 percent.
 Regions received recognition across the financial services industry and for 
service quality:
 • Regions was the highest scoring bank in the prestigious 2015 
  American Customer Satisfaction Index.
 • Regions won 12 Greenwich Excellence awards in the Commercial 
  Banking Group.
 • Regions won two (of three) inaugural Greenwich Excellence awards 
  for Wealth Management.
2
REGIONS FINANCIAL CORPORATION (NYSE:RF)
REGIONS IS HEADQUARTERED IN BIRMINGHAM, ALA., WITH  
$126 BILLION IN ASSETS, IS A MEMBER OF THE S&P 500 INDEX,  
AND IS ONE OF THE NATION’S LARGEST FULL-SERVICE  
PROVIDERS OF CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL BANKING,  
WEALTH MANAGEMENT, MORTGAGE AND INSURANCE  
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. REGIONS SERVES  
CUSTOMERS ACROSS THE SOUTH, MIDWEST AND TEXAS, 
AND THROUGH ITS SUBSIDIARY, REGIONS BANK, OPERATES APPROXIMATELY 1,500 
BANKING OFFICES AND 1,900 ATMS. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT REGIONS AND ITS 
FULL LINE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CAN BE FOUND AT WWW.REGIONS.COM.
 • For the third year in a row, Regions was recognized by Temkin Group 
as a top decile performer in the annual Temkin Retail Banking 
  Experience Rankings. Regions placed 12th out of 294 companies 
across 20 industries.
 • Regions scored an 806 (on a 1000-point scale) in the 2016 J.D. 
Power Retail Banking Satisfaction Study, placing Regions 3rd out of 
23 peer banks. Regions has improved from a score of 694 in 2008 
to 806 in 2016 .
 • Regions Bank ranked the Most Reputable Bank in the United States 
in the 2016 Reputation Institute Rankings.
 • Regions was named a winner of the 2016 Gallup Consulting Great Workplace Award.
SRG 3.1-4  Report Profile
The 2016 Sustainability Report includes data from January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016. Sustainability  
Reports are issued annually and reports were issued for 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. 
Any questions about this report should be directed to Linda Germany Kramer, Corporate Social Responsibility,  
linda.kramer@regions.com.
3
GRI INDICATORS
 EC9 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
  Regions participated in several economic development 
initiatives during 2016. In August, Regions 
served as lead sponsor to an Inner City  
Capital Connections conference held in 
St. Louis, MO., which serves to educate  
companies in or near city centers on how to  
access capital to expand their businesses. Regions also co-chaired the Southeast U.S.-Japan  
Association meeting in Tokyo, Japan, a meeting of business and political leaders from 
Japan and seven Southeastern states aimed at building sustainable relationships that lead 
to economic development. 
   In addition, Regions associates made a positive difference in the communities we served 
over the past year:
  • Provided more than 82,450 hours of volunteer work, including 16,667 volunteer hours 
on financial education.
  • Delivered financial education in classrooms and parent workshops with more than 
110 trained facilitators, and the Regions at Work® team presented more than 87,000 
financial education seminars during the year throughout the footprint.
  • Reached 16,465 high school students and 17,151 college students through the 
Regions Financial Scholars Program, powered by EverFi. In addition, the Regions 
Collegiate Financial Education Program provided financial education to 2,163  
student athletes.
  • Completed more than 10,000 volunteer 
hours with Junior Achievement, earning the  
President’s Silver Award.
  • Provided more than 4,800 hours of technical 
assistance to non-profit organizations across 
our footprint.
4
PERFORMANCE AREAS
GRI INDICATORS
 EC9,  continued  • Contributed $10.4 million in charitable giving.
  • Donated $25,000 to American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund to assist in  
Louisiana Flood Recovery Efforts.
  • Continued the annual “Share the Good” program,  
which encourages local Regions offices to identify  
volunteer service opportunities to make a positive 
difference.
  • Launched “Doing More Today” website to share stories about the communities 
Regions serves and the nonprofit organizations Regions helps.
  • Sponsored the 2016 Riding Forward Scholarship Essay Contest, where students  
submitted essays about an inspirational African-American of the student’s 
choosing.
  Low Income Housing Tax Credits
  Regions is one of the nation’s leading direct investors  
in Low Income Housing Tax Credit developments. 
These investments provide cash equity vital to the  
construction and rehabilitation of affordable housing 
units for low- and moderate-income renters. In 2016, 
Regions invested more than $283.9 million in such 
tax-credit partnerships, supporting 50 developments that provide 
4,393 units of affordable housing for low- and moderate-income individuals and families in 
states where Regions conducts business.
   THIS ACTIVITY IN 2016 BRINGS TO 25,164 THE TOTAL NUMBER OF AFFORDABLE 
HOUSING UNITS REGIONS IS SUPPORTING THROUGH ITS INVESTMENTS DATING 
BACK 15 YEARS (THE LIFESPAN OF THESE TAX CREDITS). REGIONS’ AFFORDABLE 
HOUSING INVESTMENTS HELP MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE COMMUNITIES THE BANK 
SERVES BY IMPROVING THE LIVES OF LOW- AND MODERATE-INCOME INDIVIDUALS 
AND FAMILIES.
5
GRI INDICATORS
 EC9,  continued  Volunteer Hours
  In 2016, Regions associates volunteered at more than 8,000 different agencies in the 
communities where they live and work and provided more than 16,500 volunteer hours 
teaching financial education. To make it easy to volunteer, associates receive one day off 
per year with pay to volunteer through What A Difference A Day Makes, Regions’ volunteer 
program. They may serve a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that supports one of the  
following categories:
 • Arts/Culture • Community Development
 • Economic Development • Health/Human Services
 • Education • Regions-sponsored Charitable Events
   The Regions Matching Gifts Program allows associates to make an even greater 
difference to education institutions and arts and culture charities by doubling their tax-
deductible contribution of at least $25 and up to $1,000 per calendar year. In 2016, 
Regions matched $244,000 in associate contributions.
  Supplier Diversity
  It’s clear to Regions that many minority- and women-owned enterprises offer the quality, 
innovation, reliability and value we seek. We regard these strategic relationships as good 
for society, good for business and good for strengthening our competitive advantage. Our 
business relationships with diverse suppliers make a positive impact on the communities 
we serve by creating jobs and wealth. Expense reduction initiatives across the company 
in 2016 resulted in reduced diversity spend and 14 percent fewer vendors. However, the 
overall supplier diversity spend remained at 7.3 percent of total spend, the same as in 2015.
6
GRI INDICATORS
 EN1 MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME
  Regions Financial Corporation does not calculate the total weight or volume of materials  
used in daily operations, in construction, in maintenance, or in service to customers.  
Regions utilizes a decentralized purchasing system. While many materials are purchased 
through channels that can be used to track weight or volume, some materials are not.  
Regions is not set up to measure the weight or volume of the enormous variety of materials  
used in daily operations (from construction materials and furniture, to printer cartridges, 
marketing materials and pencils). Any attempt to record this information for 2016 would be 
incomplete and potentially misleading.
 EN2 PERCENTAGE OF MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS
  Regions Corporate Real Estate uses recycled-content carpets, ceiling tiles and drywall in  
ongoing projects whenever feasible. However, calculating a percentage of the total requires  
understanding the total volume or weight of materials purchased (as per G4-EN1, above), 
which is not available for 2016.
   Regions has been purchasing remanufactured toner cartridges for standard office 
printers for several years. In 2016, Regions purchased 25,000 remanufactured toner  
cartridges for office use. Each remanufactured toner cartridge is made from the plastic shell 
of a previously used cartridge, reducing the environmental impact of the manufacturing 
process. Cartridges are made of virgin plastic — a petroleum product — and when buried  
in a landfill without access to UV rays, these cartridges do not decompose. Thus, the  
remanufactured cartridges:
   • Saved approximately 7,200 gallons of fuel
   • Reduced 234 cubic yards of waste in landfills – when toner cartridges are buried 
in a landfill without access to UV rays, these cartridges either do not decompose, 
or if they do, the time this would take is thousands of years.
7
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE INDICATORSGRI INDICATORS
 EN2, continued   Regions Confidential Waste Program is the most widespread recycling program at the 
bank. In 2016, the program collected 12,316,076 pounds of paper and other confidential  
material. According to our vendor contract, this paper was shredded to protect the  
confidentiality of the information.
   The shredded paper was then used by mills located in the U.S. in the manufacturing 
of new paper, thereby, providing the following benefits to the environment:
  • Saved 104,487 trees
  • Saved 2,335,581 gallons of oil
  • Reduced 18,439 cubic yards of landfill space
  • Saved 24,585,061 kilowatts of energy
  • Saved 43,023,857 gallons of water
  • Saved 368,776 pounds of air pollution
   To drive down the use of paper, Regions continues to move more work to digital  
documents and increase the use of duplex (double-sided) printing. Associates are also 
trained in paperwork reduction. These programs are ongoing.
   In 2016, Regions reduced overall solid waste generation by 4 percent over 2015 figures, 
a difference of over 500 tons. this is approximately the amount of trash generated by 685 
people in a year. (“Advancing Sustainable Materials Management: 2014 Fact Sheet”; U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency, November 2016.) In addition to the reduction in total 
waste, Regions increased our diversion percentage. This year, we kept 47 percent of facility-
related solid waste from landfills through a combination of building recycling programs and 
confidential waste recycling. This a 4 percent increase from last year’s figure. Regions 
continues to encourage the use of electronic account statements.
   For those customers receiving paper statements, Regions uses soy-based inks and  
eco-friendly material for window film for statement envelopes (approximately 40 million  
annually). The use of these two items allows these envelopes to be recycled. Recycled 
paper is used in various marketing materials including direct marketing, collateral brochures  
and in-branch advertising.
   Regions redeployed 3,135 pieces of information technology (IT) hardware internally in 
2016, eliminating the need to purchase new hardware. Regions disposed/recycled some 
2,132 pieces of IT hardware, and 7,782 pieces of IT hardware were re-sold. 
8
GRI INDICATORS
 EN4 INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY PRIMARY SOURCE
  With few exceptions, Regions does not burn primary energy sources such as coal or natural 
gas to generate electricity, steam, or other energy for consumption. Exceptions are the use 
of petroleum products to run vehicles and emergency generators, and the use of natural 
gas in boilers and furnaces. For boiler operations, Regions purchased 47,000 gallons of 
diesel fuel to test and operate emergency generators and other equipment in Birmingham 
and Nashville. This is higher than 2015 but still 27 percent less than in 2013.
   Vehicles used to service bank facilities in 2016 used 1,607,710 gallons of gasoline, a 
30 percent decrease in sheer consumption as the bank’s facilities fleet dropped from 131  
vehicles to 84, and facilities teams adjusted to even more efficient routing and service  
frequencies. Most of the vehicles remaining in the fleet are vans for maintenance technicians 
and, for a few months, several technicians were covering extended territories. Vans are the 
necessary but least-efficient vehicles in the fleet, meaning the average fuel economy declined 
slightly, to 12 miles per gallon versus 13 mpg last year. The changes from 2015 to 2016 
required fewer overall gallons purchased but negatively impacted overall fleet fuel economy.
   To operate the employee shuttle service at a Birmingham office complex, Regions  
procured 6,300 gallons of propane between October 2015 and October 2016. This shuttle  
has been operating as a propane-fueled vehicle since mid-2013. The use of propane  
instead of gasoline has reduced local emissions significantly. Propane burns cleaner and 
produces less carbon monoxide (by 60 percent), carbon dioxide (by 12 percent) and  
carcinogenic emissions (by more than 90 percent), generally creating better air quality for 
associates riding the vehicle or walking nearby.
   Regions operates properties that consume energy (primarily electricity) generated from 
sources that vary from location to location, and region to region. In most states where Regions  
operates, electricity primarily is generated from fossil fuels (coal and natural gas). However, 
Regions owns and operates buildings in areas fueled by hydro-power and nuclear energy.
   REGIONS CONTINUES TO PURCHASE 5,000 KWH PER MONTH OF RENEWABLE  
ENERGY THROUGH DUKE ENERGY’S GOGREEN INDIANA INITIATIVE. THE ENERGY FOR 
THIS PARTICULAR PROGRAM IS GENERATED FROM REGIONAL WIND SOURCES.
9GRI INDICATORS
 EN4, continued   During 2016, Regions associates’ participation 
  in CommuteSmart reduced vehicle miles traveled by 
  554,410, which reduced pollution by approximately 
  277 tons and carbon dioxide emissions by 306,588,730 grams and saved approximately  
22,000 gallons of fuel. 
 EN5 ENERGY SAVED DUE TO CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS
  Regions has focused on energy conservation and efficiency since 2008 and continues to 
focus on reducing energy consumption across the country. Through our Energy Management 
Program, Regions used 3.7 percent (8 million kWh) less electricity in 2016 than in 2015 
when comparing the same buildings. This is enough electricity to power over 722 average 
homes for a year (per U.S. Department of Energy Residential Energy Consumption Survey, 
2014). To measure progress, Regions’ energy consumption program has been charting the 
same buildlings since 2008. For the 11.5 million square feet being tracked, even with rate  
increases, the cost of electricity for this same group of buildings was $800,000 less in 2016 
than in 2008.
 EN6 INITIATIVE TO PROVIDE ENERGY-EFFICIENT OR 
  RENEWABLE ENERGY-BASED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
  Regions does not provide energy-based products or services for bank customers. However, 
the energy required to operate the buildings that serve our customers is steadily decreasing.  
Furthermore, customers are provided with the option of banking electronically, which avoids 
the need for paper to be fabricated and shipped, avoids the printing and mailing of statements, 
and reduces the number of vehicle trips to a branch for transactions.  Regions encourages 
the use of electronic account statements. For those customers receiving paper statements,  
Regions uses soy-based inks and material for window film for statement envelopes  
(approximately 40 million annually).
   Recycled paper is used in various marketing materials including direct marketing, 
collateral brochures and in-branch advertising, and materials have been redesigned to 
increase efficiency and use less ink in the printing process.  Examples of Regions’ efforts to 
provide energy efficiency to customers include financial products offering environmentally 
responsible services (e.g., paperless statements, direct deposit, electronic receipts), as well 
as building improvements.
10
GRI INDICATORS
 EN6, continued  Additional information about these efforts includes:
  LifeGreen Checking
  Regions LifeGreen Checking and Savings accounts provide the bank’s most requested and 
most environmentally friendly products and e-services  including:
 • Recycled checks • Regions Online Banking with Bill Pay
 • Regions Mobile Banking • Direct deposit
 • Online Statements • Regions CheckCard
   In addition, Regions offers the LifeGreen eAccess Account  designed for customers who 
prefer to bank or make purchases online rather than by check with electronic features like 
Online Banking with Bill Pay, Mobile Banking, debit or credit cards.
   In 2016, Corporate Marketing continues to focus on the importance of recycled materials  
for use in printed pieces. Recycled paper is used in various programs including direct 
marketing, collateral brochures and in-branch advertising. For merchandising programs, 
hundreds of mature trees were saved through the use of recycled paper. The paper was 
purchased exclusively from domestic sources which participate in the planned replanting of 
trees. For each tree harvested, at least two were planted and in many cases the ratio is 3:1. 
  Mobile Banking
  Regions Mobile Banking encourages efficient
  money management and paperless transactions 
  by offering customers:
   • Convenient and secure access to their 
    Regions accounts from their mobile 
    device
   • Bill payment capability
   • Funds transfer capability
   • Mobile Deposit – allows consumer and business customers to take a picture of 
a check and send to the bank for deposit electronically allowing them to avoid 
a trip to the branch
11
GRI INDICATORS
 EN6, continued  Remote Item Capture
  Regions Quick Deposit provides business customers a scanner they can use to make deposits  
remotely from their offices, whenever they want. This saves time and provides an energy  
efficient means of depositing checks.
  Regions Online Payroll
  Regions Online Payroll helps small business owners manage their payroll efficiently and on 
time. Environmentally friendly features include direct deposit and the ability to pay taxes 
and file forms electronically.
  E-Receipts
  Regions customers have the option to receive transaction receipts electronically.
  ATM Receipts
  ATM receipts are printed on paper that is BPA-free.
 EN7 INITIATIVES TO REDUCE INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION
  Regions has made extensive use of motion-sensing 
equipment to turn lights off, or partially off, when 
areas are unoccupied. This technology is being used 
successfully in both interior and exterior applications. 
Regions increased our use of solid-state (LED) lighting  
technology in 2016, to include more interior and  
exterior applications. Virtually every exterior lighting 
project in 2016 included this high-efficiency technology  
in at least one aspect. Additionally, LED lighting 
technology  was increasingly used in interior applications. Overall, the systems installed in 
2016 use at least 40 percent less energy than the previous systems, while increasing light 
levels for our customers.
 EN9 WATER SOURCES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL
  Although Regions has an extensive footprint in 15 states, banking is not a water-intensive  
  industry and Regions does not withdraw a significant percentage of water from any single  
12
GRI INDICATORS
 EN9, continued  watershed. However, Regions recognizes water is a critical issue, and has dedicated 
resources to reduce domestic use and irrigation demands. A large percentage of our 
water use goes to irrigation, and we have targeted irrigation water use for reduction. 
Approximately 10 percent of facilities have received either soil moisture sensors or 
smart, monitored irrigation controls systems. Through November 2016 (latest figures  
available), we can report 11,000,000 fewer gallons were used in 2016 than the same 
period in 2015.
   Janitorial vendor services cleaning Regions Bank Facilities do so with environmentally-
preferable cleaning practices that include less need for water, further reducing the need 
for water during normal operations.
 EN22 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD
  In 2016, approximately 7 percent of non-confidential waste from Regions’ facilities  
was diverted from the landfill, a percentage point improvement from last year. The bank  
captures most paper through a confidential shredding program, and in 2016 more than 
12.3 million pounds of confidential material (mostly paper) were collected and recycled.
   In addition to the confidential paper shredding program, we estimate at least the  
following quantities were diverted from landfills and recycled in 2016 through workplace 
recycling programs:
   • Plastic:  39,000 pounds
   • Aluminum:  18,000 pounds
   • Corrugated Cardboard and Paper:  199,000 pounds
 EN26 MITIGATE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
  In 2016, Regions Bank expanded the use of environmentally sound cleaning practices 
to virtually every facility in the country. These practices include waterless cleaning using  
special mops, more organically-based cleaners and reusable cleaning materials. Since 
2010, Regions has employed a portfolio-wide program to manage fluorescent lamps  
responsibly.
13GRI INDICATORS
EN26 , continued  
 In 2016, Regions continued providing associates with a convenient and environmentally  
appropriate method of disposing personal electronics. The company held Electronics  
Recycling Events at three large campuses. Over 100 associates recycled more than 1,500 
pounds of personal devices at these events. The crews collected old computers, game  
systems, cell phones, televisions, and even a rotary-dial phone. All this material was  
diverted from landfills and safely recycled. The vendor utilized for this service is certified  
to the Responsible Recycling (R2) Standard by Sustainable Electronics Recycling  
International, meaning they have passed rigorous reporting and oversight requirements to 
prove their disposal practices are environmentally and ethically sound.
 EN30 TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES
  AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE
  Regions has developed and currently implements a thorough and protective environmental  
compliance program, developed to protect the safety of associates and customers. As 
part of the Asbestos Management Program, all Regions’ facilities management and project 
management personnel received training on how to identify and manage asbestos properly. 
Vendors are alerted to the presence of asbestos before 
entering such a facility, and Regions utilized certified 
asbestos abatement contractors to remove asbestos as 
part of projects in over 100 locations in 2016. Regions 
Corporate Real Estate also manages all facilities with an 
aggressive and protective environmental program that 
assures indoor environmental quality.
14
ITEMS COMMONLY RECYCLED IN REGIONS’
OFFICE RECYCLING PROGRAM INCLUDE
ALUMINUM CANS, CORRUGATED
CARDBOARD, NEWSPAPER AND
PLASTIC BOTTLES.
GRI INDICATORS
 LA10 TRAINING AND EDUCATION
  Regions associates completed 295,297 hours of mandatory annual Compliance Training  
in 2016. This includes seven Core Compliance Training courses every associate is  
required to complete each year. Core curriculum course topics include Bank Secrecy Act/  
Anti-Money Laundering, Consumer Privacy, Business Ethics and Fair and Consistent Treatment,   
Information Security, Fair and Responsible Banking, Fundamentals of Risk  Management, 
and business unit procedures for Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering. Regions  
associates also completed 5,250 hours of continuing education training relating to money 
laundering and fraud prevention, including elder financial exploitation.
 LA11 PROGRAMS FOR SKILLS MANAGEMENT 
  AND LIFE-LONG LEARNING
  All associates are eligible for the Regions undergraduate  
tuition reimbursement program, which provides up 
to $5,000 each year in reimbursement for business-
related undergraduate degree programs. During 
2016, 176 associates participated in Regions’ Tuition  
Reimbursement Program and were reimbursed 
$427,246.
 LA13 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
  At Regions, diversity goes beyond race and gender to encompass age, ethnicity, veteran status,  
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, religious beliefs, marital status, and many 
other dimensions that make each of us unique as individuals. Our strategic approach to  
diversity supports overall business priorities and fosters an environment that values all  
individuals for the skills and talents they bring to the company. Diversity efforts are  
supported by senior leaders and associates, and the effectiveness of the company’s  
diversity efforts is measured through the Corporate Diversity Index (CDI). The CDI is an 
internal management tool used to measure, analyze and assess diversity performance 
at Regions. It is produced semi-annually. Examples of Regions’ diversity initiatives and  
activities include:
15
GRI INDICATORS
 LA13 , continued  Regions Diversity Advisory Council
  The Regions external Diversity Advisory Council is composed of various academic, community 
and business leaders and provides an objective outside perspective and offers guidance on 
diversity-related matters. Specifically, the Diversity Advisory Council supports the company by:
 
   • Offering advice, counsel and feedback regarding the strategic direction of the  
bank’s existing diversity and inclusion initiatives and programs
   • Providing executive recruitment input as the organization continues to develop 
a diverse talent pipeline and associate base
   • Enhancing Regions’ brand by participating in targeted marketing efforts and  
diversity-focused business development
  Regions Diversity Network
  The Regions Diversity Network is an association of leaders who work together to advance 
the company’s comprehensive diversity  and inclusion strategy. The network — composed  
of associates who work in areas and on matters that have a substantial impact on the 
company’s diversity-related activities — provides a formal avenue to gather and distribute  
diversity-related intelligence and improves the company’s ability to identify diversity-related 
opportunities and risks.  Through the network, the organization’s diversity practitioners meet 
monthly to share information and collaborate on diversity strategies. 
   To advance Regions’ comprehensive diversity strategy, the Corporate Diversity Network  
has been expanded with the formation of four pilot Diversity Network chapters in the  
Midwest, Texas, and South Florida areas, and within the Consumer Lending group. Through 
the chapters, leaders have an opportunity to gain new insight regarding diversity and  
inclusion matters on a local or business level and to provide feedback to the Corporate 
Diversity Network. This will improve Regions’ ability to identify diversity-related risks as well 
as opportunities. The network’s strategy focuses on five broad categories:
   • Diversity and inclusion leadership and strategy • Marketplace diversity 
   • Supplier diversity • Community outreach
   • Employment
16GRI INDICATORS
 LA13, continued  Minority Capital Markets
  Regions Financial Corporation recognizes the important role minority-owned investment 
banking firms play in their communities and throughout the national and international  
financial services market. For this reason, Regions has for years engaged these firms in its 
capital markets transactions, recognizing these important relationships.
  Regions Mortgage
  Mortgage is committed to making the dream of homeownership available to every customer. 
Our goal is to develop strategic initiatives that increase lending outreach in the areas of  
affordable housing, diversity lending and professional recruitment. 
   
In 2016, the Emerging Markets Department:  
  • Provided Multicultural Sales Training to mortgage associates in Birmingham 
and Atlanta. Multicultural Sales Training is designed to create marketing and 
outreach tactics that appeal to multicultural and millennial home buyers.
  • Continued to grow the Mortgage Loan Originator Sales Development program 
to 24 current participants and 10 who have completed the program which was 
designed to increase opportunities for recruiting mortgage sales candidates with 
no previous mortgage sales experience.
  • Provided training of a new mapping software that allows mortgage sales  
associates to better identify properties and referral sources in low- and moderate-  
income and minority census tracts.
  • Helped increase community outreach volunteer hours in every market.
  • The Regions Mortgage Raising Hands Community Outreach Initiative continues  
to thrive. There was an increase in the participation percentage.
17
GRI INDICATORS
 LA13, continued   In 2016, Regions Mortgage associates participated in more than 13,800 hours of 
community service throughout the company’s footprint.
   In 2016, Residential Mortgage lent:
   • $912 million to minority borrowers
   • $571 million in minority census tracts
    • $573 million to low- or moderate-income borrowers
    • $390 million to low- or moderate-income census tracts
  • Became a National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals (NAHREP) 
member
  • Conducted a meeting with housing nonprofits in Jacksonville, Fla. area to assess 
community needs to provide support and assistance
  • Formed an Affordable Lending Committee, headed by Secondary Marketing, 
to ensure we continually meet the unique needs of all communities through 
consumer products
   The following initiatives were put in place to assist with our lending and community 
outreach efforts:
   • Mortgage Production Managers are required to submit annual Emerging Market 
Business Plans detailing their planned strategies for increasing production to minority  
borrowers and to borrowers with a low or moderate income (LMI). Plans must  
include tactics for community outreach activities and recruiting for sales force diversity
   • Goals established by market on peer performance for LMI applicant income,  
minority applicants, LMI and minority tract lending
   • Mortgage loan originators assigned to all LMI and minority bank branch locations
   • Print and digital campaign for affordable lending products was launched mid-year 
in LMI communities
   • Fair and Responsible Lending training developed and required for all newly hired 
underwriters, processors and MLOs
18©2017 Regions Bank. Member FDIC.
(Rev. 3/17) REGIONS.COM/SOCIALRESPONSIBILIT YGRI INDICATORS
 SO3 ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING
  One hundred percent of Regions associates receive annual training on the company’s  
anti-corruption policies and procedures.
19