2019
OF GOODCREATING A
Greater Degree
RHEEM 2019 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTYEAR ONEFounded in 1925, Rheem is the world’s only manufacturer 
of heating, cooling, water heating, pool heating and 
commercial refrigeration products. We know our actions 
can have a big impact on the world around us, and 
we believe in going beyond the expected and striving 
for what’s possible. It’s how we’ve run our business 
and designed our air and water products for nearly a 
century—becoming a trusted leader for our customers 
and partners across the globe.
Founders Richard and Donald Rheem believed in listening 
to customers’ needs, a philosophy that continues to drive 
product innovation at Rheem. That’s why the voice of our 
customers fuels our innovation process today—driving 
big ideas that become tomorrow’s advanced solutions.
With our industry-leading technologies, award-winning 
solutions and next-generation energy efficiencies, Rheem 
has been a pioneer in developing some of the most 
innovative advancements in heating, cooling and water 
heating. And in this same spirit, we integrate sustainable 
thinking into everything we do at Rheem—making it easy 
for our customers to live more comfortably, while also 
living more responsibly.
We’re committed to leading the way with intelligent 
products and sustainable solutions that truly make a 
difference for the environment. POSITIONED FOR GOODUniquely
10,000  
EMPLOYEESDOING  
BUSINESS IN  
85 COUNT RIES
40+ 
AIR & WATER BRANDS
ALMOST
100 YEARS  
OF INNOVATION21 MANUFACTURING
PLANTS ACROSS  
THE GLOBE
FAST FACTS ABOUT RHEEM
John Fitzgerald,  
Executive Vice 
President, 
Operations “”We have an impressive product portfolio designed to meet or exceed 
industry efficiency standards and save customers energy as well as 
money. We know our products have an impact on the planet’s limited 
resources, and with that comes responsibility.
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2019A LETTER FROM CHRIS PEEL
Continuously challenging ourselves to develop, manufacture, deliver and  
support innovative and highly efficient products has long been part of  
Rheem’s DNA. We are at our best when our teams around the world are providing 
solutions that truly make a difference for our customers and for the greater good.
As we near Rheem’s 100-year anniversary in 2025, we wanted to mark our first century of operation  
by taking a bold approach to sustainability and pioneering a new path, not only for Rheem, but for the 
industries we serve. 
That is why in 2019, we launched our global sustainability initiative called A Greater Degree of Good , with 
three specific goals focused on our products, processes and people:
• Degrees of Innovation: Develop new, innovative heating, cooling and water heating products that boast  
a 50% reduction in greenhouse gas footprint.
• Degrees of Efficiency: Reduce our overall greenhouse gas emissions by 50% and  achieve zero waste  
to landfill in our global manufacturing operations.
• Degrees of Leadership: Train 250,000 plumbers, contractors and key influencers on sustainable products 
and sustainable installation and recycling best practices.
Our first year was all about setting a foundation for success. We identified project champions for each global 
initiative; we captured baseline data so that we can measure and hold ourselves accountable to future 
improvements; we created new programs and processes focused on sustainability; and we continue to 
engage our customers and key stakeholders along the way.
While 2020 has presented all of us with some significant unforeseen challenges, we remain steadfast in our 
resolve and commitment to achieve our sustainability goals. I continue to be inspired by the focus, excitement 
and determination of our teams as they make progress on our shared objective to dramatically 
reduce our impact on the environment. 
I sincerely thank the entire Rheem family—including our employees, customers, suppliers and 
business partners—for embracing this milestone initiative and providing us with the motivation to 
keep sustainability at the forefront of everything that we do.
 
CHRIS PEEL,  
PRESIDENT & CEO
04902
HOMEOWNERS
491
PLUMBERS &  
CONTRACTORS
25
RHEEM LEADERS
       FOCUSING ON  
What Matters Most
In 2018, we began conducting a materiality assessment to identify and quantify material 
issues where we can make the greatest contribution to a better environment. This enabled 
us to align our sustainability strategy with our business objectives and with the issues that 
are important to key external stakeholders—specifically plumbers, HVAC contractors  
and homeowners.
OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS
We started our assessment by analyzing macro trends, external sustainability frameworks 
and competitor activities to create a list of potential material topics. Next, we refined  
our list by:
• Documenting the best practices of sustainability leaders in other industries
• Leveraging actionable insights from high-quality secondary research
• Drawing upon our understanding of challenges and opportunities unique to our industry
Then, we conducted quantitative and qualitative research with external stakeholders as 
well as in-depth interviews with internal leadership. The most critical material issues were 
identified and became the foundation of Rheem’s three robust metrics-based commitments 
for 2025. We also used the results of our research to guide our strategic sustainability plan 
and related programs to advance our initiative worldwide. Going forward, we will continue 
to expand our research globally, validating assumptions and calibrating our sustainability 
efforts accordingly.
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2019Plumbers & HV AC Contractors Applies to both categories Homeowners 1. Trains the trade on sustainable 
  product practices
 2. Utilizes ef ficient manufacturing 
  processes
 3. Educates customers on the benefits 
  of sustainable pr oducts
 4. Innovates smart pr oducts
 5. Innovates energy & water 
  efficient pr oducts
 6. Promotes, sponsors, pr ovides 
  scholarships for young contractors
 7. Utilizes sustainable transportation 
  practices
 8. Uses sustainably sour ced/r ecycled 
  materials and components
 9. Offers homeowner/contractor 
  recycling pr ogram
 10. Has recycling pr ogram at plants 
  & offices
 11. Has corporate sustainability pr ogram
 12. Has corporate philanthr opy pr ogram
 13. Offers certified energy ef ficient 
  products
 14. Offers certified sustainable pr oducts
 15. Offers r ecyclable pr oducts
 16. Offers end-to-end sustainable 
  products
 17. Utilizes envir onmentally friendly 
  packagingMODERAT EHIGHVERY HIGHExter nal Stakeholders
Rheem Leadership
10
14
11
13
15
15
16
17
1
3
7
6
2
64
13
5
15
158
9
12OUR PRIORITIES FOR GOOD
ALIGNMENT WITH OUR SUSTAINABILITY PILLARSThe materiality matrix above captures all the sustainability issues we tested—highlighting the seven front-runners 
that emerged from both our internal and external stakeholders as material issues. This information enables us to 
be laser-focused on the items that our customers and partners care about and have the biggest impact on the 
world around us, all while continuing to do what we do best—creating innovative air and water solutions.
Degrees of Innovation  
(Intelligent Products)Degrees of Efficiency  
(Responsible Processes)Degrees of Leadership  
(Inspired People)
•  Offers Certified Energy  
Efficient Products
•  Innovates Energy &  
Water Efficient Products
• Innovates Smart Products•  Utilizes Efficient  
Manufacturing Processes•  Trains the Trade on Sustainable 
Product Practices
•  Educates Customers on the  
Benefits of Sustainable Products
•  Promotes, Sponsors, Provides  
Scholarships for Young Contractors“
”A big part of innovation is 
creating products people 
want, and consumers are 
demanding sustainable 
products. So we’re 
developing innovative 
heating, cooling and 
refrigeration solutions that 
minimize our impact on 
the environment, ensure 
reliability and maximize 
efficiency.
Mike Branson,  
President,  
Global AirOF GOODLEADING WITH
A Greater Degree
Rheem’s role in the world has always been about 
improving people’s lives through comfortable, controlled 
environments and by empowering plumbers, contractors 
and employees to deliver on that promise. We see 
sustainability through that same lens, with a focus on 
minimizing our impact on the environment, improving 
lives and supporting a thriving industry workforce.
Over the last two years, we have explored best 
practices, conducted research with core customers and connected with industry thought leaders to guide 
our sustainability strategy. And, in January 2019, we 
announced our global sustainability initiative, A Greater 
Degree of Good, which includes our commitments for 
2025 to align with Rheem’s 100-year anniversary. 
A Greater Degree of Good is built on three key pillars 
where we can lead the industry and make a tangible 
impact for future generations. Designing for Zero Waste 
is the vision that brings our initiative to life.  
DEGREES OF INNOVATION  
(Intelligent Products) 
We are focused on innovating with intent, engineering solutions with 
lifetime sustainability in mind—from material selection to smart features 
to responsible recycling.
Our 2025 goal:  Launch a line of heating, cooling and water 
heating products that boast a 50% reduction in greenhouse 
gas footprint.
DEGREES OF EFFICIENCY  
(Responsible Processes) 
We strive for operational excellence, working smarter and more 
sustainably to consume fewer resources, generate less waste and 
ensure simpler, safer processes.
Our 2025 goal:  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions  
by 50% and achieve zero waste to landfill in our global 
manufacturing operations.
DEGREES OF LEADERSHIP  
(Inspired People) 
We hire and inspire our teams to be next-generation thinkers and 
responsible stewards of our industry, the greater community and  
the environment.
Our 2025 goal:  Rheem will train 250,000 plumbers, 
contractors and key influencers on sustainable products or 
sustainable installation and recycling best practices.
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2019A LOCAL APPROACH
to Global Impact
As a leading Air & Water manufacturer with a global footprint, 
Rheem is committed to advancing our sustainability initiative, 
A Greater Degree of Good, for our customers, partners and 
employees around the world. 
In 2019, we kicked off Rheem’s sustainability efforts in 
North America with strategic pilot programs focused on our 
three key pillars related to Intelligent Products, Responsible 
Processes and Inspired People. Focusing on a single 
location for each pilot project allowed us to quickly identify our biggest challenges and opportunities to reduce our 
environmental impact. And by partnering with best-in-class 
sustainability experts, we were able to create a consistent 
set of principles and processes for efficient customization in 
our businesses around the world. By identifying sustainability 
project leads at our global locations and creating robust 
tools to capture and consolidate global data, we’ve set the 
stage for agile implementation worldwide.  
CONTRIBUTING TO THE WORLD’S GREATER GOOD 
As a cornerstone of our 2025 sustainability commitments, we strategically aligned to a well-
established global framework, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SDGs set 
targets related to a wide range of social and economic development issues, from education to the 
environment. We identified three 2030 U.N. SDG targets that are the most relevant to Rheem’s global 
business and reflect where we can make the biggest impact on the world around us.Rich Bendure,  
President,  
Global Water “”It’s important for us to be a sustainable company because we are 
at the intersection and the impact zone of energy efficiency for 
customers’ hot water needs.
Quality  
Education
Affordable and  
Clean Energy 
Responsible Consumption  
and Production 06Community and Social Impact
Rheem is a global organization built on a culture of 
teamwork, opportunity and world-class innovation. We 
hire and inspire our teams to be next-generation thinkers 
and responsible stewards of our industry, our greater 
communities and the environment. 
PARTNERING FOR GOOD
Within our communities, Rheem employees are committed 
to improving the environment we all share. We take pride in 
creating some of the world’s most efficient heating, cooling, 
water heating and commercial refrigeration systems—and 
thrive when we can donate these products for the  
greater good.
For example, in 2019, we began a partnership with the 
Gary Sinise Foundation in support of its R.I.S.E. (Restoring 
Independence Supporting Empowerment) program, which 
provides 100% mortgage-free specially adapted smart 
homes to our nation’s most severely wounded heroes. 
Through this partnership, Rheem donates the smart heating 
and cooling products used in these one-of-a-kind homes. 
We are also especially proud of our 2019 partnership with 
Building Hope Communities, a development of nine homes 
built for victims of human trafficking. Our work involved 
engineering custom air and water systems composed of 
Eemax tankless electric water heaters and Ruud ductless 
heating and cooling units. These efficient systems have 
proven to be instrumental in keeping utility costs down for 
the women who call the community home.   CONNECTING WITH OUR INDUSTRY 
AND THE WORLD 
We are a passionate partner to our industry communities. 
Our team members serve on boards and in working groups 
of top trade associations globally, supporting the recruitment 
of tomorrow’s contractors and plumbers and advocating for 
the advancement of energy efficient products, sustainable 
practices and ongoing workforce development. 
We regularly engage policymakers around issues that affect 
the health and future of our industry. In 2019, we had the 
opportunity to talk directly with U.S. congressional leaders 
about job training initiatives, cybersecurity, energy policy 
reform, international trade and hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) 
phasedown legislation. And as a board member of Eurovent 
Middle East, we are focused on lower energy demand and 
better indoor air quality in the Middle East.
At the highest level, our team members actively represent 
Rheem with national organizations that champion our 
industry, such as Australia’s Clean Energy Council, the 
U.S. Alliance for Responsible Atmospheric Policy, Mexico’s 
National Association of Domestic Appliances Manufacturers, 
the European Partnership for Energy and the Environment 
and many more.  
Jen Nicol,  
Executive Vice 
President,  
Human Resources”“A Greater Degree of Good highlights our global commitment to our 
environment, communities and team members. It helps to build 
excitement and engagement with our current and future employees, 
enabling us to achieve our growth strategies by fostering innovation 
through our sustainability initiatives.
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2019TEAMS OF SERVICE
Serving our communities and protecting the environment we all share 
is core to our mission, and it all begins with our team members. From 
the factory teams that keep our manufacturing plants running safely 
and efficiently to the sales teams that deliver our finished products to 
customers across the globe, our workforce is committed to making a 
difference—with the products we create, for the people we serve and 
through the relationships we keep.INVESTING IN 
AUSTRALIA’S 
FUTURE 
PLUMBERS  
One example highlighting Rheem’s 
commitment to investing in the 
future of the industries we serve 
is the Rheem Apprentice Plumber 
Grants Program. Rheem Australia 
founded this initiative to ease the 
financial pressure faced by apprentice 
plumbers. The program facilitates 
grants that pay for tuition, textbooks 
and tools. Since its inception in 2012, 
we have awarded over $270,000 to 
nearly 200 recipients.  
This year, a record 202 apprentice 
plumbers from across Australia applied 
for the grants. In addition to being 
the largest applicant pool, it was also 
the most diverse in age, with a 50% 
increase in participation from mature-
age applicants over previous years.
A panel of independent industry 
experts helps us identify potential 
recipients who embody the qualities 
that make exceptional plumbers: 
people who are enthusiastic about 
what they do and have overcome 
significant hardship to get to where 
they are. 
Rheem is passionate about investing 
in the skills and training of industry 
newcomers, and the grants are our way 
of thanking the Australian plumbing 
industry for its ongoing support.
Retired U.S. Army Captain Greg Galeazzi and his family in front 
of their new specially adapted smart home provided by the 
Gary Sinise Foundation. 
08Rheem Sustainability 
Strategy Wheel
Rheem.com/Sustainability
1
612
72 11
5 83 10
4 91. ENERGY EFFICIENCY
 1.1 Reduce energy requirements
Are there ways to decrease energy use while providing 
the needed function? Consider eﬃciency capabilities 
through EcoNet® Enabled products.
 1.2 Design in a renewable energy source
How might some of the needed energy come from a 
built-in renewable energy source?
 1.3 Consider ENERGY STAR®
Could you design this product to meet ENERGY STAR 
requirements?
4. GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION
 4.1 Favor ultra low NOx burners
Could your solution qualify for ULN?
 4.2 Prioritize low eco-impact transport
How might your decisions impact 
the type of transport used?
 4.3 Consider footprint
How might a reduction in size or weight or change in 
shape lead to more eﬃcient transportation of product?
 4.4 Favor local transport
Could you manufacture close to your material sources 
and your customers?
 4.5 Minimize GHG emissions of the product in use
How else might you reduce the amount of GHGs 
to operate the product?
 4.6 Consider the grid
Is this product a contender for grid enabled capabilities?3. RESPONSIBLE MATERIALS
 3.1 Reduce product and packaging weight
How might you make your product and packaging lighter?
 3.2 Reduce product and packaging volume
How might your choices reduce the product size 
or ﬁt more product in a given shipping space?
 3.3 Use reusable / recyclable packaging
What packaging or distribution items might 
be reusable or recyclable?
 3.4 Minimize quantity of materials
Can you identify opportunities for material 
reduction or elimination?
 3.5 Use recycled-content materials
What components might work using 
non-virgin material sources?
 3.6 Use renewable resources
How might you use renewable materials?
 3.7 Consider the Red List
How can you make this product so it is red list free?
 3.8 Use refrigerants wisely
Can you use less refrigerant or a more 
environmentally friendly, low GWP refrigerant?
 3.9 Be sure of material sources
Can you ﬁnd out the source history of your materials?
 3.10 Apply sustainability strategies to the supply chain
Can you be sure your materials / components / 
supplier selection is the best choice?2. WATER CONSERVATION
 2.1 Reduce water requirements
  How might you deliver the needed function 
  with less water?ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA
9. REDUCE ENERGY DEMAND
 9.1 Consider grid enabled
How might your product take advantage of energy-control programs?
10. IMPROVE USER’S QUALITY OF LIFE
 10.1 Eliminate exposure to toxicity
How might your solution reduce toxic exposure during use?
 10.2 Reduce maintenance needs
In what way might your solution reduce the need for upkeep?
 10.3 Avoid damaging human or ecological health
How might you eliminate the use of toxic materials?
 10.4 Provide cleaner air or water
How might your solution improve the quality of air or water the 
customer interacts with?
 10.5 Create a quiet environment
In what way might the product work at reduced noise levels 
inside and outside?
 10.6 Design to provide more value
How might your solution extend beyond its expected value to 
meet an additional need of the end user or homeowner?
11. IMPROVE CONTRACTOR’S & PLUMBER’S QUALITY OF LIFE
 11.1 Improve ease of installation
Can improvements be made to materials or parts used for 
easier and / or faster installation? Can components for repair 
or maintenance be more easily accessed?
 11.2 Design for serviceability
In what ways might your solution be easily maintained and 
repaired? Can components for repair or maintenance be more 
easily accessed?
 11.3 Design to provide more value
How might your solution extend beyond its expected value 
to meet an additional need of the plumber or contractor?
12. IMPROVED SAFETY FEATURES
 12.1 Strive to beat safety regulations
How might your solution surpass requirements with features 
like Flammable Vapor Detection?SOCIAL CRITERIA
Product must be the focus of a sustainability strategy session
 1. 60-90 minute session (See Process Map)
 2. Occurs at the front end of the product development process
 3. Utilizes Sustainability Strategy Wheel
 4. Includes all key members of the extended product development team 
Typical extended team includes: Product Manager, Project Engineer, 
Manufacturing (Division Manufacturing Engineer), Plant Engineer, 
Packaging Engineer, Sourcing (Commodity Manager), Procurement, 
Quality, Innovation, Sales (THD, Retail, Other, Wholesale – if applicable), 
Channel Marketing, Brand, Sustainability, IoT, Training, Plumbing Support 
Manager (if applicable), Supply Chain and Parts (if applicable)
 5. Identify leading sustainability opportunities and capture oﬃcial 
sustainability speciﬁcations for project
 6. Product Manager and Sustainability Representative to lead sustainabili-
ty strategy session
 7. Product Manager to assign owners for sustainability specs, progress 
check points and milestones through launch.PROCESS REQUIREMENTS5. INNOVATIVE ECO FEATURES
 5.1 Strive for an innovative solution
How might you design a solution that provides 
the beneﬁt in a new, more eﬃcient way?
 5.2 Consider EcoNet®
How might we include EcoNet functionality 
to maximize energy use?
 5.3 Consider Smart Home Systems / 
Building Management Systems
How might we design this product to be compatible with 
solutions that make it easier to save energy and water?
 5.4 Design smart to protect the built environment
How might we include features (like auto shut-oﬀ, leak 
detection, etc.) or introduce new features, that prevent 
damage to homes and businesses?
6. BUILT FOR LONGER LIFE
 6.1 Build for durability
What choices made now might impact 
the overall durability of the product?
 6.2 Design for adaptability
How might your solution adapt and be ﬂexible 
for a customer’s future needs?
 6.3 Include upgradeable parts
Might your product feature aesthetic or technical 
elements that can be enhanced in the future?
8. PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY
 8.4 Reduce water needs in production
How might we use less water in production?
 8.5 Minimize manufacturing complexity
How might your choices lower the impact of production?
 8.6 Reduce toxic emissions
How might you eliminate the production 
of harmful emissions?
 8.7 Use carbon-neutral or renewable energy
Can you identify opportunities for the use 
of carbon neutral energy?
 8.8 Utilize waste byproducts
How might you use waste streams to create your solution?7. END-OF-LIFE SOLUTION
 7.1 Design for disassembly
In what way might you design for fast 
manual or automated disassembly?
 7.2 Consider a recycling pathway
How might you assume the product 
gets recycled at end of useful life?
 7.3 Use biodegradable materials
What parts of your solution might 
use biodegradable materials?
 7.4 Design for second life
How might your design feature 
an intentional next use or function?
 7.5 Design for safe disposal
How might considering the disposal 
of your product impact your design?DEGREES OF 
INNOVATION
Given the unique combination of products that Rheem 
manufactures for air and water, we have the ability to 
impact roughly two-thirds of the energy used in a home 
and a significant amount in commercial buildings. We help 
homeowners and other end users dramatically improve their 
environmental impact by designing our products to minimize 
energy waste through connected solutions for enhanced 
control and extended product life spans.Leading The Industry
WITH INTELLIGENT PRODUCT SOLUTIONS
Robert Ijkens,  
Head of Product 
Management—  
Intergas, the 
Netherlands “”Sustainability is about recognizing that we play a pivotal role in the energy 
transition. As a manufacturer, we understand and feel that we have a 
responsibility in the energy transition and process of decarbonization. 
Therefore, we are constantly exploring which energy sources and  
solutions best fit with the market, customer and sustainability demand. 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
In 2019, we defined a new strategy for integrating 
sustainability into our Product Development Process 
(PDP) based on industry best practices. Through 
our Sustainability Strategy Session approach, key 
members of the product development team, including 
R&D, Sourcing and Manufacturing, among others, are 
brought together at the earliest stage in the PDP.
This allows us to proactively integrate environmental and 
social improvements into a product’s full life cycle. The 
Sustainability Strategy Session considers 12 key factors, 
with eight focusing on environmental topics and four on 
social, in order to make the biggest impact.
Every product we develop is the result of a relentless commitment 
to innovating with intent and environmental stewardship.
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2019COMFORT THAT’S CLEAN
The Rheem RP20 Heat Pump offers up to 20.0 
Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio (SEER) and 
11.5 Heating Seasonal Performance Factor 
(HSPF). The variable-speed compressor is 
efficient and quiet (76 dB), uses environmentally 
responsible R-410A refrigerant and fully 
supports EcoNet smart features.Also in 2019, Rheem began to establish itself as a 
leader in the green building community. This included 
a commitment to donate the highly efficient Prestige® 
Combi Boiler to VISION House Seattle Cascades—a show-house project 
that promotes cutting-edge green homes in today’s modern, environmentally 
aware marketplace. Similarly, Rheem engaged in partnerships with utilities 
for demand-response and better grid management solutions. For instance, 
Alabama Power created a Smart Neighborhood consisting of 62 homes that 
are outfitted with Rheem’s Hybrid Electric Heat Pump for demand-response 
testing and currently has completed seven successful tests, with a goal to 
implement the technology statewide.
In the area of product innovation, we continued to advance our EcoNet® 
technology. EcoNet is Rheem’s platform for connectivity and advanced 
features for water heaters and HVAC systems. It allows users to remotely 
control, monitor and receive important notifications about a product’s status, 
making it easier for consumers to reduce their environmental footprint in their 
everyday lives.
2020 FOCUS  
In 2020, we began training our product teams on the Sustainability Strategy 
Session process across the globe. We are also formalizing methodologies 
to certify new products as Sustainable Innovations and to measure the 
carbon impact of products in use in order to help consumers make smarter 
purchasing decisions.
Furthermore, we are scaling our efforts in Green Building with our advanced 
EcoNet Enabled Unit Coolers in several major fast food chains that include 
applications focused on achieving net zero energy.
As Senior Manager for Global Product Management 
(Water Heating), Ankur Maheshwari oversees a portfolio 
of products that includes the company’s solar, water 
heater and demand-response technologies. In this role, 
Maheshwari helps Rheem develop strategies to create 
sustainable products that promote decarbonization, 
whether at the level of homes, commercial buildings or a 
company’s electrical infrastructure.
“I have a very interesting job that feeds my passion to 
support a clean environment,” he says. “Part of it is about 
the legacy I want to leave my kids. The work I do will 
ultimately result in a world with air that’s cleaner for them to 
breathe. That’s what keeps me energized and motivated. I 
gain a sense of giving back.” Regarding the work itself, he continues, “The most fascinating aspect of my job is finding 
solutions to the complex math of how we humans will clean 
up the environment for the benefit of future generations.” 
Maheshwari sees the Rheem Hybrid Electric Water Heater 
as a perfect example of how technology and innovation 
help homes and buildings (and by extension, the grid) 
reduce their carbon footprint. “Rheem’s hybrid water heater 
uses 75% less energy than a traditional electric one. That is 
not just incremental savings,” he says. “Imagine replacing 
just half of older electric units with heat pump models. 
Given that heating water is significant in a typical home’s 
energy consumption, this relatively simple swap would 
substantially clean up the grid. That’s the exciting piece of 
it: identifying a small change that makes a big difference.”MAKING A DIFFERENCE FOR FUTURE GENERATIONSSUSTAINABILITY WITH 
PERFORMANCE  
The Rheem Hybrid® Electric 
Water Heater—the smartest, 
quietest and most efficient 
water heater on earth—pays 
for itself in less than three 
years* with up to an estimated 
$4,750 in energy cost savings 
over 10 years .**
*Based on purchase price and energy cost savings of a 
50-gallon Hybrid Electric Water Heater with 3.55 UEF (3.50 EF) 
over a 50-gallon standard residential electric water heater with a 
0.93 UEF (0.95 EF). 
**Based on comparison against the estimated annual operating 
cost of a standard electric water heater of like capacity 
manufactured prior to 2015 under NAECA II which is likely being 
replaced.
10DEGREES OF 
EFFICIENCY
WASTE FROM
OPERATIONS
ELECTRICITY , STEAM,
HEATING & COOLING
FOR OWN USESCOPE 2
INDIRECTSCOPE 3
INDIRECTSCOPE 1
DIRECT
WATER FROM
OPERATIONSCOMPANY
FACILITIES
COMPANY
VEHICLES
UPSTREAM ACTIVITIES RHEEM
To cut down greenhouse gas emissions in our manufacturing 
operations by 50%, Rheem is following the GHG Protocol’s 
guidance on estimating emissions. The protocol was 
developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and 
the World Business Council on Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD), which are used by many global corporations and 
voluntary climate initiatives. To align with the launch of our global sustainability initiative 
in January 2019, we selected 2018 as the baseline year. 
And in accordance with the GHG Protocol, we defined our 
organizational boundary as all activities related to Rheem’s 
global manufacturing operations and chose an operational 
control approach. Next, we set our organizational boundary 
to include Scope 1, Scope 2 and selected Scope 3 
emissions (water and waste). 
Gary Higgs,  
General Manager, 
Operations—Rheem 
Australia “”The world over, the expectation is for a more conscious approach to 
sustainability. Within our manufacturing, we are striving to achieve and 
surpass those goals through renewable energies and reduced water, 
electricity and gas usage.REDUCING OUR
& CONTRIBUTING TO A HEALTHIER PLANETGreenhouse Gas Impact
GHG Scopes Defined
SCOPE 1: Direct emissions from 
owned or controlled sources
SCOPE 2: Indirect emissions from the 
generation of purchased energy
SCOPE 3:  Indirect emissions 
that occur in the value chain and 
can include both upstream and 
downstream activitiesRheem’s Organizational Boundary
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2019Scope 1
68%Scope 2
31%Scope 3 (Water and Waste)
1%To track its GHG reduction progress, 
Rheem is piloting a tool adapted from 
ETQ Reliance Quality Management 
System software. This customized 
tool includes workflows and forms into 
which GHG leads at local facilities enter 
sustainability-related data, corresponding 
to Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
emissions. The purpose is to capture and 
analyze a facility’s individual GHG output, 
which will be reported monthly. 
Cliff Davis, Quality Systems Leader, 
oversees the GHG tracking tool’s 
management and deployment across 
Rheem. “Using Reliance to create our 
GHG tracking tool is one of the most 
important projects I’ve ever worked on,” 
Davis says. “The world’s environmental 
problems are huge. They represent the 
biggest challenge we’re going to face 
over the coming decades. Normally, 
one person can play only a small part 
in resolving big-picture sustainability 
issues. However, in my job, I’m able to 
build a solution at scale that enables a 
company the size of Rheem to make 
major, lasting environmental changes. 
That’s something I’m really proud of.”
Davis admires how wholeheartedly the 
teams have embraced the company’s 
sustainability goals. “My biggest surprise 
was the willingness of the organization 
and individual employees to accept the 
changes we were implementing,” he 
says. “Cutting GHG by 50% is a lofty 
goal, but Rheem is dedicated to making 
it happen. I’ve worked here for 11 years, 
and I’ve never seen anything like it. That 
speaks to the leadership we have. They 
have made our GHG tracking work a top 
priority, and it feels great to be part of 
such a highly valued mission.”TAKING PRIDE 
IN TACKLING 
BIG CLIMATE 
CHALLENGES2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
To ensure successful GHG reduction, we engaged a best-in-class GHG 
consultant (along with an EDF Climate Corps Fellow from the Yale School of 
Forestry and Environmental Studies) for a pilot program at a single plant.  
We established best practices to capture 2018 emissions impact data at the 
facility, followed by an intensive six-month period in which we implemented 
those best practices to audit our other North American manufacturing plants. 
The result was to capture a complete North American baseline and identify 
our biggest GHG contributors. 
We found that emissions from refrigerant losses and electricity consumption 
are the two greatest sources of emissions at our sites. We also learned that 
our three largest plants (by floor area and production capacity) produce the 
most emissions. And we discovered that water and waste emissions are 
extremely low at all sites.
2020 FOCUS  
Our next step, and focus in 2020, is to look beyond North America and 
capture our GHG baseline and related insights for our global factories. 
Armed with worldwide data and monthly reports going forward to track our 
progress, we will develop a GHG reduction strategy to put Rheem on track 
for our 2025 deadline.North American Emissions Breakdown by Scope  
Percentages based on tCO2e (metric tons of CO2 equivalent)
12DEGREES OF 
EFFICIENCY
Amma Boakye, Rheem Sustainability Analyst, evaluates waste streams 
at a waste audit in Fort Smith, Arkansas.  Zero Waste to Landfill
KEEPING THE ENVIRONMENT CLEAN AND GREEN
Daniel Reyna,  
Project Engineer— 
Rheem Mexico “”Working to help Rheem achieve Zero Waste to Landfill is something 
I can feel proud of, but it’s not just about the numbers; this affects 
the world. We’re improving life for the next generation. Training 
employees on ZWTL is important because they are the bridge 
between sustainability policy and the planet. To accomplish our goal of achieving Zero Waste to Landfill 
(ZWTL) in our global manufacturing operations by 2025, 
we recognized the need to complete assessments of all 
our manufacturing sites and distribution centers. We have 
defined ZWTL at Rheem to mean that each site is diverting 
at least 97% of generated waste away from landfill. Our 
ZWTL strategy includes four steps, with each one building 
upon the next to ensure we meet our goal in an authentic, 
environmentally friendly way:
• Reduce.  We will reduce the amount of waste we create  
in our facilities by efficiently converting raw materials  
into products.
• Reuse. We will take advantage of innovative ways  
to reuse our manufacturing materials and byproducts.
• Recycle.  We will recycle waste that we cannot reuse so 
it can serve as raw material for new products.
• Recover.  As a last resort, we will convert remaining 
material to energy or compost.
2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
In 2019, Rheem partnered with a best-in-class global 
sustainability consultant to conduct waste audits and identify 
where waste was being needlessly created or diverted to 
landfill. This included meeting with operational and safety 
leaders, auditing facilities during production hours to observe 
staff procedures and observing manufacturing processes. 
It also included examining contents of waste bins, talking 
to staff about the logistics of waste streams and providing reports to help plant leads establish road maps. By the 
end of 2019, we completed the audits for all of our North 
American manufacturing plants and distribution centers.
Although each facility had different dynamics, we identified 
many similarities and actions to reduce waste and divert 
material away from landfills. We found that, overall, 
Rheem manages metal recycling well, but we uncovered 
opportunities to improve how we handle materials like soft 
plastics and label backing. 
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2019Based on the audit results, we launched Rheem’s first  
Go Zero implementation program in Fort Smith, Arkansas.  
Our other plants are using Fort Smith as a model to  
create customized Go Zero programs of their own.  
The program includes:
• Creating new waste stations for cardboard and shrink 
wrap on the plant floor.
• Relocating existing trash compactors to increase  
use and improve workflow congestion. 
• Adding recycling bins to breakrooms and paper 
recycling in office areas.
• Implementing visual iconography for  
global adoption.• Conducting comprehensive Go Zero training for all 
local employees.
• Recycling organic materials such as wood pallets.
Across our North American manufacturing sites, we have an 
average diversion rate of 83%. With a number of sites already 
achieving rates that exceed 90%, we are well on our way to 
meeting our 2025 goal. Additionally, our efforts so far will save 
more than 36,000 trees, nearly 23 million cubic yards of landfill 
space and over 29 million gallons of oil annually.
2020 FOCUS
In 2020, we are continuing to implement action items from our 
2019 waste audits and to eliminate and redirect waste streams 
across our facilities. We are also developing a plan to expand 
our waste audits and education globally, based on our success 
in North America.Fort Smith, Arkansas, is home to Rheem’s Heating 
& Cooling headquarters, with a manufacturing plant 
dedicated to producing commercial products. Built in 
1970, this flagship facility has been revamping operations 
for the past four years—updating equipment layouts and 
streamlining assembly lines to maximize efficiencies. 
Because of this innovative path, Fort Smith was selected 
as the pilot site for Rheem’s ZWTL initiative.
Daniel Partin, Senior Manufacturing Engineering 
Manager, led Rheem’s ZWTL pilot and implementation 
plan at Fort Smith. “The biggest challenge was that 
we didn’t have a ZWTL template or list of ready-made 
steps,” he explains. “We were the first. We had to figure 
out our waste streams, their volumes and best practices 
to process them. We had to get knee-deep into our 
industrial processes. But when you start from the ground up, you gain deep 
insight into your operations.”
Our waste audit revealed a critical need to reduce the 
amount of waste we were bringing in and expand our 
recycling efforts. “Recycling is a feel-good point for 
everyone at the facility,” says Partin. “No matter what our 
roles are, we all want to take care of the environment 
and larger community, so we’ve had zero pushback. It 
has been a source of great personal satisfaction.”
He adds, “What we’ve started here at Fort Smith isn’t 
just helping our local factory and community. As a model 
for other facilities, we’ll have global effects. ZWTL isn’t 
just a project. It’s a change of culture and mindset—a 
way of life.”UNITING AGAINST WASTE
14Of homeowners 
say they are likely 
to purchase from a 
Heating & Cooling or 
Water Heating brand 
that is committed to 
sustainability.
65%DEGREES OF 
LEADERSHIP EMPOWERING A
We believe that sustainability is a way to attract new people 
to join the Heating & Cooling and Water Heating industry, 
while giving seasoned tradespeople a powerful new tool to 
advance their businesses. To that end, we will train a new 
generation of talent on why our environmentally friendly 
product solutions are a win-win for installers, end users 
and the world at large. We will share how best to install 
and service our intelligent products and utilize technologies 
that enable customers to easily reduce their environmental 
impact. This critical component of our sustainability strategy 
will ensure A Greater Degree of Good in the years to come.
Beyond product development and plant improvements, 
we want to inspire a new vision of sustainability and 
environmental commitment among those who represent 
our products on the front lines. The plumbers, HVAC 
contractors and other professionals who handle Rheem air 
and water products daily will serve as the champions for this 
commitment to environmental responsibility and innovation. 
Our goal is to train 250,000 key influencers by 2025 in three 
main areas: 
• Sustainable product features and benefits and how they 
will improve customers’ everyday lives 
• Sustainable best practices, including installation, 
servicing and end-of-life recycling
• Rheem’s overarching sustainability goals and vision on 
how sustainability can elevate their businessEDUCATING THOSE WHO 
INFLUENCE PURCHASES
In addition to plumbers and contractors, we are training 
influencers who work with and promote our products. Some 
of these include installers, pool service technicians, spec 
engineers, builders, architects, industry advocates, retail 
store associates, distributors, facility managers, equipment 
dealers and refrigerant OEMs. 
The role of key influencers varies by market, so we are 
promoting a localized approach to sustainability training. This 
ensures we are focusing on the right content for the right 
audience. And this best equips our key influencers to sell 
our intelligent, environmentally friendly products. The more 
we’re able to replace traditional products with sustainable 
solutions, the bigger the impact we’ll have on reducing 
carbon emissions globally.New Generation
OF TALENT
Srinivasan Rangan,  
Director of Marketing 
and Product 
Management—Rheem 
Manufacturing MEA 
FZE “”Sustainability is about offering our customers solutions that 
consume the lowest amount of energy during the product life 
cycle and developing eco-friendly products that have a reduced 
carbon footprint. We also serve as a trusted advisor by providing 
customers with training on design, installation and operations.
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 201920232022202120202019
20242025
Projected  
to Reach 
Goal
Projections show we will hit our 250,000 Sustainability Training Goal in 2024. 13,724 trained2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
2019 was our year for critical foundational work. With educational 
sustainability support materials in hand, our dedicated teams successfully 
integrated sustainability into our training programs and ensured tracking 
across our North American business units. We trained an impressive 
number of key influencers globally in 2019, including 61,067 in North 
America alone, with 13,724 covering sustainability. We also conducted 
regional continuing education classes along with the Energy and 
Environmental Building Alliance (EEBA). And we’re just getting started. 
2020 FOCUS
We are expanding our sustainability training globally in 2020 to include the 
Middle East and Africa, South America, Australia, China, Southeast Asia 
and Europe. We are also continuing to scale our efforts with online training 
and the implementation of a global tool to track and report on training 
success. With the foundation established, we can continue to scale our 
training efforts year over year.As Training Manager at Rheem’s 
U.S. Water Heating Division, Mark 
Roach works to define the courses 
Rheem uses to teach plumbers and 
installers about the benefits of Rheem 
solutions. “Through training, we have 
the opportunity to help people outside 
our organization apply best practices 
for using recycling, sustainable product 
features and sustainable installation 
techniques to ensure conservation of 
resources,” says Roach. “Given our goal 
to train 250,000 people, this is a chance 
to go beyond the confines of one 
company and influence the behavior of 
an entire industrial ecosystem.” 
Roach notes that if students apply what 
Rheem teaches, their companies can 
be more profitable. “Our message is 
not just ‘be green to save the planet.’ 
We share practical benefits and real-life 
success stories,” he says. “Students 
may come in never having thought 
about running a sustainable business, 
but when they leave, they understand 
the importance of it.”
Elaborating on the importance, he adds, 
“Eighty percent of the time, it’s plumbers, 
contractors or other specialists who 
choose water and air heating and 
cooling solutions. When we convince 
them how important sustainability is, 
how it helps their business, us as a 
company and the environment...  
That’s why training is so critical.”
Framing his experiences in terms of job 
satisfaction, Roach says, “It makes me 
feel good to work in an organization 
that’s so forward-thinking about not 
compromising on future generations. 
Rheem truly cares. We want a better, 
healthier planet. It’s not just a talking 
point; it’s part of our culture. It’s what 
makes me excited to come to work 
every day.”TEACHING 
THE VALUE OF 
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability Training Forecast  
(2019-2025)  
16OUR GLOBAL
Family of Brands
Copyright 2020 Rheem Manufacturing Company • 1100 Abernathy Road, Suite 1700, Atlanta, GA 30328
PRINTED IN U.S.A. 12/2020  WP FORM NO. RH-CORP-101We are committed to delivering A Greater Degree of Good™ across the globe—
through our intelligent products, responsible processes and inspired people.LEARN ABOUT RHEEM’S LATEST SUSTAINABILITY  
EFFORTS AT RHEEM.COM/SUSTAINABILITY
