RHEEM 2021 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTYEAR THREE 2021
people-powe red Innovationin this report 
a letter from Chris Peel   ......................  02
our vision, mission and commitment  .. 03
driving a sustainable future  .................  05
powering responsible  
environmental action  
 
.........................  07
degrees of leadership: training  
global sustainability stewards   
............  09
degrees of leadership:  
GoodWorks in action  ..........................  11
degrees of innovation:  
designing sustainable solutions   
..........  13
degrees of efficiency:  
reducing greenhouse gas emissions  
 
... 15
degrees of efficiency:  
achieving zero waste to landfill   
...........  17Sustainability is good for our business, our people and our 
environment. That’s why we are engaging globally across  our entire ecosystem. 
”
Chee Wee Gan
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY“always striving for the greater good
What started in 1925 as a dream shared by brothers Richard and Donald Rheem has become one of the most respected  
businesses in the world, Rheem® Manufacturing Company. And what was true in the beginning is still true today. Our greatest 
innovations are powered by our greatest resource— our people .
We are still the world’s only single-source manufacturer of heating & cooling, water heating and refrigeration products. And now, having added indoor air quality and water softening products into our mix, we truly have comfort covered.
But what drives our people is not being the “only,” it’s being the first. It’s striving for what’s just over the horizon—the next great 
sustainable innovation. The one that will bring comfort to the people of the world, while doing more for the world itself.
And as this report serves as a measure of our progress, Rheem serves as an example, both within our industry and beyond,  
of what’s possible when people work toward the greater good—together.
fast facts
100 years88+ 
countries
40+ 
global22
$511,000ALMOST OVER
OF INNOVATIONDOING BUSINESS IN
AIR AND WATER  
BRANDSMANUFACTURING  
P L A N T S  
ACROSS THE GLOBE
BILLION   
IN 2021 GLOBAL SALESEMPLOYEES
OVERa letter from Chris Peel
Chris Peel
PRESIDENT AND CEOGreetings,
At Rheem, we have a shared belief that a more sustainable future will be powered by 
innovation. We also recognize that innovation at Rheem is powered by our people. It is with that innovative spirit that we continue to work together towards our 2025 sustainability goals. I want to thank each of you for your continued commitment and significant contributions during 2021.
Since Rheem launched its sustainability initiative, A Greater Degree of Good
™, in 2019, 
we have been busy reimagining how we design, manufacture, deliver and support our 
products. We have also focused on improvements to our supply chain that will result in meaningful improvements to our environmental footprint. While we make the largest environmental impact with our products, we can have a substantial positive ripple effect when we train the trade on how to properly install and maintain our products.
We also know that our end users are increasingly concerned about reducing their own 
environmental footprint, and our impact grows exponentially when we meet them on their journey. We’re not just marketing. We’re educating. We’re making it easier for end users to select products with the latest eco-friendly innovations. And we are already making a difference. For example, Rheem US water heating products sold since 2019 avoided almost 9 million tons of CO
2 emissions. That’s the equivalent of 1.9 million 
cars taken off the road in a year!
From the launch of our employee-centered GoodWorks program to the progress we 
achieved with our Zero Waste to Landfill initiative, we continued to make great strides in 2021. We’re on track to cut our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in half in our manufacturing operations, ahead of the requirements of many governments around  
the world. We’re also launching a new line of products that have a 50% reduction in GHG emissions. Those are noteworthy accomplishments. But there are many  
more. In the report that follows, you’ll learn all about the advances we  
made in 2021. 
To further align us as we headed into 2022, Rheem hosted its first-ever  
Global Sustainability Summit in December. Hundreds of our people  
gathered virtually for two days of knowledge sharing, problem-solving  
and inspiration, including sustainability spotlights from Rheem Australia  
and Rheem Middle East and Africa. But the work is not finished. As we look ahead to 2025, Rheem’s  
100th anniversary, there will be more aggressive goals to meet and  
our people at Rheem will power the innovations to get it done.  
As leaders in sustainability, we have no choice. Future  
generations are counting on us.
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2021021604our vision, mission and commitment
Behind every product and every innovation are people with a  
passion for doing what’s right—for each other, for our customers  
and for our planet. At every level, we conduct ourselves with  
integrity. And we’ve created a work environment that is  
inclusive and not only values the diversity of our  
people, but celebrates it. From the engineering  
work station to the factory floor, and all along the  
journey to the homes and businesses our products  
serve, people are at the heart of everything we do.
Our values represent the operating principles that guide  
our conduct with colleagues, as well as our relationships  
with our customers, partners, vendors and owners.expanding our  
stakeholder research
We know that our purpose goes beyond just building innovative air and water 
solutions. That’s why we use materiality assessments to help us identify and quantify the topics that are most important to our key internal and external stakeholders. It’s all done to ensure that we’re focusing our sustainability efforts in the right places.
By seeking input from those across the globe, we are able to garner a 
deeper understanding of what matters most to all the people we serve. In 2021, we began expanding our research globally, interviewing consumers in key markets including Mexico, Canada and Australia. Global audiences rated the majority of environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics even higher than did US homeowners, and across all global markets, products still appear to be the most material. Consistent from prior research, the number-one sustainability priority across consumers, the trade and Rheem leadership remains certified energy-efficient products. 
Materiality matrixrespect & 
dignityintegrity &
honesty
fairness &
trustteamwork
core
values
Over the next decade, we will utilize technology to rethink  
our processes and products to benefit our customers  and the environment. 
”
Alan Machuga
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, TECHNOLOGY“Strong supplier partnerships  are critical as we align on a shared vision of  sustainability and  environmental  stewardship. 
”
Chris Haynes
VICE PRESIDENT,   
PROCUREMENT
our commitment to environmental responsibility
Rheem® is committed to acting responsibly to protect the environment and ensure a healthy future for our employees, customers and the 
community. We collaborate with our business partners on climate action, engage our employees in environmental awareness and make 
responsible investments. Rheem aims to influence meaningful change by minimizing greenhouse gas emissions and implementing more sustainable ways of working throughout the world.  vision
It is our vision to be a strong global organization with world-class processes, a robust infrastructure and sound cultural values. It is also our vision to guide the industry in sustainable practices and be a product innovation leader in all key markets served, producing consistently high-quality products—at the right cost, delivered on time, while providing superior value and service through recognition of the diverse needs of our customers.mission
We will RESPECT  the opinions of others and treat people  
with DIGNITY , and act with INTEGRITY . We will conduct 
business activities with sincerity and HONESTY  and foster  
an environment of TEAMWORK , FAIRNESS  and TRUST , 
without bias and free from discrimination. We will rely on  
one another to do what is right.
“
highvery high
Rheem LeadershipCombination of US Trade and US, Mexico, Canada and Australia HomeownersExternal Stakeholders1. Trains the trade on sustainable product practices
2. Utilizes sustainable manufacturing processes3. Educates customers on the benefits of 
 sustainable products
4.   Innovates smart products5.   Innovates energy & water efficient products6.   Promotes, sponsors and provides
      scholarships for young contractors
7.   Utilizes sustainable transportation practices8.   Uses sustainably sourced / recycled
      materials and components
9.   Offers homeowner / contractor
      recycling program
10. Has recycling program at plants & offices11. Has corporate sustainability program12. Has corporate philanthropy program13. Offers certified energy-efficient products14. Offers certified sustainable products15. Offers recyclable products16. Offers end-to-end sustainable products17. Utilizes environmentally friendly packaging
moderate
Ability to Impact & Alignment with StrategyPlumbers & HVAC Contractors
Applies to both categoriesHomeowners
10
14
11
13
15
16
17
1
3
7
6
2
4
5
8
9
12Year Three–
evolving through 
ongoing activities and accomplishments
With the first three years of our A Greater Degree of Good  
initiative behind us and three short years ahead of us to 
achieve our goals and commitments, we have a clear picture of how far we’ve come and a strategic plan for where to go next. 
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2021With a history of more than 100 years of people-powered innovation, San Antonio-based Friedrich
® Air Conditioning has an 
impact that resonates across the globe. Friedrich is an industry leader that focuses entirely on residential and commercial room air conditioning solutions. One of our newest additions, Friedrich joined the Rheem family in 2021.
Regarding the acquisition, Alfredo Zuniga, Friedrich’s 
Manufacturing Operations Manager , said, “We are seeing 
actionable steps toward quality in manufacturing, sustainability and safety. We are excited about all the new initiatives.”
The addition of Friedrich both complements Rheem’s existing 
business lines and seamlessly integrates into our sustainability initiatives. Friedrich’s COO Steve Hall explained that indoor air quality (IAQ) is the driving force behind all the company’s product development, and Friedrich has been at the forefront  of developing and integrating the most cutting-edge,  
efficient IAQ solutions. 
Chuck Campbell, Friedrich’s CEO , said, “Partnering with 
Rheem was a natural choice, and we are proud to be working 
together toward more innovative and sustainable solutions.”
Friedrich’s entire product line, including its highly reputable VRP 
Studio application and award-winning FreshAire
® PTAC, supports 
decarbonization initiatives by offering high-efficiency heat pump options. Accessories in their FreshAire IAQ product line include MERV-13 filtration, UV lights and needlepoint bipolar ionization—features that all contribute to healthier indoor air. 
With Friedrich’s state-of-the-art products and passion for 
efficiency, reliability and sustainability, it is a perfect addition  
to the Rheem family of brands.driving a sustainable future
After taking steps to understand our global impacts since the 2019 kickoff of our sustainability  
program, we’ve faced those impacts head-on. We have evolved our company culture, because  
our deeper understanding of our place in this world has led us to implement strategies that  
bring our global teams together with focus and intent. The looming climate crisis, a global  
pandemic and the need for greater indoor air quality are all challenges toward which we  
have unleashed the innovative power of our people.
Together we can lead the industry and make a tangible impact for future generations  
through our A Greater Degree of Good™ initiative. The initiative is built on three key pillars,  
each with its corresponding Rheem® 2025 goal and each aligning with 2030 United  
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
a path to 2025 Rheem’s Sustainability Timeline  DEGREES OF INNOVATION  
Our 2025 goal: Launch a line of heating, 
cooling and water heating products that 
boast a 50% reduction in greenhouse  
gas footprint.
DEGREES OF EFFICIENCY  
Our 2025 goal: Reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions by 50% and achieve  
Zero Waste to Landfill in our global 
manufacturing operations.
• 
 L
aunched GoodWorks and 
Sustainability Steer Cos
• 
 P
iloted Product 
Sustainability Elements
• 
 R
eleased Second 
Sustainability Progress 
Report
• 
 K
icked Off Lifecycle 
Assessment Pilot
• 
 H
eld the Inaugural Global 
Sustainability Summit• 
 C
aptured GHG Baseline 
/ Waste Diversion Rates Globally
• 
 R
eleased Rheem’s First 
Sustainability Progress Report
• 
 
Launched Decarbonization Initiative• 
 
Launched A Greater Degree of Good 
and 2025 Commitments
• 
 C
aptured GHG Baseline  
in North America
• 
 C
ompleted Waste Audits / Captured 
North American Diversion Rates
• 
 B
egan Integrating Sustainability into  
the Product Development Process
• 
 L
aunched Sustainability  
Product Training• 
 M
et with Industry 
Thought Leaders / Internal Stakeholders
• 
 I
nitiated Materiality 
Research
•  
Formalized Sustainability  Business Strategy• 
 E
xpand Product Sustainability 
Elements Globally
• 
 F
inalize Pilot  
Lifecycle Assessment 
• 
 L
aunch Refrigerant  
Task Force
• 
 R
elease Third Sustainability 
Progress Report
• 
 E
xtend Refreshed Sustainability 
Training Globally DEGREES OF LEADERSHIP  
Our 2025 goal: Train 250,000 plumbers, 
contractors and key influencers on 
sustainable products or sustainable 
installation and recycling best practices.We are accelerating our global 
investments in renewable energy water heating. Heat pumps, solar, and thermal batteries are key focus areas for innovation. 
”
Rich Bendure
PRESIDENT, GLOBAL WATER“
2022 2021 2020 20192017-  
20182025Our people-powered sustainability program has made tremendous progress decarbonizing our products, training installers and influencers and minimizing the environmental impact of our manufacturing. 
”
Mike Branson
PRESIDENT, GLOBAL AIR“
06powering responsible 
environmental action
Across global regions, governments are making aggressive carbon reduction commitments—and 
will continue to deploy regulations and incentives to achieve these goals. Rheem® is leading the 
development of next-generation products to not only meet upcoming regulations, but achieve long-term sustainability and environmental outcomes. We see it as the right thing to do to help shape what’s best for our customers, the environment and our global communities. 
Rheem’s regulatory and government affairs experts actively participate in and partner with various 
industry associations, sustainability-focused coalitions, environmental advocates and other stakeholders to influence and promote:
pioneering low-GWP refrigerants
Incorporating low-GWP refrigerants in our products and supporting the use of reclaimed refrigerants are just two of the many ways we’re promoting a more responsible future. In fact, we are committed to transitioning all Rheem air conditioning products in the US to low-GWP refrigerants by 2025, in line with expected regulations. To help ensure those regulations strike the right balance, we’ve assumed a leadership role on the Alliance for Responsible Atmospheric Policy, the refrigerant industry advocacy association. Rheem’s overarching regulatory goal is to encourage responsible, reasonable and cost-effective climate change policies as we begin shifting to environmentally-friendly refrigerants.the changing landscape of 
energy efficiency standards
We recognize the significant energy demand and associated emissions 
from the HVACR and water heating sectors. And Rheem is playing a leading role in the industry by ensuring our products meet or exceed the minimum efficiency standards and offering a robust product portfolio of ENERGY STAR
®-certified and high-efficiency-rated systems. As the standards evolve, 
our product offerings will evolve right along with them. So we’ll continue to develop new products with the highest efficiency feasible and adjust existing products to bring them up to the new standards. 
At Rheem, we engage policymakers and regulators on ways to best and 
most cost-effectively decarbonize building system products. We also advise how product design, installation, operation and maintenance of HVACR and water heating equipment may inform long-term national commitments to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions. Regulators use a variety of policy tools to take long-term steps toward decarbonization, referred to as “net zero” carbon emissions. In the past decade, nearly all major world economies have committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In every market Rheem serves, we are working to ensure policymakers have the information necessary to plan for this decades-long transition. We believe this transition requires long-term incentives, customer awareness and information campaigns. It also requires clear regulatory guidance to ensure that the manufacturers who create, contractors who install and customers who operate these systems can all do so confidently. By improving  
the environmental impact and lifecycle of our products,  we’re meeting customer demand and supporting a brighter future  for all. 
”Barbara O’Reilly  
GENERAL MANAGER,  
CANADA“
At Rheem, we strive  
to influence global  climate change policies  and product regulations  for the health of  our planet and  future generations. 
”
Karen Meyers
VICE PRESIDENT,   
GOVERNMENT AFFAIRSEmbracing sustainability  
on a global scale
Our expertise, product portfolio and commitment to 
sustainability are empowering governments, developers, utilities and homeowners to embrace a low-carbon future.
Intergas
®, a Rheem company , is providing 
measurement, data and cloud products to power a Dutch 
government field test project of 200 hybrid heat pumps. By making the case for hybrid heat pumps, Intergas could help the Netherlands achieve the European Union’s 2030 carbon emissions reduction goal of 55%, while unlocking a huge market opportunity.
Rheem’s Solahart
® brand , which has sold solar water 
heaters since 1953, leads the Australian renewable energy 
market with new smart water heating and energy storage solutions. In the first project of its kind in the country, the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) and the South Australian Government funded a nearly $4 million test that uses Solahart equipment. To attempt to smooth the load on the state’s electricity grid, the test is leveraging a mix of 2,400 Solahart water heaters and retrofit devices as thermal batteries.
In the Middle East and Africa , our products and record 
of sustainability allowed Rheem to be selected to deliver 
HVAC for the world’s most ambitious regenerative tourism development, a low-carbon villa project and the World Expo in Dubai.
Rheem MEA’s Director, Product and Marketing 
Strategy, Srinivasan Rangan  said, “In many of our 
deals, sustainability is a key success factor. Rheem’s product roadmaps have a robust message of sustainability, and partners see the investments we’re making.”
We’re excited to see the domino effect that these 
opportunities and partnerships create for Rheem businesses globally, for both our customers and for the health of our environment.
“
CO 2CARBON NEUTRAL BY 2050
United States
Canada
Peru
Brazil
Argentina
Chile
United Kingdom
European UnionNetherlands
United Arab Emirates
Taiwan
Japan
Vietnam
New Zealand
Australia
CARBON NEUTRAL BY 2060
CARBON NEUTRAL BY 2070Nigeria 
Saudi Arabia
IndiaChinaG lobal decarbonization targets in key markets•  E nergy efficiency standards for heating, ventilation, air conditioning and  
refrigeration (HVACR) products and water heating products
• Product certification, verification and testing for product efficiency ratings
• 
 I
nclusion of industry standards to enable the adoption of energy-efficient building codes
• Phasedown of high-global-warming-potential (GWP) refrigerants• Air quality and emissions standards• Producer recycling programs• 
 T
ax policy and rebate incentives encouraging the purchase and installation of  
high-efficiency products
22% carbon  
reduction by 2030
082019 - 2020  
76,889 trained2025  
projection
2024  
projection
2023  
projection
2022  
projection
2021  
149,566 trainedThe training team’s incorporation of 
sustainability stewardship into curriculum was impressive in speed and significant in its long-term impact with plumbers. 
”
Greg Miller
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL   
MANAGER, US WATER HEATING DIVISION“
training global  
sustainability stewards
Through our training programs, we inform our trade partners not only of the 
features and benefits of our sustainable products, but also of environmental best practices. And we take that a step further, demonstrating how environmental stewardship isn’t just good for the planet—it’s good for business.
We know that to effect real change, within our industry and in our world itself, we 
must continue to reach out to the up-and-coming plumbers, contractors and key influencers to share with them the importance of sustainability. So, in addition to training professionals on how to install our intelligent products, we donate advanced equipment to high schools, technical schools and colleges—because tomorrow’s global improvements start today.2021 accomplishments
In 2021, we set a goal to increase the number of our trainings that include sustainability by 10%, and we met and exceeded that goal by 28%. During the year, we added a new commercial stream of training. We also began updating our training materials across our US businesses with product sustainability elements—Sustainability Standouts and Carbon Reduction Designations—to make it easier for our trade partners to identify and sell sustainable products.
In September, Rheem
® China opened a new Innovation Learning Center (ILC)—a learning 
environment with interactive classrooms, live demonstration labs and virtual reality stations—in Nanjing. By adding a second ILC in 
China, we’re able to expand our potential audience for sustainability training significantly. In welcoming Friedrich® into the Rheem family 
of brands, we also added another training facility to our portfolio, the Friedrich Design and Development Center. In addition to our ILCs, we have products installed at affiliate sites for product training.
Sustainable product features 
and benefits and how they  
will improve customers’ everyday lives
Sustainable best practices, 
including installation, servicing and end-of-life recycling
Rheem’s overarching 
sustainability goals and vision on how sustainability can elevate their business250KOUR GOAL IS TO TRAIN 
KEY PLUMBERS, 
CONTRACTORS AND 
INFLUENCERS BY 2025  
IN THREE MAIN AREAS:
1
2
3
Our plumbers and installers are critical market influencers. 
Helping them understand, sell and service sustainable products will significantly accelerate adoption. 
”
Stacey Gearhart
GLOBAL VICE PRESIDENT, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT AND MARKETING“12 
countries20 
globally16KACTIVELY TRAINING ON 
SUSTAINABILITY IN 
DEGREES OF LEADERSHIP  
inspired people2021 SUSTAINABILITY 
TRAINING TARGET  
BY NEARLYexceeded
EPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sitesEPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sitesOPENED TWO NEW 
INNOVATION LEARNING 
CENTERS TOTALING
Making progress through continued sustainability training
When it comes to our global sustainability training, we focus on 
familiarizing installers with the advanced technology of newer, high-efficiency products and reeducating distributors, contractors and plumbers to think beyond the traditional setups. 
A key factor is the push toward electrification and decarbonization in 
many markets, which is altering the products that trade professionals can promote and install. As a result, we’re emphasizing heat pumps—for both air and water—in our training. Heat pumps are especially useful in dual-fuel furnace / heat pump and water heater / heat pump configurations, giving homeowners an entry point into sustainability that’s not very different from the traditional systems they know.
Tyson Redfern, a Ruud
® Pro Partner and owner of Gresham 
Heating and Air Conditioning, said, “High-efficiency heat pumps are a 
powerful offering and an important part of the future of electrification. Training on these products provides the understanding contractors need in order to educate homeowners and accelerate adoption.”
Selling products with a great sustainability story distinguishes 
contractors and plumbers in the marketplace and positions  
them as knowledgeable, cutting-edge and environmentally responsible professionals.
William Doyle, a Rheem Pro Partner and President / CEO   
of Allied Experts, said, “Ninety percent of the air and water products 
we install are Rheem because they help deliver environmental benefit, savings, comfort and top rebates from utility and state programs. More and more customers are concerned about the environment, so offering the most sustainable solutions in the market is a key differentiator.”
Sustainability training empowers heating & cooling and water  
heating professionals to feel comfortable educating homeowners  on the numerous ways our sustainable products can benefit both them and the planet. SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING 
FORECAST FROM 2019–2025 
149,566  
TRAINED TO DATE
Projections show we will meet  
our 250,000  Sustainability  
Training Goal in 2023. 
100k 200k 300k 400k
EPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sites
10Our GoodWorks initiative has allowed us to really infuse the 
passion for sustainability into Rheem’s DNA, and this starts with our people. 
”
Dipa Homer
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT,   
GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES AND COMMUNICATIONS“2022 focus
In 2022, we will update even more training materials with product sustainability elements in markets around the globe. In 
addition, we plan to launch a new learning management system for training, pilot a sustainability certification for the US Water Heating Division and create a closed-loop process to continually increase the effectiveness of our training. We’re also planning to expand the GoodWorks program to even more global locations.in action
Launched in 2021, our GoodWorks program—which promotes sustainability engagement, alignment and accountability across our global operations—grew to 17 businesses by year’s end. The program gives Rheem
® employees a platform for making a difference 
inside our company and in the world at large. We empower our employee volunteers, called GoodWorks Explorers, to ideate on sustainability and ultimately share their ideas with local sustainability leaders, or GoodWorks Ambassadors. The ideas are then amplified and refined on their way to business unit steering committees for implementation.
GoodWorks Explorers, Ambassadors and other employees from around the globe came together virtually for the inaugural Global 
Sustainability Summit in December. With hundreds of employees in attendance, the two-day event included opportunities for ideating, sharing progress and learning about sustainability in and beyond Rheem.
GoodWorks   
is an impactful program  
that increases sustainability 
awareness among employees,  
their families and ultimately the 
whole community.  
ROBERD TJIAM ,  
GoodWorks Lead,  
Rydalmere, Australia
Rheem MEA’s  
GOODWORKS EXPLORERS  
in Dubai  
inspire colleagues to  
“do one thing”    
for the
ENVIRONMENT.GoodWorks Explorers at  
RHEEM’S NUEVO LAREDO  
manufacturing facilities planted   
50
trees  
at a local park to support  
their community.On the suggestion of  
GOODWORKS EXPLORERS ,  
Rheem’s factory in  
Mexicali, Mexico now sends 
2.5 tons  
of waxed paper to a specialized 
recycler instead of to the landfill. Rheem Chile switched to  
100%  
FOAM-FREE,  
recyclable packaging.RHEEM PLANTED  
3,240 
trees  
 in deforested areas around the world  
with One Tree Planted in honor of our  
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY SUMMIT  
attendees.US Water Heating Division  
GoodWorks Explorers  
share weekly 
Wasteless  
WEDNESDAY  
tips with coworkers.We are people with 
passion ,  
who don’t want to spend a day 
without having an impact and 
making a difference for  
a better tomorrow.  
ELIAS HERNANDEZ ,  
GoodWorks Lead,  
Nuevo Laredo, MexicoUS Air Conditioning Division 
GoodWorks Explorers  
are replacing paper towel  
dispensers with hand dryers 
TO CONSERVE PAPER AND 
reduce 
waste.Rheem Vietnam  
uses 
rainwater  
FOR TESTING AND WASHING.
HTPG  
 eliminated   
DISPOSABLE CUPS  
and provided employees with a 
reusable solution.
12We want to promote sustainability  
and continue to help the  
environment by encouraging  
every 
employee  
 to be part of the effort.
TIRA BITTLE,  
GoodWorks Lead, Eemax
Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2021In 2021 we made significant progress on the global rollout of the 
sustainability elements we developed in the previous year to promote sustainable product design and communicate our sustainable 
product attributes to consumers. These elements include: 
• 
 S
ustainability Strategy Sessions – 
Interactive meetings with the extended  
launch team at the start of the product development process to ideate on sustainable improvements to new products
• 
 S
ustainability Standout™ Seal –  
A designation to make it easier for customers and professionals to find the best of the best among our sustainable product offerings
• 
 C
arbon Reduction Designation –  
An icon system designed to show how  our sustainable products compare to  their baseline counterparts in terms of  carbon emissions reduction
In the first phase of rolling out these elements, we helped US teams 
determine their criteria for the Sustainability Standout Seal and showed them how to capture carbon reduction impact. We also trained stakeholders and provided them with the required resources to employ a lifecycle perspective to sustainable product design.  
Healthy Building Focus + IAQ Innovation  
To address the increased focus on indoor air quality (IAQ) and other 
factors that contribute to a healthy home or office environment, Rheem® built a team to develop innovative products that make the air we breathe cleaner and healthier. One such product, already deployed at several Rheem facilities, is an air sanitization unit that is approximately 99% effective in disinfecting the droplets that spread COVID-19. 
People-
powered innovations like this are helping us become a leader in comfort that goes beyond heating and cooling.
Engaging with Sustainable Suppliers  
We’re always communicating with our suppliers about our 
sustainability initiative and exploring how we can strategically support each other’s sustainability goals. In addition to  
one-on-one meetings, we host an annual supplier summit. There, we collaborate and develop strategies for reducing waste, improving quality and lowering our collective environmental  
impact throughout the full lifecycle of our products. 8.62 
million tons500 
patentsAVOIDED
OF CO2 EMISSIONS  
SINCE 2019*DEGREES OF INNOVATION  
intelligent productsNAMED
PARTNER OF THE YEARENERGY STAR®OVER
ACTIVE GLOBALLY
Decarbonization driving heat pump adoption
Rheem is on the front lines of research and development of air and water heating products that use alternatives to fossil fuel to reduce 
carbon emissions. One technology—heat pumps—is particularly important to decarbonization efforts.
Heat pump products can deliver comfort equivalent to gas furnaces and gas water heaters, but with much less environmental impact 
by reducing carbon emissions. Rather than relying on greenhouse gas-emitting combustion systems or continuously using high current draw electric resistance coils, heat pumps take heat energy from the air around them and transfer it to air or water utilizing the vapor compression refrigeration cycle, offering much higher efficiency and thus lower emissions.
Heat pumps are critical in our overall strategy. As Tim Shellenberger, Rheem’s VP, Product Engineering , explained, “Decarbonization is the 
number-one priority at Rheem. Our businesses around the world are laser-focused on R&D to reduce carbon emissions from our products.”
Chris Day, Rheem’s VP, Product Strategy and Engineering, is confident that this focus will pay dividends for the planet and our customers. “With our current slate of heat pumps and innovative products in the pipeline, we’re poised to respond to new regulations and legislation requiring the reduction of fossil fuels,” Chris said. “Rheem’s air and water businesses are committed to working together  
and leveraging the best technologies globally to meet these goals.”Whether in the 
engineering lab, on the factory floor or in the 
sales office, sustainability 
is front and center in everything we do. 
”
Farooq Mohammed  
VICE PRESIDENT,   
G L O B A L  
COMMERCIAL   
BUSINESS“ 2022 focus
Across our air and water divisions, we will launch products with sustainability features 
in 2022, including expanding the award-winning ProTerra® line of heat pump water 
heaters. We will also continue the global rollout of our product sustainability elements to make finding the “best of the best” easier for customers everywhere.
products spotlight
industry sustainability innovation awardsRheem Australia Commercial Heat Pump System: Aids 
businesses in their decarbonization efforts by drawing energy from the air to heat water—saving up to 75% on water heating costs.
Friedrich
® VRP Studio: Precision Inverter® technology helps 
property owners save up to 60% on operating costs with high 
efficiency cooling and low-ambient heat pump operation.
Rheem LATAM Wall Mount Water Heater: AI-Smart function  
built into this electric tank learns homeowners’ habits to heat water only when needed, reducing electricity usage up to 30%.designing sustainable solutions
Since our products are by far our largest environmental impact, we have a responsibility to build sustainability into every phase of 
product design. To help minimize the environmental impact of our products, we launched a global air and water decarbonization initiative in 2020. By dedicating a team solely focused on decarbonization, we will ensure we meet our bold 2025 product goal.
2021 accomplishments
ECO-LEADER 
AWARD
4th Year Awarded 
to Rheem®IAQ PRODUCT 
OF THE YEAR
Friedrich  
FreshAire®  
PTACBRONZE  
AWARD
HTPG Slim-Temp 
ASLA / ASLE  
Unit CoolerGREEN  
INNOVATION OF  
THE YEAR  
ProTerra®  
Hybrid Electric  
Heat Pump  
Water HeaterMANUFACTURER  
/ SUPPLIER OF 
THE YEAR  
Side Discharge  
Inverter and VRFBEST TESTED  
IN THE  
CONSUMENTENBOND
Intergas®  
Xtreme BoilerAWARD  
ProTerra® Hybrid  
Electric Heat Pump 
Water Heater
HONORABLE
MENTIONS
RP20 / R98V / Maximus™*By Rheem’s innovative US water heating 
products sold since January 2019
Energy transition and the digital 
transformation are coming  together in our business.  It’s all about innovation. 
”
Peter Cool
CHIEF TECHNOLOGY   
OFFICER, INTERGAS“
Rheem Sustainability 
Strategy Wheel
Rheem.com/Sustainability
1
612
72 11
5 83 10
4 91. ENERGY EFFICIENCY
 1.1 Reduce energy requirements
Are there ways to decrease energy use while providing 
the needed function? Consider eﬃciency capabilities 
through EcoNet® Enabled products.
 1.2 Design in a renewable energy source
How might some of the needed energy come from a 
built-in renewable energy source?
 1.3 Consider ENERGY STAR®
Could you design this product to meet ENERGY STAR 
requirements?
4. GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION
 4.1 Favor ultra low NOx burners
Could your solution qualify for ULN?
 4.2 Prioritize low eco-impact transport
How might your decisions impact 
the type of transport used?
 4.3 Consider footprint
How might a reduction in size or weight or change in 
shape lead to more eﬃcient transportation of product?
 4.4 Favor local transport
Could you manufacture close to your material sources 
and your customers?
 4.5 Minimize GHG emissions of the product in use
How else might you reduce the amount of GHGs 
to operate the product?
 4.6 Consider the grid
Is this product a contender for grid enabled capabilities?3. RESPONSIBLE MATERIALS
 3.1 Reduce product and packaging weight
How might you make your product and packaging lighter?
 3.2 Reduce product and packaging volume
How might your choices reduce the product size 
or ﬁt more product in a given shipping space?
 3.3 Use reusable / recyclable packaging
What packaging or distribution items might 
be reusable or recyclable?
 3.4 Minimize quantity of materials
Can you identify opportunities for material 
reduction or elimination?
 3.5 Use recycled-content materials
What components might work using 
non-virgin material sources?
 3.6 Use renewable resources
How might you use renewable materials?
 3.7 Consider the Red List
How can you make this product so it is red list free?
 3.8 Use refrigerants wisely
Can you use less refrigerant or a more 
environmentally friendly, low GWP refrigerant?
 3.9 Be sure of material sources
Can you ﬁnd out the source history of your materials?
 3.10 Apply sustainability strategies to the supply chain
Can you be sure your materials / components / 
supplier selection is the best choice?2. WATER CONSERVATION
 2.1 Reduce water requirements
  How might you deliver the needed function 
  with less water?ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA
9. REDUCE ENERGY DEMAND
 9.1 Consider grid enabled
How might your product take advantage of energy-control programs?
10. IMPROVE USER’S QUALITY OF LIFE
 10.1 Eliminate exposure to toxicity
How might your solution reduce toxic exposure during use?
 10.2 Reduce maintenance needs
In what way might your solution reduce the need for upkeep?
 10.3 Avoid damaging human or ecological health
How might you eliminate the use of toxic materials?
 10.4 Provide cleaner air or water
How might your solution improve the quality of air or water the 
customer interacts with?
 10.5 Create a quiet environment
In what way might the product work at reduced noise levels 
inside and outside?
 10.6 Design to provide more value
How might your solution extend beyond its expected value to 
meet an additional need of the end user or homeowner?
11. IMPROVE CONTRACTOR’S & PLUMBER’S QUALITY OF LIFE
 11.1 Improve ease of installation
Can improvements be made to materials or parts used for 
easier and / or faster installation? Can components for repair 
or maintenance be more easily accessed?
 11.2 Design for serviceability
In what ways might your solution be easily maintained and 
repaired? Can components for repair or maintenance be more 
easily accessed?
 11.3 Design to provide more value
How might your solution extend beyond its expected value 
to meet an additional need of the plumber or contractor?
12. IMPROVED SAFETY FEATURES
 12.1 Strive to beat safety regulations
How might your solution surpass requirements with features 
like Flammable Vapor Detection?SOCIAL CRITERIA
Product must be the focus of a sustainability strategy session
 1. 60-90 minute session (See Process Map)
 2. Occurs at the front end of the product development process
 3. Utilizes Sustainability Strategy Wheel
 4. Includes all key members of the extended product development team 
Typical extended team includes: Product Manager, Project Engineer, 
Manufacturing (Division Manufacturing Engineer), Plant Engineer, 
Packaging Engineer, Sourcing (Commodity Manager), Procurement, 
Quality, Innovation, Sales (THD, Retail, Other, Wholesale – if applicable), 
Channel Marketing, Brand, Sustainability, IoT, Training, Plumbing Support 
Manager (if applicable), Supply Chain and Parts (if applicable)
 5. Identify leading sustainability opportunities and capture oﬃcial 
sustainability speciﬁcations for project
 6. Product Manager and Sustainability Representative to lead sustainabili-
ty strategy session
 7. Product Manager to assign owners for sustainability specs, progress 
check points and milestones through launch.PROCESS REQUIREMENTS5. INNOVATIVE ECO FEATURES
 5.1 Strive for an innovative solution
How might you design a solution that provides 
the beneﬁt in a new, more eﬃcient way?
 5.2 Consider EcoNet®
How might we include EcoNet functionality 
to maximize energy use?
 5.3 Consider Smart Home Systems / 
Building Management Systems
How might we design this product to be compatible with 
solutions that make it easier to save energy and water?
 5.4 Design smart to protect the built environment
How might we include features (like auto shut-oﬀ, leak 
detection, etc.) or introduce new features, that prevent 
damage to homes and businesses?
6. BUILT FOR LONGER LIFE
 6.1 Build for durability
What choices made now might impact 
the overall durability of the product?
 6.2 Design for adaptability
How might your solution adapt and be ﬂexible 
for a customer’s future needs?
 6.3 Include upgradeable parts
Might your product feature aesthetic or technical 
elements that can be enhanced in the future?
8. PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY
 8.4 Reduce water needs in production
How might we use less water in production?
 8.5 Minimize manufacturing complexity
How might your choices lower the impact of production?
 8.6 Reduce toxic emissions
How might you eliminate the production 
of harmful emissions?
 8.7 Use carbon-neutral or renewable energy
Can you identify opportunities for the use 
of carbon neutral energy?
 8.8 Utilize waste byproducts
How might you use waste streams to create your solution?7. END-OF-LIFE SOLUTION
 7.1 Design for disassembly
In what way might you design for fast 
manual or automated disassembly?
 7.2 Consider a recycling pathway
How might you assume the product 
gets recycled at end of useful life?
 7.3 Use biodegradable materials
What parts of your solution might 
use biodegradable materials?
 7.4 Design for second life
How might your design feature 
an intentional next use or function?
 7.5 Design for safe disposal
How might considering the disposal 
of your product impact your design?EPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sitesEPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sites
EPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sites
14EPA 
SmartWay3+ 
million kWh
PARTNERSAP AWARD FOR BEST RUN  
digital
supply chainSAVED THROUGH ENERGY 
EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS 
GLOBALLY IN 2021
reducing greenhouse  
gas emissions
From the moment we set our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction  
goal in 2019, we’ve been working to reduce total GHG emissions in our  
manufacturing operations by 50%, as compared to our 2018 baseline,  
by 2025. This goal includes:
2021 accomplishments
In the third year of our sustainability program, Rheem® expanded upon our base-year (2018) global greenhouse gas inventory to include 
data for 2019, 2020 and 2021. Many of our sites are leveraging this information to make measurable improvements, including equipment replacements, LED retrofits and a photovoltaic solar 
installation. In fact, through energy efficiency retrofits across our global facilities alone, we saved over three million kWh and offset more than 2,000 tCO
2e emissions—equivalent to 
planting 35,000 trees. 
On the air side, a cross-functional team at HTPG applied 
capacity modeling, reliability assessment and energy auditing to identify and implement a project to replace hydraulic equipment with servo-electric. In addition to significant energy savings and emissions reductions (180 tCO
2e annually), this project tripled productivity and 
improved safety for operators who no longer handle large sheets of metal manually. Meanwhile, our Mexicali, Mexico water heating facility invested in the installation of 1,100 solar panels, which will provide approximately 800,000 kWh per year of clean energy when completed in early 2022.
To promote shared learning on process improvement 
projects like these and many others that are advancing us to our 2025 goal, we launched quarterly global meetings for our GHG ambassadors. We also streamlined our GHG data reporting process by training GoodWorks Ambassadors on reporting in our sustainability portal.
Additionally, we kicked off a lifecycle assessment (LCA) 
project at our Fort Smith, Arkansas plant to generate insights on the holistic lifecycle impacts of our products. Once completed, the robust data from this ongoing study will be instrumental in advancing sustainable products, processes and systems design at Rheem.
2022 focus
In 2022, we plan to further customize our platform for GHG emissions calculations to generate more timely emission insights. We will complete our LCA pilot at Fort Smith and look to apply learnings to other Rheem facilities across the globe. In addition, we will kick off a demand- and supply-side energy management program to facilitate clean energy sourcing and increase energy efficiency in our plants’ processes. Finally, our global air and water sites will create a task force to identify ways to continually reduce our fugitive refrigerant emissions.Clean energy for  
a cleaner tomorrow
Making strides to reduce carbon emissions requires a multifaceted 
approach. We took a big step forward in our efforts to shrink our carbon footprint when we signed an agreement with Chile’s Enel Generación to meet 100% of our Chilean plant’s electricity needs with renewable resources. Since June 2021, Rheem’s plant in Santiago—the largest water heater plant in the region—has run entirely on clean energy. This impacts not only the carbon footprint of our production, but also the embodied carbon of our products being delivered to customers.
To achieve this, Enel Generación introduces 2.02 gigawatt-hours of 
solar, hydroelectric and geothermal energy annually into Chile’s National Electric System (SEN). The SEN then provides the electricity needed to power Rheem’s operations. This clean energy is certified by International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-REC), a standard recognized by the global Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Rheem’s Sustainability Coordinator for Chile’s manufacturing 
plant, Pilar Lopez , explained that in local factories and homes, it is 
uncommon to purchase clean energy. Said Lopez, “We are proud and excited to be one of the few manufacturing companies in Chile leading the clean energy transition.” 
With the support of Enel, Rheem is now able to provide our Latin 
American clients with dependable, energy-efficient products that  
deliver the same powerful, innovative technology with less impact  
on the environment.“Powering our manufacturing plant 
in Chile exclusively with renewable resources is a big step toward  achieving our greenhouse  gas reduction goal. 
”
Jose Manuel Barroso  
VICE PRESIDENT AND   
GENERAL MANAGER,   
LATAM
1 2 3
Direct emissions 
from owned or 
controlled sources  Indirect emissions 
from the generation 
of purchased energy Indirect emissions that occur in the 
value chain and can include both 
upstream and downstream activitiesSCOPE SCOPESELECT  
SCOPEEPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sitesEPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sitesEPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sites
Fuels*  
18%
Refrigerants  
47%Purchased 
Electricity  
34%Water & Waste  
1%
GLOBAL EMISSIONS  
BREAKDOWN BY SOURCE  
*Includes process fuels and onsite vehicles.  
Percentages based on tCO2e (metric tons of CO2 equivalent)DEGREES OF EFFICIENCY  
responsible process
It’s important we travel every reasonable path toward GHG emissions reduction, from strategically selecting our energy partners to exploring internal and renewable generation to simply reducing our delivered, per-unit consumption. 
”
Terry Davenport  
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, GLOBAL OPERATIONS“
16Rheem Sustainability Progress Report 2021Sustainability is not just  
about implementing a series  of initiatives; it’s about  changing the way we all  think and behave at work  and at home. 
”
CHRIS TAYLOR
MANAGING DIRECTOR, ANZ“
18achieving zero waste to landfill
Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) is more than a goal. It’s a promise that we will engage in responsible use of resources to ensure that 
we consume only what we need and make the most of everything we have. It’s a combined effort of redesigning, refusing, reducing, reusing, recycling and composting all that we can until the only output of the manufacture of our products is our products. 
As we travel the path to 2025, we’re getting a clearer picture of 
what ZWTL truly means. We define it as diverting 97% of our non-hazardous solid waste away from landfills and incinerators, with up to 7% of that processed with waste-to-energy technology. It’s an aggressive goal, and one that requires a concerted effort from all those involved in our production processes. To ensure continuous progress, we will continue to track and periodically audit site data and waste management practices, recognizing manufacturing sites that achieve and maintain ZWTL status. 
2022 focus
In the coming year, we plan to expand our GoZero! program and finalize ZWTL charters globally. We will continue to complete in-person waste audits at our global sites. And  
at all our facilities, we will continue to promote behavior change centered on creating a culture of zero waste.2021 
accomplishments
We completed diversion rate baselines and tracked 
improvements at all our active global manufacturing sites. This helped us create customized waste reduction strategies and goals for each global site, and our GoZero! program is now active at 12 locations. To further inform our waste diversion strategy, our local team completed an  
in-person ZWTL site audit in Australia. 
Rheem
® sites around the globe have found ways to do more 
with waste than simply sending it to a landfill. At our Mexicali, 
Mexico, plant, GoodWorks team members identified a local recycler for a high-volume waste product at the facility—waxed paper. The site is now sending an average of 2.6 tons of waxed paper per month for recycling. Our Australia sites have begun reprocessing sludge to make it ready for industrial composting, while also diverting treated timber waste and used gloves to waste-to-energy plants. Helping people while helping the planet, Australia began segregating cans and bottles for recycling and donating the recycling rebate to MS (Multiple Sclerosis) Australia. To make it easier to process waste for recycling, Rheem installed balers at two facilities, for cardboard at our Eemax site and plastics at our Fort Smith plant. Our Eemax, Lewisville, Fort Smith and Australia sites replaced paper towel dispensers in favor of hand dryers to reduce the purchase and waste of paper products. These are just a few of the many ways our sites are diverting waste and avoiding creating it in the first place. By prioritizing zero 
waste in our vision at Rheem, we can positively impact future generations with less trash in landfills. 
”
MARK EVANS
VICE PRESIDENT AND  
GENERAL MANAGER, HTPG“100% 
sites12 
GoZero!  
PROGRAM14CAPTURED DIVERSION 
RATES AT 
OF OUR ACTIVE 
MANUFACTURING DEGREES OF EFFICIENCY  
responsible processLANDFILL DIVERSION RATES 
AGAINST BASELINE AT increased
sitesSITES HAVE IMPLEMENTED To the land—  
instead of the landfill
Efforts to meet our Zero Waste to Landfill goal at all our 
manufacturing facilities are extending beyond the factory floor. The spirit of wasting less recently spurred a composting program at our Raypak
® facility in Oxnard, California. Upon observing that the onsite 
cafeteria was sending loads of waste to landfills, GoodWorks team members recognized an opportunity to turn that trash into treasure.
In early October, Raypak implemented an Earth Cube composting 
system. After just a few months, the facility was diverting a quarter of its food waste, along with manufacturing sawdust, and turning it into rich fertilizer.
Raypak’s Industrial Engineer, Hector Herrera , said they are on 
track to convert 3.6 tons of organic waste annually—equivalent to the 
weight of two midsize cars.
Raypak has already put the compost to good use, incorporating it 
into the soil for landscaping around the facility’s grounds. Herrera estimates that as they divert more and more material, they will generate more compost than they can use.
This will give Raypak the opportunity to offer the nutrient-rich 
compost to employees to nourish their own gardens and to local nurseries to support the surrounding community.
For now, Raypak has started small but is thinking big. As Director 
of Operations Art Markaryan said, “We’re going to work toward diverting 100% of our food waste from landfill. Our goal is always to shoot as high as possible.”EPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sites
EPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sitesEPA smartway partnersustainability training 
CO2 Emissions Energy Starsustainability training new locations for ILCs 
patents
3 million+  kW energy saved / eﬃciencydigital supply chain
land/f_ill diversion12 sites implemented Go Z programcaptured diversion rates at manufacturing sites
99+%
98%
97% 98%85%
79%77%
88%
95%92%76%
85%
95%
94%
83% 87%
80%55%88%
86%Intergas 
Mexicali
WH NLAC28G lobal diversion 
rates
Diversion rates of 97%+
Increased diversion rate from baseline
Unchanged diversion rate
Implemented GoZero! programCopyright 2022 Rheem Manufacturing Company • 1100 Abernathy Road, Suite 1700, Atlanta, GA 30328We are committed to delivering A Greater Degree of Good™ across the globe—
through our intelligent products, responsible processes and inspired people.Visit Rheem.com/Sustainability  to learn more about how  
Rheem’s commitment to sustainability benefits the environment,  
customers and home & business owners. 
our global family of brands