Colophon
Royal BAM Group nv
Runnenburg 9
3981 AZ Bunnik
P.O. Box 20
3980 CA Bunnik
The Netherlands
Telephone +31 (0)30 659 89 88
info@bam.com
www.bam.com
Established at Bunnik.
Trade register number 30058019.
Layout:
Boulogne Jonkers Vormgeving, Zoetermeer, the Netherlands.
Printing:
Veenman+, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
Cover:
Futurium, Berlin. BAM Deutschland.
Illustrations:
Henry N. Aedas, Gerard van Beek, De Beeldredaktie, Michael Boulogne, Jurriaan Brobbel,  
Carel Kramer Fotografie, Frank Ruiter Fotografie, Gerrit Jan Voerman Fotografie
Printed on FSC®-certified paper, Multiart Sil from Papyrus.
18-01
Royal BAM Group nv 2 Integrated Report 2017Contents
1Message from the CEO 8
2Value creation 10
2.1 Business model 11
2.2 Strategy 22
2.3 Stakeholder engagement and material themes 34
2.4 Risk management 44
3Business performance 62
3.1 Financial performance 63
3.2 Social performance 76
3.3 Environmental performance 94
3.4 Outlook 108
4Governance 110
4.1 Corporate governance 111
4.2 Report from the Supervisory board 114
4.3 Remuneration report 124
4.4 Decree on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive 136
4.5 Supervisory Board and Executive Board 140
4.6 Management Board 1445Financial statements 146
6Other information 240
6.1 Combined independent auditor’s report 241
6.2 Proposed appropriation of result 250
6.3 Articles of Association provisions 251
6.4 Anti-takeover measures 252
6.5 Five-year overview 254
6.6 List of principal subsidiaries 255
6.7 Glossary 256
7Royal BAM Group nv shares 258
8Appendices 264
8.1 Sustainability reporting process and methods 265
8.2  EU Directive Non-Financial Information and  
Diversity information reference table270
8.3 GRI Disclosures 271
8.4 Charters, memberships and certifications 276
8.5 Key financial dates 278
BAM is subject to the structure regime as intented in Part 4, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The Executive Board Report as intended in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code consists of chapters 1 - 4, with the exception of paragraphs 4.2 and 4.3,
Royal BAM Group nv 3 Integrated Report 20172017 2016
Profit
Continuing operations
Revenue 6,604 6,976
Adjusted result before tax 63.3 102.7
Result before tax 58.3 60.1
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the company 12.5 46.8
Earnings per share (in €1) 0.05 0.17
Dividends per ordinary share  (in €1) 0.10 0.09
Dividend payout  (in %) 150 50
Number of shares as at 31 December  (x 1,000) 273,213 270,622
Share closing price as at 31 December  (in €1) 3.83 4.39
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company 852.2 834.3
Capital base 967.2 946.7
Total assets 4,571.2 4,812.1
 
Order book 11,609 10,193
Net investment in property, plant and equipment 70.7 45.1
Depreciation charges 55.0 60.3
Amortisation charges 4.5 4.1
Impairment charges 4.8 50.7
Cash flow before dividend 76.8 161.9
Ratios
Adjusted result before tax as % of revenue 1.0 1.5
Net result attributable to the shareholders  
of the Company as % of revenue 0.2 0.7
Net result attributable to the shareholders  
of the Company as % of average equity 1.5 5.4
Solvency ratios
ROCE (in %) 2.8 2.8
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  
as % of total assets 18.6 17.3
Capital base as % of total assets 21.2 19.7
1  The dividend pay out has been adjusted for a one-off non-operational  
and non-cash impairment of deferred tax assets.
For an explanation of the terms, see the glossary on page 256.Key figures
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
Revenue
(x € million) (x € million) attributable to the shareholders  
of the Company (x € million) (x € million)
Adjusted result before tax Net resultOrder book
2016 
102.72016 
46.82016 
10,193
2016
6,97611,609
12.5 63.3  6,604 
Royal BAM Group nv 4 Integrated Report 2017Patrick Scheibinger, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Patrick Scheibinger, Construction Manager at Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau: ‘It’s important to share our 
knowledge, so we all can learn from each other. How? 
For example by our weekly meetings on the building 
site to speak about and work on planned processes.’‘It’s important
to share our knowledge’
(in % of revenue)Trade Working capital
2016 
-10.02016 
0.172016 
0.09Dividends per ordinary share Shares
0.10Earnings per share
0.05 -10.4
Capital ratio 
as % of total assetsNet result attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company  
as % of revenueRatio’s
0.2Adjusted result before tax  
as % of revenue (x € million)
1.0ROCE 
(in %)
2.8 21.2
2016 
1.52016 
0.72016 
2.82016 
19.7
Royal BAM Group nv 5 Integrated Report 2017614 19,837 16/84Key figures
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
Construction and Property
Civil engineering
Public Private PartnershipsBAM’s operating companies:2017 2016
People
Human resource
Average number of employees (in FTE) 19,720 20,370
Number of employees as at 31 December  (in FTE) 19,837 19,486
Training costs per employee  (in €1) 614 667
Female/male employees  (in %) 16/84 15/85
Safety
Incident frequency (IF BAM) 4.6 4.8
Planet
Climate positive
CO2 emissions  (in kilotonnes) 186 203
CO2 emissions intensity  
(in tonnes per € million revenue)28.1 29.1
Energy  (in terra joules) 2,644 3,000
Resource positive
Construction and office waste intensity  
(in tonnes per € million revenue)20.3 21.3
Construction and office waste (in kilotonnes) 134 148
Construction waste separation  (in %) 23 25
Total waste  (in million tonnes) 1.9  2.8
Sustainable certified timber (in %) 97 98
Number of employees 
(at 31 December, in FTE) (in €1)Training costs per employee Diversity
Female/male employees (in %) 
Safety
2015 
21,2482016 
19,4862017 
19,8372015 
14/862016 
15/852017 
16/842015 
5092016 
6672017 
614 2015 
4.42016 
4.82017 
4.62016 
70%2017 
72%Safety behaviour audit
(in %)  Incident frequency (IF BAM)
4.6 72%
Royal BAM Group nv 6 Integrated Report 2017Sustainable certified timber  
(FSC and PEFC) in the Netherlands* 
(in %)
CO2 emissions 
(in kilotonnes)Climate positive
186CO2 emissions intensity
(in tonnes per € million revenue)
28.1Energy consumption 
(in terra joule)
2,644Construction and office  
waste intensity
(in tonnes per € million revenue)Resource positive
20.3Construction and office waste  
(in kilotonnes)
134Construction waste 
separation 
(in %)
23 97%
2015
1612016 
1482017 
1342015
21.62016 
21.32017 
20.32015
292016 
252017 
232015
98%2016 
98%2017 
97%
2015
30.92016 
29.12017 
28.12015
2302016 
2032017 
1862015
3,3562016 
3,0002017 
2,644       ‘Strong
European presence’Five home markets
Royal BAM Group nv 7 Integrated Report 20171. Message from the CEO
BAM Construct UK has completed the exterior of the 
striking museum V&A Dundee in Scotland. Work continues 
on the interior. The museum will open in 2018.
Royal BAM Group nv 8 Integrated Report 2017‘Making it 
happen together’
Our distinctive capabilities are enhanced by our One BAM culture 
through learning and collaboration and employee engagement. 
Four values – predictable performance, scalable learning, 
proactive ownership and open collaboration – underpin the 
successful further development of our Group. We work together 
to better serve our clients, improve our financial performance, 
and be a preferred employer and partner to create a better, more 
sustainable future.
Outlook
Most of BAM’s markets are developing in a positive direction 
which is reflected in our order book. At the same time, we are 
feeling rising pressure on cost and availability in some parts of our 
supply chain. For the full year 2018 we expect an adjusted result 
before tax margin of around 2 per cent.
Also on behalf of Thessa Menssen and Erik Bax, I would like to 
thank all our stakeholders for their confidence in BAM and 
especially our employees for their hard work and commitment 
throughout the year. I am confident we will be able to accelerate 
on strategy delivery in 2018. With our combined capabilities and 
dedication we will reach our goals.’
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2018
Rob van Wingerden,
CEO, 
Royal BAM Group nv‘Working together to better serve our clients, improving our 
financial performance, and acting as preferred employer and 
partner, creating a better, more sustainable future. We made 
further progress delivering on our strategy Building the 
present, creating the future.
The majority of our activities performed in line with our 
expectations in 2017. We had another year of positive business 
cash flow and our overall financial position remains strong. 
However, we are disappointed that the project loss at sea lock 
IJmuiden setback our 2017 result by €68 million and damaged our 
margin by 1 per cent-point.
BAM’s total revenue of €6,604 million was €372 million (5 per cent) 
below the level of 2016, of which €142 million was attributable to 
the weaker pound sterling. We have consistently maintained our 
tender discipline throughout BAM and our order book improved 
to €11,600 million (31 December 2016: €10,200 million).
Looking ahead we will accelerate our strategy execution to 
capitalise on our potential, and of course implement the key 
learnings from sea lock IJmuiden. Key priorities for 2018 are 
further IT standardisation, enhancing business control, 
digitalisation and improving pre-construction management.
Ensuring a safe working environment remains a top priority for 
BAM. Our safety and sustainability performance further improved. 
We are proud that BAM has won the 2017 Crystal Prize, the award 
for the most transparent 2016 integrated report in the 
Netherlands. The jury appreciated BAM’s efforts to firmly keep 
social issues on the agenda, and to include them in its integrated 
report. It specifically welcomed the way in which BAM invites its 
stakeholders to participate in discussions on the long-term vision 
and the 2020 strategic objectives.
Values
Our strategic agenda for 2020 is aimed at achieving a double-digit 
return on capital employed in that year, by improving the 
performance of our current project and business portfolio, and 
positioning us well for future opportunities. A more disciplined 
focus on market segments and projects where we can use either 
scale or expertise as critical success factors (‘doing things better’), 
will contribute to improving our profitability and capital 
efficiency.
Secondly, we are shaping our business portfolio towards ‘doing 
better things’ by rationalising our propositions and developing 
new solutions for customers. Thirdly, we keep investing in 
digitalisation to be an industry leader in how we build and what 
we build – ‘doing new things’.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 9 Integrated Report 2017BAM Infra Speciale Technieken has set up its tallest piling 
rigs to drive 173 screwed piles into the sandy soil just 
opposite The Hague’s central station. The piles, thirty 
metres in length and ninety centimetres in diameter, will 
support two residential towers and an underground 
bicycle park. 2. Value creation
Royal BAM Group nv 10 Integrated Report 20172.1 Business model
Business lines
BAM’s operating companies are active in the business lines 
Construction and Property and Civil engineering, as well as 
through Public Private Partnerships. 
BAM’s European home markets are the Netherlands, Belgium, the 
United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. In addition the Group 
delivers projects in Denmark, Luxembourg and Switzerland. BAM 
International is providing services to clients outside Europe: 
Africa, the Americas, Asia Pacific, Australia, the Middle East and 
Antarctica. 
Construction and Property
BAM operates non-residential construction activities in all its 
home markets, as well as in Switzerland and Denmark. In addition, 
BAM delivers residential construction projects, primarily in the 
Netherlands and Belgium.
BAM’s non-residential property development activities are carried 
out in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Belgium.
Family homes are developed and built mainly in the Netherlands.
Development and construction of these projects are provided in 
fully integrated solutions. The business line Construction and Property employs 
approximately 9,000 professionals.
Civil engineering
The civil engineering activities cover all BAM’s home markets, as 
well as Denmark and Luxembourg. BAM International carries out 
civil engineering works in niche markets around the world. 
The business line Civil engineering employs approximately 10,000 
professionals.
Public Private Partnerships
In addition BAM is a well respected player in the European market 
for Public Private Partnership projects. These projects deliver 
construction and recurring maintenance revenue for BAM’s 
business lines, and operates concessions for roads, rail, education, 
health care and government buildings.
BAM PPP employs approximately 100 professionals.
For the financial, social and environmental performance of  
BAM’s business lines see chapter 3.
Germany
Wayss &
Freytag
Ingenieurbau
United
Kingdom
BAM
Nuttall
Netherlands
BAM Infra
NederlandGermany
BAM
Deutschland
United
Kingdom
BAM
Construct UK
Netherlands
BAM Bouw en
Vastgoed
NederlandBelgium
BAM
Belgium
Ireland
BAM
Contractors
Worldwide
BAM
International
Public Private 
Partnerships
BAM PPPBusiness line
 Civil
engineeringBusiness line
 Construction
and Property1 - Organisational structure
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 11 Integrated Report 2017construction contracts construction contractsAsset managementFree working capital Free working capitalRevenue 
clients
ROCEROCEMarginConstructionCivil 
engineeringPPPProperty
development
ROCE ROEDivestment
propertyDivestment
operational
concessions 
BAM uses capital from within its businesses for the continuation of 
an extensive range of products and services in its construction 
and property, civil engineering and Public Private Partnership 
business lines. With the current product portfolio and expertise, 
and through the collaboration between these business lines in the 
five home markets, BAM can utilise free working capital from its 
activities for the investment in selected real estate and PPP 
projects, which again lead to new construction contracts.
For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.1.
Creating environmental value
Sustainability is used as an umbrella term for the broader focus on 
sustainable innovation, a solution-oriented approach (exceeding 
customer expectations) and for benefits arising from the use of 
digital construction. BAM aims to have a net positive impact on 
climate change, material resources and people by 2050. This is to 
be achieved in close conjunction with our supply chain, through a 
digital and innovative rational in our projects and realising social, 
economic and environmental benefits. BAM is able to offer 
lifecycle solutions that use less energy and are more efficient to 
manage and operate. The company uses as much materials that 
can be reused at the end of their current life and therefore 
maintain higher residual values for key assets in the built 
environment. In BAM’s strategy these two strands are called 
‘climate positive’ and ‘resource positive’.New business models
BAM’s unique product market combination and broad geographical 
presence, as well as its relationship with clients and the supply 
chain and stakeholders, enable BAM to continuously expand and 
improve its potential. BAM’s strategic agenda ‘Building the present, 
creating the future’ – focus project portfolio, shape business 
portfolio, create future portfolio – is reflected in BAM’s business 
model.
In line with BAM’s strategic objective to create a future portfolio, 
a startup programme was designed and implemented in 2016. 
This programme focuses on developing new business models at 
the edge of BAM’s existing organisation. Guided by the Lean 
Startup Methodology, new business models based on digital 
opportunities are being explored.
Creating financial value
Shareholders and financial institutions provide funds that BAM 
invests in its business lines Construction and Property and Civil 
engineering, as well as in Public Private Partnerships.
BAM’s strategic target for 2020 is an ROCE of over 10 per cent. 
BAM uses free working capital from the (non-)residential 
construction and civil engineering activities in selected property 
and PPP projects. These projects generate a return on investment 
and provide construction and recurring maintenance revenue for 
the business lines.2 - Creating financial value
Rolling year net result 
divided by the average 
invested equity.Rolling year EBIT divided 
by the average capital 
employed.ROCE Return on equity (ROE)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 12 Integrated Report 2017To have a
‘net positive’ impact
on climate change, 
material resources
and people
by 2050
3 - BAM’s vision on sustainable value creation
People
ProfitBAM’s approach to sustainability 
delivers benefits to clients and the 
communities in which it works. As 
well as creating a more sustainable 
built environment, BAM aims to 
positively enhance the lives of 
more than 1 million people by 
2020 by creating skills and learning 
opportunities and through its 
voluntary and charitable work.BAM’s approach to sustainability 
creates financial value for its clients, 
by delivering facilities and buildings 
that have a longer life, are more 
efficient to manage and operate, and 
with materials that can be reused at 
the end of their current life.
BAM wants to mitigate the impacts 
of the built environment on climate 
change. That is why BAM has 
launched its Net Positive Strategy. 
The company will work towards 
having a net positive impact, by 
reducing carbon emissions, 
reducing waste, adopting circular 
principles and innovating to create 
new methods   and products that 
are climate positive.PlanetAsylum status holders involved
in training on BAM projectsEnhance digital processes
for flawless execution
Invest in transportation of the future: 
Europe HyperloopApprentices took part in an
‘Enhancing Lives Challenge’ in UK
Completion of two circular 
economy projects
Moving towards zero waste:  
3D printed bicycle bridge
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 13 Integrated Report 2017The project AXA 2017 included the renovation three AXA 
offices at Troon Place in the centre of Brussels. The middle 
building was completely demolished and rebuilt. The 
different levels between the two flanking buildings were 
resolved with integrated ramps, stairwells and elevators. 
Architects: A2RC. Interbuild (in joint venture).
Royal BAM Group nv 14 Integrated Report 2017achieve this depends in part on matters over which the company 
has limited direct influence, such as national and European waste 
legislation. However, acknowledging that the creation of waste 
costs money – in wasted materials and in processing, disposing of 
and dealing with waste – and therefore by aiming to reduce  
BAM’s waste ‘budget’ to zero, will lead to benefits across the value 
chain as well. 
BAM creates value by having the lowest possible negative impact 
on natural capital and, ideally, contributing to the restoration of 
natural resources. By embracing the principles of the circular 
economy, products and services are (re)designed to ensure that 
materials for constructing buildings and infrastructure are natural 
and renewable or can be recovered at a high quality. This may 
include working together with suppliers in developing ‘circular’ 
materials and building elements, new business models, as well as 
designs that allow assets to be used in different ways and 
therefore retain their value over a longer period of time. Circular 
economic value propositions provide new opportunities to deploy 
new business models. 
For BAM’s environmental performance see chapter 3.3. 
Creating social value
Enhancing lives
BAM aims to make a real and positive difference in the lives of 
people with whom colleagues come into contact with through its 
activities. This is about adding real value through activities that 
would not occur without BAM’s support/intervention, and also 
about supporting people through grassroots movements as well 
as those with a wide reach. BAM’s activities for ‘enhancing lives’ 
are largely focused on employment, training, education, 
community involvement and charity. Outcomes support one or 
more of social, economic and environmental sustainability leading 
to a positive impact on social and human capital. This will involve 
direct support from BAM, but also through partnerships with its 
supply chain.
For BAM’s social performance see chapter 3.2.
Value chain
The Group’s value chain management and subcontractor 
engagement provide the opportunity to bring value to BAM’s 
clients from innovations and cross-fertilisation from the value 
chain. With lean planning techniques, BAM incorporates schedules 
of supply chain partners, allowing for a reduction in labour and 
equipment costs. Value chain management requires sharing 
BAM’s business principles and policies on sustainability, including 
its targets, and BAM requires its major value chain partners to 
share information on their CO2 emissions and circular 
developments.Climate positive
BAM delivers products to the market and/or services to its clients 
that lead to a greater reduction of emissions. This includes the 
development of new assets that have a low or zero carbon 
footprint, or improves the existing; the deployment of renewable 
energy systems or energy reduction measures for clients or 
communities, as part of an ESCO (Energy Service Company) 
offering. Additionally BAM offers the delivery of reductions in 
lifecycle carbon impact of buildings and infrastructure through 
material selection, design or asset management. This way, BAM 
strives to reduce its own impact on natural capital as well as the 
impact in the supply chain, both up- and downstream.
Resource positive
Consumption of raw materials, land use and producing waste 
during the building process have a negative impact on natural 
capital. The Group has made great progress in reducing 
construction waste by increasing efficiency, using off-site 
production and by eliminating waste from the supply chain during 
the lifecycle of its developments. The ultimate goal is to design 
out waste and avoid the creation of waste. The ability of BAM to 
Liesbeth Lebbink
Before the renovation of her apartment, Liesbeth 
Lebbink got her hot water from a gas-fired kitchen 
boiler and did not have central heating. ‘It could often 
be very cold.’ Now her social housing apartment, built 
in 1954, has been fully modernised by BAM Wonen in a 
three-month project. ‘I didn’t move out but stayed 
here, along with my dog and cat. The dust and sand 
were everywhere, even in the bedding! When the 
builders left, it was a relief to finally enjoy a clean and 
comfortable home. But it was also a little sad to see 
those ‘BAM people’ go. They have been so helpful 
throughout! In return I have often cooked meals for 
them, like soup or pastas. We had a lot of fun together.’ 
‘The BAM builders were 
always so helpful’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 15 Integrated Report 2017things leads to a reduction in failure costs and a more efficient 
construction process.
The sooner BAM becomes involved in the development, the 
greater the ability to realise sustainable development at lower 
costs. As soon as BAM is the project developer or BAM is part of a 
Public Private Partnership, BAM is in the best possible position to 
maximise the sustainability results, because the company can 
then already set sustainability ambitions in the early stages of its 
development. This makes it possible to consider lifecycle thinking 
already in the early design stages, allowing better utilisation of 
the invested capital against lower maintenance and operational 
costs.
Innovative solutions and intellectual capital are developed by 
BAM’s operating companies during the advancement of 
sustainable solutions to meet the needs of its customers. BAM 
also supports a number of organisations in the research of specific 
technology and process innovations. Moreover BAM is a member 
of a number of international and leading forums that share best 
practices on sustainability (see chapter 3.2 Stakeholder 
engagement and material themes).BAM’s operating companies achieve most of their turnover in 
collaboration with their subcontractors and suppliers. More than 
75 per cent of turnover is sourced from supply chain partners. 
Projects may also be carried out in collaboration with other 
construction companies as part of a joint arrangement.
Natural, human and financial capital are typically sourced locally in 
BAM’s home markets. In the Netherlands, 97 per cent of BAM’s 
purchases were locally sourced in 2017. BAM expects comparable 
percentages in its other home countries. BAM operates mainly in a 
business-to-business environment and in a business-to-government 
environment. Within all its European home countries, BAM works 
for national and local governments as well as property investment 
and development companies. An example of typical supply chain 
partners are mechanical and electrical suppliers, often in 
conjunction with local labour suppliers as well as local small and 
medium enterprises.
The construction sector provides services on project basis. An 
increasing part of the design and engineering takes place digitally 
according to the concept ‘make it before you make it’. A project is 
virtually built using simulation techniques, which among other 
Ralf Märtens, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Ralf Märtens, Senior Quality Control Manager at Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau (on the right): ‘We have used the new 
possibilities of digitalisation in open collaboration with our 
subcontractors. The digital construction management tool 
BIM 360 Field was tested on site for the reconstruction project 
Medical Logistical Center in Kaiserslautern. A team of ten 
project engineers inserted 2,200 documents as well as 5,000 
photos. Almost 50 subcontractors with 250 employees were 
able to make comments and have handled the open issues 
within seven months with a success rate of 98,7 per cent. 
The large construction team in Kaiserslautern worked 
cooperatively and realised production dynamics as well as 
quality.’
‘We have used new possibilities of 
digitalisation in open collaboration 
with our subcontractors’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 16 Integrated Report 2017Tamesis One, offering 11,600 m² of office space over 
five storeys as well as a 300-space carpark and 
landscaping alongside the River Thames in Egham, 
Surrey. BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 17 Integrated Report 2017Suppliers are a special stakeholder category.
Their knowledge, people and other resources
provide 76 per cent of BAM’s turnover which
BAM brings as value to its clients. Workingwith BAM provides them the opportunity toincrease their value through innovation andto deliver net positive solutions whilstconsidering its impact on 'people' and 'planet'. 
Society and local communities are impacted
at the site that BAM prepares before building
starts: excavations and landscaping can havea negative impact on society (noize, dust).The approval of the ﬁnal contract is the conclusionof the bidding process, and the decision is made tocontinue the value creation process.
BAM’s employees coordinate workers andsubcontractors with BIM and lean techniquesto reduce all avoidable cost in assemblingmaterials, to create maximum ﬁnancial valuefor BAM’s ﬁnancial stakeholders. Hindranceduring construction hours can have atemporary negative impact on local society.BAM’s suppliers provide the materials that 
BAM orders, which creates jobs and 
stimulates  supply chain innovations. 
Financial capital is used  to ﬁnance materials 
and services before the project  is ﬁnished. 
An increasing amount of materials is  
recycled yet the majority of material is 
extracted from its source. BAM’s bid needs to meet needs and demandsof all relevant stakeholders to be sustainableand winning. Engagement provides the
opportunity for better decision making by
bringing together stakeholder demands andcreating value for them.
Value is described, to be judged by
the client, mostly in terms of ﬁnancial
value and quality. Quality is often
expressed in sustainability terms,
which often relate to the impacts on
natural and social capital.Some argue that design is where art meets science. For BAM it means: the process of optimising resources
to meet functional demands, a creative process considering 
laws of physics, economics and society. Financial, human and intellectual capital are used to make the project design.An increasing part of design is done digitally.
• Functionality to the client• Turnover to the suppliers• Knowledge to the employees• Shareholder value to the shareholders• A better world to society• Financial capital is net positive
See an
opportunity
Propose
to the client
Order materialsDigital design, simulate
Assembly on site
Deliver valueEngage with
suppliers
The client acceptsEngage with other stakeholders
Prepare the siteCustomers approach BAM and BAM 
identiﬁes customers, in business-to-business,
business-to-consumer and business-to 
government relations. It all leads to the question:
will BAM make a proposal to the client? Please refer 
to the stage gate tender procedure on page 55 for a 
detailed description of the supporting decision making
process.
Maintain asset value
In order to deliver maximum value to 
clients, BAM offers ﬂexibility, adaptability, and expertise, considering value retention, not just for the ﬁrst life, but with subsequent uses in mind. Learn from buildings and improve designs for future projects.End of life — Re-use
End of life is generally the starting point of a new development. Construction elements and materials are assessed for re-entering the value chain.
Designed by Eric Parry Architects, 4 Pancras Square  
is a Grade A office building located at King’s Cross. 
BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 18 Integrated Report 2017Suppliers are a special stakeholder category.
Their knowledge, people and other resources
provide 76 per cent of BAM’s turnover which
BAM brings as value to its clients. Workingwith BAM provides them the opportunity toincrease their value through innovation andto deliver net positive solutions whilstconsidering its impact on 'people' and 'planet'. 
Society and local communities are impacted
at the site that BAM prepares before building
starts: excavations and landscaping can havea negative impact on society (noize, dust).The approval of the ﬁnal contract is the conclusionof the bidding process, and the decision is made tocontinue the value creation process.
BAM’s employees coordinate workers andsubcontractors with BIM and lean techniquesto reduce all avoidable cost in assemblingmaterials, to create maximum ﬁnancial valuefor BAM’s ﬁnancial stakeholders. Hindranceduring construction hours can have atemporary negative impact on local society.BAM’s suppliers provide the materials that 
BAM orders, which creates jobs and 
stimulates  supply chain innovations. 
Financial capital is used  to ﬁnance materials 
and services before the project  is ﬁnished. 
An increasing amount of materials is  
recycled yet the majority of material is 
extracted from its source. BAM’s bid needs to meet needs and demandsof all relevant stakeholders to be sustainableand winning. Engagement provides the
opportunity for better decision making by
bringing together stakeholder demands andcreating value for them.
Value is described, to be judged by
the client, mostly in terms of ﬁnancial
value and quality. Quality is often
expressed in sustainability terms,
which often relate to the impacts on
natural and social capital.Some argue that design is where art meets science. For BAM it means: the process of optimising resources
to meet functional demands, a creative process considering 
laws of physics, economics and society. Financial, human and intellectual capital are used to make the project design.An increasing part of design is done digitally.
• Functionality to the client• Turnover to the suppliers• Knowledge to the employees• Shareholder value to the shareholders• A better world to society• Financial capital is net positive
See an
opportunity
Propose
to the client
Order materialsDigital design, simulate
Assembly on site
Deliver valueEngage with
suppliers
The client acceptsEngage with other stakeholders
Prepare the siteCustomers approach BAM and BAM 
identiﬁes customers, in business-to-business,
business-to-consumer and business-to 
government relations. It all leads to the question:
will BAM make a proposal to the client? Please refer 
to the stage gate tender procedure on page 55 for a 
detailed description of the supporting decision making
process.
Maintain asset value
In order to deliver maximum value to 
clients, BAM offers ﬂexibility, adaptability, and expertise, considering value retention, not just for the ﬁrst life, but with subsequent uses in mind. Learn from buildings and improve designs for future projects.End of life — Re-use
End of life is generally the starting point of a new development. Construction elements and materials are assessed for re-entering the value chain.4 - How BAM creates value
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 19 Integrated Report 201730 Broadwick Street, a 92,300-square-foot office and retail
development situated in the heart of Soho in London.  
BAM Construct UK.James Pellatt, Great Portland Estates
What is the added value of open collaboration  
in the construction industry?
‘To me the biggest barrier to innovation, productivity and collaboration 
in the construction industry is the dominance of blame culture. Too 
many clients create a culture of fear that trickles down to the main 
contractor and supply chain, leading to poorer outcomes all round. 
The added value of open collaboration is simply that creating an 
environment in which people are willing to come forward with good 
ideas allows all parties to improve their respective outcomes.’
Can you give an example?
‘The way in which we have enhanced the digitalisation of the supply 
chain through the use of BIM has always been non-contractual. As a 
result we have been able to provide co-ordinated drawings in 2D 
without recourse to having to rely on the 3D model in contract. In turn 
this allowed BAM the freedom to develop the digital co-ordination in 
terms of delivery but also now in terms of 6D operation in the facilities 
management of 30 Broadwick Street. I doubt that this would have 
happened if we wanted contractual outcomes from the outset. We 
have a key set of performance criteria in place now, but only after we 
worked out how to deliver it in the first place.’
How can we learn from each other?
‘By learning to listen, and I mean genuinely listen. Be brave enough to 
say ‘I’m sorry but I don’t understand what it is you are asking of me.  
‘Digitalisation contributes 
   to a culture of transparency, 
    honesty and accuracy’ 
Royal BAM Group nv 20 Integrated Report 2017James Pellatt is Head of Projects  
at Great Portland Estates.  
BAM was appointed to deliver  
30 Broadwick Street, a 92,300-  
square-foot office and retail 
development situated in the heart  
of Soho in London, surrounded by 
thriving restaurants and bars. 
We as clients can often assume that people know what we want them 
to do. I don’t believe that to be the case and the more time we take to 
explain the economic drivers then the more value you can add as a 
contractor. For example, a greater floor-to-ceiling height is often more 
important to the end value of a building for a client than the cost of 
steel. How many times do clients hear from contractors though that  
‘the building weighs too much – cut out the tonnage’? But if they 
understood our value drivers better they could come up with better 
options for increasing the floor to ceiling height even if it meant us 
spending a bit more on steel.’
What are the benefits of digitalisation for the 
construction industry?
‘It creates transparency and reduces tension. Too often in projects 
where we are not working in a digital environment, the design is not 
co-ordinated. This doesn’t happen in a digital environment, as people 
are more likely to solve problems when presented with them visually. 
Also design teams are no longer capable of fully designing a building. 
A digitised model that builds accuracy over time from many different 
people, architect, engineer, main contractor and trade contractor has 
more and more benefit.’
What is the benefit of digitalisation for your organisation?
‘For every £1 we have invested in designing the model, we have earned 
at least £3 back. The economics make sense. But, for me, it is also as much to do with culture of transparency, honesty and accuracy. 
The investment we made at 30 Broadwick Street has led to a first-class 
award-winning building, one in which teamwork was a genuinely 
important part of delivery.’
How does your organisation contribute to a 
sustainable future?
‘We take sustainability very seriously. Responsible business has 
sustainability at its core. Managing and balancing the needs of our 
occupiers, investors and the communities in which we work is key to 
maintaining the long-term value of the business. Sustainable buildings 
are more attractive to occupiers, cost less to run and are less likely to 
become obsolete, enhancing the long term value of our property 
portfolio. Our Sustainable Development Brief sets out our aspirations 
for each step of the design process in respect of energy, water, waste, 
materials sourcing, transport, ecology, occupiers, community, 
emissions, wellbeing and supply chain. Our Sustainability Tracker 
helps us monitor progress against the brief throughout the 
development.’
How can BAM assist you?
‘BAM already has! At 30 Broadwick Street BAM has helped us to create 
our most sustainable development to date, an EPC rating of A which is 
BREEAM excellent and fully FSC accredited.’
Royal BAM Group nv 21 Integrated Report 20172.2 Strategy
Building the present, creating the future
It is BAM’s mission to create sustainable environments that 
enhance people’s lives by enabling the right people to capitalise 
on state-of-the-art knowledge, resources and digital technologies, 
providing solutions across the total construction lifecycle for the 
Group’s clients and generating maximum value for its 
stakeholders. 
It’s BAM’s vision that by 2020 the Group will be recognised as one 
of Europe’s leading sustainable and innovative construction 
businesses, with healthy profits and a strong balance sheet, active 
across the total construction lifecycle in its European home 
markets and in selected growing economies around the world.
BAM’s vision and unique culture are underpinned by four values 
that guide the people of BAM: predictable performance, scalable 
learning, proactive ownership and open collaboration.
To realise the strategy Building the present, creating the future, 
BAM will position itself as leader in the digitalisation of the 
industry. 
The construction industry has shown a limited increase in 
productivity over the last decades ¹. Furthermore, several external 
influences impact the construction industry. Firstly, economies 
across our home markets are growing but are still vulnerable with global geopolitical uncertainties and unclarity about the outcome 
of the Brexit process. Secondly, sustainability and mega trends 
such as urbanisation and energy efficiency are creating new areas 
for increased growth. 
Thirdly, digitalisation is increasingly transforming the construction 
industry and the built environment. Against this background, the 
main focus of BAM’s strategy for 2016-2020 is to continue to 
Proactive ownership
 ‘I take initiative to prevent, 
rather than fix’ Open collaboration
‘I share, so we all gain’
Scalable learning
‘I ask, listen and support, 
so that we learn collectively’Predictable performance
‘I deliver what I promise’6 - Strategy 2016-2020
5 - Values
BAM’s unique cultureDifferentiating capabilities‘Building the present, creating the future’
Focus
project
portfolioCreate
future
portfolioShape
business
portfolio
improve profitability and capital efficiency. The strategy is based 
on three pillars: focusing the project portfolio, shaping the 
business portfolio and creating the future portfolio. These are 
supported by a strong foundation consisting of two layers: culture 
and capabilities.
Strategic targets
BAM’s vision is translated in specific goals for profit, planet and 
people. The objectives of BAM for 2020 are: a return on capital 
employed (ROCE) of more than 10 per cent, an increase of the 
adjusted margin before taxes to between 2 and 4 per cent, 
reduction of the real estate portfolio to less than €500 million and 
a reduction of working capital to less than -10 per cent, in order to 
have a net positive impact on the planet and reach an incident 
frequency of less than 3.5.¹   Mc Kinsey Global Institute, Reinventing Construction: a route to higher 
productivity, February 2017 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 22 Integrated Report 2017Roger Mol, Central Government Real Estate Agency (Rijksvastgoedbedrijf)
What is the added value of open collaboration  
in the construction industry?
‘True collaboration between client and contractor breeds 
understanding, and thus efficiency in terms of planning and cost 
management’, says Roger Mol, Director of Transactions and Projects 
at Central Government Real Estate Agency (Rijksvastgoedbedrijf).  
‘When parties work well together – including co-creators – this 
benefits the construction process in general and may be conducive to 
the development of innovative and sustainable solutions. When 
collaboration is less than optimal, it may lead to situations in which 
contracts are followed to the letter and there is a lack of openness, 
flexibility and willingness to adapt. 
It all comes down to trust. Trust between co-creators and trust 
between clients and contractors. We should be able to trust that 
everyone wants the best for each other and for the project. In short:  
we should be able to count on each other.’
Can you give an example?
‘One type of project that shows the value of collaboration as a key 
factor are Public Private Partnerships, also known as DBFMO contracts. 
These include the management of maintenance and operations of a 
building for a set time, meaning that we choose to commit to 
long-term collaboration with a contractor – up to 25 or 30 years. To 
name two examples: the Nationaal Militair Museum in Soesterberg and 
the Hoge Raad building in The Hague, the seat of the Dutch Supreme 
Council. Both buildings are now operational, and both projects have 
seen a strong focus on collaboration from the early beginning.
 
In the case of Hoge Raad, our style of conflict management is to 
provide maximum mutual transparency regarding our interests. Rather 
than risking miscommunication in an e-mail exchange, we sit down 
together first for a face-to-face discussion. Another example: before we 
finalise letters we give the consortium an opportunity to respond to a 
draft version. This way we can prevent misunderstandings and make 
life easier for both parties.
Our DBFMO contracts further state that the contractor is required to 
develop a monitoring plan. Rather than unilaterally drawing their own 
plan, a contractor can consult with us to share their vision and allow us 
to add our interests and concerns. As a result, they are able to write a 
plan that is surprise-free and immediately acceptable. This process 
greatly benefits mutual trust and saves plenty of time and money.  
So why do it any differently?’
How can we learn from each other?
‘One way to gain an understanding of a partner’s way of thinking is by 
spending a few days inside their organisation. It can be major boost to 
collaboration when you know what influences their choices and how 
decisions are made. Something I realised during such a working visit 
was how as a government agency we have such a strong awareness of 
our public responsibility. At the same time Ilearned that on many 
issues, such as HR or the organisational impact of mergers, our private 
partners face very much the same challenges. 
Another important learning opportunity is provided by project 
evaluations. In the Netherlands, we have introduced Marktvisie, a 
programme that aims to support a vital and sustainable construction 
sector. Our contract managers and those of many possible private 
partners use the principles of this programme to evaluate their 
behaviour within their projects and benefit from the lessons learned.’
How can we – all parties together – live up to  
‘best for project’?
‘It all begins with recognising that the interests of the project are the 
interests of all involved. Next, maximum transparency is a must. In my 
view, collaboration will only work if partners are able to have open 
communication, mutual trust and common goals. 
Looking back at some of our own projects, I’d say that an important 
factor in their success has been careful selection of our partners at the 
start of a project, plus thorough investment into the relationship once 
a choice has been made – aligning our vision of the project and what 
will be a successful approach. 
Bottom line, the decisive factor is people: it’s they who bring their skills 
and enthusiasm to make the project work. So, as a recipe for smooth 
partnerships I’d suggest our main investment should be in being able to 
put the right people in the right place.’
 ‘It all comes  
        down to trust’
Royal BAM Group nv 23 Integrated Report 2017With a capacity of 2,656, MCC’s new Warner Stand at 
Lord’s was designed by Populous, engineered by  
Arup, supervised by Gardiner + Theobold and built by  
BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 24 Integrated Report 2017In 2017 BAM also completed its Project Management Information 
tool that brings all financial data on projects together and helps 
colleagues around the globe making the best decisions. The 
information from this tool will continue to be combined with 
other data to further improve data based decision making, thus 
improving our projects portfolio. These tools along with specific 
key performance indicators support BAM in delivering predictable 
performance to all of its stakeholders.
Shaping business portfolio – Doing Better Things
BAM is shaping the business portfolio (‘Doing Better Things’) 
by rationalising its propositions in selected market segments 
and developing new solutions for clients.Business portfolio 
BAM is shaping the business portfolio (‘Doing Better Things’) by 
supporting the operating companies in developing new 
propositions in the home markets as extensions of projects along 
the lifecycle, and leveraging specialisms in international markets. 
These initiatives will be driven by investments in people and 
systems and developing partnerships. At the same time, BAM will 
continue to exit from operational activities not offering sufficient 
opportunities to use scale or distinctiveness as critical success 
factors. BAM will continue to reduce its portfolio of property 
assets.
Performance
In 2017, BAM launched a new investment review process and 
explored various options to strengthen its position in supporting 
its customers in the product lifecycle in facility management and 
mechanical and electrical engineering. BAM remains very selective 
and has not made any investments. BAM will continue to build a 
portfolio of investment opportunities that match its criteria. 
Creating future portfolio – Doing New Things
BAM is creating its future portfolio by integrating digital 
construction solutions in its construction process and by 
accelerating innovative solutions for its clients (both digital 
and non-digital)Future portfolio 
BAM creates its future portfolio (‘Doing New Things’) by supplying 
construction services using a digital construction platform and by 
accelerating innovative solutions generated within BAM. BAM 
wants to be a leader in the field of digitalisation through advanced 
design, project implementation and visualisation tools to meet 
the changing needs of customers. BAM will facilitate this 
transition by investing in innovation to create an attractive 
environment for partnerships and rapid prototyping in order to 
shorten the time to market.Focusing project portfolio – Doing Things Better
BAM is focusing the project portfolio (‘Doing Things Better’). 
Using either scale or differentiation to win projects will be 
the main driver of performance improvement at the 
operating companies.Project portfolio 
In an environment that showed little productivity improvements 
historically, BAM is focusing its project portfolio (‘Doing Things 
Better’) and continuously analyses its existing project portfolio 
thoroughly. For winning projects the main drivers for performance 
improvement are either scale (‘cost leadership’) or differentiation 
through specialisation (‘knowledge partnership’). In market 
segments characterised by price-led competition, BAM  can 
achieve cost leadership through project bundling, industrialisation 
and/or digitalisation. For complex projects, BAM will use its 
knowhow, digital leadership, innovative drive and quality 
assurance as key differentiating factors. This focus leads to 
continuous scalable learning in relevant market segments with 
better propositions for our clients.
Examples of project focus areas include sustainable products like 
circular buildings and gravity-based foundations for offshore 
windfarms, hospitals, smart infrastructure and buildings and 
tunnel-based infrastructure. In its Property sector, BAM focuses 
on customer-oriented equity-light developments in main urban 
areas and further integration of activities with construction to 
unlock synergies. PPP will continue to target DBFMO (design, 
build, finance, maintain, operate) contracts in home markets 
where payments are based on availability of the asset, excluding 
volume-related risks.
Performance
In 2017, BAM acquired new projects mainly in market segments 
where it is distinguished on the basis of scale or knowledge. As a 
result, the quality of BAM’s order book improved further, 
reflecting the choices for the market segments where the 
company could best be active. Some good examples of project 
awards during 2017 reflecting these choices are The Children’s 
Hospital (Dublin), Museum of the Future (Dubai), the 
redevelopment of the former Bijlmer prison facility (Amsterdam)
and the modernisation of UK research facilities in the Antarctic. 
Challenges occurring in the 4th quarter on the IJmuiden Sea Lock 
project stress the need to continuously improve our processes.
BAM’s good progress in focusing and de-risking its projects 
portfolio in 2017 is built on a rigorous data-driven decision 
process. During 2017 progression was made with further 
tightening of its tendering stage gate process and conducting 
more peer reviews and operational audits. Peer reviews 
conducted by experienced colleagues ensure that BAM’s global 
knowledge is made available to generate the best propositions for 
our customers.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 25 Integrated Report 2017In 2017, BAM continued with increasing innovations in its 
innovation funnel process. This process consists of a stage gate 
review process of business innovations in a process based on  
the Lean start up methodology that includes the following 
five phases:
1. Idea initiation
2. Discovery
3. Prototyping
4. Delivery
5. Scale up.
In 2017 eighteen innovation initiatives were managed within this 
innovation funnel. These eighteen initiatives progressed one or 
more phases within the process. BAM clusters these initiatives 
around value spaces like modular design and construction, 
end-to-end building solutions, smart solutions including new 
materials and digital construction.
Some examples of innovation in BAM’s innovation funnel are the 
first 3D-printed bridge in Gemert, the Netherlands, the gravity-
based foundations for Blyth Offshore Demonstrator wind farm in 
the northeast of England, support of the Hyperloop team and the 
Circular Building Platform, both in the Netherlands. These 
innovations show the involvement of BAM and its investments in 
technologies at an early stage that lead to digital and sustainable 
solutions that can disrupt the construction sector.
After BAM’s stronger focus on innovation from 2016 onwards, the 
Group noticed in 2017 that partners find BAM easier to collaborate 
in innovation projects. BAM has further strengthened and 
improved partnerships, including startup platforms, to grow its 
innovation ecosystem. For passionate explorers across BAM, a 
knowledge-sharing platform was launched to facilitate learning 
and collaboration across the Group and accelerate the delivery to 
the market of innovative solutions and services.
In our ambition to become the leader in digital construction, 
BAM has made good progress in 2017. We have been awarded 
international prizes in the area of digital construction, like the 
first-place winner Synchro’s digital construction awards with the 
30 Broadwick Street project in London; first-place winner in 
buildingSMART International’s award for the Frankfurt Höchst 
hospital project and first-place winner in Autodesk’s AEC 
excellence awards with the Museum of the Future project in Dubai.
The execution of our digital construction programme is well on 
track and successes have been reported, such as the BIM Level 2 
Kitemark certification by BSI for BAM Infra. With that, more than 
fifty per cent of our operations (United Kingdom, Ireland and BAM 
Infra) are now certified towards BIM Level 2. The remaining part of 
the operations will be certified in 2018. Other successes are the 
development of maturity measurement dashboards, development 
of training and e-learning programs, communication on BAM’s 
website about digital construction and the specific growth of 
maturity in our projects around the globe. By creating this future portfolio, BAM strives for:
• Creating competitive advantage on the basis of innovation,  
and recurring superior financial returns for its shareholders;
• Improving product and project quality for its clients; 
• Improving the attractiveness of the company on the job market 
and developing and retaining talent;
• Contributing to innovation at its suppliers and subcontractors; 
• Building a sustainable environment for society in general.
To become the leader in digital construction, BAM structures its 
innovation with a clear focus on tangible results, embracing and 
driving scalable learning and open collaboration. Moreover, BAM 
creates a lively ecosystem for co-creation of innovative solutions. 
In 2017, a community for digital construction was set up, which 
represents digital construction experts from all operating 
companies within the Group. This community drives the 
digitalisation of the construction process within BAM.
Performance
BAM distinguishes innovation into two streams: business 
(or ‘incremental’) innovation and transformational innovation. 
Irina Scheffler, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau 
Irina Scheffler, HR Officer at Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau: ‘In my daily work I have the rewarding task 
of supporting young colleagues in their professional 
development. It’s important that all collagues know my 
door is always open for a chat and I like to stay in close 
contact. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau is warmly 
welcoming young talent and we offer newcomers and 
more experienced colleagues a wide variety of training 
courses that are specifically tailored to profession and 
interests.’
‘It’s important to support 
young colleagues in their 
development’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 26 Integrated Report 2017BAM Infra developed the world’s first 3D printed fully 
structurally pre-stressed concrete cycle bridge in 
collaboration with TU Eindhoven. It was opened as part 
of the northern ring road of Gemert, the Netherlands, 
in October. 
A world first: the first fully 3D-printed, structurally  
pre-stressed concrete cycle bridge in the world.
Royal BAM Group nv 27 Integrated Report 2017‘We create sustainable roads’
Marco Oosterveld, BAM Infra
Road Engineer Marco Oosterveld was involved in 
BAM Infra’s test project with low-energy asphalt 
concrete (LEAB PA+) in the surface of the A4 
highway near Leiden, the Netherlands. Oosterveld: 
‘LEAB’s special production process to make ensures 
significant energy savings. The product also has a 
much longer lifespan, which positively impacts 
long-term road maintenance. Together, the 
low-energy production process and long life of LEAB 
PA+ roads mean a significant contribution to the 
sustainability objectives of both BAM and its 
clients.’
Royal BAM Group nv 28 Integrated Report 2017BAM’s unique culture
Reaching BAM’s strategic goals will be supported by its four values:
1. Scalable learning;
2. Predictable performance;
3. Open collaboration;
4. Proactive ownership.
Another fundamental part of BAM’s unique culture is its safety 
ambition of ‘zero accidents’, allowing everyone to go home 
healthy every day, and recognition as a leader in safety in the 
European construction sector.  
CSR (corporate social responsibility) is an important aspect of 
BAM’s sustainability journey. CSR best describes the impact BAM 
will have as a business on the environment and its social 
responsibility towards both internal and external stakeholders.
Performance
In 2017 all operating companies and corporate functions adopted 
the four values. BAM put a lot of emphasis on these values and the 
behaviour that follows these values. Among other initiatives a 
leadership meeting in autumn was dedicated to BAM’s values and 
related behaviour. The Group organised eleven leadership 
dialogues between BAM’s Executive Board and all business units 
and staff functions. 
Another step to grow on BAM’s unique culture in 2017 was the 
formation of so-called communities. These communities are 
created along many functions and themes. The communities are 
formed by representatives from all operating companies and are 
chaired by a community lead. The activities of these communities 
reflect BAM’s values and accelerate learning and collaboration 
across the Group. Fourty BAM colleagues from across the Group 
completed the Olympus project managers development program.
BAM’s sustainability performance has led to several third-party 
recognitions, The company was awarded a leadership score on the 
CDP ranking and won the prestigious Dutch Crystal Prize as part of 
the Transparency Benchmark (see section 3.3 Environmental 
Performance). BAM recognises more and more market and 
legislative drivers for more solution-oriented, innovative and 
collaborative projects. A good example is the construction of the 
circular Circl pavillion for ABN AMRO.The use of 3D and 4D (time) BIM is becoming standard practice in 
tenders and projects and the developments in increasing the use 
of 5D (cost) and 6D (quality control and handover) are on track. 
We are seeing professional use of digital construction on projects 
such as the museum V&A Dundee in Scotland; the Museum of the 
Future in Dubai; the gravity-based foundations for Blyth Offshore; 
the Driebergen-Zeist railway station in the Netherlands; the 
Children’s Hospital in Dublin in Ireland. And developments in the 
area of VR/AR, such as the development and use of an augmented 
reality app for BAM FM, which is being used in projects like Zaans 
Medisch Centrum in the Netherlands, are very promising.
BAM’s startup named b.Home continued its development of the 
digital platform that will bring together the full construction value 
chain (including users of the projects to be build). In 2017 the 
startup launched its first minimum viable product for the platform 
and executed the first transactions over the platform to validate 
its value generation assumptions.
Differentiating capabilities
BAM’s differentiating capabilities and operating model are being 
sharpened, with a focus on employee training and development 
and setting minimum requirements. The operating companies are 
improving their systems, knowledge and expertise for data-driven 
project selection, tendering and execution. At the same time, 
Group synergies are being leveraged in areas such as business 
controls, information management, digital construction, strategic 
sourcing and partnerships, enhancing local entrepreneurship to 
serve clients. The Group has a blueprint target-operating model 
around strategic enablers and gradually aligns core processes in 
accordance with these enablers.
Performance 
The business planning and performance review process is 
integrated with the strategic planning process for all operating 
companies and business functions, ensuring full alignment of 
business planning initiatives across the Group. In 2017, BAM’s 
operating companies agreed to harmonise and coordinate the 
tools used to record their sales funnels in order to learn from each 
other and to facilitate collaboration within the Group. 
Operating companies strengthened their collaboration in many 
fields to optimise the offering for BAM’s clients. This resulted in 
the awarding of several prestigious projects such as the Children’s 
Hospital in Dublin, the Museum of the Future in Dubai and a new 
sealock in Terneuzen and the redevelopment of the former 
Bijlmerbajes prison in the suburb of Amsterdam.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 29 Integrated Report 2017Alignment BAM’s strategy with Sustainable 
Development Goals
BAM values alignment of its strategy with regard to the 
UN-adopted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 17 goals that 
serve as a roadmap for good growth by 2030. In 2016 BAM 
evaluated the key areas of alignment of the goals with its people 
and planet strategy and the relevant stakeholder material themes 
(see  graph 8).
BAM’s business potentially impacts all of the SDGs. However, 
some have more direct influence within current markets, given 
the nature of its business. BAM has subsequently considered these 
global issues in relation to its 2020 strategy and has identified key 
focus areas where progress will be monitored going forward. 
BAM  therefore strives to make a positive contribution to seven 
SDGs in particular, because these best fit in with its strategy.
BAM has a seat in the United Nations Environmental Programme 
steering committee for Buildings and Construction, in order to 
move forward the SDG’s in construction.
Sven Matthijsens, Interbuild
 ‘It’s really satisfying to know you have delivered what 
you promised’, says Sven Matthijsens, Project Manager 
at Interbuild. The first project I ever managed was the 
construction of a retirement centre. The planning 
schedule was extremely tight, but we worked night and 
day and handed over the building as per schedule. The 
average time to complete a construction project is 
about two years, and there is zero chance of things ever 
being routine and boring. Each day you see tangible 
results of your efforts. For me, that is highly motivating.’ 
‘In construction things are 
never routine nor boring’
7 - Targets 2020
Net positive
impact
(2050)Safety
benchmark
IF < 3.5Adjusted
pre tax margin
2-4%Property
< €500m
TWC < -10%ROCE 
> 10%
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 30 Integrated Report 2017BAM International has a certified diving team, stationed  
in Dubai and on hand to move projects forward 24/7. 
The volume of underwater work on the Jebel Ali Terminal 
project warranted the establishment of an in-house diving 
team. The investment in recruitment and certification pays 
out in terms of efficiency and cost control for BAM and its 
clients. 
Royal BAM Group nv 31 Integrated Report 20178 - Sustainable Development Goals - key focus areas and alignment with 2050 ‘net positive’ strategy (see more at page 30)
Sustainable development goal BAM’s strategy 2016-2020: aspiring to net positive Current alignment with SDG goals Planned activities by 2020
Ensure healthy lives and promote 
wellbeing for all at all agesEnhancing lives This target is about making a real and positive 
difference to the lives of people BAM comes 
into contact with through its work• Healthy workspaces for employees
• Provide employees access to health benefits, including mental health
• Create a culture of giving through community and charity partnerships• Develop methodologies to increase indoor air  
quality and eradicate polluting sources/materials
• Increase support across BAM on health and wellbeing 
activities  
 (Chapter 3.2 Social performance)
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote life-long  
learning opportunities for allEnhancing lives This target is about making a real and positive 
difference to the lives of people BAM comes 
into contact with through its work• Apprenticeships and getting people back into work
• Encourage good training for our workforce (direct and indirect)
• Work with schools and educational institutes to strengthen industry 
specific skills
• Show career opportunities and routes to enter the construction business• Increase diversity and equality in workforce 
• Enhance 1 million lives by 2020  
 (Chapter 3.2 Social performance)
Promote sustained, inclusive and 
sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment and decent 
work for allEnhancing lives and resource 
positiveThis target is about about building sustainable 
workforces within BAM and through our 
supply chains• Promote careers in the industry to a diverse group of people
• Support unemployed people to take steps towards employment
• Work with suppliers and sub-contractors to encourage them to develop 
new ways of working which encourage a diverse mix of people to enter 
employment with them• Proactively recruit people into the industry from a 
diverse base
• Promote to use responsible sourcing schemes for more 
materials  
  (Chapters 3.2 Social performance, 3.3 Environmental 
performance)
Build resilient infrastructure, promote 
inclusive and sustainable 
industrialisation and foster innovationClimate positive and resource 
positiveBAM aims to have a net positive impact on 
resources and climate• Research and development and innovation programs to foster 
collaboration
• Investment in digitalisation and working with BAM’s supply chain
• Realising the benefits of circular economic business models• Value creation and business growth by pursuing new  
business opportunities
• Development of circular economic business models  
  (Chapters 2.1 Business model, 3.3 Environmental 
performance)
Make cities and human settlements 
inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainableResource positive Work towards eliminating waste throughout 
the lifecycle of construction projects and 
integrated developments• Waste reduction strategies in place for all of BAM’s key projects
• Health and safety strategy implemented• Work with industry partners towards achieving zero 
construction waste
• Encourage our stakeholders to reduce waste by taking 
a life cycle approach  
 (Chapter 3.3 Environmental performance)
Ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patternsResource positive Contribute to restoring natural resources. 
Adopt principles of the circular economy• Advise BAM’s clients and project partners of options to increase 
productivity of materials, products and components throughout the  
lifecycle• Development of circular products and services across 
the Group by 2020  
 (Chapter 3.3 Environmental performance)
Take urgent action to combat climate 
change and its impactsClimate positive Deliver products and services which 
contribute to wider emission reductions• Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction strategies for BAM’s key operations
• Developing assets which are low or zero carbon (or improve existing 
assets)
• Deliver a reduction in lifecycle carbon impacts of buildings and 
infrastructure (through material selection, design and asset 
management)• Produce a baseline analysis of scope 3 emissions
• Work with supply chain to reduce overall impact on 
climate change
• Create new energy solutions for clients and partners to 
reduce reliance on fossil fuels  
 (Chapter 3.3 Environmental performance)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 32 Integrated Report 2017The United Nations published the SDGs in September 2015. In total 17 Goals and 169 targets, BAM shows its alignment with the 
SDGs and depicts the goals where BAM has a high level of influence to make a positive contribution.8 - Sustainable Development Goals - key focus areas and alignment with 2050 ‘net positive’ strategy (see more at page 30)
Sustainable development goal BAM’s strategy 2016-2020: aspiring to net positive Current alignment with SDG goals Planned activities by 2020
Ensure healthy lives and promote 
wellbeing for all at all agesEnhancing lives This target is about making a real and positive 
difference to the lives of people BAM comes 
into contact with through its work• Healthy workspaces for employees
• Provide employees access to health benefits, including mental health
• Create a culture of giving through community and charity partnerships• Develop methodologies to increase indoor air  
quality and eradicate polluting sources/materials
• Increase support across BAM on health and wellbeing 
activities  
 (Chapter 3.2 Social performance)
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote life-long  
learning opportunities for allEnhancing lives This target is about making a real and positive 
difference to the lives of people BAM comes 
into contact with through its work• Apprenticeships and getting people back into work
• Encourage good training for our workforce (direct and indirect)
• Work with schools and educational institutes to strengthen industry 
specific skills
• Show career opportunities and routes to enter the construction business• Increase diversity and equality in workforce 
• Enhance 1 million lives by 2020  
 (Chapter 3.2 Social performance)
Promote sustained, inclusive and 
sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment and decent 
work for allEnhancing lives and resource 
positiveThis target is about about building sustainable 
workforces within BAM and through our 
supply chains• Promote careers in the industry to a diverse group of people
• Support unemployed people to take steps towards employment
• Work with suppliers and sub-contractors to encourage them to develop 
new ways of working which encourage a diverse mix of people to enter 
employment with them• Proactively recruit people into the industry from a 
diverse base
• Promote to use responsible sourcing schemes for more 
materials  
  (Chapters 3.2 Social performance, 3.3 Environmental 
performance)
Build resilient infrastructure, promote 
inclusive and sustainable 
industrialisation and foster innovationClimate positive and resource 
positiveBAM aims to have a net positive impact on 
resources and climate• Research and development and innovation programs to foster 
collaboration
• Investment in digitalisation and working with BAM’s supply chain
• Realising the benefits of circular economic business models• Value creation and business growth by pursuing new  
business opportunities
• Development of circular economic business models  
  (Chapters 2.1 Business model, 3.3 Environmental 
performance)
Make cities and human settlements 
inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainableResource positive Work towards eliminating waste throughout 
the lifecycle of construction projects and 
integrated developments• Waste reduction strategies in place for all of BAM’s key projects
• Health and safety strategy implemented• Work with industry partners towards achieving zero 
construction waste
• Encourage our stakeholders to reduce waste by taking 
a life cycle approach  
 (Chapter 3.3 Environmental performance)
Ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patternsResource positive Contribute to restoring natural resources. 
Adopt principles of the circular economy• Advise BAM’s clients and project partners of options to increase 
productivity of materials, products and components throughout the  
lifecycle• Development of circular products and services across 
the Group by 2020  
 (Chapter 3.3 Environmental performance)
Take urgent action to combat climate 
change and its impactsClimate positive Deliver products and services which 
contribute to wider emission reductions• Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction strategies for BAM’s key operations
• Developing assets which are low or zero carbon (or improve existing 
assets)
• Deliver a reduction in lifecycle carbon impacts of buildings and 
infrastructure (through material selection, design and asset 
management)• Produce a baseline analysis of scope 3 emissions
• Work with supply chain to reduce overall impact on 
climate change
• Create new energy solutions for clients and partners to 
reduce reliance on fossil fuels  
 (Chapter 3.3 Environmental performance)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 33 Integrated Report 20172.3 Stakeholder engagement and material themes
Suppliers and subcontractors
BAM’s procurement officers are in daily contact with suppliers and 
subcontractors to discuss health and safety, among other things. 
Circular economy practices and waste-reducing activities are also 
increasingly being discussed. Supply chain partners are 
increasingly involved in the early stages of the bidding process 
and in the development and planning of BAM projects through 
lean planning meetings. This optimises the efficiency of the 
construction programme via the value chain. By involving its 
partners in the supply chain, BAM invests in relationships. 
Society
By its nature, the construction and civil engineering works of BAM 
have an impact on local communities, residents and other users of 
buildings and on infrastructure and society as a whole. Main 
discussion points differ per governmental body, but health and 
safety as well as human rights are common. Chapter 4 of this 
report describes BAM’s results and provides examples of its 
activities for social involvement in 2017. BAM’s target of 
improving a million lives shows its ambition to increase its positive 
impact on the social level.
Regulators 
By delivering projects, BAM is in constant contact with local 
government authorities about issuing permits, compliance with 
regulations and monitoring its activities.
BAM is involved in many governmental initiatives including several 
Green Deals in the Netherlands. BAM Nuttall and BAM Construct UK 
are members of the UK Green Building Council. BAM aims to 
engage regulators in issues such as carbon-free buildings, carbon 
impact in the infrastructure lifecycle and other sustainability-
related issues within the built environment.
Multi-stakeholder dialogue
In addition to its engagements with different stakeholders across 
its operating companies, the Group organises annual multi-
stakeholder meetings hosted by BAM’s CEO. Both local smaller 
parties and managers of international stakeholders and 
government agencies and institutions have been present. These 
meetings are used not only to present and check BAM’s strategy 
to and with all parties directly or indirectly involved, but more 
importantly to jointly discuss cross industry trends and 
movements throughout the entire construction value chain. 
In 2017 BAM organised its stakeholder meeting with the theme 
‘Creating value through cooperation’. The stakeholders selected 
for the dialogue were some 60 representatives of clients, financial 
institutions, suppliers, architects, startups, NGOs, and knowledge 
institutes that are actively involved with BAM activities. BAM 
executives and internal stakeholders from the BAM operating 
companies also took part in the meeting.Stakeholder engagement
BAM recognises that real business benefits can only be achieved 
by involving all stakeholders in the process. In 2017, BAM met with 
its customers, main suppliers and other stakeholders in a 
multi-stakeholder forum, with the aim of further aligning BAM’s 
policy with the wishes of stakeholders.
The Group has defined its stakeholders as those groups which 
significantly influence or are influenced by the economic, 
environmental and social performance of BAM. The Group has 
identified its stakeholders based on the risks and opportunities for 
its business performance, strategy execution and strategic 
objectives.
BAM continuously engages with its stakeholders to understand 
their priorities and concerns through benchmarking, sector 
meetings, client surveys and direct contacts. BAM’s key stakeholder 
groups, and its interactions with those stakeholders are:
Clients
BAM is in daily conversation with its clients about project 
expectations and projections. In addition, BAM organises client 
meetings to share knowledge, best practices and innovation 
within its value chain. Some customers have developed their own 
sustainability benchmarks, including government implementing 
organisation ProRail, responsible for the maintenance and 
expansion of the Dutch railway infrastructure, with its CO2 
performance ladder.
Positioning on the ladder forms part of the tender evaluation 
process and and has a positive influence on BAM’s ability to win 
contracts. It is therefore important that BAM remains informed of 
and proactively responds to these and similar initiatives.
Providers of financial capital
Communication with investors, financial institutions and the 
financial community in general is actively pursued and usually 
takes place through meetings, project visits, road shows, 
seminars, presentations, investment meetings and press releases. 
The main recurring topics of discussion are financial performance, 
transparency and control. All dates and locations of road shows, 
seminars and other investor relations activities are published on 
the BAM website. The Group has also been responding to CDP’s 
investor information requests since 2008.
Employees
BAM’s employees are the company’s most important asset. As 
part of BAM’s performance management process, the personal 
learning and development plans of employees are evaluated 
annually between manager and employee. The most important 
discussion points are development plans and expectations. BAM 
also has active works councils within the operating companies to 
discuss organisational changes and other related matters. For 
younger employees in the Netherlands and in the United Kingdom 
‘Young BAM’ commitees organise events to learn about projects 
and inspire to provide feedback.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 34 Integrated Report 2017One of the operating rooms for Equipe’s health clinic in 
Eindhoven, the Netherlands, realised by Interflow, the 
clean air specialists of BAM Bouw en Techniek.
Royal BAM Group nv 35 Integrated Report 2017At this year’s meeting, BAM used an interactive voting tool to 
allow all participants in the programme to express their opinions 
on the topics discussed. The programme consisted, among other 
things, of project-oriented interviews and an interactive panel 
interface. The interviews were conducted with both a client and a 
BAM representative and with the subject of how open 
collaboration could improve the value of the projects and the 
relationship between BAM and its clients. The panel consisted of a 
governmental client, a supplier, a digital partner and the CEO of 
BAM, and focused on the following themes:
• Digitalisation in the (pre-)building process. Items discussed 
were the possible differing motivation of different stakeholders 
in going digital. Conclusion: the industry is in a transition phase;
• Sustainable processes leading to a sustainable world. The 
conclusion for this theme was that taking too large steps may 
lead to paralysis. Start small and together (client-contractor) 
and test before scale-up;
• End user involvement: this remains a challenge in industry due 
to the scale of projects;
 The conclusions of the multi-stakeholder dialogue are shared with 
relevant BAM colleagues to ensure that the lessons learned are 
used in practice. Material themes
As part of the development of the strategic agenda for 2016-2020, 
the Group carried out a materiality assessment. Material themes 
are themes that significantly influence BAM’s ability to create 
value in the short, medium and long term.
As a first step in the process of identifying material themes, BAM 
selected relevant issues from a long list of topics based on their 
ability to influence financial, environmental and social value 
creation for BAM’s stakeholders. This longlist included aspects 
derived from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Group’s 
strategy, the results of research into stakeholders’ interests and 
feedback from stakeholder dialogues and general meetings of 
shareholders.
Subsequently, a groupwide selection of BAM employees assessed 
the importance of these relevant matters on their known or 
potential effects on the activities, products, services and 
relationships of BAM, both within and outside BAM, in the 
timeframe 2016-2020. ‘Effect’ within BAM was defined as ‘impact 
on BAM’s success’.Impact on stakeholders 
The dot size represents 
the impact of BAM’s performance on society (manipulated for graphical reason). Large dot size reﬂects high impact on society.
Impact on BAM2345
2 3 4 5employee recruitment,
development and retention
ﬁnancial performanceproject and product 
quality and control
health and safetybusiness conduct and transparencyinnovation
procurement strategy
local communityengagement
human rightscircular economy
energy and emissions
fair tax9 - Materiality matrix
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 36 Integrated Report 2017open collaboration and accountability regarding the Group’s 
safety targets and focuses on a predictable safety performance on 
leadership, culture and behaviour. 
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance. 
Project and product quality and control
Definition: Quality of the tender process, efficient project 
management and effective project execution with the aim to 
meet or exceed the expectations of the customer.
Impact:  In order to exceed customer expectations, BAM must 
continuously improve the experienced performance of BAM’s 
products. Product quality means that BAM does what it has 
promised to do, within budget and on time. Operational 
performance is crucial for achieving the right level of financial and 
non-financial results for construction projects.
Management approach:  BAM has the tender prpocess focused 
on quality of its tenders in order to guarantee the current and 
future results of construction projects.
The evaluation of the internal governance framework has resulted 
in the updating of the business principles and management 
guidelines, including the strengthening of project selection and 
BAM’s tender process for large and high-risk projects. In 
connection with this development, peer reviews are carried out 
on project estimates under the leadership of the Tender Desk 
Director.
In order to comply with product responsibility, BAM assures that 
projects where its operating companies are responsible for design 
and construction are certified. In other projects (PPP projects) 
BAM uses verification and validation methods. Each operating 
company has a quality manager who is responsible for the quality 
control of the operating company’s processes. 
System audits are conducted by third parties. On all levels, 
outcomes are assessed by the senior management of BAM’s 
operating companies. 
 For BAM’s performance, see chapters 2.2 Strategy and 2.4 Risk 
management.
Business conduct and transparency
Definition: Openness and compliance with generally accepted 
standards and values and compliance with local legal and other 
rules and regulations, in particular with regard to the acquisition 
and execution of contracts.
Impact:  BAM’s reputation and licence to operate depend on 
responsible business conduct, by stimulating dialogue about 
dilemmas. Ensuring compliance with anti-corruption legislation 
improves efficiency through lower transaction costs for BAM and 
its stakeholders. Moreover, BAM is of the opinion that doing 
business honestly is of vital importance for the strengthening of 
the competitive position of both BAM and BAM’s partners. 
Competitive behaviour contributes to innovation and 
collaboration. It creates an environment in which the best 
products will win and in which BAM’s clients will get the best Stakeholders were asked to identify and prioritise the potential 
impact of these matters on themselves and on society. Most 
relevant for the clients group were ‘health and safety’ and ‘project 
and product quality and control’. The group of employees 
specifically indicated ‘employee recruitment, development and 
retention’ as a material theme. Providers of financial capital 
indicated that BAM’s performance on ‘project and product quality 
and control’ is most relevant to their organisations, next to 
‘business conduct and transparency’. BAM’s subcontractors and 
suppliers as well as the Group representing society – NGOs, 
government and knowledge institutes – specifically indicated 
‘business conduct and transparency’ as the most material theme. 
They were also asked to introduce and assess matters that were 
missing in BAM’s original materiality assessment. A topic that was 
added as important was ‘supplier environmental assessment’. 
BAM already has tools for assessing suppliers and will pay even 
more attention to purchasing in the coming year.
The stakeholders that were invited to the stakeholder dialogue 
were asked to fill out a materiality survey. 
The materiality matrix displays the prioritisation of the matters 
based on their relative importance to BAM and to BAM’s 
stakeholders. It should be noted that opinions of various 
stakeholders and appreciation in BAM’s home markets may vary.
This report has been structured according to the material themes. 
It addresses BAM’s performance in relation to the following topics 
that are positioned in the materiality matrix:
Health and safety
Definition: Health and safety (zero accidents) of all employees 
and subcontractors and everyone involved with BAM’s activities, 
including the general public.
Impact:  ‘BAM borrows its employees from their families’, is how 
BAM expresses its responsibility for everyone who works with and 
for BAM. There is nothing more important than everyone 
returning home safely. Health and safety at work contribute to the 
satisfaction of the employees of the Group and their family 
members, BAM’s subcontractors, its supply partners and others 
involved in BAM’s construction sites. Safety also affects BAM’s 
clients and BAM’s reputation.
Management approach:  BAM has developed a Groupwide 
guideline for safety management. All safety management systems 
from operational companies must comply with this framework.
Meeting the strategy means focusing on the quality of the 
underlying goals: striving for the ambition ‘zero accidents’ every 
day is the goal for safety. Zero accidents means the mind-set 
(intrinsic motivation) and the true belief that it is feasible to create 
a safe working environment that means ‘everyone at home safely 
every day!’. To create a change in safety ladership, in the first 
quarter of 2017 BAM installed a Safety Leadership Team consisting 
of a representation of BAM’s managing directors and the Group’s 
Corporate Safety Officer. This team shows proactive ownership, 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 37 Integrated Report 2017Financial performance
Definition: Overall financial health, including balance sheet, profit 
and loss, property divestment and working capital improvement. 
Impact:  A healthy financial performance provides BAM with the 
means to undertake transactions with its supply chain partners, 
leading to the possibility to develop new activities and to pay 
BAM’s employees and shareholders.
Management approach:  Constant attention is paid to 
strengthening BAM’s balance sheet and net results by improving 
financial processes to ensure a solid track record of project 
execution and margin stability, including rigorous monitoring of 
the cost base in line with BAM’s portfolio. Other key elements are 
working capital management and the execution of a property 
divestment programme.
 Example KPI: Return on capital employed (ROCE) >10 per cent by 
2020. For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance.
Employee recruitment, development and retention 
Definition: Encourage employees to use their skills, abilities and 
experience in a way that adds value to the company and delivers 
personal growth, technical innovation and profit.
Impact:  BAM increases its intellectual capital and the human 
capital of its stakeholders by investing in employee development. 
Although the impact of the development of employees on society 
in general is minimal, it is much greater within BAM, where it 
contributes to the involvement of employees and lifelong 
learning. BAM recognises the importance of Groupwide 
development and implementation of the talent strategy and 
agenda, succession planning and internal mobility, based on 
BAM’s organisational development and strategic objectives.
Talent management allows BAM to attract, develop, motivate and 
retain productive, engaged employees, now and in the future.
BAM is committed to the principles of equal opportunity and 
diversity. The Group believes that diverse teams are better aligned 
with the wishes and expectations of its clients and to society in all 
BAM markets. In line with its vision on diversity, BAM wants to 
attract people with different profiles and backgrounds to build 
teams that are suitable for future challenges and will contribute to 
the achievement of BAM’s strategic goals.
Management approach:  The Group’s development approach is 
aimed at encouraging employees to take their development into 
their own hands, with the manager/company taking on a 
supporting and facilitating role. The employee’s personal 
development is recorded in a personal learning and development 
plan. These plans are evaluated annually between manager and 
employee. BAM offers employees various tools that can be used in 
their personal development, and which are all accessible via the 
internal My BAM Career site. With the BAM Business School, BAM 
offers an integrated approach to support employees in achieving 
their goals. The training portfolio enables employees to keep up 
with their professional knowledge and to further develop the products for the best price. The Group believes that by providing 
financial and non-financial information on the achievement of 
BAM’s strategic goals, it can continuously improve the reporting 
process as well as its performance.
Management approach:  For BAM, it is fundamental to comply 
with generally accepted standards and values but also with local 
legal and other rules and regulations, particularly with respect to 
the acquisition and performance of contracts. This is set out in the 
Group’s core values, the code of conduct and ajoining policies 
such as those relating to bribery, corruption and competition. All 
employees must act honestly, comply with agreements and deal 
carefully with customers and business partners, including 
suppliers and subcontractors. The Executive Board encourages 
this compliance, which is continuously evaluated in order to make 
integrity a fundamental part of the daily activities. The Group has 
an enhanced Speak up policy with an external reporting line, so 
that breaches of the code and policy can be reported through 
various channels. This policy is easily accessible to employees (e.g. 
on the intranet) and there is frequent communication around the 
themes. Compliance officers monitor compliance and advise on 
integrity issues.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Claire Brittain, BAM Construct UK
Claire Brittain, Assistant Site Manager at BAM 
Construct  UK: ‘Construction sites can be challenging 
when dealing with issues such as materials or labour 
delays, but I love having that challenge as it really 
pushes you. There’s no doubt that you can be a woman, 
have children and have a career in construction. I 
receive exceptional training and support at BAM and 
I’m so glad I continued with my education and never 
gave up on my dream career.’
 ‘I receive exceptional 
training’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 38 Integrated Report 2017 Example KPI: To be included in CDP Climate A list Leadership. For 
BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.3 Environmental performance.
Circular economy
Definition: An economy which aims to keep materials, components 
and products at their highest utility and value, at all times.
Impact:  BAM has a continuous need for raw materials, water and 
energy. This means that primary processes are influenced by the 
increasing volatility of raw materials and energy prices. The 
products made by the Group must also comply with current and 
future requirements, with particular attention to the significant 
influence of changing laws and regulations. 
Waste production influcences BAM’s licence to operate and is an 
indicator for the efficiency of the business processes. In addition, 
waste products lead to costs due to the low value of residual 
material. Approximately 25-30 per cent of the total demolition 
and construction waste in the EU is generated by the construction 
process. Being a large construction company, the Group’s waste 
production has an impact on society. Since about 83 per cent of 
all the material is recycled, it involves large quantities that have to 
be reused. BAM has identified opportunities for innovation on the 
basis of changing customer requests, especially with regard to 
greater attention for the recycling of materials and the use of 
sustainable materials, including wood from sustainable forests.
Management approach:  First, BAM is innovating to reduce 
material consumption during the design process. The Group 
works with its supply chain partners to identify more sustainable 
alternatives for production and operational processes, both 
upstream and downstream. BAM focuses on improving the 
recycling potential of materials and renewable materials by asking 
its most important suppliers to provide insight into their origin. 
BAM has set targets for waste reduction, waste recycling and 
responsible sourcing. The Group monitors and benchmarks 
progress on these targets on a quarterly basis for various activities 
within the company. BAM is also the only major construction 
member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s CE100 programme, 
which promotes the circular economy.
 Example KPI: source 100 per cent sustainable timber by 2020. 
For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.3 Environmental 
performance.broader skills related to their role and career paths. Courses 
include topics like integrity, entrepreneurship, commerce, new 
contract forms, project- and risk management, procurement and 
financial management. The Group aims to foster an open culture 
of learning and exchanging knowledge in the form of training and 
education, building on the knowledge and expertise available.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Energy and emissions
Definition: Energy consumption for BAM’s direct activities and 
the entire lifecycle of its products, and the CO2 emissions as a 
result of this energy consumption.
Impact:  The Group’s energy consumption contributes to a 
significant amount of its costs and is an indicator of the efficiency 
of its processes. The construction industry has a high energy 
consumption compared to others, therefore BAM’s energy use has 
a major impact on society. Buildings represent about 40 per cent 
of energy demand in the European Union (EU). The renovation of 
existing buildings represents more than 17 per cent of the 
estimated primary energy saving potential within the EU up to 
2050. In terms of energy and emissions, BAM can create value by 
building energy efficient buildings and renovating buildings 
according to higher energy performance standards, since 
approximately 80 per cent of total CO2 emissions are emitted in 
through the building’s lifecycle.
Climate adaptation and mitigation options can help address 
climate change, but no single option is sufficient by itself. 
Effective implementation depends on policies and cooperation 
from governmental bodies. Urgent action is needed to 
significantly reduce GHG emissions and BAM supports global 
developments like the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (see 
chapter 2.2 Strategy for BAM’s alignment), the Paris Agreement 
and the EU Emissions Trading System.
Management approach:  BAM innovates and works with value 
chain partners to identify possible reductions in both upstream 
and downstream manufacturing and operational processes.
BAM has calculated its carbon footprint in order to identify the 
main influences and therefore the key areas for potential 
reduction of emissions. The Group has set targets for both 
absolute and relative reduction of emissions. BAM monitors and 
benchmarks progress on these targets on a quarterly basis for 
different activities within the company. The Company focuses on 
reducing its direct CO2 emissions by lowering energy consumption 
during the construction process. The Group also maintains its 
efforts to use higher proportions of renewable energy. By joining 
the Dutch Climate Coalition (Nederlandse Klimaat Coalitie), BAM 
has committed to: 
• Having climate-neutral operations by 2050 at the latest; 
• Providing insights into its carbon footprint; 
• Setting interim targets for climate neutrality; 
• Becoming an ambassador of the Dutch Climate Coalition within 
the construction industry.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 39 Integrated Report 2017interact with the supply chain on a regular basis, thereby creating 
the possibility to challenge each other to learn, innovate and 
improve its joint performance to the client. Based on the level of 
the relationship, there are different types of suppliers and 
subcontractors, such as preferred suppliers, partners and 
co-makers. Based on the challenges in client markets, 
development in the supply chain and performance of the suppliers 
and subcontractors, the position and role of the suppliers and 
subcontractors can change. The challenge is, on the one hand, to 
select up-front supply chain partners, products and services that 
really make a difference to the value proposition of BAM, and on 
the other hand let go of suppliers and subcontractors who 
add value. Apart from a more standardised due dilligence, 
suppliers are assessed against five different themes: safety, 
quality, total cost, logistics and engineering and process. If  they 
score below the required level, BAM starts a dialogue to improve 
their performance. If they are not willing and/or able to improve 
their performance, they will be excluded from future work with 
BAM.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Innovation
Definition: The creation of new viable business offerings. 
Impact:  Innovation influences the ability to adapt to changing 
market needs and competitiveness in relation to current 
competition and future newcomers to the BAM market. Digital 
construction is a main theme within BAM’s innovation agenda. 
The benefits of digital construction for BAM and its stakeholders 
are higher resource productivity, end-user value, sustainability 
and outcome predictability. 
Management approach:  BAM shapes its future portfolio over two 
tracks. Both tracks are supported by an organisation and a lively 
ecosystem for innovation. In both tracks BAM focuses strongly on 
digital innovation.
• Track one, ‘Business innovation’, follows an innovation stage 
gate-process to improve and align BAM’s current innovation 
portfolio.
• Track two, ‘Scaling edges’, uses scalable learning and sprint 
methodology to develop and scale new business offerings at 
the edges of BAM’s current business. 
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 2.2 Strategy.Local community engagement
Definition: The relationships with the communities surrounding 
BAM’s activities.
Impact:  By its very nature, the Group’s construction and renovation 
work has an impact on the local community, residents and other 
users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a whole. 
Community engagement affects the Group’s licence to operate and 
enables BAM to build faster, leading directly to results. The Group’s 
impact on its surroundings immediately affects its employees and 
local suppliers. And BAM’s community engagement improves jobs 
and education in its environment, contributing to society as well. 
This requires a constant focus on everything BAM does to minimise 
the Group’s negative impact and create value for local communities 
by implementing community engagement programmes. 
Involvement of people from diverse backgrounds provides an 
opportunity to create social value. BAM actively supports Social 
Return, providing work for people who are unemployed for various 
reasons, for example due to poor education, health issues and 
people with disabilities. Through the support of BAM, these people 
benefit from social return initiatives.Initiatives such as these can be 
defined as providing ‘social return on investment’.
Management approach:  For many of its projects, BAM identifies 
the local interests and, on that basis, chooses the best approach 
to increase the license to operate, which may mean that BAM 
participates in local events. BAM also participates in the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme in the United Kingdom, as well 
as its Dutch equivalent (Bewuste Bouwers).
 Example KPI: Enhance one million lives in local communities by 
2020. For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Procurement strategy
Definition: Selecting suppliers and subcontractors and 
stimulating them to practise their skills and improve their 
products in a way that adds long-term value to BAM and its clients 
as well as the suppliers and subcontractors, providing process and 
product innovation and profit.
Impact:  Labour policies of the Group’s suppliers and 
subcontractors can affect BAM’s reputation. Loss of reputation 
can lead to less work. The suppliers and subcontractors of the 
Group must at least adapt their policies to the BAM standards in 
order to be able to work for the company.  
As a result, these standards also have a positive influence outside 
the Group.
Management approach:  To integrate the development of the 
Group’s supply chain and its values, BAM strives for added value, 
long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with partners that can 
help to improve the Group’s supply chain. In order to achieve this, 
BAM is developing selected groups of suppliers and 
subcontractors on different levels – unit, operating company, 
country and Group level – within BAM. By having a preferred 
group of suppliers and subcontractors BAM is able to further 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 40 Integrated Report 2017Royal BAM Group nv 41 Integrated Report 2017BAM Construct UK delivered No.1 Spinningfields  
– the tallest commercial office building in Manchester – 
within just 106 weeks. Architects: SimpsonHaugh.
Royal BAM Group nv 42 Integrated Report 2017Fair tax
Definition: Compliance to the letter and spirit of tax laws 
resulting in paying an appropriate amount of tax according to 
where value is created within the normal course of and being 
transparent about approach and outcome.
Impact:  Tax is a relevant subject for BAM and its stakeholders.
Tax payments to governments can contribute to the development 
of countries. On the other hand, optimisation of taxes is in the 
interest of the company and its financial position.
Management approach:  Therefore, BAM strives to come to a 
responsible approach to tax and supports it as an integral part of 
its sustainability agenda.
BAM’s tax policy statement is published on the website  
www.bam.com.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance. Human rights
Definition: Ensuring compliance within the entire value chain 
regarding the basic rights and freedoms to which all humans are 
considered to be entitled, often held to include the rights to 
equality, a fair trial, freedom from slavery and freedom of thought 
and expression.
Impact:  Human rights practices within BAM and its supply chain 
affect the reputation of the Group and are associated with the risk 
of losing work. Subcontractors have to bring their practices up to 
at least BAM standards to be able to work for the company and in 
doing so will have a positive influence outside of the Group as well. 
Management approach:  BAM signed a framework agreement 
with Building and Wood Workers’ International (BWI), to promote 
and protect employee rights. By signing the agreement BAM 
agreed to recognise and respect:
• The fundamental principles of human rights as defined in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
• The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work;
• The ILO Conventions in force;
• The ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning 
Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy;
• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Within the agreement, BAM also endorses the need for fair 
negotiations with national trade unions and acknowledges that 
corruption, bribery and anti-competitive behaviour are not 
acceptable. Regular meetings are held with management 
representatives from BAM and trade union organisations, 
including BWI, to monitor implementation of the agreement. 
Subcontractors must comply with labour conditions as stated in 
BAM’s purchasing conditions.
 
The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires all larger companies to 
prepare a statement of its activities in this area. Both BAM 
Construct UK and BAM Nuttall have initiated working groups and 
are working towards developing their approaches.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 43 Integrated Report 20172.4 Risk management
Operations: BAM seeks to limit the risks that may jeopardise the 
execution of its business activities.
Finance: BAM strives to maintain a solid financial position for 
ensuring access to the financial markets and retaining its 
customers, supply chain and other partners. BAM has a low risk 
appetite in relation to financial reporting risks.
Compliance: Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations 
including BAM’s code of conduct is of fundamental importance for 
the Group.
Risk appetite statements are further underpinned by our strategic 
agenda, governance, core values, code of conduct and policies 
and procedures. 
Improvements to the risk management framework
In 2017 BAM further strengthened its enterprise risk 
management. The enterprise risk management is embedded in 
different levels of the organisation and has various areas of 
attention. The core of BAM’s risk management at project level 
covers the full lifecycle of the project, from opportunity to 
tendering, and from execution to handover. BAM has further 
strengthened the risk management tools and business intelligence 
in these areas to improve predictability. In addition, the Group has 
further structured corporate risk management at strategic and 
management level by more indepth risk focus and assessment. 
BAM continues to improve its risk management capabilities in 
order to realise the strategic agenda and guarantee value creation 
in the long term.Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the 
Group is exposed is not unusual or different from what is 
considered acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk 
management system is designed to identify and manage risks. 
Effective risk management enables BAM to capitalise on 
opportunities in a carefully controlled way.
Risk profile and appetite
The focus areas of BAM’s strategy Building the present, creating 
the future have a positive impact on the risk profile of the Group. 
In the current project and business portfolio, BAM has a more 
disciplined focus on market segments and projects where the 
company can use either scale or expertise as a critical success 
factor. For the future business portfolio, BAM is rationalising its 
propositions and developing of new solutions for clients and is 
investing in digitalisation to be an industry leader in how and what 
BAM builds. The new strategy also places a stronger emphasis on 
cultural values, to further support the brand and the strategy of 
BAM. Risk appetite is defined as the level at which BAM is willing 
to accept risk in the ordinary course of business in order to achieve 
its objectives. The general willingness of the Group to run risks in 
rather low, taking into account the sector in which managing risk 
is a necessary core competence to survive and to carry out 
sustainable business.
Key factors in determining risk appetite are the risk categories: 
Strategy: Based on knowledge and experience in the home 
markets, BAM participates in tenders for complex 
multidisciplinary projects, in which the risks are distributed in a 
controlled manner between the customer and BAM. Outside the 
home markets, BAM operates worldwide in niche areas, provided 
they are in line with the Group’s business principles. In PPP 
investments, BAM only invests in Design Build Finance Maintain 
Operate contracts in home markets where payments are based on 
availability of the asset, excluding volume related risks. BAM 
invests in property development projects on condition that they 
are profitable and have a clear and profitable exit strategy that 
has been defined in advance.10 - Main risk areas
Market
TransformationSafety
ReputationPeople Supply chain
ProjectInformation
technology
InnovationFinancial
SustainabilityProperty 
development
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 44 Integrated Report 2017Damers First School, Poundbury, was officially opened by  
HRH Prince of Wales on 27 November 2017. BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 45 Integrated Report 2017New Scotland Yard, the Metropolitan Police Service 
headquarters on Victoria Embankment. BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 46 Integrated Report 2017BAM’s risk management framework
At group level, the BAM strategy is the starting point. The Group’s 
strategy offers guidance on focusing the project portfolio (Doing 
Things Better), shaping the business portfolio (Doing Better Things) 
and the creation of the future portfolio (Doing New Things).  
These areas and underlying strategic objectives and initiatives 
form the basis for the focus on enterprise risk management, 
taking into account BAM’s risk appetite. The Supervisory Board 
supervises and advises the Executive Board, which has the overall 
responsibility for enterprise risk management within the Group. 
There is an annual risk assessment for the Group in relation to the 
strategic agenda and operating plans. 
BAM’s risk management framework, which is based on COSO 
(Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway 
Commission, version 2017), addresses strategic, operational, 
financial and compliance risks. Risks are assessed and prioritised 
on their impact and probability and on effectiveness of the 
controls. The cycle is concluded with a risk response and 
monitoring of effectiveness in the organisation. The Executive 
Board receives progress updates on the status of the strategic 
objectives, initiatives and leading indicators through dashboards 
in periodic reports and in management meetings. This is also 
periodically shared with the Supervisory Board.
At the operating company level, management of the portfolio and 
tender management is essential for a healthy order intake and 
supervises a tender in various phases. BAM focuses on data-driven 
tendering where there is a close link between the sales funnel, 
tendering and execution. Lessons learned during the 
implementation are used for tender selection and for improving 
the stage gate database. The management of the operating 
companies closely monitors the progress of projects, the risks and 
the opportunities and actions goning forward in periodic reports 
and in project and management meetings.
At project level, the project team wants to manage the contract 
and the expectations of customers in the most effective and 
efficient way, by forming the right team that can make this 
possible and choosing the right tools and capabilities to support 
them. Digital construction is one of the means to minimise risk 
and cost. In addition, project teams manage risks and 
opportunities, both qualitatively and quantitatively, developed in 
the tendering phase as input for the periodic reporting of project 
performance. The periodic reporting also includes a bandwidth for 
the best and worst case scenarios to be reported to senior 
management.
The risk management and control system provides a platform for 
the structured sharing of knowledge and expertise between the 
operating companies, so that risk management plays a key role in 
achieving the strategic objectives. Business functions and topics 
across the Group accelerate the process of acquiring and sharing 
knowledge and expertise through a consistent language and 
approach to risk management.11 - BAM’s risk management framework
In July 2017, Her Majesty The Queen, 
accompanied by His Royal Highness The Duke 
of Edinburgh, officially opened New Scotland 
Yard, the Metropolitan Police Service 
headquarters on Victoria Embankment, built 
by BAM Construct UK. Architects: AHMM.Scotland Yard
MarketRisk
appetite and
managementOperating
modelIn control
statementGroup
Values that guide
our behaviorHow we mana ge
projec t and 
busine ss riskBAM's w ay of
workin g and
monit oringBAM's st ructured
in control proc essOur risk capacitiesOper ating compan y
Projec t
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 47 Integrated Report 2017Operating model supporting internal control 
framework
The BAM strategy is supported by the BAM operating model that 
creates clarity and uniformity in the way the company operates. 
All key processes are identified around strategic enablers and are 
aligned with existing core processes in accordance with these 
enablers. BAM has derived its internal control framework from this 
operating model and underlying core processes and uniform 
guidelines and policies (for accounting, treasury, legal, compliance, 
information security, and so on). The internal control framework 
ensures insight in the effectiveness of internal risk management 
and control systems, as well as the reliability of the financial 
reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. Moreover, 
the internal control framework uses COSO as an external reference 
framework.
Comfort on the effectiveness of the internal control framework is 
obtained by a semi-annual assessment of the requirements in the 
framework. The Group and operating companies carry out 
self-assessments and the results are reported to the Group 
Governance Risk & Compliance function. No significant deviations 
are identified and improvement areas are defined. Most important 
improvement areas are finance, IT, procurement and project 
execution. The results of these self-assessments are challenged by 
the Group and improvement actions are discussed and monitored.
In control statement process
BAM has a structured ‘in control statement process’, resulting in 
an end-of-year ‘in control statement’ in the integrated report. The 
underlying assessments on operating company level form the 
basis for management’s accountability for the effectiveness of the 
internal control framework, together with the formal issuance of a 
statement and letter of representation to the Executive Board. 
Any deviations from the minimum requirements are highlighted, 
including identified follow-up actions to resolve these deviations. 
The Executive Board report is included in this integrated report.
Core values supporting the right risk culture
BAM’s risk management and internal control system is supported 
by BAM’s core values. These elements are instrumental in steering 
the behaviour of BAM’s people and help to ensure that BAM’s risk 
profile remains in line with the risk appetite. The Group’s culture is 
further strengthened by scalable learning from tenders and 
projects, more predictable performance, working together in 
open collaboration and ownership of challenges and 
opportunities. BAM’s people are fundamental to its success. This 
is why project and business careers are being aligned. A stronger 
culture will be promoted to make the Group more attractive as an 
employer and a partner par excellence.Insurance management
Insurance management is part of the risk management 
strategy of the Group. Insurance management is identifying 
insurable risks and buying the right insurance cover, with a 
balance between cover, cost and certainty of cover. The 
focus is on high impact events, and not on insuring frequent 
losses with low impact. All insurances are placed via 
professional insurance brokers and results are monitored at 
Group Level. All insurers have a minimum rating of S&P A-.
Within the operating company dedicated insurance 
management teams assess and insure the risks associated 
with the construction of projects. The Group sets the 
minimum requirements for insurances to be secured by the 
operating company.
Operational audit
Within BAM, the Operational Audit Department has been 
established as an objective, independent function to assess 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the control environment. 
The capacity of the audit function is focused on the main 
risks the company faces in the project business it is involved 
in. Operational audits are an important and powerful tool in 
the mitigation of project-related risks at an early stage. 
In 2017, high-risk projects throughout the Group were 
visited shortly after contract award to assess the 
effectiveness of the project control system. Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC)
Since 2017, enterprise risk management and the 
interconnected pillars related to governance and 
compliance have been further enhanced by establishing a 
new Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) function. The 
main responsibility for this role is to further evolve the GRC 
areas in line with the strategy 2016-2020. The GRC areas 
relate to the implementation and periodically recalibrating 
of BAM’s governance structure in line with market trends 
and strategic development of the Group, enhancing the 
enterprise risk management (ERM) programme and further 
develop compliance (including privacy) in accordance with 
social standards and relevant laws and regulations. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 48 Integrated Report 2017Management measures 
The Executive Board is closely steering and monitoring the 
progress of the transformation activities as defined in the 
strategic agenda and translated in the yearly operating plans. 
Furthermore, there is extensive attention for leadership to embed 
BAM’s core values and behaviour.
Safety risk
Risk description
The nature of BAM’s business can pose safety risks to its people. 
The well-being and safety of the people of BAM are of vital 
importance to the company.
Possible impact
Safety incidents may lead to serious injuries or even fatalities and 
may lead to project disturbance. Incidents may lead to loss of 
time, additional costs and as a result impact BAM’s performance.
Management measures 
The chapter ‘Stakeholder engagement and material themes’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section Health 
and Safety. 
Reputation risk
Risk description
The trust of customers, shareholders, lenders, construction 
partners and employees in the Group is vital to ensure the 
continuity of the company. 
Possible impact
BAM’s reputation may be damaged if it fails to successfully 
mitigate the main reputational risks, such as fraud, bribery and 
corruption.
Management measures 
The chapter ‘Stakeholder engagement and material themes’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section 
Business conduct and transparancy.Main risk areas
Several risk areas and measures have been identified with 
respect to BAM’s strategic objectives. Follow-up and feedback 
are part of the regular management reporting cycle. The main 
risk areas are specified on the following pages.
Market risk
Risk description
The markets in which BAM operates are subject to macro-
economic volatility and are affected by government investment 
programmes, economic recession and political developments. 
There is fierce competition in most of the Group’s home markets.
Possible impact
Limited availability of capital may lead to cancellation and 
postponement of property development, construction and PPP 
projects, putting the value of BAM’s portfolio under pressure. 
Intense competition may lead to a buyer’s market, which 
influences margins, causes a shift in design and contract risks for 
the contractor and endangers the pre-financing of projects by 
customers.
Management measures 
Because the market conditions differ per country, BAM strives for 
a diversified geographical footprint. Based on the Group’s 
strategy, BAM applies a more disciplined focus on market 
segments and projects, where it can use either scale or expertise 
as a critical success factor. For its future business portfolio, BAM 
rationalises its propositions, and thus develops new solutions for 
customers and invests in digitalisation to be a market leader in 
how and what BAM builds. BAM invested in the required 
capabilities to support the achievement of the strategic 
objectives, for example by creating or strengthening corporate 
functions in the areas strategy, digital construction, innovation 
and governance, risk and compliance, but also by harmonising 
processes and procedures. 
Transformation risk
Risk description
The re-focus within BAM following the 2016-2020 strategic 
programme Building the present, creating the future has 
influenced the way the Group wants to work. The transition to a 
new organisation involves the rationalisation of business models 
and businesses. This should involve a greater role for cooperation 
and more harmony and agility, so that BAM can follow the 
developments in the sector and be a leader in the selected 
markets.
Possible impact
BAM may not realise a successful and agile implementation of  
the Group’s strategic (One BAM) agenda, together with other 
strategic initiatives and targets.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 49 Integrated Report 2017with, among other things, the right composition of the project 
team, design management, schedule management, contract 
management, working capital management and project 
monitoring.
Supply chain risk
Risk description
On an annual basis, the Group purchases more than 70 per cent of 
its turnover from suppliers and subcontractors. These companies 
have a major impact on the projects, both financially and 
technically.
Possible impact
Failure to manage the cost of the supply chain (subcontractors, 
materials) and insufficient acces to qualified and cost-effective 
vendors has impact on succesful and profitable execution of the 
projects.
Management measures
The chapter ‘Stakeholder engagement and material themes’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section 
Procurement.
Innovation risk
Risk description
The Group’s industry is at the brink of major technological 
changes. Digital technology is beginning to change value creation 
within the construction industry where traditional capabilities 
may become commoditised.
Possible impact
Competitors or newcomers on the market can marginalise BAM’s 
distinctive capabilities and thus jeopardise the existing business 
model.
Management measures 
The chapter ‘Stakeholder engagement and material themes’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section 
Innovation.People risk 
Risk description
Attracting, training and retaining talented people is crucial for 
BAM, because it enables the Group to respond more effectively to 
changes in the market by exploiting its full potential. It is essential 
that BAM remains a preferred employer.
Possible impact
The inability to keep the right talent, expertise and human capital 
within BAM will have a negative effect on success.
Management measures 
BAM strives for an open culture of learning and exchanging 
knowledge in the form of training and education, building on  
the available knowledge and expertise. To attract top talent,  
BAM has a professional recruitment team that works together 
with recruitment agencies through advertisements, but also with 
various training institutes. BAM increases the mobility of
employees between the core businesses. The Group invests in the 
further development of employees through various training 
programmes, including a programme for management trainees, 
project directors and project managers, and prepares candidates 
for key positions to improve (inclusive) leadership.
Project risk
Risk description
BAM is active in thousands of projects where the company is 
exposed to a wide variety of risks, in a sector known for its 
asymmetrical risk profile. Selecting the right projects against 
balanced contractual conditions is crucial.
Possible impact
Failure to achieve a healthy order intake and flawless project 
execution leads to fluctuations in the project results, possible 
claims and litigations and ultimately to the failure to achieve 
BAM’s strategic objectives.
Management measures
BAM implemented several measures to manage the project risk. 
The starting point is a selective tender with a focus on portfolio 
management, a robust tender stage gate procedure and peer 
reviews. The results of projects are largely determined during the 
tendering phase, and work is constantly being done to strengthen 
this process. Moreover, in projects that exceed €300 million, BAM 
basically makes bids together with partners. This usually involves 
the establishment of a general partnership – a legal form in which 
all parties are jointly and severally liable for mutual obligations in 
connection with the implementation of the project. The Group 
only enters into joint agreements with solid and solvent partners. 
If the risk to which a partner is exposed nevertheless is judged to 
be too high, BAM requires other securities in the form of, for 
example, a bank guarantee or the investment by the partner of 
sufficient cash in the joint agreement. During the implementation 
phase, much attention is paid to achieving operational excellence 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 50 Integrated Report 2017For EDF Energy Renewables BAM Nuttall and BAM Infra 
designed and built the first gravity-based foundations for 
the Blyth Offshore Demonstrator wind farm. The project 
comprises five wind turbines with a total generating 
capacity of 41.5MW installed approximately 6.5 kilometres 
off the coast of Blyth.
Royal BAM Group nv 51 Integrated Report 2017On the banks of the large Außenalster lake in Hamburg, 
BAM Deutschland delivered an office complex on behalf of 
Alsterufer 1-3 Immobilien GmbH & Co KG. Architects: APB 
Architekten, Hamburg, and Riemann Architekten,Lübeck.
Royal BAM Group nv 52 Integrated Report 2017Financial risk
Risk description
The attractiveness of BAM as a trusted partner to cooperate with 
or to invest in is strongly influenced by its financial position and 
the ability to manage financial risks.
Possible impact
Failure to achieve the status of trusted partner may prevent BAM 
from working with preferred parties and lead to restrictions on 
access to financial markets. 
Management measures 
BAM’s financing strategy is based on long-term relationships with 
reputable financial institutions and a well-spread debt maturity 
schedule. A strong centralised focus on cash and working capital, 
including financing by clients and suppliers, limits the need for 
extra capital. The company enters ‘equity-light’ in property 
development projects and in PPP investments. It is the intention 
of the company to sell these projects to investors. 
Specific financial risk management measures, including those in 
the area of interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 3 of the financial 
statements. Information technology risk
Risk description
Digitalisation, data, communication and connectivity are essential 
for BAM. A global presence also leads to cyber security challenges, 
which require the Group to have the flexibility to continually 
adapt.
Possible impact
Information technology is crucial in supporting and protecting the 
core and supporting processes. BAM increasingly relies on digital 
communication, connectivity and the use of technology. The 
Group has to remain alert to prevent the use of compromised data 
and the unavailability, loss or theft of critical strategic, financial 
and operational data.
Management measures 
BAM aims to improve the maturity of the IT function to keep up 
with external developments. In addition, BAM increased its 
security efforts to remain resilient to growing cyber risks. This 
includes implementing and testing of confidentiality and 
continuity measures as well as the integrity of data. Training and 
communication increase familiarity with safe IT use among BAM 
people and partners, as this is considered essential. 
Sustainability risk
Risk description
The construction industry relies heavily on natural resources, 
which will be depleted as soon as the consumption goes faster 
than the natural supplement. Global warming and climate change 
cause more frequent extreme weather conditions, such as storms, 
heat waves, droughts, heavy rainfall with flooding and heavy 
snowfall.
Possible impact
Failure to deliver more sustainably and innovatively could disrupt 
BAM’s position vis-à-vis customers and chain partners. Extreme 
weather events and material shortages can lead to disruption of 
the building process. 
Management measures
BAM has a strong corporate team to support continuous 
improvement and makes considerable efforts to reduce the 
impact on the environment with the ambition to achieve a net 
positive result. To reduce the impact of BAM on resource use, the 
company works with partners in the supply chain and customers 
to explore circular economic business models. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 53 Integrated Report 2017Property development risk
Risk description
BAM is involved in property development for its own account. 
The level and timing of both income (sale/rent) and costs (site 
acquisition and building costs) of these projects may deviate from 
the initial expectations as a result of divergent market and process 
(planning/permits) conditions. BAM’s capital employed position is 
important to adequately finance the projects. 
Possible impact
Property development projects can be postponed or completed 
at higher costs than budgeted. Furthermore the realisable value of 
our land bank and property development positions may be lower 
than book value. This again has consequences for the financial 
results (level and duration of the capital employed, profit).
Management measures 
If the Group intends to take on property development risks, this 
requires the prior consent of the Executive Board. The latter takes 
a decision on the basis of project proposals from the relevant 
operating company and associated analyzes carried out by the 
Group’s Property Investment function. The general rule is that 
construction does not start before a significant number of 
properties have been sold or, for non-residential buildings, a large 
part of the project has been rented out or sold. However, the 
United Kingdom  – where BAM only operates in the non-residential 
property sector – is an exception to this. There, the inventory risk 
is mitigated by a system of phased project execution. BAM has further strengthened its data driven decision 
process by linking sales, tendering and project execution 
data with each other. During 2017 BAM completed its 
project management database covering financial data of 
projects. This information is used as input for our sales and 
tender decision making process. Additionally, BAM started 
with the development of a BAM wide sales funnel to track 
projects leads from all operating companies in an 
integrated manner. In the meantime, BAM has created 
extensive tender data over the years to make better 
data-driven decisions. Lessons learned from these tenders 
are shared with the management of the operating 
companies, focusing on product type, client relationship, 
geographical location, contract type and preferred 
partners for the tender at hand. Combining this data with 
project execution data ensures even better focus on 
business development and selective tendering. 
Fundamental behind managing a healthy order intake is 
BAM’s tender stage gate procedure (see scheme below). 
Material tenders are guided through various stage gates 
based on the complexity and size of the tender (tender 
category). Through  the process, qualitative and 
quantitative risks and opportunities that may impact the 
success of the tender are considered. Areas considered 
include client, contract, team, work schedule, finance, 
partners, safety, location et cetera.
The stage gate procedure also includes several approval 
rounds depending on the risk profile. The procedure 
follows a governance structure based on tender categories 
to ensure tenders are reviewed and approved by the right 
level of management. Bids for major projects or projects 
involving exceptional risk are submitted and presented to 
the Executive Board and – if necessary – the Supervisory 
Board for prior approval.
Peer reviews and Tender Assessments are performed by 
experts from other operating companies in the Group 
during the tender phase of major projects. These reviews 
mobilise the full knowledge of the Group and contribute in 
robustness of the proposal made to the client. Data driven tendering
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 54 Integrated Report 201712 - Tender stage gate procedure
Stage gate 4
Approval ﬁnal
contract
Stage gate 2
Initial 
validation
Stage gate 3
Decision
to bid
Stage gate 5
If won:
reality checkStage gate 1
Decision 
to tenderStage gate 0
Categorisation
Tender submitted Contract awardedTender assessment
PQQ
submitted/
partnerships
formedPeer review
Tender
documents
receivedExecution TenderingTender selection
Sales funnel
Project database Stage gate database CRM systems
Feedback
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 55 Integrated Report 2017Design management
BAM’s performance in 2017 was impacted by an asymmetric risk 
profile. There was a considerable project loss on the sea lock in 
IJmuiden. The loss mainly related to the redesign of the two 
caissons (the construction holding the lock doors) to prevent 
torsion and cracking during immersion. The new design specified 
reinforced caissons and heavy temporary structures, which lead to 
significantly higher costs for specialist materials, equipment and 
personnel. The redesign is expected to be finalised in April 2018. 
There have been changes in the management of the project and 
there will be close monitoring on the progress of the project. The 
project is still in an early stage. Furthermore, there has been 
additional attention for improvements in the design management 
process within BAM. 
Safety
Although the focus on safety remains high, the company still faces 
incidents at project sites. Besides having the knowledge and tools 
to work safely, it is crucial that employees can always communicate 
openly about unsafe situations with each other and their managers. What impacted BAM in 2017?
Some risks and uncertainties related to the nature and complexity 
of the business environment but also opportunities had an impact 
on BAM in 2017. Some examples are given in this section.
Brexit
The United Kingdom is BAM’s second largest home market after 
the Netherlands. BAM’s UK activities are split between three 
operating companies: BAM Construct UK in non-residential 
construction and property development, BAM Nuttall in civil 
engineering and the UK operations of BAM PPP. They are widely 
diversified by location (strong regional presence across the 
United Kingdom), client base (public and private) and market 
(retail, office and industrial construction, and across all civil 
sectors.) The operating companies are among the leaders in their 
markets. 
The impact of Brexit remains uncertain, which is why BAM will 
continue to monitor developments closely, maintain tender 
discipline and adapt its organisation and operations if required.
Corné Kempenaar, BAM Infra
‘I like to work proactively
and set up a plan of approach’
Project Engineer Corné Kempenaar has been working at BAM Infra Energie 
& Water for two years now: ‘I do mostly short-term projects for one of the 
major network companies, such as replacing or removing fire hydrants, 
valves and/or other appendages. I like to work proactively and set up a plan 
of approach in consultation with clients and site agents. I make sure we have 
all the necessary resources and it’s also my responsibility to keep local 
residents informed. It’s important that they understand what’s happening 
on the project and how it may affect them. It’s a job that allows me to keep 
honing my skills, not least as I have some very able colleagues to learn from.’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 56 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 56 Integrated Report 2017In Antwerp BAM Contractors nv (as partner in the joint venture 
THV Schijnpoort) is responsible for the reconstruction of part 
of the Noordersingel, the relocation of the watercourse Grote 
Schijn, drainage works, the reconstruction of cycle paths, 
constructing new ducts and modifying existing ones beneath 
the R1 ring road, and redesigning the public space. Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau has undertaken the construction of a 
number of foundation shafts for microtunnelling on behalf of 
the joint venture.
Royal BAM Group nv 57 Integrated Report 2017‘The Museum of the Future,
            an incubator of visionary 
       innovations ’
Artist’s impression of the 30,000 square meter iconic 
Museum of the Future, located adjacent to Emirates 
Towers in Dubai. The building will have an instantly 
recognisable distorted torus shape, epitomised by its 
futuristic stainless steel façade with illuminated glazed 
Arabic calligraphy. Seven floors of exhibition space will 
showcase innovative and futuristic concepts, services and 
products for the future of cities, healthcare and education 
along with areas devoted to labs and a 400-seat 
auditorium.
Royal BAM Group nv 58 Integrated Report 2017Collapse of parking garage
There was a partial collapse of the P1 parking garage under 
construction at Eindhoven Airport on Saturday 27 May 2017. 
Investigations have shown that the sheer strength of the interface 
between the precast concrete floor slabs was insufficient to 
convey the traction. As a result, the structural capacity of the 
floor was compromised. Further discussion among all parties 
involved will have to determine who can be held responsible for 
the incident. BAM and Eindhoven Airport agreed to rebuild the 
parking garage in 2018. In addition, BAM performed a review of 
other buildings constructed by BAM with a similar production 
method. Based on this review the financial impact is considered to 
be limited.
Digital and sustainable solutions
A positive impact is BAM’s progress with its development and 
implementation of digital and sustainable solutions that ensures 
our leadership in the construction sector. BAM has been awarded 
international prizes in the area of digital construction. BAM sees a 
growing number of circular and energy neutral opportunities, 
which BAM also won because of our innovative construction 
methods. Some examples are Circl and Bijlmer prison facility in 
Amsterdam and the gravity based foundations for Blyth Offshore 
Demonstrator wind farm in the northeast of England.
Executive Board statement
The Executive Board is responsible for the design and operation of 
the internal risk management and control systems. In discharging 
this responsibility, the Executive Board has made an assessment of 
the effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal 
control and risk management systems. Furthermore, the 
Executive Board determined the outlook based on market 
developments, orderbook, cash flow and financing.
On the basis of this management report and in accordance with 
best practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch corporate governance code as 
adopted on 8 December 2016, and article 5:25c of the Financial 
Supervision Act (‘Wet op het financieel toezicht’), the Executive 
Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge:
 
• the management report provides sufficient insights into any 
significant failings in the design and operating effectiveness of 
the internal risk management and control systems of Royal BAM 
Group;
• the aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that 
the financial reporting does not contain any material 
inaccuracies;
• based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the 
financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; and
• the management report states those material risks and 
uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of Royal BAM 
Group’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the 
preparation of the management report.
Shaun McGinley, BAM International
‘Complexity under control 
with BIM modelling’Shaun McGinley, Project Manager of the 
Museum of the Future project, marked two 
major milestones in the first quarter of 2017: 
one was achieving over 1,000,000 man hours 
without a lost time injury and the team 
poured the ring beam which will hold the 
diagrid superstructure housing the main 
exhibition spaces. McGinley: ‘A lot of credit 
has to go to our site team who worked 
tirelessly to ensure we poured the beam on 
time and as per the contract programme. 
Casting the ring beam on time ensures the 
structural steel will now be able to commence 
as per our contract programme date. We did 
the modelling in conjunction with our in 
house BIM team.’ 
It should be noted that the above does not imply that these 
systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the 
realisation of operational and strategic business objectives, or that 
they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and 
non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. Nor can 
they provide certainty that we will achieve our objectives.
In view of all of the above, the Executive Board confirms that, to 
the best of its knowledge:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Royal BAM 
Group and of companies included in the consolidation;
• the management report provides a fair review of the position at 
the balance sheet date, the development and performance of 
the business during the financial year of Royal BAM Group; and
• the management report describes the principal risks and 
uncertainties that Royal BAM Group faces.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 59 Integrated Report 2017Maintenance student housing SSH Utrecht. BAM FM.
Royal BAM Group nv 60 Integrated Report 2017Innovation
stage gate
ROCE
ROCE
Diversity of staff
Incident 
Frequency
# trainings on 
Code of Conduct
Supplier 
performance 
assessments
Enhancing lives
Compliance with
human right
enforcers
Fair distribution 
of tax
Circular
products and
services
Carbon
emissionsSelect and boost 
strategic 
initiatives
Execute balanced
strategy
Selective tender 
participation
Attract diverse 
workforce
Enforce health
and safety
framework
Enforce code
of conduct
Long term 
contracts with 
trusted suppliers
Identify 
opportunities 
and act
Ensure
compliance
within supply
chain
Execute 
tax policy
Collaborate with
supply chain
Active
management
and reductionInnovation,
IT
Market,
Project, Financial, 
Property 
development
Project,
Financial
Reputation,
People
People, 
Health and 
Safety
Reputation
Project,
Financial,
Supply chain
Reputation,
Health and
Safety
Reputation,
Project
Reputation, 
Financial
Market, 
Sustainability
Market, 
Sustainability
IndicatorPerformance
in chapterMaterial
themes RisksPursued 
policy example3.1
3.22.2
3.3Innovation
Financial 
performance
Project and 
product quality 
and control
Employee 
recruitment, 
development and 
retention
Health & safety
Business conduct 
& transparency
Procurement 
strategy
Local community 
engagement
Human
rights
Fair tax 
Circular
economy
Energy & 
emissionsNet positive
impact
(2050)Safety
benchmark
IF < 3.5Adjusted
pre tax margin
2-4%Property
< €500m
TWC < -10%ROCE 
> 10%
13 - Linkage between BAM’s strategy, material themes and performance indicators
Royal BAM Group nv 61 Integrated Report 20173. Business performance
Royal BAM Group nv 62 Integrated Report 20173.1 Financial performance 
14 - Target: Creating return on capital employed above 10 per cent
Targets Performance in 2017 Progress
Return on capital employed (ROCE)  
>10 per cent by 2020
In order to reach that target return must go up  
and capital employed must go down.ROCE in 2017 amounted to 2.8 per cent (2016: 2.8 per cent).   
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Return: BAM aims to get its results on projects  
into a 2 to 4 per cent range.The margin on the adjusted result before tax for 2017 
deteriorated to 1.0 per cent, 0.5 per cent points down 
compared to 2016.  
Capital employed: Increase trade working capital 
efficiency below -/- 10 per cent of revenue.The trade working capital efficiency improved to -/- 10.4  
per cent at year-end 2017 compared to -/- 10.0 per cent at 
year-end 2016.  
Capital employed: Reduce investment in land bank 
and property development below €500 million.BAM achieved divestments of land bank and property  
for a total of €35 million in 2017 (2016: €62 million).  
Balance sheet value for land bank and property down  
to €591 million.  
Improve capital ratio towards 25 per cent by 2020. Capital ratio amounted to 21.2 per cent compared to 
19.7 per cent at year-end 2016.   
Management summary
We are disappointed that the project loss at sea lock IJmuiden set  
back our 2017 result by €68 million and damaged our margin by  
1%-point. Apart from this, the majority of our activities performed in 
line with our expectations. Our order book grew as anticipated while 
we maintained our tender discipline. We had another year of positive 
business cash flow and our overall financial position remains solid.
We made further progress delivering on our strategy Building the 
present, creating the future. Looking ahead, we will accelerate 
execution to capitalise on our potential. Key priorities remain 
pre-construction management, business controls, digitalisation  
and IT standardisation and of course implementing the key  
learnings from sea lock IJmuiden. 15 -  Key financial results  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2017 2016
Revenue 6,604 6,976
Adjusted result before tax 63.3 102.7
Margin (%) 1.0 1.5
Result before tax 58.3 60.1
Net result attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company 12.5 46.8
Order book 11,609 10,193
Earnings per share 5 cents 17 cents
Dividend proposal 10 cents 9 cents
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 63 Integrated Report 2017Revenue
Revenue of €6,604 million was €372 million (5 per cent) below the 
level of 2016. Of this, 40 per cent (€142 million) came through the 
weakening of the pound sterling with softening of revenue in the 
Construction and Property sector offset by some growth in Ireland 
and Germany. 
 
Result
The adjusted result before tax for the year 2017 was heavily 
impacted by the project loss (€68 million) at the lock IJmuiden in 
the Netherlands. There was also some negative impact from the 
Eindhoven Airport parking garage collapse. Both items were 
included in the result for the fourth quarter. These were partly 
offset by the strongly improved performance of Construction and 
Property sector. The result of PPP was slightly ahead of last year.
Net result is impacted by an impairment of €40 million of deferred 
tax assets, triggered by the loss on sea lock IJmuiden and 
cumulative past underperformance in the Dutch fiscal entity.
Order book
As at 31 December 2017 the order book (orders in hand for the next 
five years) amounted to €11.6 billion, representing an increase of 
€1.4 billion in the year (2016: decrease of €1.3 billion in the year). Of 
the current order book position, €5.7 billion (2016: €5.4 billion) is 
expected to be carried out in 2018 and €5.9 billion (2016: €4.8 
billion) in the years after. In addition, the Group has more than €1.8 
billion (2016: €2.1 billion) in the order book beyond five years, mainly 
comprising of long-term maintenance contracts for PPP projects.
Earnings per share
The number of outstanding ordinary shares of the Group increased 
by 2.6 million in 2017 to 273.2 million shares as at 31 December 
2017, due to stock dividend minus the repurchase of shares for the 
conditional performance share plan. (Diluted) earnings per share 
amounted to 5 euro cents (2016: 17 euro cents).
Dividend proposal
BAM’s policy is to pay out 30 to 50 per cent of the net result for the 
year subject to considering the balance sheet structure supporting 
the strategic agenda and the interests of the shareholders. BAM’s 
net result for 2017 of €12.5 million included a charge of €40 million 
for the impairment of deferred tax assets. Since this item is one-off 
non-operational and non-cash in nature, BAM has added back this 
item for the payout calculation. Therefore, BAM proposes a 
dividend of 10 euro cents per ordinary share for 2017 (2016:  
9 euro cents) which equates to a payout ratio of 50 per cent of the 
adjusted net result. Subject to approval by the Annual General 
Meeting on 18 April 2018, this will be paid in cash with a scrip 
alternative on 16 May 2018. BAM will repurchase and cancel shares 
to offset the dilution due to shareholders taking the scrip 
alternative. The dividend return amounts to 2.6 per cent, based on 
the 2017 closing price (2016: 2.1 per cent).16 - Result before tax
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated) 
2017 2016
Continuing operations
Adjusted result before tax, depreciation and 
amortisation charges 122.8 167.1
Depreciation and amortisation charges (59.5) (64.4)
Adjusted result before tax 63.3 102.7
Impairment charges (4.8) (50.7)
Restructuring and other exceptional costs (0.2) (33.5)
Pension one-off - 41.6
Result before tax 58.3 60.1
Income tax (44.9) (10.9)
Result for the year 13.4 49.2
Non-controlling interests 0.9 2.4
Net result attributable to shareholders  
of the Company 12.5 46.8
Jasper Bogert, BAM Wonen
Jasper Bogert, Site Agent at BAM Wonen: ‘I always aim 
to deliver as promised, but it’s partly down to other 
parties. For instance, to ensure individual wishes during 
renovations, like an additional roof window, my word is 
as good as the willingness of other parties to pull their 
weight. Collaboration is crucial.’ As Bogert sees it, 
being a well-attuned team is half the job. ‘I’ve been 
working with Woonforte’s renovation team for many 
years. We know each other through and through, which 
makes it so much easier to hone and improve the 
construction process.’‘Being a well-attuned 
team is half the job’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 64 Integrated Report 2017In Berlin, Futurium offers visitors the opportunity to 
experience the future in laboratories, discussions and 
expositions. BAM Deutschland.
Royal BAM Group nv 65 Integrated Report 2017Design and construction of third terminal complex at 
Julius Nyerere International Airport, Dar es Salaam, 
Tanzania. BAM International and BAM Nuttall.
Royal BAM Group nv 66 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 66 Integrated Report 201718 - Business cash flow 1
(x €1 million)
Full year
2017Full year
2016
Group: net cash result 278 90
Investments (in)tangible fixed assets (83) (55)
Trade working capital 3(39) 116
Net investment:
- Property 80 (1)
- PPP 1 7
Other changes in working capital (24) 27
Business cash flow 13 184
Dividend (7) (2)
Restructuring (25) (33)
Pensions (additional) (12) (12)
Other (12) (35)
Change in cash position (43) 102
1  These metrics are not directly compatible with the IFRS-based 
condensed cash flow statement.
2  Net cash result is net result excluding depreciation, impairments, cash 
out related to restructuring, movements of provisions and book profit on 
sale of PPP projects.
3  Working capital excluding property positions, PPP receivables, assets 
and liabilities held for sale, derivatives, provisions, taxes, other 
receivables and other payables.
The business cash flow was again positive. Investments in  
(in)tangible assets increased after years of structural lower 
investments. BAM invested in equipment and in the patented 
development of Gravity Based Foundations for offshore wind 
power.
The property cash flow was mainly driven by the transfer (as 
announced in November 2016) of the property positions in the 
north east of the Netherlands and the sale of the Stadium 
Complex Zwolle. Other changes in working capital in 2017 were 
driven by changes in accruals and negative effects from the cash 
flow in relation to joint arrangements, whereas in the same period 
in 2016 there was a favourable effect from the cash flow in 
relation to joint arrangements. 
The cash outflow from restructuring in 2017 relates mainly to the 
Netherlands for prior year restructurings. Other included the 
effect of the weaker pound sterling and the purchase of treasury 
shares.17 - Financial position
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2017 2016
Cash and cash equivalents 696 739
Less: borrowings (503) (612)
Net cash 193 127
Add: non-recourse financing 265 368
Recourse net cash 458 495
Capital employed
- Non-current assets 1,407 1,446
- Net working capital (515) (456)
Shareholders’ equity 852 834
Capital base 967 947
Total assets 4,571 4,812
Solvency (%) 21.2 19.7
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents was €696 million as at 31 December 
2017 (2016: €739 million), of which €217 million (2016: €223 
million) concerns the Group’s share of cash and cash equivalents 
in joint operations.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 67 Integrated Report 2017Christian Böhme, BAM Deutschland
‘Teamwork between all the various parties is very important.  
Work needs to be done with pleasure and fun! That contributes to 
the best possible end-result.’ Christian Böhme,  Planning Coordinator 
at BAM Deutschland  is standing in front of the project site of the 
MEG Meiniger Hotel in Berlin. The hotel was developed for 
MEININGER, an international chain of budget hotels. BAM’s client  
was project development company Am Postbahnhof GmbH & Co. 
The project was completed mid-2017. 
‘Work needs to be done 
with pleasure and fun!’
Royal BAM Group nv 68 Integrated Report 2017The recourse net debt, part of the recourse leverage ratio in BAM’s 
financing arrangements, mainly comprising equity bridge loans 
for PPP projects and property loans on a recourse basis minus cash 
and cash equivalents, amounted to a net cash position of €458 
million as at 31 December 2017, €37 million down compared to 
2016.
Capital employed
Non-current assets
On balance, non-current assets decreased in the year with 
€39 million (2016: decrease €61 million).
As the net capital expenditures in the year were higher than the 
annual depreciation, the carrying amount of property, plant and 
equipment increased with €12 million to €282 million. The 
majority of the capital expenditures concerned the asset category 
equipment and installations in the sector Civil engineering.
Intangible assets predominantly comprises goodwill with a 
carrying amount of €375 million, a decrease of €4 million 
compared to 2016 owing to the lower exchange rate of the British 
pound sterling. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and 
this did not result in an impairment. The sensitivity analyses 
indicated that for a Belgian cash-generating unit, representing a 
goodwill amount of €16 million, a limited headroom remains in 
case of a negative change of 50 basis points on the discount rate 
and/or growth rate beyond the forecast period.
Besides decrease in goodwill, intangible assets increased with 
€18 million, mainly due to investment in Gravity Based 
Foundations and non-integrated software.Borrowings
As at 31 December 2017 total borrowings amounted to €503 
million (2016: €612 million) of which €265 million (2016: €368 
million) concerned non-recourse debt. Non-recourse loans 
associated with PPP projects decreased with €84 million 
(2016:  increase €79 million) and property development decreased 
in 2017 with €17 million (2016: €30 million decrease) principally 
due to PPP project divestments in the year and consequential debt 
repayments.
As at 31 December 2017 a net cash position is achieved of €193 
million (2016: €127 million net cash position). This position 
comprised of cash and cash equivalents minus borrowings of €503 
million (2016: €612 million).
The Group had two credit facilities as at 31 December 2017: 
unsecured subordinated convertible bonds for €125 million and a 
committed syndicated credit facility of €400 million. The bonds will 
be convertible into ordinary shares of BAM with a nominal value of 
€0.10 each. The bonds are subordinated to BAM’s senior payment 
obligations. The bonds will carry an annual coupon of 3.5 per cent 
payable semi-annually and a conversion price of €5.2245. The bonds 
will be redeemed at their principal amount on or around 13 June 
2021. BAM will have the option to call all but not some of the 
outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus interest from 
28 June 2019, if the value of a BAM share exceeds for a specified 
period of time a price which is 30 per cent higher than the 
conversion price.
The committed syndicated credit facility has a duration until 
31 March 2022 and as at 31 December 2017 the committed 
syndicated credit facility was not used, just as in 2016.
19 - Borrowings
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2017 2016
Non-recourse debt
PPP 190 274
Property 69 86
Other 6 8
265 368
Subordinated convertible bonds 115 113
Recourse debt
PPP 30 50
Property 80 74
Financial lease 13 7
238 244
Borrowings 503 612
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 69 Integrated Report 2017PPP receivables decreased in 2017 to €249 million from €359 
million principally due to construction progress on current PPP 
projects (€127 million) compensated by the transfer of one project 
to the joint venture with PGGM (€150 million). In 2017, just as in 
2016, no PPP receivables were reclassified to assets held for sale to 
the PGGM joint venture.
The carrying amounts of investments (accounted for using the 
equity method) and other financial assets increased in the year 
with €10 million (from €86 million to €96 million) respectively 
remains at the same level as last year (€92 million).
Net working capital
Net working capital (current assets excluding cash and cash 
equivalents minus current liabilities excluding current borrowings) 
as at 31 December 2017 amounted to minus €515 million (2016: 
minus €456 million). Gross investment in property development 
has been reduced with €39 million in 2017 to €591 million, as a 
consequence of property sales, divestments and an impairment 
charge of €4 million (2016: €48 million). Net investment in 
property development, taking into account associated 
borrowings, amounted to €446 million (2016: €475 million).Shareholders’ equity and capital base
Shareholders’ equity increased by €18 million in 2017 to €852 
million as at 31 December 2017. This increase is principally due to 
the net result for the year of €13 million.
Capital base includes the subordinated convertible bonds of 
€115.0 million (2016: €112.5 million). The difference between the 
nominal value of the convertible bonds of €125 million and the 
reported value of €115.0 million, consists of the valuation of the 
conversion right and transaction cost.
Solvency
As at 31 December 2017 solvency is 21.2 per cent (2016: 19.7 per 
cent) determined by using the capital base. Given the higher 
capital base and the lower balance sheet total, solvency increased 
in 2017. Recourse solvency, the ratio in accordance with the bank 
covenants, slightly increased to 29.4 per cent as at 31 December 
2017 (2016: 29.0 per cent), which comfortably exceeds the 
required minimum of 15 per cent.
Other significant movements in balance sheet items 
Post-employment benefits
The net benefit liability amounted to €43 million as at 
31 December 2017, a decrease of €39 million compared to 2016 
principally due to changes in actuarial assumptions, specifically 
the discount rate used.
Provisions
Provisions, other than post-employment benefits, decreased by  
€28 million to €114 million (2016: €142 million), predominantly 
effected by the decrease of the restructuring provision by €27 
million. In 2017 €3.0 million were added to the restructuring 
provision, €2.9 million of unused provisions were released and  
€24.7 million were used for payments on restructurings, mainly 
in the Netherlands.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The Group has a net deferred tax asset of €190 million (2016: €223 
million) principally reflecting the tax losses carried forward in the 
Netherlands and Germany. The valuation as at 31 December 2017 
allows for estimates of the level and timing of future taxable 
profits for the upcoming nine years (the Netherlands) and for an 
indefinite period (Germany) including available tax planning 
opportunities. In 2017 an impairment of the deferred tax assets of 
€40 million was made, triggered by the loss on sea lock IJmuiden 
and cumulative past underperformance in the Dutch fiscal entity, 
including large impairments on property  and restructuring 
charges in prior years.
Assets and liabilities held for sale
The assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2017 
amount to €9 million (2016: €40 million) for the assets and 
€0 million (2016: €4 million) for the liabilities and are fully 
Alistair Hynd, BAM Construct UK
According to Alistair Hynd, Commercial Manager at 
BAM Construct UK, is predictable performance about 
having an honest and transparent approach. ‘So people 
know that you will deliver on your promises. This is 
important because through past performances, the 
people we work with know that we will do all that we 
can to ensure a positive impact is made. We always 
look for the best solution and meet problems head on 
to ensure they are resolved in a way that guarantees 
the trust of our clients and demonstrates that we are 
committed to delivering quality projects on time and 
on budget.’ 
 ‘Predictable performance 
is about having an honest 
and transparent approach’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 70 Integrated Report 2017Construction and Property
21 - Construction and Property
2017 2016
Revenue 3,708 4,124
Adjusted result before tax 73.0 3.5
Margin (%) 2.0 0.1
Order book 6,890 6,264
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
At Construction and Property, revenue was €3,708 million, which 
was lower by €416 million including the negative impact of the 
pound sterling of €82 million. Revenue reduced mainly at Dutch 
non-residential construction following the trend of the order book 
and in the United Kingdom  due to caution in the construction 
market and the absence of property development transactions. 
Ireland had higher revenues reflecting BAM’s strong position in a 
growing market.
The total sector result was €73.0 million including a property 
development result of €26.7 million, equal to 2016, with a good 
contribution from Dutch residential. Germany delivered a break 
even result for the full year after the refocusing of activities in 
2016. The benefits of the recently acquired projects will become 
slowly visible in the results, while negotiations on settlements at 
older projects are ongoing. All other regions delivered solid 
margins according to expectations. Dutch house sales were up by 
7 per cent to 2,316 due to planning and zoning constraints at 
municipalities.
The year-end order book was higher by €626 million (10 per cent) 
including a negative FX of €61 million. The increase came mainly 
from the Netherlands and Ireland. The order book at Dutch 
non-residential started to grow slowly after years of decline and 
the increase at residential construction and property reflects the 
increasing demand for new build homes. Order book at BAM 
International grew due to onshore project wins.
The gross investment in property reduced by €39 million to €591 
million at the end of 2017. These investments were financed by 
€75 million recourse property loans (year-end 2016: €69 million) 
and €69 million non-recourse property loans (year-end 2016: €86 
million).attributable to one remaining property position to be transferred 
in the Northeast part of the Netherlands. In 2016 the assets and 
liabilities held for sale were fully attributable to the proposed sale 
of all 47 property development positions in the Northeast part of 
the Netherlands.
Tax
In 2017, BAM recognised a tax expense of €44.9 million (2016: 
€10.9 million). Excluding the impairment of deferred tax assets of 
€40 million, the effective tax rate of the Group for 2017 is 8.4 per 
cent (2016: 18.1 per cent), influenced predominantly by the use of 
previously unrecognised tax losses. 
On corporate income tax, taxes on wages, social security 
contributions and VAT, the Group paid a total amount of €725 
million in 2017. Relative to the Group’s revenue, the share of taxes 
paid deviates most from the share of revenue in the Netherlands. 
Here, the Group’s share of taxes is relatively high compared to 
revenue. 
20 - Taxes paid in 2017 
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Taxes % Revenue % 
Netherlands 390 54 2,322 35 
United Kingdom 179 25 1,929 29 
Belgium 39 5 690 10 
Germany 82 11 804 12 
Ireland 20 3 421 6 
Rest of the world 15 2 438 7 
Total 725 100 6,604 100 
Business line results
With effect from 2016, the Group has changed its reporting 
sectors to align with its implemented updated strategy. The ten 
operating companies now report as three sectors: Construction 
and Property, Civil Engineering and PPP. The Construction and 
Property activities are now managed and reported as one 
integrated business line. In addition, construction activities in 
Ireland, Belgium and at BAM International have been reclassified 
from Civil engineering to Construction and Property.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 71 Integrated Report 2017PPP had a result of €19 million coming mostly from existing 
portfolio. One project was transferred to the joint venture with 
PGGM. At the end of the year the BAM/PGGM joint venture was 
selected preferred bidder for the German road project A10/A24 
and financial close was reached in February 2018. The order book 
reduced during the year due to the progress on the construction 
of projects. The pipeline of active bids remains healthy. The total 
directors’ valuation of the PPP portfolio as at the end of 2017 was 
€229 million, which included €75 million of unrealised value. 
 At the end of 2017 the number of PPP projects in the portfolio 
was 44 of which BAM PPP retains an interest in 40; for the 
remaining 4 projects only asset management services are 
provided by BAM PPP. In 2017 BAM PPP was awarded a contract to 
provide asset management services to a further project (Zaanstad 
Prison) owned by third party investors.
BAM PPP’s projects are spread across BAM’s European markets 
with revenue based mainly on the availability criterion. The ratio 
of accommodation to civil engineering projects is balanced, 
although civil engineering projects are generally greater in size.
The joint venture with PGGM continued to grow in 2017, with an 
investment in a further project. The joint venture provides BAM 
PPP with the twin benefits of a strong position from which to 
pursue further projects and a stable platform within which equity 
can be made available for new investments.
Strategy
BAM PPP harnesses the strengths, experience and expertise within 
Royal BAM Group, coordinating the provision of whole lifecycle 
solutions for the benefit of our public-sector clients. The company 
focuses on BAM’s European home markets where the Group has 
proven construction and maintenance skills and expertise. The 
strategy aims to grow the portfolio providing short-term 
construction turnover, long-term facility management and 
lifecycle turnover, equity investment returns and asset 
management income.
Market
The PPP markets continue to offer an attractive supply of bidding 
opportunities. The bidding opportunities are spread across all of 
our markets. Opportunities in new markets working in conjunction 
with BAM International are looked at on a project by project basis. 
Interest in providing long term debt remains strong from both 
bank and institutional lenders for both primary and refinancing 
transactions.
BAM PPP Portfolio financial performance
At year-end 2017, shareholders equity invested by BAM PPP 
totaled €68 million (2016: €66 million). BAM PPP invested €18 
million and transferred €15 million to the BAM PPP PGGM joint 
venture in 2017. BAM PPP does not invest in projects until their 
structural completion, with the shareholders’ equity part being 
financed with a bridging loan.Civil engineering
22 - Civil engineering
2017 2016
Revenue 2,964 2,899
Adjusted result before tax (24.3) 83.4
Margin (%) (0.8) 2.9
Order book 4,693 3,950
In Civil engineering, revenue rose by €65 million to €2,964 million, 
including negative FX of €59 million. Revenue in the Netherlands 
and at BAM International reduced slightly and was up in all other 
regions including the United Kingdom  at constant currency.
The sector result was severely impacted by the project loss at sea 
lock IJmuiden in the Netherlands. The Dutch activities were also 
held back by the competitive regional market. The small losses at 
Belgium and BAM International reflected the challenging market 
conditions, however both markets appear to have bottomed out. 
All other regions had margins of 2 per cent  or above.
The order book rose by €743 million (19 per cent ), mainly due to 
multiyear project awards in the United Kingdom  and Germany.
PPP
23 - PPP
2017 2016
Revenue 135 197
Adjusted result before tax 19.0 17.1
Order book 210 342
Average invested equity 110 103
Return on equity (%) 17.3 16.6
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 72 Integrated Report 2017Directors’ valuation
The directors’ valuation is intended to illustrate movements in the 
value of the PPP portfolio during the year taking account of the 
impact of intervening transactions, through the application of a 
consistent methodology. The valuation is based on the forecast 
returns of the projects, based on current projections, and may 
differ significantly from the book value of the investments shown 
in the accounts. Cash flows accruing from projects are calculated 
on the basis of financial models, based on contractual terms with 
clients and have been approved by external lenders. The valuation 
is calculated using the widely acknowledged discounted cash flow 
basis, discounting all future cash flows to BAM PPP at an 
appropriate discount rate. All future cash flows are converted into 
euros. All projects that have reached financial close are taken into 
account; projects for which BAM PPP is the preferred bidder are 
excluded until financial close is achieved.Committed equity is €101 million, all by the joint venture. The 
invested and committed equity totaled €169 million. New 
projects will mainly be undertaken by the joint venture.
The future asset flow is based on the expected inflow of cash from 
the concessions portfolio for the shareholders’ equity (dividends, 
interest and repayment). The discounted value of this future cash 
inflow is the Director’s valuation and totals €229 million (2016: 
€238 million).
A comparison of the directors’ valuation and the discounted value 
of the invested and committed equity results in an unrealised 
value of the portfolio of €75 million (2016: €73 million). 
Business development
The current portfolio provides BAM PPP with returns on equity 
investments, in addition, as at year-end 2017, to an order book of 
construction turnover of €382 million and facility management 
and lifecycle turnover for BAM sister companies of €3.5 billion. 
BAM PPP has in the pipeline 10 active bids, providing potential 
equity investments of €214 million, potential construction 
turnover of €2.1 billion and potential facility management 
turnover (excluding lifecycle) of €0.9 billion.
‘Don’t be afraid to make mistakes. 
Learn from them.’Mehmet Sayar, BAM Bouw en Techniek
Mehmet Sayar, Management Trainee at BAM Bouw en 
Techniek, believes in the importance of on-the-job 
learning: ‘Practical experience is priceless and one 
shouldn’t be afraid to make mistakes.’ Knowing that 
management trusts you to find your way is extremely 
empowering and important, he says. Sayar is currently 
involved in the optimisation of the way projects are 
handed over from tender to project teams. ‘I’m really 
excited to have this unique opportunity to develop 
professional skills in addition to my academic education.’ 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 73 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 73 Integrated Report 2017Sensitivities
The  table below shows the sensitivity of the directors’ valuation 
if all the project discount rates applied are changed 
simultaneously by plus or minus 1 per cent and 2 per cent.
25 - Sensitivity of the directors’ valuation
Discount rate 
adjustmentPortfolio  
valuationDifference in 
valuation
(€ million) (€ million)
+2% 196 -33
+1% 211 -18
0% 229 -
-1% 250 21
-2% 273 44
26 - Directors’ valuation 2017
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Valuation as at December 2016 238
Dividends and distributions received since December 2016 -11
Repayments and divestments since December 2016 -19
Exchange rate movements -2
Rebased December 2016 206
Valuation at December 2017 229
New projects added 2
Revaluation 2017 121
Increase/decrease in portfolio valuation 23
1  The revaluation 2017 consists of a combination of factors including:  
-  The discount unwind (over time, the discounted value increases given 
that the future value is a year closer);
 -  The impact of changes in discount rates applied as projects move into 
operations;
 -  Operational performance gains as a result of factors such as the impact of 
macro-economic changes, higher inflation, better performance, 
successful asset management, changes in demand and revisions to costs.Discount rates
BAM PPP applies discount rates based on the company’s knowledge 
of the market, the agreed transfer mechanism with PGGM, through 
the joint venture, and the use of a simple project phase analysis.
A higher discount rate is applied from financial close through to 
construction completion before stepping it down once into 
operations due to the reduced risk and greater certainty of future 
cash flows. BAM PPP believes this approach is preferable to using 
an adjusted market risk free rate approach as we have the benefit 
of up-to-date market information based on our discussions and 
agreement with PGGM.
24 - Portfolio financial performance 2017
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Nominal Discounted
Invested equity 68
Committed equity 101
Total invested and committed 
equity (a) 169 154
Future equity cash flows (b) 805 229
Implied forecast unrealised 
value in the portfolio (b)-(a) 75
Annetschka Teeuwen 
Annetschka Teeuwen (left) is a proud property owner 
in the apartment building De Reder developed by AM. 
She loves her new home with its view on the port of 
Scheveningen and the North Sea. ‘The level of finishing 
is excellent and we had many customisation 
opportunities throughout the construction stage. 
Moreover, we’ve got the supermarket at our doorstep 
and the beach is just a stone’s throw away. It’s the 
perfect place to enjoy our retirement.’
‘The perfect place for a 
carefree retirement ‘
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 74 Integrated Report 2017AM-developed apartment building De Reder  
in the Dutch seaside town of Scheveningen.
Royal BAM Group nv 75 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 75 Integrated Report 2017Where BAM can improve
Despite BAM’s ambition and continuous effort to improve safety on its 
projects, the company deeply regrets the sad loss of four employees of 
subcontractors. The first meeting of the Management Board in 2017 
was combined with the international safety officers meeting, with the 
aim of drawing up a specific action plan to prevent fatal and serious 
incidents for the future, both at company level and on a personal level. 
Commitment, visible leadership and knowledge-sharing are some of 
the most important topics in this plan. 
BAM aims for zero accidents. The Group is working hard on fostering a 
genuine and sustainable safety leadership culture within senior 
management. During the first quarter of 2017 a Safety Leadership Team 
(see chapter 2.2 stakeholder engagement and material themes) was 
established to underline and reinforce these ambitions. To achieve this 
ambition the Group’s strategic objectives are to create the right 
environment for knowledge-sharing and learning, enhancing leadership, 
culture and behavioural performance throughout the organisation, 
create uniform safety reporting across operating companies, build 
relationships and create interaction with all stakeholders.
Mental health, stress and well-being are a growing concern for BAM. 
To create awareness around these topics, an employee assistance 
programme (e-learning module) was started at BAM in 2017. BAM will 
increase the focus on health related matters in the construction sector 
in the coming years.Social value for BAM 
BAM’s activities have an impact on local communities, occupants 
and other users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a 
whole. BAM aims to create sustainable environments that 
enhance people’s lives. This chapter describes how all social 
subjects are interrelated and how BAM actively collaborates with 
all stakeholders to create long-term (social) value. Without any 
doubt health and safety is the most important element of our 
social performance: we want every employee to return home safe 
every day. This requires excellent performance from all employees 
and supply chain partners on thousands of construction sites 
every day. The construction supply chain is increasingly complex 
and fragemented and needs active collaboration to manage 
responsible supply chain management, human rights and ethical 
business conduct. The Group increases intellectual capital and 
human capital by investing in its employees and in the 
development of the supply chain. BAM recognises the importance 
of Group-wide development and implementation of its talent 
strategy, based on BAM’s organisational development and 
strategic objectives. The positive legacy to society is increasingly 
important and is reflected in the programme for enhancing lives: 
making a real and positive difference to the lives of people with 
whom BAM comes into contact through its work.27 - Ambition: to offer added value to clients, employees, business partners and the community
Targets Performance in 2017 Progress
Fully incorporate safety in daily activities to achieve a  
BAM incident frequency (IF BAM) of ≤ 4.0 for 2017  
and of ≤ 4.0 for 2018.IF BAM of 4.6 (2016: 4.8).   
 BAM values implemented in the operating  
companies in  2017.This goal has been achieved. Further cascading will  
take place in 2018.   
 Leadership development programme for top  
business management in 2019.As a foundation for the design of this leadership 
programme ten dialogue sessions were organised 
between the Executive Board and Opco Board members.  
 Olympus: project management development  
programme for top project managers in 2018.The Olympus leadership programme was launched in 
April 2017. Approximately sixty  project managers 
participated in this programme in 2017. The programme 
will be offered to another group of eighty project 
managers in 2018.   
Enhance one million lives in local communities  
by 2020.Continue to develop Groupwide strategy and resource 
whilst beginning to collect meaningful data and evidence 
of life-enhancing activities across the group.  Enhancing
lives3.2 Social performance
Human
ResourcesSafety
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 76 Integrated Report 2017King’s Cross in London. BAM Construct UK.Stress
HandAsbestos
DSErSun
Breathe
ListenDermatitis
LeadHazardous
substancesSilica FatigueLeptospirosis Manual handling28 - Health and Safety  - Health risks at work.
Royal BAM Group nv 77 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 77 Integrated Report 2017Health and safety
Creating the right environment for knowledge-sharing and 
scalable learning in BAM’s complete supply chain is most 
important to reach the Group’s safety targets (See chapter 2. 
Strategy – material themes). This is done by:
• Strengthening the operating companies to develop leadership 
and behaviour by carrying out safety behaviour audits (SBAs);  
With the introduction of the SBA in 2016, ‘awareness’ (of safety 
risks inherent in projects) was replaced by ‘behaviour’. This type 
of auditing should lead to an increased focus on safety behaviour, 
commitment and performance, still based on an assessment and 
interviews, leading to a report and improvement plan. Moreover, 
an SBA is not just about safety, but also about leadership and 
behaviour in all parts of the company and supply chain. Across 
the Group, fifteen SBAs took place in 2017. 
•  Recognition of performance by carrying out and follow-up on 
the safety exchanges (SEs);  
These make it possible to have an open dialogue between two 
operating companies that focusses on a debate for challenging 
and learning in which they have to come up with solutions 
together. Across the Group, four SEs took place in 2017.  
After a year of developing and learning BAM officially launched 
the SBAs and SEs in 2017 as new types of dialogue (scalable 
learning).
•   Strengthening BAM’s (safety) culture supported by uniform 
safety communication processes, modern methods and 
channels;  
In 2017 an online safety portal was launched to share and 
connect safety information and best practices amongst all 
BAM companies, Group-wide, where content is added and 
maintained by each operating company. A Safety Task Force 
has been set up to create a joint Groupwide safety campaign to 
develop a harmonised and visible safety  
branding/communication platform which reinforces the  
One BAM message.
•  Improving the safety performance: IF BAM < 3.5 in 2020.  
IF BAM (Incident Frequency) is determined by the total number 
of industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million 
hours worked on construction sites (all BAM site employees on 
own work and joint ventures on risk). In 2017 IF BAM decreased 
to 4.6 (2016: 4.8), which is above the 2017 target of 4.0. 
This safety approach is established to continuously improve BAM’s 
safety performance and to meet strategic targets.
 Safety Exc hange 
Proc essSafety Behaviour
Audit Proc ess
Determine
visitor and host
by CSO  
Appointme nt of
champion to
organise Exchange 
Purpose, agenda
and out comes 
agreed b y par ticipants   
Visitors should be 
operational but yet 
inﬂuential colleagues
Hosts should be
the ‘believers’ 
Follow-up
will be monitoredShort and simple report. 
Outcomes will be shared
widelyImprovement plan 
with corrective actions and areas that require special attentionAssessment
(audit) 
Interview questions, assessment of records 
and compliance analysis 
on site
Benchmarking
and sharing outcomeClose out
and ﬁnal score 
Report29 - Safety  -  Safety behaviour audit (SBA) process and  
safety exchange (SE) process
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 78 Integrated Report 2017Rewarding excellence
Safety behaviour audits (SBAs) will make excellence count and 
reward (safety) innovations. By disclosing the results through the 
safety portal, safety excellence becomes visible to other operating 
companies with an emphasis on continuous improvement within 
organisations and throughout the Group.
 
Safety Behaviour Audit (SBA) scores focus on three areas: safety 
climate, management system and site conditions. In 2017, overall 
performance increased from 70 per cent to 72 per cent.  
Page 78 shows the SBA process in detail.
Excellent performance in leading and lagging indicators (IF) by 
group companies will result in less control by Royal BAM Group’s 
safety behaviour audits, but should increase commitment to share 
excellence performance by organising a safety exchange. A safety 
exchange, or safety review, is like a peer review and focuses on a 
debate for challenge and learning, which are themes from the 
safety maturity model. It is a dialogue between two operating 
companies that want to kwow what works best. This will result in 
a tailor-made knowledge exchange.
Good practices: sharing and learning across the Group
• BAM International completes a global, safety related survey 
every year. Most organisations limit themselves to objective 
assessments, while BAM International realises that subjective 
indicators can provide valuable information that, when used 
effectively, can continuously improve the company. The key 
element of the survey (and its results) is to provide an insight 
into company perceptions and subsequently to target areas 
they can improve;
• Safety and digitalisation: SAFER is BAM International’s digital 
system to streamline everything related to health and safety;
• Occasionally, BAM organises inspirational sessions with leading 
companies, such as Shell and Siemens, for the exchange of 
knowledge related to safety leadership in the Management 
Board.How to drive culture change
Tone at the top
Testimonial
(personal commitment)
Responsibility/
accountability
Proud on being Safe
(not a burden)
Chronic Unease Mindset
in managing Safety Risks30 - Good practices  - Themes for knowledge-sharing with 
leading companies
SAFER
SAFER is BAM International’s digital system to 
streamline everything related to health and safety: an 
online and Android database that will make life easier 
for project management and the Health and Safety 
Department. SAFER stands for secure, accurate, fast 
and effective and all of that in real time. The SAFER 
system is a new, comprehensive online and Android tool 
that is fully compliant with the approved BMS 
procedures and follows the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) 
cycle. SAFER is currently being successfully tested on 
our Saqr Port project in Ras Al Khaimah, UAE. The 
system contains and makes it easy to find all relevant 
information and documents regarding health and safety 
matters, such as legislative resources, training 
information, safety performance statistics, project 
profile, employee profile, task list, safety inspections, 
incident reporting, sub-contractor management, 
statistics and reporting. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 79 Integrated Report 2017Incident frequency (IF)
IF BAM shows large regional differences where maturity deviates 
per operating company. BAM Belgium is working to improve its 
overall safety performance through a safety culture programme 
(‘Expedition safety’), as well as a partnership with an external 
behavior specialist which will result in specific improvement 
actions. In 2018, BAM Belgium started the year with a safety week 
involving all co-workers (management, project leaders, white and 
blue collars). Management involvement will be accentuated 
through more proactive collaboration on the field to establish 
open safety communication. In Germany, Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau AG shows significant improvement compared to 
2016. In 2017, the company made sure that every monthly 
Management Team meeting between the board and regional 
directors included discussing safety with the safety officer. To 
pursue further improvement safety remains a subject that is under 
discussion within the board of Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau. In 
the Netherlands, results for BAM Bouw en Vastgoed show a 
deterioration towards 2016. The company has experienced an 
unexpected setback in the fourth quarter of the year. The most 
important actions to improve results within BAM Bouw en 
Vastgoed are focus on behavior, focus on discussing unsafe 
situations on a daily basis, guidance to letting subcontractors 
work safe and participation in Group activities.31 - Group incident fequency (IF BAM)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 20160369
 4.6
(lost days 4,507)32 - Incident frequency (IF BAM) by country
Ireland 2.2 (lost days: 51)
United Kingdom 1.3 (lost days: 371)Germany 4.1
(lost days: 232)
Rest of the world 0.5 (lost days: 43)Belgium 24.6
(lost days: 1,731)
The Netherlands 6.9
(lost days: 2,079)
0612182430
2013 2014 2015 2017 2016Serious accidents
BAM is highly committed to prevent all incidents. BAM feels 
responsible for all people who are involved in or are influenced 
by the activities of the Group. This includes BAM’s employees, 
clients, engineers, partners, suppliers, subcontractors and 
members of the public. The number of fatal and serious 
accidents (BAM employees, hired, subcontractors’ employees, 
or other) decreased from 135 in 2016 to 119 in total in 2017.  
An accident is classified as serious when an employee is 
admitted to hospital for more than 24 hours or results in 
electrocution (with enter and exit mark on the body), 
amputation or a fracture. 
Irish Construction Awards
BAM Ireland was the winner of the ‘Excellence in Health 
and Safety’ award at the Irish Construction Industry 
Awards 2017. The award was won due to BAM Irelands 
Behavioural Safety Programme – Beyond Zero. The 
Beyond Zero programme is a cultural change 
programme implemented on BAM projects which is 
based on the principles of behavioural science. It is a 
blend of behavioural science techniques and project 
management skills with the aim of improving safety 
performance on each project. The programme has a 
focus around the supervisor/operative relationship and 
aims to ensure that local environments are set up in a 
manner that makes it more likely that the project will 
be completed safely and successfully.
Excellence in 
Health and Safety
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 80 Integrated Report 2017Access to safe water is limited in Sierra Leone and in as  
far as the distribution network is up, leakage is a major 
problem. In a project funded by the British government,  
a consortium of IMC Worldwide, Atkins and BAM 
(represented in the consortium by BAM Nuttall and 
BAM International) has been chosen to rehabilitate the 
water supply system in Sierra Leone’s capital Freetown. 
No more dry taps in Freetown!
Royal BAM Group nv 81 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 81 Integrated Report 2017Construction sector collaboration in the Netherlands Construction sector collaboration in Europe 
Reporting
As of 1 October 2016 internal reporting was extended with 
high-potential near hit/miss incidents. Creating uniform safety 
reporting across all operating companies is one of the strategic 
objectives, which creates access to the right management 
information.
BAM is still in the process of enhancing the reporting process for 
worked hours of subcontractors. The Group strives to obtain 
reliable information by implementing automated on-site entrance 
systems such as tourniquets, fingerprint readers, iris scans and 
card systems.
When a fatal industrial accident occurs that involves a BAM 
employee or a subcontractor, the following actions are taken:
1. The operating company informs the Executive Board and the 
Corporate Safety Officer (CSO) immediately after the accident;
2. The first details of the accident are communicated within 
24 hours after the accident;
3. At the latest on the day after the fatal accident, a notice will be 
published on the BAM intranet;
4. If the accident occurred in Western Europe, the COO, assisted 
by the CSO, will visit to the operating company within 15 days 
of the accident;
5. For accidents occurring outside Western Europe a video 
conference replaces this visit; 
6. Three weeks after the accident, a ‘safety start’ takes place in 
the country where the fatality occurred and a safety 
presentation/bulletin is drawn up, highlighting the lessons 
learned and whose responsibility it was to intervene. This must 
be communicated to all operations.Three years ago, BAM was one of the fifteen major 
Dutch construction companies that signed the 
Governance Code ‘Safety in construction’. In this, 
customers and contractors work together to improve 
their safety cultures and gain recognition as safety 
leaders in the construction sector as a whole. Both 
Management Directors from the two Dutch operating 
companies are members of the steering committee 
behind and as part of the Governance Code, facilitating 
the Governance Code work group regarding safety in 
the construction sector. On 17 March 2017, the first 
Dutch Safety Day (‘Bewust Veilig-dag’) was held, in 
which Royal BAM Group and its Dutch companies BAM 
Bouw and Vastgoed Nederland and BAM Infra 
Nederland participated by actively showing their 
commitment on a personal level. In addition, BAM 
shared various learning experiences within the sector, 
such as best practices on working with buckets and the 
general site induction, to contribute to sectorwide 
scalabe learning and uniform processes.For the last five years BAM has presided the working 
group on health and safety and stimulated the 
collaboration in ENCORD (European Network of 
Construction Companies for Research and 
Development). The purpose and objectives of the 
working group are to be a continously learning 
organisation, collaborating on research and 
development, to find common approaches to the issue 
and to ensure the health and safety of our workforce. 
The future focus is output-oriented: it’s not about what 
we do today, it’s about what we want to do in the 
future. We have improved communication, alignment 
and collaboration between the working groups such as 
BIM and Lean Management, Council and the Board 
through positive results and a focus on common 
themes such as selecting subcontractor management 
and prevention through design and planning to be 
prepared by the participants.
Setting minimum health management requirements
More insidious than the fatal and serious industrial accidents is the 
number of employees with a health damage or a long-term illness 
that has been caused or worsened at work. Many of these diseases 
manifest themselves only years after exposure and many are 
ultimately deadly. BAM believes that all injuries, deaths and 
illnesses can and must be prevented. BAM is in the process of 
setting minimum health management requirements. Within 
ENCORD, Europe’s forum for industry-led research, development 
and innovation in the construction industry, the Group has put 
research and development in the field of quartz dust and asbestos 
inhalation, diabetes and skin cancer on the agenda.
Worldwide BAM Safety Day 
The eighth Safety Day was held on 10 October 2017. This year’s 
Safety Day theme ‘The Value of Safety’ expressed that the value of 
safe working is actually priceless and underlines the right of each 
BAM employee to return home safely at the end of the working 
day. That this right is unfortunately not always guaranteed is 
evidenced by the fatal accidents on some of BAM’s building sites 
across the world. Thus, the highest safety risks remain current and 
deserve the Group’s unwavering attention. In line with the 
updated strategic agenda – emphasis on the importance of 
working together, sharing knowledge and learning from each 
other – several interactive activities were undertaken at each 
construction site and in each office to raise awareness for the 
basic causes of BAM’s most serious accidents and to discuss these 
and to come up with joint solutions and innovations. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 82 Integrated Report 2017A BAM International team in Tanzania during BAM’s eighth 
Worldwide Safety Day, 10 October 2017. This year’s theme 
‘The Value of Safety’ expressed that working safely is 
actually invaluable – what truly matters is the right of each 
and every BAM employee to return home safely at the end 
of the working day. Continuous organisational development: BAM People
The focus of the strategy is to have similar processes and exploit 
synergies across the Group. The important HR areas for business 
support are insights and development from BAM’s people, 
recruiting new talent, compensation and benefits, and HR people 
support and data insights. BAM has taken an important step 
towards the implementation of a single HR system in 2018 for the 
entire BAM organisation: ‘BAM People’. BAM People provides 
in-depth insights into its workforce, its performance and costs and 
also facilitates responsive and critical decision-making. It provides 
trends in productivity and attendance, shows where BAM’s top 
performers are located and helps to further shape careers for 
talent and succession planning purposes.Employee recruitment, development and retention
The 2016-2020 strategy has been the starting point for BAM’s 
HR initiatives in 2017. Living the four values as written in the 
BAM  strategy (predictable performance, scalable learning, 
proactive ownership and open collaboration) was an important 
theme in 2017. HR always keeps those values in mind while setting 
out new initiatives. These initiatives, for instance on digital 
innovation, the standardisation of Group HR processes and the 
creation of a single BAM career platform, form the basic 
fundament of being One BAM.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 83 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 83 Integrated Report 2017The Materials Innovation Factory is the latest addition 
to the historic city-centre campus of the University of 
Liverpool. It fosters collaboration between academia and 
industry and provides open access to one of the highest 
concentrations, automated, state-of-the-art materials 
chemistry equipment, anywhere in the world. Architects: 
Fairhursts Design Group. BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 84 Integrated Report 2017Royal BAM Group nv Integrated Report 2017
Karl-Heinz Heller, Director of ‘Partnerschaft Deutschland’. 
This organisation improves public service provision and 
investments in infrastructure and real estate projects; from 
the development of strategic concepts to assistance during 
the implementation process.
What is the added value of open collaboration in 
the construction industry?
‘Open collaboration, in a spirit of partnership, is particularly 
important to the success of a project because it fosters a better 
understanding of the user’s needs while also enabling the 
manufacturer’s problems to be taken into account, paving the  
way for a satisfactory outcome for both sides.’
Can you give an example?
‘One example is the construction of a ministry building in Berlin as 
part of a PPP project. This demonstrated partnership in action, 
which enabled all of the aims of the project to be met or exceeded, 
the building was completed on time and within budget and 
overdelivers on the quality requirements. It was gold-certified for 
sustainability, the energy savings targets were far exceeded, and it 
won an architecture prize. Partnership-based collaboration was also 
responsible for the achievement of all the goals of another  
PPP project, the Futurium in Berlin.’
How can we learn from each other?
‘Clients, contractors and consultants have very different previous 
experience which, through intensive dialogue and a collaborative 
approach, they can pool for the success of a project.’
What are the benefits of digitalisation for the 
construction industry?
‘Digitalisation in the construction industry is still in its infancy.  
But it has considerable potential, which only has to be exploited.’
What is the benefit of digitalisation for your 
organisation? 
‘Acceleration and greater transparency. We apply this through BIM.’
How can we together contribute to a sustainable 
future?
‘More collaborative processes and paying attention to the issue in 
our daily work; creation of steering mechanisms that promote the 
approach, such as PPP projects.’Karl-Heinz Heller, Partnerschaft Deutschland
  ‘Digitalisation in
     the construction  
industry is still in 
      its infancy’
Royal BAM Group nv 85 Integrated Report 201733 -  Absenteeism (number of sick days as a  
percentage of total number of available days)
2345
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172.73.1
Employee engagement 
In order to work together, share and learn from each other, it is 
essential to know what keeps all employees busy and what 
challenges lie ahead. To this end, various initiatives have been 
developed such as:
-  BAM Panel  
Thanks to BAM Panel the Group’s employee engagement 
research is now carried out on the basis of a uniform set of 
questions. By doing so BAM employees share worldwide 
experiences that contribute to an open collaboration. Moreover 
BAM Panel enables BAM to know how everyone within their 
organisation thinks about its values and strategy. All BAM employees learn from each other and will be better able to 
understand mutual expectations and act accordingly.
-  Spring and Autumn meetings  
During two meetings, one in spring and one in autumn, around 
one hundred staff from all parts of the Group gathered in 
Amsterdam to discuss the strategy and to share initiatives.  
Sharing ideas has led to Group connections and scalable 
learning: sharing experiences instead of reinvent the wheel, 
shows the way to being One BAM. 
-  Establishment of the European Works Council  
BAM considers the contribution of its works councils to be very 
valuable to its business operations. Participation at European 
level will take place in a consistent and both practical and 
workable way. An agreement relating to the European Works 
Council (EWC) for BAM is expected in 2018.
Recruitment
BAM aims to diversify its workforce and find potential talent with 
different capabilities, various degrees of experience and different 
genders, nationalities and cultural backgrounds. Together, they 
can help our company mirror its client base and implement its 
strategic agenda. That is why the Group evaluated all vacancies 
and candidate profiles in 2016. This will support BAM’s search for 
the best fitting talent. To attract talent, BAM wants to be an 
attractive employer and our recruiters continually evaluate and 
improve on applicant experience.
BAM has launched a new international recruitment website:  
www.bamcareers.com. The new careers website enables BAM to 
target talent locally and to maintain its position in a scarce 
market. The platform showcases the stories of employees, BAM’s 
projects and innovations, and its vacancies worldwide. So this is 
another positive step towards better knowledge exchange and 
better sharing of expertise within the entire group.
Diversity 
BAM values equality, diversity and inclusion, and celebrates this 
through BAM’s great people. 
BAM believes that a company with diversified teams at all levels 
and disciplines is made stronger by the different perspectives that 
such diversity entails. This is reflected in BAM’s vision and values 
employment and development processes. BAM supports local and 
national initiatives that want to create opportunities for all 
groups, particularly those who may not have considered civil 
engineering as an accessible career choice. 
BAM works together with its peer companies, clients and suppliers 
to share ideas and implement changes that improve the image of 
our industry. More on diversity in the composition of BAM’s 
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board can be found in 
Chapter 4.1 (Corporate Governance).
Anjulie Sila
Anjulie Sila lives in a social housing apartment in Alphen 
aan den Rijn, the Netherlands, which was recently 
renovated by BAM Wonen. ‘My place was built in the 
nineteen fifties and has seen a good many tenants 
before me. But now it’s got a whole new bathroom, 
kitchen, toilet, windows and balcony. I was able to 
choose a lot of the finishes, like the size of the tiles and 
the colour of the walls. Every day, it feels like waking up 
in a whole new home, built especially for me! I love it.’
‘My home now feels
like it was built just for me’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 86 Integrated Report 201735 -  Female/male employees by region  
(in % of total employees) 
2017 2016
Netherlands 12/88 11/89
United Kingdom 25/75 24/76
Belgium 12/88 11/89
Germany 21/79 21/79
Ireland 23/87 26/74
Rest of the world 6/94 5/95
36 -  Employees per gender by employment type  
(in %)
  
 2017  2016  2017  2016
Full-time 95 95 57 57
Part-time 5 5 43 43
37 -  Employees per employment contract  
by gender in 2017  
(in %)
 permanent contract temporary contract
88 12
86 14
38 -  Employees per employee category  
by gender in 2017  
(in %) 
Senior 
managementMiddle 
managementOperational 
staff
6 9 17
94 91 83
39 - Employees by age group
(in %) 
Age group 2017 2016
<20 1 1
20-29 14 13
30-39 25 24
40-49 26 27
50-59 25 26
≥60 9 9Talent development 
A talent review process was conducted with the boards of all 
operating companies to discuss current and future required 
capacities for BAM. During the mid-year talent review, key 
positions and key business and project managers were discussed 
in terms of leadership, succession and opportunities for 
development. Follow-up meetings elaborated on development 
progress, talent exchange opportunities and short-term 
succession goals.
Attracting young graduates remains crucial to BAM. The existing 
Dutch graduate programme was refined and a first step was made 
towards a single BAM graduate programme for the benefit of all 
home markets. The young talent career proposition was 
complemented with a finance graduate programme.
34 - Average hours of training per employee 
10152025
2013 2012 2014 2015 2017 201618
14
BAM’s project managers are key to the success of BAM. In order to 
be our clients’ partner of choice, BAM needs the most talented 
project and tender managers. To achieve this ambition, the 
Group-wide Project Olympus was initiated in 2016. Project 
Olympus wants to recognise and develop BAM’s project managers 
and offer them rewarding career propositions. In order to realise 
this, the Group designed a leadership development programme 
for our most senior project managers, project leaders and tender 
managers focusing on personal, team and project leadership. In 
addition to establishing the Olympus Leadership Programme, 
approximately 195 project managers were brought together in 
several seminars in 2017 from across the BAM Group, with the 
opportunity to share experiences, establish networks for 
knowledge-sharing and to learn more about leadership and 
negotiation. The outcomes will be used as valuable input for 
future initiatives. 
The Olympus leadership programme has also resulted in the 
creation of a focused learning and development programme that 
is aimed at experienced mid career tender managers, project 
managers, and project leaders: the Everest programme. In 
november 2017 a pilot has started in the Netherlands. The 
programme will become available for all OpCo’s within BAM.
Annual total compensation by country
In 2016, the rounded ratios for the annual total remuneration of 
BAM’s highest paid relative to the average annual total 
remuneration for all employees, remained at the same level as in 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 87 Integrated Report 20172015, except in Germany. Here, the ratio decreased from seven to 
six, which means that the average salary increased more than the 
salary increase of the highest paid individual. The percentage ratio 
increased in the Netherlands and decreased in Belgium and 
Germany. In 2017, the rounded ratios for the annual total 
compensation of BAM’s highest paid individual relative to the 
average annual total compensation for all employees, remained at 
the same level as in 2016, except in the Netherlands and rest of the 
world. In the Netherlands the ratio decreased which means that the 
average salary increased more than the salary increase of the 
highest paid individual.
The relatively high ratio for BAM’s international business can be 
explained by the fact that Dutch management members work 
together with local workforce, which explains the difference in 
salary standards. In 2017 BAM International had a large shift in 
geographical spread of its construction projects.
40 -  Annual total compensation by country
 (in ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s 
highest-paid individual to the average annual total compensation  
for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual))
2017 2016
Ratio of percentage
Increase ratio ratio
Netherlands -6% 13 14
United Kingdom 10% 7 7
Belgium -6% 6 *6
Germany -3% 7 7
Ireland 7% 6 6
Rest of the world 26% 30 25
Business conduct and transparency 
BAM is committed to being an ethical company and to live up to 
the highest standards of honesty and integrity in the way BAM 
does business with clients, suppliers and each other. BAM’s code 
of conduct includes principles and guidelines. New employees 
must sign a statement in which they acknowledge to comply with 
this code as part of their employment contract with BAM. An 
e-learning tool is used to train and remind employees of these 
values and standards. The training is available in English, German, 
French and Dutch and is mandatory for new white-collar BAM 
employees. Furthermore, BAM’s blue-collar employees are trained 
by so called tool box meetings. BAM strongly believes in a 
targeted approach for the different working groups within the 
Group to achieve optimum understanding and adaptation. 
In 2017 the Group strengthened its compliance framework by 
setting up of an independent Speak up line and an updated 
procedure for employees to report suspicions of misconduct. BAM has communicated this strengthened approach to employees 
within all Operating Companies (except BAM Nuttall which already 
had an independent Speak up line). For example, the flyer of the 
Speak up procedure was sent to the home address of approximately 
12.775 Dutch speaking employees in the Netherlands and part of 
Belgium via the periodic newsletter. Furthermore, there have been 
discussions within the companies to give extra attention to this 
subject as part of ‘doing things right’. Also the integrity e-learning 
has this year been extended with a section on the new Speak up 
procedure.
The appointment of a Governance Risk & Compliance Director on 
Group level has enabled BAM to further streamline the compliance 
activities in an harmonised manner. The global compliance 
community has been working extensively on implementing new 
requirements, including a more robust internal reporting process. 
Potential cases of misconduct are discussed on a quarterly basis 
with the Executive Board and and every six months with the Audit 
Committee. No material incidents have been reported by 
operating companies to BAM’s headoffice with regard to the code 
of conduct. Furthermore, on a yearly basis the effectiveness of the 
management approach is assessed and improvement activities are 
captured in the Operating Plan of the GRC function.
Corruption Perception Index
The Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is calculated annually by 
Transparency International, which focuses on the strict application 
of the UN Convention against Corruption. The CPI classifies 
countries according to their perceived level of corruption on a 
scale from 0 to 100. BAM obtains the largest part of its turnover in 
countries with a Corruption Perception Index score higher than 
80, that is, in countries with a very low risk of corruption.
41 -  Revenue according to Corruption  
Perception Index ( in %)
01020304050607080
Very low risk
CPI >80Low risk
80≥ CPI >60Average risk
60≥ CPI >40High risk
40≥ CPI >20Very high risk
CPI ≤201314151617 1314151617 1314151617 1314151617 131415161779
19
1 10
* Correction from 2016 Integrated report
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 88 Integrated Report 2017Zaans Medical Centre was delivered as a DBMO contract 
(design, build, maintain and operate) by BAM subsidiary 
VitaalZorgvast and BAM Bouw en Techniek. It is the first 
lean-designed and -built hospital in Europe. BAM is 
responsible for the hospital’s technical management and 
maintenance, cleaning services and for the energy 
consumption of the hospital for a period of 25 years. 
Architects: Mecanoo.
Royal BAM Group nv 89 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 89 Integrated Report 2017Combatting slavery
BAM is committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking 
throughout its operations and those associated with its business. 
This is not an isolated issue, but one that is part of BAM’s integral 
approach to ensure that people are treated with dignity and 
respect, that goods and services are purchased responsibly, that 
transparency is promoted and that business is done with the 
highest professional and ethical standards.
In 2017 there was increased emphasis on preventing Modern 
slavery in the construction sector. BAM works closely with the 
industry and supply chain to identify areas of risk of modern 
slavery and work in partnership with them to help ensure their 
prevention. With the introduction of the new Speak Up procedure 
in 2017, BAM has updated the ‘whistleblowing’ process, which 
encourages the report of all suspicions of misconduct. BAM 
finalised the statement of compliance with the Modern Slavery 
Act 2015 (UK). In order to identify and limit risks, BAM has set up a 
working group for the correct and proportionate identification 
and implementation of measures.
Enhancing lives
BAM will play its part in addressing social issues at local and global 
level. To structure its efforts on community engagement, 
BAM launced its ‘Enhancing lives’ programme in 2016. 
Enhancing Lives is about making a real and positive difference to 
the lives of people with whom BAM comes into contact through 
work. This involves supporting people and communities by giving 
them an opportunity to increase their personal aspirations, 
support broader social ambitions and meet their needs. As part of 
its strategy, BAM has set a target of enhancing around 1,000,000 
lives by 2020. This includes:
• Connecting with, Improving and Transforming the lives of 
people BAM works with – both externally and with regard to 
our own employees;
• Focus on education and skills, employment, charity and 
community engagement;
• Recognising that this is the right thing to do and that it adds 
value to BAM’s business through enhanced reputation, greater 
skills and diversity within the workforce.
‘Enhancing lives is about the 
way we do business, not the 
business we do’ Human rights 
As part of doing things right and taking responsibility, BAM 
facilitates annual BWI visits to its project locations to audit local 
working conditions on amongst others human right practices. 
Unfortunately, due to time constraints imposed by BWI, this year’s 
visit has had to be postponed until 2018 so there has not been a 
report of (non-)compliance for the year 2017. 
BAM endorses the importance of the International Finance 
Corporation, in particular with regard to the labour and working 
conditions and the promotion of good employee-management 
relations.
BAM is of the opinion that fair treatment of employees and the 
on-site offering of a comprehensive safety programme, avoiding 
discrimination on the work floor, not using child labor, paying fair 
wages, paying attention to education and training and creating 
healthy and decent working conditions, will result in tangible 
benefits, such as enhanced efficiency and productivity of BAM’s 
business. 
During Girls’ Day, an event held every year in the 
Netherlands as a means of introducing girls to the world 
of exact sciences and technology, BAM was among the 
companies who opened their doors so that girls could 
experience how virtual and augmented reality are 
shaping the world of technology. At the BIM Center (of 
BAM Advies & Engineering) girls could design their own 
school building and walk through its virtual model with 
the help of the Oculus Rift and the HoloLens. Elsewhere, 
girls were introduced to drones and BIM 360 Field 
software. Further activities included welding glass fibre, 
pouring concrete, doing science experiments with cola 
and lemons, and building spaghetti towers. Girl’s Day 2017
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 90 Integrated Report 2017BAM Construct UK uses the London Benchmarking Model (www.
lbg-online.net) to quantitatively measure the monetary value of 
its community efforts. In 2017, over €499,884 (£437,000) was 
invested into the communities surrounding BAM Construct UK’s 
projects, which benefitted over 33,000 people. This figure is 
calculated based on time, cash donations and in-kind/material 
donations. The time calculations are based on an average hourly 
rate of a BAM Construct employee. A separate calculation is made 
for leverage of sub-contractor time (this is a lower value). Time 
which is spent delivering an activity is included in the overall value 
and in some cases preparation time also. The overall value for 
2017 breaks down as £305k in time, £44k in cash donations, £15 in 
materials/ in-kind donations and £75k in management costs.
BAM Construct UK continued to use an apprentice-tracking tool to 
document the number of young people gaining expertise on its 
sites. In 2017, over 497 apprentices and over 74 trainees have 
gained over 26,523 days of site experience on BAM projects. Work 
experience is an important part of the support we offer to people 
– it helps to give young people a taste of the kinds of careers 
available in the sector and helps to provide unemployed people 
with an opportunity to gain valuable experience. In 2017 BAM 
provided 167 students and 51 unemployed people with 1 or 2 
week work experience placements in the United Kingdom.In order to start measuring this social value, BAM has started a 
cross company steering group to understand the maturity of BAM 
in different operating countries and to make a roadmap to 
develop a consistent methodology and reporting framework.
Ultimately BAM wants to demonstrate the added value it provides 
to society through its operations.
All Operating Companies began to record Enhancing Lives 
activities in 2017. The activities were different from one operating 
company to another as some focussed on local communities, 
others on training or wellbeing. The result is that this has started 
to become a common language which brings people together.
Community engagement progress
In 2017, local community engagement programmes that measure 
and manage the impact of building projects on the local 
environment were implemented in 35 per cent of BAM’s projects. 
These were initiatives as part of existing programmes, such as the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme (CCS), Bewuste Bouwers and 
Making TIME for Communities, as well as unique initiatives of 
engagement managers on projects and site-specific sponsoring or 
charity work.
Considerate Constructors Scheme
CCS fosters good communication with the local community and 
promotes professionalism on building sites. Both BAM Construct 
UK and BAM Nuttall in the United Kingdom are associate 
members of the CCS. Construction sites registered under the 
CCS scheme are monitored to ensure that they comply with the 
Code of Considerate Practice developed to promote good 
practice, going beyond legal requirements.
Bewuste Bouwers
Based on the success of the UK Considerate Constructors Scheme, 
BAM was one of the companies that introduced the scheme 
Bewuste Bouwers in the Netherlands in 2009. After five years of 
BAM participation, Bewuste Bouwers decided to involve BAM in a 
further roll-out of the scheme. During 2017, 79 sites were 
registered under the scheme in the Netherlands (2016: 78).
Making TIME for Communities 
BAM Construct UK continued to target social issues highlighted in 
the Making TIME for Communities strategy. For the fifth year 
running BAM Construct UK’s initiatives were award winning: 
• Highly Commended for ‘Outstanding Contribution to a charity 
by a large organisation’. The nomination was made by a charity 
which tackles anti-social behaviour ‘Mancunian Way’ 
• Finalist in the Construction Investing in Talent Awards for 
‘Best Community Engagement Programme’ – this was for an 
‘Enhancing Lives Challenge’ which was given to new trainees, 
apprentices, graduates and sponsored students
• Midlands – Silver and Gold for Coventry Charter for Business 
Responsibility BAM Construct UK also entered into its 4th 
2 year-partnership with a charity – for 2017/18 the charity 
chosen is CLIC Sargent.Our new trainees and apprentices started working for BAM in 
September 2016. BAM challenged them with enhancing as 
many lives as they could in their local communities. They raised 
£15,000 and enhanced 4,257 lives in their first 6 months with 
BAM. Our new colleagues carried out a wide variety of 
community engagement and did some fantastic work with local 
community groups – this included refurbishing a women’s 
refuge, upgrading an advice centre for a charity, volunteering 
with a homeless charity, providing employment support to 
unemployed people and refurbishing facilities for a food waste 
project. 
The one thing they were all determined to do was to inspire the 
next generation to consider a career in the industry and 
through engagement activities they worked with 2,542 
students from 44  schools, colleges and universities.Enhancing Lives challenge at BAM Construct UK
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 91 Integrated Report 2017A number of 12,500 bicycles over three floors: the world’s 
largest bicycle parking in the world was awarded the 
Dutch prize for concrete constructions (Betonprijs) 2017 
in the category non-residential. Located adjacent to the 
Netherlands’ most central of railway stations, Utrecht 
Central, the first part of the parking was opened to 7,500 
bicycles in August 2017, with the final handover planned 
for 2018. BAM Infra and BAM Bouw en Techniek.
Royal BAM Group nv 92 Integrated Report 2017Procurement
The Procurement ‘community’ consolidated its vision through 
2017 in line with BAM’s strategic objectives in the following areas:
• Improve processes, develop people and systems
• Strengthen partnerships with suppliers
• Increase early involvement of procurement
• Leverage BAM scale and expertise
 
In 2017 BAM started the roll out of a group spend and contract tool 
(Bravo) to have an overview of all suppliers and subcontractors 
working for BAM. The implementation is ready in the Operating 
Companies in the Netherlands and in the first half of 2018 will be 
rolled out internationally. This will give BAM the opportunity to 
further monitor and manage its supply chain.   
 
BAM uses a tool to measure supplier performance in order to 
generate benefits and savings across the group. During project 
preparation, implementation and follow-up, the tool assesses 
suppliers against the themes safety, quality, total cost, logistics 
and engineering and process. Operating companies are at liberty 
to add any specific criteria. On a scale of 1 to 4, each supplier has 
to score at least 3 for each criterion. In 2017 a total of 538 supplier 
performance assessments were carried out in the Netherlands.
 
During 2018 BAM will evaluate measures to further support its 
supply chain health and safety performance (aligned with its top 5 
H&S risk categories). BAM will also focus on increasing minimum 
standards for supply chain transparency, with the launch of a 
group wide ethical policy/ statement. It will continue to work with 
key/ priority suppliers in order to reduce their own CO2 and 
material resources. BAM will also review its stage gate processes 
to further enhance decision making during the tendering process 
(i.e. in order to mitigate health and safety or sustainability risks).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 93 Integrated Report 2017Where we can improve
While environmental incidents are always avoided or compensated, 
they can occur during projects. An example in 2017 being a damaged coral reef in Curacao. BAM always adheres to its environmental management system and takes action to improve its environmental practices following any such incident.
BAM emits greenhouse gases through its operations and often uses virgin materials in its construction activities. The dilemma between sustainable procurement and procurement costs is constantly present. The Group aspires to deliver greater environmental value; transparency and ethical standards through its supply chain. BAM recognises the benefits of working with clients for whom sustainability is important as this improves its reputation whilst decreases its ESG risks.
Sustainability strategy
By collaborating with our supply chain, encouraging innovative and digital thinking through our products, and realising the benefits of circular business models, BAM aims to have a net positive impact in the long term (towards 2050). This chapter describes BAM’s performance towards creating a sustainable built environment from an environmental perspective. The sustainability strategy emphasises both climate change (climate positive strand) and resource constraints (resource positive strand). 
BAM acknowledges that the company needs to prepare for a low-carbon economy and needs to reduce its own emissions as well as supply chain emissions. Our company has a large impact on reductions in lifecycle carbon impact of buildings and infrastructure (through material selection, design or asset management), deploying renewable energy systems or energy reduction measures for our clients or communities. 
The company works towards a circular economy and believes the 
industry will be able to leave a positive legacy to the environment if they are able to work from reversible designs that are regenerative. BAM has made progress on reducing construction waste by becoming more efficient, utilising off-site manufacturing and by working with its supply chain to eliminate waste throughout the lifecycle of its projects.
Climate positive
BAM aims to have a net positive impact on the climate by 2050, reducing its own carbon emissions towards zero and helping others to reduce carbon more widely. This means BAM will:
• Minimise the energy it uses through driving new efficiencies 
through the business
• Use as much power, fuel and heat from renewable sources as 
possible
• Work with its clients and supply chain to drive carbon out of 
the whole system
In order to monitor its emissions, BAM measures its carbon footprint using the greenhouse gas (GHG) protocol. The GHG Targets Pr ogress
To achieve 25  per cent relative emissions reduction 
scope 1, 2 and 3 by 2020 (base year 2015).
To be included in the CDP Climate A List Leadership 
Index by achieving performance band A.
Deliver at least one product or service contributing  
to wider emissions reduction (zero carbon product).
To aspire zero construction waste to landfill and 
incineration in 2025.
Deliver at least one BAM circular project, product  
or service in each operating company by 2020.
Source 100  per cent sustainable timber by 2020.Performance in 2017
BAM reduced its CO2-intensity by 9 per cent compared  
to 2015, emissions went down to 186 kilotonnes in 2017 
(2015: 2 30 k ilotonnes).
BAM achieved leadership status on CDP’s climate change 
benchmark in 2017 and performance was rated A-.
The group set up a definition to measure performance on 
this target going forward. 
BAM reduced construction and office waste from 
161 kilotonnes in 2015 to 134 kilotonnes in 2017, a 
reduction of 16 per cent. 65 per cent of this waste was 
reused.
BAM built two circular projects in the Netherlands.  
One refurbishment and one new building. 
BAM c ompleted one c ircular c onsultancy p roject i n the 
United  Kingdom
BAM verified 97 per cent sustainable certified timber in 
the Netherlands and 99 per cent in the United Kingdom.42 - Ambition: to achieve a net positive impact on climate and natural resources3.3 Environmental performance
Climate 
positiveResource 
positive
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 94 Integrated Report 2017The Group’s 2020 reduction target on CO2 emissions intensity is 
25 per cent compared to 2015 levels (scope 1, 2 and 3). BAM’s 
carbon footprint is calculated based on the energy consumption 
of all operating companies. In 2017 BAM emitted 186 kilotonnes 
CO2 (2016: 203 kilotonnes). BAM’s carbon footprint fell by 9 per 
cent to 2016 and 33 per cent to 2009 (the year BAM established its 
first full carbon footprint). 
The CO2 intensity, decreased by 3 per cent in 2017 to 28.1 tonnes 
CO2 per million euro revenue and shows against 9 per cent 
improvement to base year 2015. BAM’s energy intensity was 
0.40 TJ per million turnover (2016: 0.43 TJ/mio).
In 2017 BAM established its first full scope 3 assessment and had 
this validated by a third party. The assessment provided better 
understanding of BAM’s wider climate change impacts (via supply 
chain) and the Group’s best opportunities to achieve reductions. 
In 2018 BAM will further improve its scope 3 assessment by 
improving measurement and performance monitoring and 
engage with supplier where BAM has the most control/influence 
over emissions. This approach will have two particular focus areas: 
‘purchased goods and services’ and ‘use of sold products’. 
Another area for improvement is the development of meaningful 
(and useful) performance targets through the identification and 
scalable deployment of practical, implementable and measurable 
project-level best practice initiatives. In 2018 we hope to complete 
our Science Based Targets; setting reduction targets in line with 
climate science is a great way to achieve future-proof growth.protocol defines three scopes for greenhouse gas accounting and 
reporting purposes. BAM includes emissions directly resulting 
from the company’s own activities (scope 1), indirect emissions 
from purchased electricity, heating and cooling (scope 2) and 
indirect emissions in the value chain (scope 3). BAM measures all 
material scope 1 and 2 emissions, and – before 2017 – a limited 
number of scope 3 travel-related emissions. Scope 1 CO2 emissions 
form the majority of BAM’s total CO2 emissions (80 per cent). 
43 -  Total absolute CO2 emissions  
(in kilotonnes)
050100150200250186
Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 213 14 15 16 17
Artist impression of BAM’s area and property developer 
AM for the former Bijlmer prison in Amsterdam.  
AM – as leading partner in a consortium with AT Capital, 
Cairn and the designers OMA, FABRICations and LOLA 
Landscape – will redevelop the district (Bajes Kwartier) 
with approximately 1,350 homes. AM won the tender due 
to its vision on sustainability and circularity - all buildings 
will be completely energy-neutral and 98 per cent of all 
materials will be reused in the new development. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 95 Integrated Report 2017solutions like smart meters, an early connection to the grid and 
more efficient equipment further reduced the CO2 output.
In 2017, 24 per cent of BAM’s revenue, approximately €1.6 billion, 
came from projects that have been registered with third-party 
green building or sustainable construction rating organisations, 
such as the US Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) standards, the UK’s Building 
Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method 
(BREEAM), Germany’s Passivhaus standards and other objective 
and third-party standards or BAM’s green building products. Over 
the past years green revenue has become a larger part of BAM’s 
turnover due to larger client demand. 44 -  CO2 emissions per source  
(in kilotonnes)
Vehicle 
ﬂeetAir
travelAsphalt
plantConstruction 
sitesOfﬁces131415161713141516171314151617131415161713141516173185
96
0306090120150
55
To reduce its carbon footprint, BAM continuously initiates energy 
reduction measures. This is driven by both its own policies and the 
European energy efficiency directive (EED), a set of binding 
measures to help the EU reach its 20 per cent energy efficiency 
target by 2020. In 2017 BAM made several energy studies to 
identify ways to reduce consumption. 
In 2017, emissions from BAM’s offices decreased by 3 per cent 
compared to 2016, as a result of continued focus on energy 
efficiency improvements across BAM offices and outfitting with 
energy-saving measures like LED lighting, motion sensors and time 
clocks to switch off devices. In 2017 BAM used 119 kWh per square 
metre in its buildings in the Netherlands (2016: 123 kWh). The CO2 
emissions intensity of BAM’s office buildings in the Netherlands was 
13,1 kilograms CO2 per square metre (2016: 15.1).
BAM has also decreased the emissions from its vehicle fleet, which 
attributed to 30 per cent of total emissions, and decreased by 
7 per cent compared to 2016. This is the result of a continued 
programme to deploy fuel-efficient cars and programmes that 
stimulate fuel-efficient driving. In 2016, BAM introduced a CO2 
limit of 120 grams per kilometer for all new cars in its leased fleet 
which contritbuted to the reduction in fuel consumption by cars. 
In addition, employees are financially incentivised to choose 
smaller and more fuel-efficient cars (below 90 grams per 
kilometre). BAM also deploys electric vehicles to reduce fuel 
consumption, CO2 emissions and air pollution. In 2017 more than 
4.2 million kilometres were driven with the Group’s fully electric 
vehicles and plug-in hybrid cars. BAM wants to have a more 
flexible and sustainable mobility policy, this is currently 
investigated for the Netherlands. 
Emissions from BAM’s construction sites fluctuate heavily due to 
the phase and type of work. Most CO2 emissions are a result of 
civil engineering projects. In 2017 emissions decreased by 16 per 
cent due to completion of international near-shore marine 
projects and continued energy efficiency measures. Innovative 
Martin Potter and Erik-Jan Mann
For the Rotterdamsebaan joint venture (BAM Infra, Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau and VolkerWessels) sustainability is a 
key word in the design and construction. Martin Potter 
(middle), Project Manager for the Rotterdamsebaan joint 
venture : ‘This includes reusing the TBM itself’, which was 
previously used on the Sluiskil tunnel project and has been 
completely refurbished with a new cutting shield. 
The fuel that powers on-site equipment is Shell GTL 
(Gas-to-Liquids), which reduces emissions of fine particles 
and nitrogen oxides. Sustainability aspects of the tunnel 
itself include solar panels on the roof of the service 
building, particle capture at the mouths of the tunnel and 
absorption of traffic noise in so-called diffractors, which are 
hollow and open concrete contraptions. Across the whole 
length of the road, surfaces are made from sustainable 
asphalt. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 96 Integrated Report 2017In 2020 The Hague will have the most sustainable tunnel in the 
Netherlands. The Victory Boogie Woogie Tunnel will be a vital part of 
Rotterdamsebaan, the new main traffic artery towards The Hague’s 
city centre.
Royal BAM Group nv 97 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 97 Integrated Report 2017Resource positive
BAM’s vision is to have a net positive impact on material resources 
in the design, construction, and use phase of its developments. 
The Group has made progress in reducing waste through 
becoming more efficient, utilising offsite manufacture and 
optimising designs. The ultimate goal is to produce zero 
construction and office waste. BAM is the only major construction 
member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s CE100 programme. 
BAM’s long term objectives of becoming resource positive are:
• Protecting natural capital over the life cycle of the built 
environment
• Eliminating waste, using regenerative materials and creating 
opportunities through its supply chain to retain high levels of 
material value and utility
• Using resources which are healthy, natural and safe
In 2017 BAM established a Group-wide resource-positive steering 
group to enhance intercompany collaboration on this theme. This 
steering group established a set of action plans to achieve 
strategic targets.
Moving towards a circular economy 
The Group actively works with clients to develop business models 
for ‘circular buildings’, such as Circl Amsterdam, for ABN Amro, 
which was completed in 2017. 
BAM’s activities in pursuing the objectives of the circular economy 
in 2017 involved:
•  Collaboration with Horizon 2020’s research project BAMB 
(Buildings as Material Banks) on the prevention of construction 
and demolition waste, the reduction of virgin resource 
consumption and the development towards a circular economy 
through industrial symbiosis.
•  The organisation by BAM Construct UK and BAM Nuttall of a 
series of circular economy supply chain workshops. BAM 
Construct UK has also been commissioned as part of a 
consortium to advise on circular economic opportunities for 
the HS2 rail development in the United Kingdom. 
• Initiation of a ‘Circular Building Platform’ and the development 
of a portal to enable reuse in the built environment.
• Involvement in committees and programmes: 
 -  The Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100 programme, 
co-author of a circular economy business models publication 
and co-lead of a CE100 built environment group project 
‘Circular neighbourhoods’;
 -  London Waste and Recycling Board (LWARB), a circular 
economy steering group engaged in setting a roadmap to 
2036 for circular economy in London (for the London  
Mayor’s office); 
 -  The Green Construction Board Circular Economy working 
group.45 -  CO2 emissions per business line  
(in kilotonnes)
050100150200250
PPP and 
otherCivil 
engineeringConstruction 
and Property13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 1732152
2
BAM has again obtained a leadership status on the CDP climate 
change benchmark (score A-). The Group is valued for its actions 
to reduce CO2 emissions and mitigate the business risks of climate 
change. This global ranking evaluates the corporate efforts to 
mitigate and adapt to climate change. The index is produced by 
CDP, the international NGO that promotes sustainable economies, 
at the request of 658 investors - representing more than a third of 
the invested capital in the world - Information provided by nearly 
6,300 companies has been independently assessed on the basis of 
the CDP scoring methodology and ranked accordingly. Since 
2012, BAM has been one of the leaders regarding transparency on 
impact on climate change. CDP’s annual assesment on corporate 
action on climate change shows that companies are stepping up 
their response to climate change. BAM supports the focus on 
more ambitious targets to drive longer-term progress towards a 
low-carbon future.
46 -  CO2 emissions intensity  
(in tonnes per €1 million revenue)
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 2005101520253035404528.1
23.2
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 98 Integrated Report 2017Circl, ABN AMRO’s circular pavilion in Amsterdam. 
BAM Bouw en Techniek.
Royal BAM Group nv 99 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 99 Integrated Report 201748 -  Waste production per destination category  
(in %)
13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 1783
2
Recycling / re-use Waste to energy
incinerationIncineration without
energy recovery / landﬁll020406080100
15
Just as with the reduction of CO2 emissions, trends in waste 
disposal depend heavily on the phase and type of a project. This 
can lead to major differences between BAM’s civil engineering 
companies in particular. It can therefore be a challenge to 
understand the relationship between Group-wide turnover, the 
type of activities and the amount of waste produced. In 2017, 
BAM treated large amounts of contaminated soil that was 
excavated in several tunnelling projects. This resulted in a lower 
reuse percentage of waste in comparison to previous years.
In 2017, BAM reduced its construction and office waste by 9 per 
cent compared to 2016, from 148 kilotonnes to 134 kilotonnes. 
A large contribution to this year’s reduction of the volume of 
construction waste was due to the completion of several large 
construction projects. Improvements in efficiency of BAM’s 
production process were achieved through the use of 
prefabrication of building elements and BIM technology, both of 
which reduce the amount of waste produced at construction 
sites.Enabling zero construction waste
BAM’s waste typically consists of excavation, demolition, 
construction and office waste. BAM focuses on construction and 
office waste as indicators of operational performance, since these 
outputs are based on the Group’s own processes and 
procurement. All construction and office materials are initially 
brought to BAM’s sites and offices on its behalf, in contrast to 
excavation and demolition waste. Excavation and demolition 
waste are present at sites before BAM takes on a project and 
therefore less relevant as indicators of operational performance 
or sustainability; it is merely a part of BAM’s business model to 
efficiently remove these types of waste from its sites.
47 -  Waste production per source   
(in kilotonnes
Construction
waste13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17
Ofﬁce
waste050100150200127
7
BAM has won the Crystal Prize 2017, the award for the most 
transparent 2016 annual report (as part of the Dutch 
transparency benchmark). BAM was nominated together 
with Royal Schiphol Group, Siemens Nederland and 
Alliander, last year’s winner. The Crystal Prize for CSR 
reporting is a joint initiative of the Royal Dutch Professional 
Association of Accountants (NBA) and the Ministry of 
Economic Affairs and Climate. 
The jury acknowledged that BAM is operating in a sector 
which has recently taken a heavy financial toll. The jury 
appreciates BAM’s efforts to firmly keep societal issues on 
the agenda, incorporating them in its annual report. It 
specifically applauds the way in which BAM invites its 
stakeholders to participate in discussions about the long 
term vision and the 2020 strategic goals. ‘Additionally,  
BAM offers clear insights on possible improvements, 
resulting in clear and excellent reporting by a company 
that dares to profile itself on the theme of sustainability’, 
concluded the jury.BAM winner of the Crystal Prize 2017
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 100 Integrated Report 201749 -  Construction and office waste intensity  
(in tonnes per €1 million revenue)
051015202530
13 14 15 16 1720.3To promote appropriate recycling, BAM has set an objective to 
improve the separation of construction waste. In 2017, 23 per cent 
of the Group’s construction waste in the Netherlands was 
separated, compared with 25 per cent in 2016. BAM’s efforts to 
separate construction waste on site result in improved reuse and 
recycling of materials. In 2017, large volumes of timber, metals 
and cardboard were separated. A proactive approach of project 
managers to separate these materials has resulted in a significant 
increase of the separation rate over time.
‘Together we keep our
street clean and tidy’Ans Schmidt
Ans Schmidt is mere months away from her 92nd 
birthday and still living independently in her home in 
Vianen, the Netherlands. The houses on her street were 
recently renovated by BAM Wonen Renovatie 
Concepten. ‘Lekstede is a lovely old street, with plenty 
of trees. In the fall, that means I’m often outside 
sweeping away the fallen leaves, getting greeted or 
waved at by everyone that walks by. Because of my 
knees I take half an hour everyday for some light 
exercise, like walking or sweeping the pavement.’
180 social rented homes in Hoef en Haag, a new village on the Lek, 
between Vianen and Hagestein. BAM Wonen. Hoef en Haag was 
developed by AM together with BPD.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 101 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 101 Integrated Report 2017One of BAM Infra’s many projects for its client Rijkswaterstaat, 
the Dutch government agency responsible for the main 
infrastructure networks, is the management and maintenance 
of three highways in the Middle Netherlands region. 
Royal BAM Group nv 102 Integrated Report 2017‘In any infrastructure project it is crucial that all 
stakeholders, such as governments and local residents, are 
involved as early as possible,’ is how Rijkswaterstaat’s Ype Heijsman, Rijkswaterstaat 
Director Network Management Middle-Netherlands, 
Ype Heijsman (on the right), views open collaboration and 
stakeholder management. ‘Municipalities, environmental 
organisations and other interest groups should be able to have 
their say on aspects that they wish to endorse or improve. 
As their partner, we need to be trustworthy. If they are going 
to work with us, that puts them in our camp in the eyes of the 
public, so all communication with the public has to be one 
hundred per cent reliable. The only way we can make that 
happen is if everyone sticks to what has been agreed. We say 
what we do and we do what we say.’
‘We say what we do 
and we do what we say’
industry averages. In cases where BAM applies recycled materials, 
nearly all materials are processed before they can be reused for 
construction. Therefore BAM chooses to report all materials as 
having been recycled rather than partly reused. Materials 
quantities and composition will also be used in limiting BAM’s 
supply chain impact (Scope 3 carbon footprint).Responsible sourcing: materials
Since 2011, BAM has identified the quantities of materials used  
in its construction projects in the Netherlands. The Group has 
identified the main categories of procured materials as shown in 
 table 50. Depending on their nature, most used materials can  
be recycled and we strive to maximise this. BAM determined 
quantities and recycling percentages based on supplier data and 
50 - Material consumption in the Netherlands 
Consumption
Resource 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Ready-mix concrete m3364,000 286,000 265,000 189,000 173,000
Timber m323,000 28,000 32,000 23,500 19,000
Asphalt t 1,400,000 1,500,000 1,400,000 1,450,000 1,300,000
Steel t 67,000 79,000 73,000 54,000 61,000
Recycled content
Resource 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Ready-mix concrete m311% 10% 12% 18% 15%
Timber m32% 2% 1% 3% 1%
Asphalt t 39% 42% 40% 42% 37%
Steel t 66% 64% 63% 71% 72%
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 103 Integrated Report 2017BAM more recently developed Low Energy and Emission Asphalt 
Pavement (LE2AP) with support of the EU LIFE+ program. LE2AP is 
the next circular milestone towards developing a silent (sonic) and 
sustainable road that optimises traffic flow. In the LE2AP pilot 
project, BAM developed and demonstrated asphalt pavement 
with at least 80 per cent reclaimed material. This is tested at two 
provincial roads in the Netherlands. The asphalt is produced and 
paved at a low temperature of 100°C and reduces traffic noise 
with 7dB. 
BAM commissioned an assessment of the socio-economic impact 
of this product, focusing amongst others on the following 
impacts: human health, energy use, climate change, odour 
nuisance and material use. The impacts are assessed in 
comparison with a reference scenario representing the production 
of a conventional asphalt mixture. 
The impacts are converted to monetary units using a welfare-cost 
approach. This means that monetary values reflects the costs that 
society pays as a consequence of these adverse social and 
environmental impacts. 
The assessment results in total external costs of a ton of LE2AP 
asphalt of €7.01, while a ton of conventional asphalt costs €10.57. 
This is a relative reduction of external costs of 34 per cent for 
LE2AP compared to conventional asphalt. The most material 
impact is climate change, which accounts for 49 per cent of the 
difference between the two scenarios. This difference in climate-
change related external costs results mostly from lower 
transportation requirements in the LE2AP production chain. Anne Ernest, BAM Infraconsult
‘A background in 
professional sports is good 
preparation for tendering’ Water
In 2017, construction sites, offices and asphalt plants consumed 
114,000 m3 potable water in the Netherlands (2016: 101,000 m3). 
This is a slight increase mainly coming from large building projects 
that consumed significant amounts of water. 
52 -  Research and development focusing  
on recycling asphalt
Research and development on asphalt
Asphalt production is typically a process that requires a lot of 
natural resources and energy. BAM already started with the 
development of low-energy asphalt concrete (LEAB, after the 
Dutch name: laag energie asfalt beton ), an innovative type of 
asphalt that uses less energy and fewer scarce natural resources 
and results in lower CO2 emissions than conventional asphalt. 
‘Writing a proposal takes several months’ work. Every 
little detail has to be exactly right before we submit our 
bid to the client. If, despite our hard work, we don’t win 
the contract it can be quite a blow. But that is how it 
goes: some you win, some you lose, but you always keep 
going. As a former athlete, that is something I know 
how to deal with. Actually, I am not quite the only 
former athlete in our department – competing in 
professional sports is apparently a good way to prepare 
for this type of work. You need the will to win and the 
ability to keep going despite setbacks.’51 -  Potable water usage in the Netherlands  
x 1,000 m³
2013 
390,000 m32014 
92,000 m32015 
69,000 m32016 
101,000 m32017 
114,000 m3
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 104 Integrated Report 2017BAM Infra ‘rejuvenated’ a stretch of the A12 motorway 
near Utrecht, The Netherlands, with an asphalt’s anti-aging 
cream. Over a length of 48 kilometres, the road surface 
was treated with a cream that is absorbed into the asphalt 
and improves its quality.53 - Socio economic impact valuation of BAM’s sustainable asphalt LE2AP and conventional asphalt 
(€/t asphalt) 
024681012
LE2AP Conventional
asphaltDifferenceIndicatorsLE2AP
(€/t asphalt)Reference
(€/t asphalt)Relative 
difference 
between the 
scenarios
Health loss 1.33 1.93 -31%
Energy use 1.68 2.89 -42%
Climate change 3.55 5.28 -33%
Material use 0.45 0.47 -4%
Total 7.01 10.57 -34%
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 105 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 105 Integrated Report 2017The construction of a fifth lock at Brunsbüttel, Germany, by 
the joint venture formed by the BAM operating companies 
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau, BAM Infra and Wayss & 
Freytag Spezialtiefbau. The project includes the 
construction of a 360-metre-long sea lock between the 
Elbe and the Kiel Canal and the adjustment of the entrance 
of the harbour on the Elbe side. 
Royal BAM Group nv 106 Integrated Report 2017On the construction site of the sea lock in Brunsbüttel, 
Germany, Project Manager Dirk Bennje leads a mixed-
nationality team of 45 BAM Infra and BAM Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau colleagues. ‘While the Germans on the team tend 
to excel in close-reading the many details of the contract, the 
Dutch have a flair for finding optimisations of the construction 
process. Lucky for us, we have the best of both worlds!’Dirk Bennje, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
 ‘The best of both worlds’
2013
93%2014
95%2016
98%2017
97%54 - Sustainable certified timber (FSC and PEFC) in the Netherlands
2015
98%Responsible sourcing: 100 per cent sustainable timber
In 2007, BAM signed a covenant with FSC Netherlands, and 
committed itself to using certified timber only to support forest 
conservation and biodiversity. BAM’s experience has been that it is 
difficult for some suppliers to provide information on the amount 
of certified timber in products which consist of composite materials 
including timber in for instance doors and window frames. Together 
with FSC Netherlands, BAM encourages its suppliers to improve the 
identification and reporting of certified timber.
In the Netherlands, BAM requests information on the application 
of sustainable timber twice a year. BAM asks its suppliers to report 
on various types of timber supplied. These make up an estimated 
85 per cent of all timber use in the Netherlands in all construction 
works carried out directly by BAM. The data used in this analysis 
therefore does not include timber consumption for subcontracted 
projects. BAM approached approximately 45 Dutch suppliers to 
report the amount of certified timber used in products. Based on 
their responses BAM estimates that 97 per cent was certified 
timber, 86 per cent was FSC and 10 per cent was PEFC certified.
In the United Kingdom, the origin of certified sustainable timber 
from both FSC and PEFC sources is registered in BAM’s on-line data 
monitoring system BAM SMART. In 2017, 99 per cent of timber in the 
United Kingdom was from verified legal and sustainable sources, of 
which 92 per cent (2016: 92 per cent) was delivered with full FSC or 
PEFC Chain of Custody certification or reused from other sites.
FSC Netherlands assessed the fifty largest construction 
companies in the Netherlands on their communication and 
use of sustainable timber. Through the Forest50 award FSC 
Netherlands wants to increase transparency on the use of 
timber sourced from responsibly managed forests. BAM is 
progressing towards fully sustainable timber procurement 
and is close to its goal sustainable of 100 per cent in the 
Netherlands and UK. In 2017 BAM also signed the Vancouver 
Declaration to preserve and protect forest worldwide. 
By using FSC products BAM contributes to eleven of the 
seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (see page 32-33).BAM wins FSC Forest50 2017
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 107 Integrated Report 20173.4 Outlook
Markets
In general, market conditions in BAM’s home markets are 
expected to further improve following the anticipated growth of 
GDP and construction output volume. 
The market in the Netherlands for the demand for new build 
homes and making homes energy neutral continued to grow, but 
the supply of new build homes is still constrained by availability of 
permitted locations. Non-residential construction and property 
are improving, including the transition to more energy efficient 
buildings. Both businesses experience increased supply chain 
pressure. Civil engineering remains competitive for regional and 
larger multidisciplinary projects. In the United Kingdom, the 
non-residential construction market is slowing down, particularly 
in the London area. Civil engineering remains relatively stable. 
Brexit is affecting labor supply at subcontractors. German 
construction and civil engineering markets are stable and 
competitive. Promising outlook for public infrastructure, including 
PPP. The Belgium civil engineering market shows signs of recovery. 
Construction and property markets are stable. Ireland continued 
positive momentum, especially in construction. International oil 
and gas markets stable at low level and showing signs of new 
investment decisions; BAM’s activities gaining traction in selected 
onshore markets. The market for Public Private Partnerships 
remains promising in most BAM’s home markets. 
BAM started the financial year 2018 with an order book of €11.6 
billion (2017: €10.2 billion), of which €5.7 billion will be carried out 
this year. The increased order book was driven by taking in some 
multiyear projects. Impact on revenue growth is therefore limited. 
Sustainability
BAM expects the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change will 
have an effect on national and European regulations to reduce 
energy demand resulting in demand for more energy efficient 
and energy positive solutions. Linear consumption patterns 
(‘take-make-dispose’) of products are coming up against 
constraints on the availability of resources. The construction 
sector needs to develop new opportunities and realise circular 
economy ambitions faster, which requires rethinking, redesign 
and innovative construction methods. BAM will continue its 
efforts to implement its sustainability strategy to have a net 
positive impact in the long term.Human resources
Due to economic growth, especially in the field of technology, 
BAM will face a tight labour market. The Group’s challenge to find 
technical skilled people will increase. This will be addressed in 
BAM’s employer branding strategy. By offering learning 
programmes and other opportunities to grow the Group keeps 
developing the employees. Also BAM will focus on an attractive 
company culture to keep talent. To understand the people’s needs 
and interest, regular engagement surveys will be held and actions 
will be defined.
Financing
BAM expects no material changes in the financing structure of the 
company in 2018. 
Investments
BAM expects investments in strategic and project specific 
equipment in normal course of business.
Outlook 2018
Most of our markets are developing in a positive direction which is 
reflected in our order book. At the same time, we are feeling rising 
pressure on costs and availability in some parts of our supply 
chain. For the full year 2018 we expect an adjusted result before 
tax margin of around 2 per cent.
Executive Board
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2018
‘Client British Antarctic Survey was 
aiming for a long-term partnership’, 
tells Gerard Turk, Director of 
Operations Antarctica at BAM 
International. ‘Among other things we 
have looked carefully at how we could 
communicate our team spirit to the 
client. Simply stating this in the 
proposal wouldn’t be enough. One of 
the things we came up with was to 
introduce each other, not ourselves, in 
the presentation interview. A simple, 
but effective way of showing that we 
knew who we were working with.’Gerard Turk, BAM International
‘We have aimed for 
a long term partnership’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 108 Integrated Report 2017BAM has been chosen to partner with British Antarctic Survey 
(BAS) to modernise UK Antarctic and other research facilities, 
enabling British scientists to continue delivering world class 
research into some of the most important issues facing our 
planet. BAM has teamed up with major European design 
consultants Sweco to assist with project delivery. 
Commissioned by the Natural Environment Research Council 
(NERC), this long-term UK partnership will last between 7-10 years 
and is worth an estimated approximately €120 million (£100 
million).  The modernisation programme will enable a world-
leading capability to ensure that Britain remains at the forefront 
of climate, biodiversity and ocean research in the Polar regions.
One of the first projects to be undertaken is the redevelopment  
of the wharf at the BAS Rothera Research Station on the Antarctic 
Peninsula. 
Royal BAM Group nv 109 Integrated Report 20174. Governance
Royal BAM Group nv 110 Integrated Report 2017The corporate documents mentioned above (rules for the 
Supervisory Board, the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board 
committees and profile of the Supervisory Board) were 
approved by respectively the Executive Board and/or the 
Supervisory Board in their meetings in November 2017. 
Diversity 
Best practise of the Corporate Governance Code stipulates that 
the diversity policy for the Executive Board and Supervisory 
Board should be explained in the Executive Board report as well 
as the way that it was implemented in practice, addressing (1) 
the policy objectives, (2) how the policy has been implemented 
and (3) the results of the policy in the past financial year.
As part of the implementation of the new Corporate 
Governance Code, the Supervisory Board adopted new rules in 
November 2017, which included an updated profile for the 
Supervisory Board. In this profile diversity aspects are included, 
providing a clear target for gender participation. This target of 
at least 30 per cent female and at least 30 per cent male 
members of the Supervisory Board does not differ from the 
target set in the previous profile. As per the General Meeting in 
2017 the composition of the Supervisory Board is in line with 
this target, given that two out of six members are female. 
Besides gender, diversity in background, nationality, expertise 
and experience in the Supervisory Board is equally important in 
order to provide most value. The international composition of 
the board was strengthened with the appointment of two 
non-Dutch members. In addition the available experience and 
expertise were strengthened, e.g. in the fields of digital 
innovation, organisational transformation, and construction 
industry.
When adopting the new rules and profile for the Supervisory 
Board, the latter resolved that the diversity aspects set in the 
profile for the Supervisory Board will apply equally to the 
Executive Board. As far as gender participation is concerned, the 
composition of the Executive Board was already in line with the 
target as one out of three members is female. 
CSR responsibility and delegation
The Executive Board is responsible for defining the CSR policy, in 
consultation with the Director Strategy and Group Director 
Sustainability and the management of the operating companies.
Meetings with senior management are used to define 
sustainability issues and reach agreement on prioritising 
objectives, monitoring activities, and reporting results. Critical 
concerns are reported to the Executive Board at least in 
quarterly reports, or whenever more urgency is required. The 
Executive Board communicates to the Supervisory Board 
according planned reporting cycles, or whenever more urgency 
is required. Safety ambitions, the reduction of CO2 emissions, 
and strict waste management, along with business integrity, 4.1 Corporate Governance
Legislative and regulatory developments
On 11 February 2016 the proposal for revision of the Corporate 
Governance Code was published by the Corporate Governance 
Code Monitoring Committee. The final version of the revised 
Corporate Governance Code was published on 8 December 2016 
(the ‘Code’). By means of a Decree dated 29 August 2017 the 
Dutch government has designated the Code as applicable for 
Dutch companies with a public listing. The Code is based on the 
comply or explain principle and applies as from the financial year 
2017.
Decree with respect to the contents of the 
integrated report
This chapter reports on the application of the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code at Royal BAM Group nv. Together with the 
information about the Corporate Governance structure and the 
BAM Corporate Governance Compliance Overview, this 
comprises the ‘Corporate governance statement’ as specified in 
section 3 sub 1 of the Decree with respect to the contents of the 
Executive Board report (‘Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag’). 
Information about compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Code (clause 3.1 of the Decree) and functioning of the General 
Meeting and the rights of shareholders (clause 3a sub b of the 
Decree) can be found on the company’s website under the 
corporate governance heading. The most important aspects of 
BAM’s risk and control systems (clause 3a sub a of the Decree) 
are available in chapter 2.4 of this Integrated report. Information 
about the composition and functioning of the Executive Board 
and Supervisory Board (clause 3a sub c of the Decree) is 
available in chapters 4.2 and 4.5 and the diversity policy for both 
boards is explained in this paragraph and chapter 4.2. A 
declaration with regard to the Decree on Article 10 of the 
Takeover Directive (clause 3d of the Decree) can be found in 
chapter 4.4. 
Corporate governance review 2017
Following the publication of the revised Code (see www.mccg.
nl), the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, assisted by the 
Company Secretary, have assessed BAM’s corporate governance 
and the consequences of the new Code for BAM. 
The outcome of the assessment was submitted to and discussed 
with the Supervisory Board, including an implementation plan, 
consisting of – among other things – a proposal to amend the 
rules for the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board, the 
Supervisory Board committees as well as the profile of the 
Supervisory Board. In addition the annual meeting schedule for 
the Supervisory Board and its committees was updated in order 
to assure that the matters mentioned in the Code are addressed 
in the regular meetings. The new Code has also been discussed 
extensively with a number of staff directors on whose functions 
the new Code has an impact as well as with the external auditor.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 111 Integrated Report 2017Design and build Levenmouth Academy. 
Architect: AHR. BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 112 Integrated Report 2017apply to all BAM operating companies. In addition, each 
operating company measures KPIs addressing issues of 
relevance to its own business.
Each operating company has a management team member who 
has the responsibility for BAM’s sustainability activity. The 
operating companies report progress quarterly to the Executive 
Board, Director Strategy and Group Director Sustainability 
together with details of actions taken to support the Group’s 
business objectives. They interpret BAM’s objectives based on 
their unique operating conditions. CSR is part of how managers 
and employees do their day-to-day jobs. It is addressed, for 
example, at regular work discussions and performance reviews. 
In this way, implementing sustainability is shared across all 
levels of the Group, from BAM’s Executive Board to its local 
champions.
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code is described in 
the BAM Corporate Governance Compliance Overview, which is 
available on the website of BAM (www.bam.com). This is to be 
read in conjunction with this section and is deemed to be 
incorporated into this section. In case there is a difference 
between the content of BAM’s publication and this section, this 
section will prevail.
BAM fully complies with the principles and best practises of the 
Code. However, given the late publication of the revised Code in 
December 2016, it has taken a good part of 2017 to assess the 
consequences of the new Code and implement any required 
changes into the Company’s governance. 
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code the 
company will submit any substantial changes in the main 
features of the corporate governance structure to the General 
Meeting for discussion purposes. The corporate governance 
structure and the compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Code as described on the website will be discussed with  
the shareholders during the Annual General Meeting on  
18 April 2018. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 113 Integrated Report 20174.2 Report of the Supervisory Board 
healthy. During the year 2017, BAM hardly needed to call upon its 
revolving credit facilities and the capital ratio at the end of the 
year was above 20 per cent.
2017 Financial statements and dividend
This annual report, which is presented in accordance with the 
International Integrated Reporting Framework, includes the 2017 
financial statements, duly prepared by the Executive Board. The 
financial statements have been audited by the independent 
auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP; the unqualified auditor’s 
report is included on page 241 of this Integrated Report.
The Audit Committee discussed the draft financial statements 
with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and 
the independent auditor. The Audit Committee also discussed the 
auditor’s report, the management letter and the quality of 
internal risk management and control systems and had a 
discussion with the auditor without BAM’s management being 
present. Subsequently, our full board discussed this annual report, 
including the financial statements with the Executive Board in the 
presence of the independent auditor. We took note of the 
reporting from the Audit Committee and reviewed the auditor’s 
report and the quality of internal risk management and control 
systems. We concluded that we agree with the 2017 financial 
statements. We agree with the Executive Board that a predictable 
dividend, based on a solid performance in line with the financial 
targets and taking into account the financial condition of the 
company, is important for the attractiveness of the BAM-share. 
We therefore agree with the proposal of the Executive Board to 
distribute a dividend of €0.10 per share. 
We recommend the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
18 April 2018, to adopt the 2017 financial statements. We are of 
the opinion that the financial statements, the report by the 
Executive Board and the report by the Supervisory Board provide 
a solid basis on which to hold the Executive Board accountable for 
the management policies pursued and the Supervisory Board 
accountable for its supervision on these policies. The members of 
the Supervisory Board have signed the financial statements in 
accordance with their statutory obligations under Article 2:101, 
paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
Strategy and operational plan
We regularly discussed strategy implementation with the 
Executive Board. Our meeting in September was largely devoted 
to this subject. The discussions again showed that BAM is on a 
journey that includes considerable change. The values that BAM 
has defined require different behaviour compared to what BAM’s 
people were used to and to what is still common in the 
construction industry. To reap the benefits of its scale, BAM has 
also introduced the One BAM philosophy. This means sharing 
knowledge, resources, systems, processes and innovation across 
operating companies. Since BAM comes from a very decentralised 
model with a high degree of local autonomy, this One BAM The year 2017 was marked by the further implementation of 
BAM’s strategy ‘Building the present, creating the future’. This 
strategy was introduced early 2016 and aims to prepare the 
Company for the future while improving current performance  
and increasing predictability of results. The goal is to transform 
BAM from a fairly traditional, highly decentralised construction 
company to a company that applies digital innovation and 
industrialisation as key elements in the construction process.  
The strategy also includes clear objectives for the period  
2016 – 2020 on people, planet and profit, with specific and  
in our view realistic financial targets. 
In our discussions with management, also market developments 
were a recurring theme. The general outlook in the home markets 
in which BAM operates is positive. The oil and gas industry seems 
to be through its lowest point which will help BAM International. 
The Brexit though, may entail risks for the UK construction market 
while the geopolitical situation could negatively impact the 
economy and therefore also the construction industry. But in 
general, market developments support the achievement of the 
financial targets set for the period until 2020.
Unfortunately, these positive developments were overshadowed 
by a substantial loss at the Sea lock IJmuiden, a large project that 
BAM is executing in a 50/50 joint venture with another 
construction company. Although this project was on our radar 
screen and discussed quarterly, the big loss that had to be 
reported in early December 2017 came as a surprise. It shows that 
despite the steps taken to transform the organisation and improve 
risk management, BAM is not yet where it should be. We discussed 
the root causes and lessons learnt extensively with the Executive 
Board and agree that better design management in the tendering 
phase is crucial to limit risks. In addition, project management in 
the execution phase needs to be further strengthened, supported 
by additional business controls. 
Although miscalculations or unforeseen circumstances can never 
be fully excluded in the construction industry, we support 
management’s view that with all the actions taken, the company 
is on the right track to prevent major project losses and achieve its 
targets for the period until 2020. The Sea lock IJmuiden project 
once again raises the question how a better risk balance between 
client and contractors can be achieved for this type of unique, 
large and complicated projects. We welcome the ongoing 
discussions with the Dutch Ministry of Public Works on this theme, 
because a more balanced distribution of risks is ultimately in the 
interest of all parties involved. 
Mainly as a result of the loss on the Sea lock IJmuiden project, the 
financial results in 2017 are very disappointing. When the 
company announced that the 2017 adjusted profit before tax 
would be substantially lower than expected, the stock market 
reacted very negatively, showing a loss of confidence. We agree 
with management that restoring confidence through predictable 
performance in line with the financial targets is a top priority. 
Despite the disappointing results in 2017, BAM is financially 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 114 Integrated Report 2017World Trade Center (WTC) next to Utrecht Central Station 
will offer 19 floors of fixed and flexible office workplaces 
and public services which makes it a central meeting place 
for companies, institutions, entrepreneurs and the public 
Client: CBRE Global Investors. Architects: MVSA Architects. 
BAM Bouw en Techniek.Henk Jansen, BAM Bouw en Techniek
Henk Jansen, Installation Engineer and Lifting Supervisor 
at BAM Bouw en Techniek: ‘On site, we depend on each 
other for safety and the best possible result. In situations 
such as this one – lifting a prefab piping system – we 
work together to achieve a smooth performance and 
deliver what we promised.’ 
Jansen oversees lifting operations at the WTC Utrecht 
site, which is almost literally the most central location in 
the Netherlands. Immediately adjacent Utrecht Central 
Station, the office has been awarded BREAAM-NL 
Excellent design certification and will offer over 29,000 
square metres of office area on 19 floors. Completion has 
been scheduled for the first quarter of 2018. 
‘Building is
teamwork’
Royal BAM Group nv 115 Integrated Report 2017Proud partners at the launch of the hyperloop test 
facility: (left to right) former Minister Melanie Schultz 
van Haegen, Hardt CEO Tim Houter, BAM Infra 
Director Marinus Schimmel and TU Delft President 
Tim van der Hagen. Tim Houter, Hardt Global Mobility
Delft-based start-up Hardt Global Mobility has formed a 
partnership with BAM to achieve its aim of creating Europe’s first 
hyperloop test facility. In this facility, HARDT will further develop 
the technology behind the hyperloop, a superfast means of 
transport that can carry people and cargo through very low-
pressure tubes at speeds of 1,080 kilometres per hour. In addition 
to being superfast, the hyperloop is much more energy efficient 
then traditional forms of transport such as planes and trains. 
Why did you start Hardt Global Mobility?  
What is your motivation? 
We set up Hardt with the aim of creating something that could 
bring about a U-turn towards a much cleaner and more physically 
connected world. A world in which nothing prohibits people from 
living or working where they like. A world in which geographical 
distance no longer matters. In today’s world, travelling the 
distance from one city to the next almost inevitably means either a 
lengthy journey by train or car, or the massive amount of pollution 
of air travel. It must be possible to develop ways of travel that are 
faster, cheaper and more efficient. Hyperloop is the answer. 
How did you come to collaborate with BAM,  
and what has been your experience so far? 
We knew from the start that we wouldn’t be able to realise the 
facility without a partner. After careful analysis of possible 
infra  structure partners, we decided that BAM was our best option. 
Crucial factors here were the size of the organisation and BAM’s 
ambition to innovate. A first meeting made it clear that the 
enthusiasm was mutual. After that, we were soon able to agree  
that we would take concrete steps to realise Europe’s first  
hyperloop test facility. Hyperloop test facility in Delft
‘Now is the time        to get everyone on the same page  
  and make things happen’
Royal BAM Group nv 116 Integrated Report 2017What was the best moment of this project?
When we were able to actually launch the hyperloop test facility. 
The first of its kind in all of Europe! 
What more can BAM do to contribute to innovation 
and a sustainable future? 
From what I’ve seen, BAM already has a strong focus on innovation 
and sustainability, which is of course a good thing. I think, though, 
that it’s important to remember that innovation is not a goal in 
itself. Innovations are often inspired by a desire to speed up a 
process or reduce costs, but it’s not just about the processes. It’s 
important to keep in mind what those processes are there for in 
the first place – take a step back and focus on the underlying 
challenge. It will open up new avenues for smart solution. 
How have you developed your idea of the hyperloop 
facility to the actual realisation? 
The only way to prove the viability of the concept is to perform a 
real-life test. So we rolled up our sleeves and sat down to design 
the test facility, down to the tiniest detail. Every nut, bolt and 
welding seam was included in the drawings and calculations. After 
that, the construction phase was a mere matter of weeks. 
The test facility was launched in the fall of 2017. 
What progress have you made since then? 
Since the launch we have been mostly busy preparing for the tests. 
There are many systems that need to be tested, such as the 
vacuum system we will connect to take the loop to its full testing 
capacity. All of those are now under development, with good 
progress being made. What has been most surprising about the project?
It’s amazing how much power a company like BAM can unleash in a 
short period of time. We’re not shy about our capacity for speed and 
flexibility at Hardt, but the added ‘oomph’ of BAM took speed and 
flexibility to a new level. This has made the difference between ‘a 
splendid idea’ and ‘a project that is really taking off’. 
What’s next – on the short and long term? 
Our immediate focus is on realising the tests in our facility. On the 
long term we are looking to realise the next test facility – that one 
will include the aspect of high speed. Before we can start looking 
ahead towards the final goal of a live hyperloop system, we’ll need 
to test things like maximum speed, taking curves and track changes. 
The response from the government and of course companies such as 
BAM has been very encouraging. Now is the time to get everyone on 
the same page and make things happen. Let the testing begin! 
Which lessons can BAM and the world of science learn 
from each other? 
In the world of science, we’re seeing one new technology after the 
other being conceived and put to the test. Big data, artificial 
intelligence, machine learning – today’s trends that will continue to 
shape the future. If you want to stay in the game, stay on top of 
those trends. 
What drives the success of Hardt? 
Above all, it’s the combination of my passion for technology and the 
very diverse team. The hyperloop – and therefore Hardt as well – has 
unprecedented potential. It’s greatly satisfying to know you’re 
working toward the realisation of that enormous potential. 
‘Now is the time        to get everyone on the same page  
  and make things happen’
Royal BAM Group nv 117 Integrated Report 2017improvement is necessary in order to protect the company 
against the risks it faces. We also noted that the Group has in 
place internal risk management and control systems, financial 
reporting manuals and procedures for drawing up financial 
reports, as well as an established monitoring and reporting 
system. The ability of the Executive Board to monitor the 
operational activities of the Group improved further as a 
consequence of improved internal reporting, the Tender Stage 
Gate Process and monthly meetings with the Management Board, 
all of which contribute to increased transparency and awareness. 
Safety and sustainability 
Safety remained a focal area for the company. Therefore, we start 
every meeting with the Executive Board with a discussion on 
safety. BAM’s safety performance slightly improved in the year 
under review (from IF BAM of 4.8 in 2016 to IF BAM of 4.6 in 2017). 
Nevertheless, the safety performance overall was unsatisfactory 
as BAM regrettably had to record 4 fatal incidents. These were 
extensively evaluated in the meetings with the Executive Board. In 
view of the lack of material improvement of safety performance in 
2017 compared to 2016, we have emphasised the importance of 
even more attention to safety, not only with regard to guidelines 
and instructions but especially regarding behavioural aspects.  
The Safety Behaviour Audits, which are being held throughout the 
company, will support this goal. Together with the Executive 
Board, we remain of the opinion that the achievement of a higher 
safety level is one of the most important challenges for the Group. 
We fully support the Executive Board’s commitment to further 
increase management’s dedication to safety.
With respect to sustainability, we believe that BAM is a 
frontrunner in the construction industry. The sustainability 
strategy 2020 and beyond is aligned with the corporate strategy 
and forms the basis for KPIs on people and planet. The content of 
this Integrated Report is based on themes identified in the 
materiality assessment as being most relevant for BAM and its 
stakeholders. We were informed by the Executive Board on the 
proactive consultation of clients, partners and suppliers in 
stakeholder dialogues and were pleased to hear that these are 
highly appreciated by the participants.
Corporate governance
In December 2016, the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code 
was presented. It became effective as of 2017. Together with the 
Executive Board we reviewed the corporate governance structure 
of the Company and the consequences of the new Code. The 
overall conclusion was that BAM’s governance was already broadly 
in line with the new Code. As a result of the review, the rules of 
the Executive Board, Supervisory Board and its three committees 
have been updated. The profile of the Supervisory Board has been 
amended and a diversity policy has been added that applies to the 
Executive Board as well. The annual meeting schedule for the 
Supervisory Board has also been amended in order to include 
discussion on all matters mentioned in the Code. approach means a major change. It requires more central steering 
(with strong involvement of operating company management) 
while maintaining local entrepreneurship. We agree with BAM’s 
strategy and fully support the Executive Board’s commitment to 
the required changes. In our view, BAM is doing the right things, 
but it should be clear that the benefits of this change process will 
only gradually materialise to their full extent.
The operating companies and corporate functions have developed 
their own strategic agendas which are aligned with the BAM 
strategy. Within that framework, the operating companies and 
corporate functions have prepared operating plans for 2018, 
which were presented and discussed in our meeting in September. 
Subsequently these plans have been further developed and 
consolidated into the operating plan for the Group. We discussed 
this plan in an extra meeting in December and approved an 
updated version in our January 2018 meeting. 
Risk management
 
Predictable performance requires ongoing improvements in risk 
management. This was therefore high on our agenda. As in 
previous years the need for selective tendering was regularly 
discussed with the Executive Board. The Tender Stage Gate 
Process that has been implemented throughout the company 
plays an important role in the early identification of potential risks 
and taking appropriate measures to limit these. The Operational 
Audit department audited the application of this process and we 
discussed the outcome with the Executive Board. This confirmed 
that the stage gate approach has been introduced throughout the 
Group and that its impact is increasing. Although this approach 
cannot prevent any risk to occur, it certainly helps to focus on 
projects where BAM can achieve decent margins.
Another important tool in that respect is the project data base. 
The Executive Board updated us on the development of this tool, 
which provides extensive information on projects executed by the 
Group. We were impressed by the insights this yields in the factors 
that influence the profitability of projects. It is a good example of 
learning by sharing information across BAM.
The audit plan for 2017 was presented to and discussed with the 
Audit Committee and subsequently the full Supervisory Board 
which approved the plan. The Operational Audit team continued 
to audit a number of high exposure projects, resulting in 
recommendations to improve risk control. Several very large 
projects in the tender stage were presented to the Supervisory 
Board in regular and extra meetings. We reviewed these projects 
by asking critical questions mainly focused on risks and how 
these were managed and taken into account in the pricing of  
the project. 
Based on a presentation by the Governance, Risk and Compliance 
officer, we reviewed risks, including strategic risks, and risk 
management in the Group and concluded that although risk 
management has been strengthened, continuous attention and 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 118 Integrated Report 2017follow-up to the independent auditor’s findings with the Executive 
Board.
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP attended the Annual General 
Meeting of 19 April 2017 and was available to answer questions. 
As part of the process to prepare this annual report and the 2017 
financial statements, we assessed the relationship with Ernst & 
Young Accountants LLP, based on reports from the Executive 
Board and the Audit Committee. We concluded that the 
collaboration with BAM management and the employees involved 
in the audit is constructive and satisfactory.
Other activities and meetings
In addition to the items mentioned before, in each of our regular 
meetings, we discussed with the Executive Board the state of 
affairs, the financial performance of the Group and the operating 
companies, market developments and order intake, working 
capital and cash flow, the financial condition of the Group as 
reflected by the balance sheet, investments and divestments, 
major projects with a higher risk profile and the quarterly press 
releases. Each of our quarterly meetings featured a report on what 
had been discussed in meetings of the three permanent 
committees of our board.
 
Other matters discussed included the Integrated Report and 
financial statements for 2016, the 2017 half-year report and 
interim statements, the reserve and dividend policy and the 
dividend proposal for 2016, the various effects of changes in the 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on the Group’s 
financial reports, as well as compliance reports and material legal 
proceedings in which the Group is engaged. 
In the presence of key staff involved, we took note of several lost 
tender analyses and of major projects in execution. The Executive 
Board regularly updated us on the situation regarding the parking 
garage at Eindhoven Airport which partly collapsed in the last 
phase of construction, fortunately without anybody being hurt. 
BAM immediately initiated its own investigation and fully 
cooperates with the investigations by the client and the Dutch 
Safety Board. 
The corporate director HR informed us on the progress with 
respect to management development, succession planning for 
senior management positions and talent identification. He also 
presented a diversity analysis of operating company and project 
management in BAM. The recently appointed corporate 
compliance officer gave an update on compliance within the 
Group. 
In September 2017, we went to Ireland for our annual working 
visit. We met with management and key staff of BAM Ireland and 
got presentations on market developments, business 
performance and major projects. We also met with the 
Management Board and discussed their preliminary views on the 
operating plans for 2018. During a breakfast meeting, the Irish Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code will be 
explained via an overview, providing information on compliance 
per principle and best practice included in the Code. This overview 
is available on the Company’s website.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are of the opinion 
that Royal BAM Group’s corporate governance is up to standard. 
Please refer to the corporate governance statement in this report 
and the overview on the Company’s website concerning the 
Company’s compliance with the Code.
Shareholders and investor relations
We are of the opinion that an open and regular dialogue with 
shareholders and investors is important to explain the Company’s 
strategy and performance as well as to listen to and discuss their 
feedback. We regularly reviewed the Group’s investor relations 
activities and shareholder base and were informed on the 
feedback given by shareholders, investors and analysts. We also 
took note of the feedback from the Capital Markets Day that was 
held in April 2017.
The Supervisory Board prepared the Annual General Meeting and 
evaluated it afterwards. We were pleased with the constructive 
dialogue with shareholders at the meeting but noted with 
disappointment the rejection by the meeting of the proposal to 
restrict or exclude preferential rights upon issuing respectively 
granting rights to acquire ordinary shares. This limits the 
possibilities to act efficiently in case the company wants to issue 
shares.
Discussions with external auditor
In the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2015 Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP was appointed as independent auditor for the 
financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018. During its review of the 2016 
full year results and the 2017 half year results, the Supervisory 
Board met with Ernst & Young Accountants LLP to discuss their 
report. We established that the independent auditor had received 
the financial information on which the financial reports were 
based. The independent auditor had also been given the 
opportunity to discuss the information provided with BAM officers 
and the Executive Board. 
We took note of the reports and management letters as prepared 
by the independent auditor. In our February 2017 meeting, we 
discussed with the independent auditor and the Executive Board 
the key items as presented by the auditor, being: valuation of 
projects and revenue recognition, valuation of deferred tax assets, 
IT controls and procedures, the valuation of land and building 
rights, the involvement of the finance function in key projects and 
the procedures the Group has in place regarding business 
conduct. In addition, we discussed in our August 2017 meeting 
the criteria for capitalisation of development costs and agreed 
that the patented development of Gravity Based Foundations for 
offshore wind power met these criteria. We also discussed the 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 119 Integrated Report 2017Composition and functioning of the  
Supervisory Board
Early 2017, Mr Elverding had to announce his retirement as 
chairman of the Supervisory Board as per the Annual General 
Meeting in April 2017, due to illness. Regretfully, he passed away 
later in the year. In him we lost a very experienced chairman and a 
wise person. We are very grateful for the important and stabilising 
role he fulfilled as of 2011, in a period that the company was hit 
hard by the economic crisis. 
In line with their already planned retirement, also Mr Scheffers 
and Mr Hanssen stepped down from the Supervisory Board at the 
end of the Annual General Meeting in April 2017. We thank them 
both for their contribution to BAM and Mr Scheffers especially in 
his role as chairman of the Audit Committee as of 2009 and vice 
chairman as of 2011.
As a result of these retirements, the composition of the 
Supervisory Board changed substantially. After the Annual General 
Meeting in April Mr Noy took over the role of chairman from 
Mr Elverding and Mr Wester succeeded Mr Scheffers as vice-
chairman. Two new members were appointed, being Mrs Valentin 
and Mr Boon. The latter succeeded Mr Scheffers as chairman of 
the Audit Committee. In August, an Extraordinary General 
Meeting was held in which Mr Sheffield was appointed as a 
member of the Supervisory Board. There were no regular 
reappointments.
Diversity
Both the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board recognise the 
importance of diversity in the Group’s managerial bodies. In our 
view diversity is not limited to gender, it also involves age, 
nationality and background. As part of the implementation of the 
new Dutch Corporate Governance Code, we updated the profile for 
the Supervisory Board. As before, it includes a minimum 30 per cent 
target for female and male board members. This gender target 
applies mutatis mutandis for the Executive Board. 
We are of the opinion that our present composition is in line with 
the profile for our board. We meet the specific target regarding 
gender diversity. The Executive Board meets this target as well. 
We agree with the Executive Board that gender diversity at levels 
below the Executive Board needs serious attention. As the 
construction industry is traditionally pretty male dominated, a 
better gender balance requires measures to attract more women, 
which will take time.
Independence
The Supervisory Board meets the requirements of the new Dutch 
corporate governance code with regard to independence. In 2017 
the Supervisory Board members did not have any other relationships 
of a business nature with the company. None of the Supervisory 
Board members had more than five memberships of Supervisory 
Boards at Dutch listed companies or other large institutions. Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade presented his view on the 
Brexit and economic developments in Ireland. We also visited 
several major projects, including the new European headquarters 
of Microsoft build by BAM. 
A delegation of our Board met with the Central Works Council on 
several occasions. The annual meeting of the Supervisory Board 
and the Executive Board with the Central Works Council was held 
in August 2017.
The Supervisory Board actively engages with the Executive Board 
as well as other senior management in order to ensure it has the 
right information. The chairman of the Supervisory Board had 
regular contact with the Chief Executive Officer while the 
chairman and other members of the Supervisory Board met with 
senior managers in order to be briefed on specific topics such as 
HR, Finance, Corporate Governance and Operational Audit. 
Remuneration
The Supervisory Board approved the remuneration report 
prepared by the Remuneration Committee. The remuneration 
report is included in paragraph 4.3 of the Integrated Report. The 
remuneration policy was not amended in 2017. The Supervisory 
Board agreed with the proposal of the Remuneration Committee 
regarding the remuneration of the Supervisory Board and decided 
to submit this proposal to the Shareholders meeting, which 
proposal was adopted at the Annual General Meeting in April 
2017.
Meetings
In 2017, the Supervisory Board met on seven occasions in the 
presence of the Executive Board. In addition, three conference 
calls were held. The attendance rate of the individual members  
at the Supervisory Board meetings and the meetings of the 
committees was as follows:
SB AC RC NC
Mr H.L.J. Noy 100% 100% 100%
Mr K.S. Wester 100% 100%
Mr G. Boon 100% 100%
Mrs C.M.C. Mahieu 86% 100% 100%
Mr M.P. Sheffield 100% 100%
Mrs H. Valentin 100% 100% 100%
Total 97% 100% 100% 100%
We also met without the Executive Board being present. These 
meetings were primarily devoted to the functioning of the 
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. We also discussed our 
view on a number of strategic and organisational matters, as well 
as the remuneration of the Executive Board, including the 
determination of the variable portion of that remuneration and 
the targets for 2017.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 120 Integrated Report 2017Ashford College's new campus in Kent, England. 
BAM Construct UK.
Royal BAM Group nv 121 Integrated Report 2017In addition to its regular tasks and responsibilities, the Audit 
Committee addressed the following specific matters in 2017: the 
assurance plan 2017 of the independent auditor EY, internal audit 
plan for 2018, impact of new reporting standards IFRS 9, 15 and 
16, material legal proceedings, development of working capital, 
investments in innovation, key projects, financing of the company 
and developments relating to taxes, IT and governance, risk and 
compliance. Furthermore, the Audit Committee participated in a 
work shop on project control.
The Audit Committee was briefed by the independent auditor on 
relevant developments in the audit profession, especially those 
related to the new EU directive on non-financial information, the 
revised Dutch corporate governance code and the transition to 
new IFRS reporting standards. The committee met with the 
independent auditor without the Executive Board being present 
and reported to the Supervisory Board on the relationship with 
the independent auditor. Furthermore, the chairman of the 
Committee regularly communicates on a one to one basis with 
the independent auditor. The Audit Committee considers the 
relationship with the independent auditor sound.
Remuneration Committee 
In 2017, the composition of the Remuneration Committee 
changed as well. Mrs Valentin succeeded Mr Elverding as per 
the end of the Annual General Meeting. As per the end of 2017, 
the Remuneration Committee was composed of Mrs Mahieu 
(Chairwoman), Mrs Valentin and Mr Noy. The composition of the 
Remuneration Committee is in line with the provisions of the 
Dutch corporate governance code.
 
One of the tasks of the Remuneration Committee is to make 
proposals to the Supervisory Board with regard to the 
remuneration policy, the terms of employment of members of the 
Executive Board and the remuneration of the members of the 
Supervisory Board and Executive Board.
The Committee submitted a proposal to the Supervisory Board 
relating to the short term incentive of members of the Executive 
Board based on the 2016 performance and the criteria for variable 
remuneration in 2017. In addition, the Remuneration Committee 
prepared a remuneration report on the way the remuneration 
policy has been implemented in practice. 
The Committee also performed a comparative survey regarding 
the remuneration of Supervisory Board members of BAM and 
other Dutch AMX companies which led to the conclusion that the 
remuneration was no longer in line with what is customary in this 
peer group nor in proportion with the increased responsibilities 
and the intensity of its activities. As a result of this survey a 
proposal was prepared for the Supervisory Board for amendment 
of the remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is not aware of any conflicts of interest 
between the company and members of the Supervisory Board,  
or between the company and natural persons or legal entities  
that hold at least 10 per cent of the shares in the company.
Self-evaluation
Early 2018 we performed our annual self-evaluation. It was based 
on an extensive questionnaire that was filled in by all board 
members prior to the session. We concluded that despite 
considerable changes in our composition, the board is operating 
well, with open discussions and constructive contributions from 
all members. We also assessed the expertise of the individual 
board members and concluded that the combined expertise is in 
line with the characteristics of the company and its business. 
We noted that the Executive Board under the leadership of the 
Chief Executive, has an open and transparent attitude towards the 
Supervisory Board. Several suggestions were made for further 
improvement. These relate amongst others to the induction 
programme for new members, invitation of external experts to 
inform on specific issues as part of permanent education, 
information to the Supervisory Board in between meetings, 
contacts with members of the Management Board and the need 
to pay more attention to succession planning.
The Supervisory Board’s committees
The Supervisory Board has three permanent committees: an Audit 
Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination 
Committee. It is the task of these committees to support and 
advise the Supervisory Board concerning items under the 
committees’ responsibility and to prepare the Supervisory Board’s 
decisions regarding those items. The Supervisory Board as a whole 
remains responsible for the way in which it performs its tasks and 
for the preparatory work carried out by the committees. The 
committees submitted reports on their meetings to the 
Supervisory Board.
The Audit Committee 
Due to the retirement of Mr Scheffers and Mr Hanssen the 
composition of the Audit Committee changed substantially. 
Mr Boon took over the role as chairman after the Annual General 
Meeting and Mr Sheffield replaced Mr Hanssen. As per the end of 
2017 the Audit Committee was composed of Mr Boon (chairman), 
Mr Wester and Mr Sheffield. The composition of the Audit 
Committee is in line with the provisions of the Dutch corporate 
governance code. 
The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in the 
performance of its tasks, especially with regard to financial and 
accounting matters. The Committee met four times over the past 
financial year. The independent auditor was present at all of these 
meetings. The Chairman of the Executive Board, the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Operational Audit Director also attended 
all the Audit Committee meetings. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 122 Integrated Report 2017role. The process to find a successor has been started. The 
Supervisory Board wants to thank Thessa Menssen for her 
contribution and dedication to BAM. 
Per the Annual General Meeting in April 2018, the term of Mr Bax 
as a member of the Executive Board will end. The Supervisory 
Board of Royal BAM Group nv has decided to nominate Mr Bax for 
reappointment as member of the Executive Board. This 
reappointment will be for a term of one year.
Mr Bax has informed the Supervisory Board that he wishes to 
explore other opportunities and would therefore not seek 
reappointment as member of the Executive Board for four years. 
Reappointment for one year ensures continuity and a smooth 
transition of responsibilities, also in light of Mrs T. Menssen 
stepping down from the Executive Board effective 1 July 2018, as 
previously announced. The Supervisory Board very much 
appreciates Mr Bax’ commitment to BAM.
The Supervisory Board concluded that none of the members of 
the Executive Board holds more than two supervisory board 
positions at large organisations or a position as chairman of such 
supervisory body. This is in line with the Management and 
Supervision (Public and Private Companies) Act and the Code. 
The Supervisory Board has no evidence of any conflicts of interest 
between the company and members of the Executive Board.
Final comments
The year 2017 was overshadowed by a few major incidents. 
Nevertheless, the underlying developments are positive. The 
company made good progress with the further implementation of 
its strategic agenda, and although not yet visible in the financial 
results, risk management improved. We are confident that 
consistent implementation of the 2016-2020 strategy, including 
the necessary cultural changes, will lead to results in line with the 
targets. This confidence is also based on the capabilities and 
dedication of BAM’s management and employees to deliver a 
predictable performance. We want to thank all involved for their 
contribution and efforts under sometimes challenging 
circumstances.
 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2018
On behalf of the Supervisory Board,
Harrie Noy, ChairmanThe Remuneration Committee met three times during the year 
under review. The Chairman of the Executive Board was present 
during parts of these meetings. The committee members 
consulted with each other a number of times outside the context 
of a formal meeting. In addition, a number of conference calls 
were held. 
Nomination Committee 
Due to the retirement of Mr Elverding, Mr Noy took over the role 
of chairman after the Annual General Meeting and Mrs Valentin 
joined the Committee. As per the end of the year under review, 
the Nomination Committee was composed of Mr Noy (Chairman), 
Mrs Mahieu and Mrs Valentin. One of the tasks of the Nomination 
Committee is to make proposals to the Supervisory Board 
regarding selection criteria and appointment procedures, and 
regarding the size, composition, appointments and 
reappointments to the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board 
as well as assessment of their performance. The committee also 
monitors the Executive Board’s policy on selection criteria and 
appointment procedures for senior management and holds 
annual appraisals with the individual members of the Executive 
Board.
The Nomination Committee met three times in the past financial 
year and held several conference calls. Items discussed were the 
vacancies in the Supervisory Board, the required profile of the 
individual positions, review of and interviews with a number of 
candidates and the final selection of the preferred candidates. 
Proposal for the appointment of the new members were 
submitted to the Supervisory Board. The Committee discussed 
with the Chief Executive Officer and with the corporate director 
Human Resources the succession planning process within the 
Company and the implementation of the One BAM value set.
Composition and functioning of the  
Executive Board
During 2017, the Executive Board was composed of three 
members. There were no scheduled reappointments in 2017. 
The Supervisory Board reviewed the performance of the Executive 
Board. The Chief Executive Officer gave input regarding the 
performance of the other members of the Executive Board. 
The Nomination Committee had meetings with each member of 
the Executive Board in which feedback was given on personal 
performance. The non-financial targets that had been set were 
evaluated as well as the functioning of the Executive Board as a 
team. The conclusions were discussed in an internal meeting of 
the Supervisory Board.
Based on these discussions, the Supervisory Board announced 
that Mrs Menssen will step down as CFO and member of the 
Executive Board of the company as per 1 July 2018. This decision 
was reached by mutual agreement as the further implementation 
of the strategic agenda requires a different fulfilment of the CFO 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 123 Integrated Report 20174.3 Remuneration report 
The following remuneration report from the Supervisory Board 
describes how the remuneration policy was put into practice 
during the past financial year. The report includes summaries of 
information concerning remuneration received in 2017 and also 
contains a summary of the remuneration policy for the coming 
financial year and subsequent years. 
Remuneration 2017
The Remuneration Committee is a permanent committee of the 
Supervisory Board and consists of at least two members of the 
Supervisory Board. The Remuneration Committee is subject to 
rules established by the Supervisory Board. At the end of the year 
under review it consisted of Mrs Mahieu (Chairwoman), Mrs 
Valentin and Mr Noy. The composition of the Remuneration 
Committee is in line with the provisions of the Code. The 
Remuneration Committee met three times during the past 
financial year. The committee members consulted with each other 
a number of times outside the context of a formal meeting. 
Remuneration of the Executive Board members  
A benchmark and adjustment of the fixed remuneration of the 
Executive Board took place in 2016. After the annual evaluation 
beginning 2017 as described in the remuneration policy, it was 
decided not to modify the fixed remuneration per January 2017. Per 
June 2017, the fixed expense allowances for members of the 
Executive Board were substituted by the reimbursement of actual 
incurred business expenses. A  transitional measure as applicable 
within the Group for all comparable employees was applied, which 
led to a slight increase of the fixed remuneration per that date. The 
members of the Executive Board received remuneration in the past 
financial year in line with the remuneration policy adopted by the 
Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2015.
The members of the Executive Board were awarded a short-term 
incentive of 31 per cent of the fixed remuneration. The short-term 
incentive targets related to performance on the Group’s financial 
priorities, measured by adjusted profit before tax, working capital 
and cash flow and to performance on strategy and One BAM 
Culture implementation initiatives for the non-financial targets. 
The financial targets adjusted profit before tax and cash flow were 
not achieved. The scoring on the other targets has resulted in the 
above mentioned percentage.
The conditional performance shares granted to the members of 
the Executive Board under the long-term incentive performance 
share plan in 2017 are stated in  table 65. 
A summary of the remuneration of the individual members of the 
Executive Board can be found in  tables 59 and 65. No other 
compensation was awarded to members of the Executive Board in 
the financial year other than the compensation indicated in 
 tables 59 and 65. 
The company has not awarded any options to members of the 
Executive Board, members of operating company management teams or employees. The remuneration of the Executive Board 
members is not affected by a change of control at the company. 
No loans were issued to members of the Executive Board. 
The Supervisory Board did not see any reason during the financial 
year to use its extraordinary powers to adjust or reclaim variable 
or long-term remuneration that had already been awarded. 
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members 
The remuneration of the Supervisory Board was lastly determined 
by the General Meeting on 7 May 2008. After internal consultation 
in 2017, the Supervisory Board members came to the conclusion 
that this remuneration was no longer in proportion with the 
nature and intensity of its activities. In the past few years, the 
tasks and responsibilities of the Supervisory Board have increased 
significantly. This is also clear from the new Corporate Governance 
Code as published on 8 December 2016. A benchmark (performed 
by external remuneration advisers) of the remuneration of 
Supervisory Board members of other Dutch AMX companies also 
led to the conclusion that the remuneration was no 
longer in line with what is customary in this peer group. Therefore, 
the Supervisory Board proposed to adjust its remuneration per 
1 May 2017 as follows: an annual fixed remuneration of €70,000 
for the Chairman, €55,000 for the Vice-Chairman and €50,000 for 
the other members of the Supervisory Board, with an additional 
annual fixed remuneration of €10,000 (Chairman) or €7,000 
(member) for membership of one or more Supervisory Board 
committees. Non-Dutch members will receive an attendance fee 
of €1,500 per meeting. Actual and necessarily incurred costs in 
the performance of the duties for BAM are reimbursed. This policy 
was adopted by the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2017. 
As a policy the Company does not award any options or shares to 
members of the Supervisory Board. This was also the case in 2017. 
The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is not 
affected by the company’s results, nor by any change of control at 
the company. No loans were issued to members of the 
Supervisory Board. 
Internal pay ratio
The revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code (2016) states that 
the remuneration policy should take into account the internal pay 
ratio within the organisation and that the results should be 
reported in the remuneration report. In light of transparency and 
clarity, BAM applies a methodology to calculate the internal pay 
ratio based on the employee benefits and the CEO compensation 
according to the financial statements. Furthermore, the approach 
is in line with common practices in the market, which allows for 
the context in the external market. 
BAM’s internal pay ratio is calculated as the total CEO 
compensation divided by the average employee compensation 
(employee benefit expenses excluding restructuring costs and 
termination benefits divided by the average number of FTE). 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 124 Integrated Report 2017Consequently BAM’s calculated internal pay ratio in 2017 is 20 
(2016: 22), implying that the CEO pay is 20 times the average pay 
within the organisation.
Remuneration policy 
The Supervisory Board draws up the company’s remuneration 
policy based on advice from its Remuneration Committee. The 
General Meeting adopts the remuneration policy. Once the 
remuneration policy has been adopted, the Supervisory Board 
determines the remuneration for the individual members of the 
Executive Board, again on the basis of recommendations of its 
Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee’s 
regulations are published on BAM’s website. 
Design principles 
The remuneration policy is geared to attract and retain qualified 
people and motivating them to achieve Royal BAM Group’s 
objectives. Particular emphasis is placed on experience with the 
Group’s (international) activities and the necessary management 
qualities. In the design of the policy and in determining the 
remuneration levels of the members of the Executive Board, the 
Supervisory Board has benchmarked several remuneration 
elements against market standards. Also the internal pay 
differentials have been taken into account, as well as scenario 
analyses which were used to determine possible outcomes of the 
variable remuneration elements, including the maximum value of 
the long-term incentive. The remuneration structure and 
elements take into account that risk-taking beyond the risk profile 
of the company should not be encouraged.
The policy is also aimed at stimulating profitable growth and 
long-term value creation, to motivate individuals and to increase 
the attractiveness of the company to highly qualified executives, 
including those from other industries, so as to interest them in 
Royal BAM Group. The policy contributes to long-term value 
creation by not only focussing on financial targets but also on 
non-financial targets like sustainability and safety. In addition, a 
long-term incentive plan has been implemented for this purpose. 
The remuneration level and structure are partly based on the 
development of results, as well as other developments that are 
relevant to the company, including non-financial indicators which 
are relevant for the company’s long-term objectives.
In order to achieve these design principles, remuneration is set at 
a competitive level for the relevant national general remuneration 
market for directors and other senior managers of large 
companies. The Supervisory Board will regularly review the 
remuneration package to ensure that it complies with the 
assumptions underlying the remuneration policy. The 
remuneration policy will also be evaluated regularly; changes in 
the policy will be put forward for adoption at the General Meeting.
Remuneration level
The Supervisory Board uses external benchmark information to 
assess market comparability of the remuneration levels. Remuneration levels are aimed at the median of a labour market 
reference group of fifteen companies as listed in  table 55. 
The reference group was selected based on industry, ownership 
structure, geographical business scope and size parameters. 
55 - Reference group
Arcadis Heijmans
Balfour Beatty Hochtief
Bauer NCC
Besix Post NL
Boskalis Skanska
Carillion Strabag
Eiffage VolkerWessels
Fugro
The incentive levels are presented in the  table below:
56 - Remuneration level
STI (% of fixed remuneration)
CEO 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
Members 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
LTI (% of fixed remuneration)*
CEO 70%
Members 60%
Share ownership guidelines
CEO 1 times fixed remuneration
Members 0.75 times fixed remuneration
* Award value.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 125 Integrated Report 2017Ad b. Short-term incentive
To ensure continued alignment of the short-term incentive with 
BAM’s strategy, flexibility with respect to the STI metrics is 
important to enable adequate responses to the challenges the 
Group is facing. At the start of the financial year the Remuneration 
Committee selects two to three financial metrics for the STI of the 
members of the Executive Board. It also determines their relative 
weighting.
The financial metrics will be chosen from the following list:
1. (Adjusted) profit before tax
2. Operational result (EBIT)
3. Working capital
4. Cash flow
5. Cash conversion
6. Cost reduction
7. DivestmentsRemuneration package
The remuneration of the Executive Board consists of four 
elements:
a. Fixed remuneration;
b. Short-term incentive (STI);
c. Long-term incentive (LTI);
d.   Post-employment benefits and other secondary conditions  
of employment.
Ad a. Fixed remuneration
The Supervisory Board determines the development of the fixed 
remuneration of the individual members of the Executive Board. 
The annual evaluation and change in fixed remuneration generally 
take place per 1 January of each year. The evaluation considers 
personal performance, the results of the past year, the extent to 
which the current fixed remuneration deviates from the 
benchmark and general changes in the market.
‘We are gaining
practical experience on site’A young BAM team in Tanzania
At the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) project in Tanzania, design 
and engineering are in the hands of a BAM team consisting of – from left 
to right – Daan Aldenberg, Engineering Manager (Dutch), Krishantha 
Jayawardene, CAD Engineer (Sri Lankan), Sofia Tzouli, Intern (Greek) and 
Bob Smelting, Engineer (Dutch). Smelting: ‘A dedicated team of BAM and 
subcontractor MEP specialists are working daily behind the scenes. In the 
terminal building, we’re working on MEP systems in a live airport. This 
has to be done without disrupting passenger departures and arrivals.’ 
Aldenberg adds: ‘Flexibility is key.’
Jayawardene appreciates the open collaboration in the team as well as 
the training facilities: ‘As BAM is further developing BIM for 
implementation on projects, I have joined various training courses on 3D 
programmes, which is a good experience.’ Tzouli: ‘Besides we are gaining 
practical experience on site.’
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 126 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 126 Integrated Report 2017granted shares. The TSR measure will also operate as a ‘circuit 
breaker’ for the vesting part linked to the other two criteria. When 
BAM ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the 
other parts will not pay out regardless of the performance in this 
area.
The minimum share ownership requirement for the CEO amounts 
to 100 per cent of fixed remuneration and for the other members 
of the Executive Board to 75 per cent of fixed remuneration. In 
accordance with the Code the three-year vesting period will be 
followed by a two-year lock-up period. Participants are not allowed 
to divest any shareholding until the two-year lock-up period has 
lapsed and the above minimum share ownership requirements are 
met, with the exception of any sale of shares during the lock-up 
period required to meet any tax obligations and social security 
premiums (including any other duties and levies) as a consequence 
of the vesting.
57 - Long-term incentive plan
Financial vs. non-financial 
(personal) measuresFinancial:  66.7%
Non-financial:  33.3%
Weight (% of total value at grant) 
and type of measures TSR:  33.3%
ROCE:  33.3%
Sustainability:  33.3%
Payment mechanism Conditional performance 
shares
Stimulating share ownership Two-year additional holding 
period plus minimum share 
ownership requirements 
TSR is defined as the share price increase, including dividends.  
TSR is measured over a three year period based on the three 
month average share price before the start and the end of the 
three year period. The relative position within the peer group 
determines the vesting percentage. The TSR peer group 
comprises of Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, Carillion, Eiffage, Heijmans, 
Hochtief, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci, YIT (and BAM). The composition 
of the TSR peer group is being evaluated on a periodic basis, 
among other things, in light of corporate events.The selected metrics link remuneration with BAM’s financial 
priorities. As specific targets for each of the metrics may qualify as 
sensitive information, these will in principle not be disclosed.
70 per cent of the STI is based on the selected financial metrics, 
the remaining 30 per cent is linked to non-financial performance 
targets. Performance incentive zones are defined for each of the 
targets. Payout gradually increases with performance, starting 
with a payout of 35 per cent of the fixed remuneration at 
threshold performance, 55 per cent at target performance and 
potentially going up to 75 per cent of fixed remuneration at 
maximum performance per individual target. Below threshold 
there will be zero payout. The Supervisory Board sets the 
performance ranges (i.e. threshold, at target and maximum 
performance levels) and corresponding payout levels. 
After the end of the financial year, the Remuneration Committee 
determines to what extent the performance targets have been 
met. The Supervisory Board, following a proposal from the 
Remuneration Committee, will decide upon the variable 
remuneration to be awarded over the past financial year.
In cases in which the variable remuneration is awarded on the 
basis of inaccurate (financial) data, the Supervisory Board has the 
right to adjust the variable remuneration accordingly, and the 
company is entitled to reclaim (any part of) the variable 
remuneration paid to a member of the Executive Board on the 
basis of incorrect (financial) information.
In the case of new awards of variable remuneration to members of 
the Executive Board, based on quantified performance criteria, 
the Supervisory Board has the right to amend the awards in 
relation to the level of previous years if it considers that this would 
otherwise lead to an unreasonable outcome.
The Supervisory Board also has the power to amend the existing 
conditional awards of variable remuneration based on quantified 
performance criteria if, in its opinion, applying the criteria without 
amendment would have an unreasonable and unintended 
outcome. These matters have been incorporated into the 
management agreements of the Executive Board.
Ad c. Long-term incentive
Executive Board members participate in a performance share 
plan. The performance shares are conditionally awarded subject 
to performance testing after three years. The number of 
performance shares at award date is calculated by dividing the 
award value by the average closing price of BAM shares on 
Euronext Amsterdam based on the five-day average closing price 
after the Annual General Meeting. 
There are two financial performance measures, being relative 
total shareholder return (TSR) and ROCE and one non-financial 
measure, being sustainability. Realised performance results in a 
vesting percentage for each of the three performance targets, 
each determining one third of the vesting of the conditionally 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 127 Integrated Report 2017At the discretionary request of the Supervisory Board, the 
company’s independent auditor will check the calculations carried 
out and conclusions reached in connection with the long-term 
incentive plan, in which case the independent auditor’s 
assessment will be binding.
Ad d.  Post-employment benefits and other secondary conditions  
of employment 
With respect to pensions, sector regulations are adopted 
wherever possible, with surplus schemes based on defined 
contributions and contributions from the participants. Members 
of the Executive Board are subject to a pension scheme and 
transitional arrangements as applicable within the Group from 
1 January 2006 for all comparable employees. The costs of 
trend-based indexation of underlying pension rights have been 
included in the pension contributions with effect from 2009. 
The company does not have any early retirement schemes. No 
pension arrangements were made with regard to Mr Bax, who 
instead will receive a contribution for his personal pension 
arrangements.
As for all the other employees, the Group has a competitive 
package of secondary conditions of employment for the members 
of the Executive Board. This package includes such matters as 
healthcare and disability insurance, personal accident insurance, a 
car scheme and reimbursement of business expenses. The Group 
does not give loans, warrants and the like to members of the 
Executive Board or to other employees, except for the following 
indemnities and insurances.Realised performance against the targets is assessed by using 
performance incentive zones. For excellent performance, the 
number of performance shares per individual target that may vest 
may amount to a maximum of 150 per cent of the ‘at target’ 
number of performance shares. This percentage may be reduced 
to zero (on a sliding scale) for non-achievement of the individual 
targets. The performance incentive zones are presented in  
 table 58.
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of 
the number of performance shares that will vest and the share 
price at the moment of vesting – that will become unconditional 
to a participant will at vesting never exceed two and a half times 
the award value in order to avoid inappropriate payouts.
The authority to implement the long-term incentive plan lies with 
the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has the right to 
change or terminate the scheme at any time. If the Supervisory 
Board decides to terminate or make material changes to the 
long-term incentive plan, the next General Meeting will be asked 
to adopt a resolution to that effect. Upon a decision of the 
Supervisory Board, following a proposal from the Remuneration 
Committee, the company has the discretionary power to fully or 
partially reclaim from the participant who is member of the 
Executive Board the conditionally awarded performance shares as 
well as vested shares (or any benefit resulting therefrom) where 
those have been awarded on the basis of incorrect information 
concerning:
(i) The achievement of the performance conditions concerned or; 
(ii)  Events or conditions on which the shares were conditionally 
awarded.
58 - The performance incentive zones
Relative TSR ROCE Sustainability
TSR ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below threshold 0% Below threshold 0%
6 25%
Notes:
1)  Vesting is expressed as a percentage of the conditionally granted number of shares.
2)  If TSR would be at position 10 or 11, no vesting can occur for the other parts.7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 128 Integrated Report 2017Current and former members of the Supervisory Board and 
Executive Board are covered by the indemnity, under the Articles 
of Association, against claims made against them in respect of 
actions or omissions in the performance of the duties of their 
position, unless said actions or omissions constituted willful, 
deliberately reckless or seriously culpable conduct and/or 
consisted of traffic offences. This facility also applies to all 
employees and former employees of BAM. The company has taken 
out directors’ and officers’ liability insurance under standard 
market terms and conditions for the members of the Supervisory 
Board, the members of the Executive Board, the members of the 
operating company management teams and  
all other directors and officers in BAM.
Period of appointment and management services agreements
Members of the Executive Board are in principle appointed for a 
period of four years and deliver their services under a 
management services agreement. The  members of the Executive 
Board have a notice period of six months for the company and 
three months for the members. The company regards a notice 
period of three months suitable for a member of the Executive 
Board.
If the company terminates the management services agreement 
of a member of the Executive Board, the maximum severance 
payment will be one year’s fixed remuneration. 
The company has no other remuneration provisions, beyond the 
remuneration package mentioned above, nor are there any other 
rights to one-time payments.Securities rules
The company has rules relating to the possession of and trading in 
BAM securities. These rules are published on the company’s 
website. The company also has regulations for members of the 
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board relating to the trading 
in securities other than those issued by the company.
Remuneration policy for 2018 and subsequent years
The remuneration policy described above will remain in effect in 
the financial year 2018 and subsequent years. No material changes 
in the remuneration policy are planned in the coming period.
Supervisory Board 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2018
59 -  Executive Board remuneration  
Fixed remuneration, short-term incentive, post-employment benefits, other benefits and long-term incentive  
(x €1,000)
Fixed  
remuneration Short-term  
incentivePost-employment 
benefitsOther 
benefitsLong-term
incentive
2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016
R.P. van Wingerden 684 680 214 408 183  126 3  8 177 119 
T. Menssen  484 480 152 288 49  39 3  8 85 95
E.J. Bax 484 480 152 288 93  66 3  5 111 99
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 129 Integrated Report 2017‘Open        collaboration allows 
                 seamless exchange of ideas’
Unilever’s new Indonesia head office in BSD City, 
Tangerang, Jakarta. Inhabit Group was a partner of 
BAM on the construction of Unilever’s new head 
office. Inhabit Group is an innovative consulting 
group focused on providing specialist engineering 
services. At Unilever’s new headquarters, Inhabit was 
responsible for the façade design, which was 
conceived to compliment the architectural vision 
while keeping in mind the local construction skills 
and material availability. Inhabit’s lighting scheme 
permeates the entire building, taking elements from 
the exterior of the building to the interior to create a 
cohesive and coherent design. The project was 
completed in January 2017. 
Benny Handoko, BAM International
Benny Handoko, Project Manager at BAM International, 
in front of the building of Unilever’s Indonesian head 
office. ‘Within BAM I work on a basis of equality with 
people from different cultural and professional 
backgrounds, In our open culture I can talk to the 
Director or Area Manager any time I want. I appreciate 
that a lot. It makes the work so much easier.’
‘Different backgrounds, 
but everyone is equal’
Royal BAM Group nv 130 Integrated Report 2017Gautam Bhasin, Inhabit Group
‘Open        collaboration allows 
                 seamless exchange of ideas’
Gautam Bhasin, Regional Manager of Inhabit Group, worked with  
BAM on the Unilever project. ‘Open collaboration allows seamless 
exchange of ideas and makes it easier to solve complex design 
problems with optimum use of resources and skills.’
Can you give an example of how you see open 
collaboration in construction projects? 
‘A good example would be a central construction model which is 
managed by the architects while all design and engineering 
disciplines contribute their inputs on the same format. The 
coordinated model instantly picks up any clashes or design disputes, 
which can then be shared and managed efficiently. This certainly 
would not be possible if the team members operated in silos, each 
silo with its own separate design process.’
You have worked together with BAM’s Benny Handoko 
on the Unilever project. What can you tell us about the 
collaboration?
‘The collaboration was effective and based on time management of 
overlaying construction processes. Pak Benny very effectively 
managed the risks that could possibly affect timely completion. 
Whenever there were concerns he raised them with the respective 
team members so a timely solution could be found. Having a good 
main contractor is essential to the success of a project as they play a 
key role in construction and interface management for all disciplines.’
How can Inhabit Group and BAM work together  
even better? 
‘Both being international companies, BAM and Inhabit share many 
synergies. The key here is to bring the best international practices to 
regional construction markets and raise the bar for quality, safety 
and on-time completion of best-in-class projects.’
What are the benefits of digitalisation for the 
construction industry? 
‘Digitalisation in construction is inevitable and we will see its role in 
our projects continue to grow. If we only look at construction issues 
in isolated stages of a project, this brings in the risk of planning gaps. 
With the advent of 4D and even 5D technology (where the building 
construction sequence can be simulated to weed out any clashes), 
the industry is getting equipped to take on even bigger construction 
challenges in form of complex designs, challenging engineering and 
demanding timeframes.’
What is the benefit of digitalisation for your 
organisation? 
‘Inhabit is leading the use of cutting-edge technology in the façade 
design industry. The use of customised tools allows us to optimise 
the design and engineering process and spend more time in creating 
bespoke solutions.’
Can you give an example? 
‘The use of purpose-built algorithms provides us with the computing 
power to simplify and automate tasks that involve fabrication of façade 
components and quantity take-offs. This is helping the contractors to 
have better control on costs and material procurement process.’
How does your company contribute to a sustainable 
future? 
‘Sustainability lies at the heart of what we do. At Inhabit, we have 
250 industry experts that provide services in façade design, 
environmentally sustainable design (ESD), building physics, 
acoustics, and lighting design. All disciplines influence each other to 
find the best possible outcome for the building and make it a better, 
more responsible place to live in.’
Royal BAM Group nv 131 Integrated Report 2017Long-term incentive plan 
60 -  Unconditional Phantom Share Plan 2012-2014 1  
(value in €)
At the award date At the payout date
Number Value NumberTSR-
performanceGraduated 
scaleVested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  84,559  230,000  88,317 0.3% 35%  30,911  161,707 
T. Menssen - - - - - - -
E.J. Bax - - - - - - -
1  Award has become unconditional on 4 May 2015; lock-up period up to and including 4 May 2017. The blocking period has ended as per 5 May 2017, 
leading to the payout of the award.
2  The value has been based on the average share price of BAM on the five trading days before the end of the blocking period as per 5 May 2017 (€5.231) and on 
the number of vested shares three years after the award. The number of (vested) shares at the payout date include dividend up until the payout date.  
The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for the year 2012, 2013 and 2014.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.
61 -  Unconditional Phantom Share Plan 2013-2015 1  
(value in €)
At the award date At the vesting date
Number Value NumberTSR-
performanceGraduated 
scaleVested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  69,272  235,000  71,680 7.6% 45%  32,256  123,573 
T. Menssen  69,272  235,000  71,680 7.6% 45%  32,256  123,573 
E.J. Bax - - - - - - -
1 Award has become unconditional on 3 May 2016; lock-up period up to and including 3 May 2018.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 201 7 (€3.831)  and on the number of vested shares three years after the award.  
The number of (vested) shares at the vesting date include dividend up until year-end 2017.  
The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for the year 2013, 2014 and 2015.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the 
payout.
62 -  Unconditional Phantom Share Plan 2014-2016 1 
(value in €)
At the award date At the vesting date
Number Value NumberTSR-
performanceGraduated 
scaleVested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  60,072  235,000  61,362 7.1% 45%  27,613  105,785
T. Menssen  60,072  235,000  61,362 7.1% 45% 27,613 105,785 
E.J. Bax  60,072  235,000  61,362 7.1% 45% 27,613 105,785 
1 Award has become unconditional on 1 May 2017; lock-up period up to and including 1 May 2019.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2017 ( €3.831)  and on the number of vested shares three years after the award.  
The number of (vested) shares at the vesting date include dividend up until year-end 2017.  
The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for the year 2014, 2015 and 2016.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the 
payout.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 132 Integrated Report 201763 -  Conditional Performance Share Plan 2015-2017 1 
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2017
Number Value Number Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  114,319  434,000  114,319 437,956
T. Menssen  74,281  282,000  74,281 284,570
E.J. Bax  74,281  282,000  74,281 284,570
1 Award on 30 April 2015; award becomes unconditional if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2017 ( €3.831)  and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional  
performance shares that become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price  
at the vesting date – that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half (2.5) times the award value.
64 -  Conditional Performance Share Plan 2016-2018 1 
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2017
Number Value Number Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  112,711  476,000  112,711 431,796
T. Menssen  68,195  288,000  68,195 261,255
E.J. Bax  68,195  288,000  68,195 261,255
1 Awarded on 28 April 2016; award becomes unconditional if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 201 7 (€3.831) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional  
performance shares that become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price  
at the vesting date – that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half times the award value.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 133 Integrated Report 201765 -  Conditional Performance Share Plan 2017-2019 1 
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2017
Number Value Number Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden 94,651  476,000 94,651 362,608
T. Menssen 57,268  288,000 57,268 219,394
E.J. Bax 57,268  288,000 57,268 219,394
1 Awarded on 27 April 2017; award becomes unconditional if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2017  (€3.831) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional  
performance shares that become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price  
at the vesting date – that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half times the award value.
66 - Appointment and contractual arrangements
Year of 
employmentDate of
first
 appointmentStart date
current
appointmentPeriod of
appointmentNotice
period
for the
CompanyNotice
period for
the Executive
Board member Severance
R.P. van Wingerden 1988 7 May 2008 20 April 2016 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration
T. Menssen 2012 1 October 2012 20 April 2016 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration
E.J. Bax 2014 1 May 2014 1 May 2014 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 134 Integrated Report 2017Royal BAM Group nv 135 Integrated Report 2017Following the success of the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic 
Games, BAM Nuttall was awarded both the North Park and 
South Park Legacy Transformation schemes. The design 
and construct project involved transforming the Park from 
Games-mode to the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, 
providing space for new businesses, homes and 
recreational facilities.The following information and explanations relate to the 
provisions of the Decree of 5 April 2006 implementing Article 10 
of Directive number 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and 
the Council of the European Union dated 21 April 2004 and lastly 
revised on 13 October 2015.
Capital structure
Note 15 of the financial statements may be used as a reference for 
the company’s capital structure. No rights apart from those 
arising under statute are attached to the shares into which the 
company’s capital is divided, apart from the scheme specified in 
Article 31 of the Articles of Association concerning the application 
of the profit in relation to Class B and Class F preference shares.
A brief summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association is 
provided below. From the profit realised in any financial year, an 
amount will first be distributed, where possible, on the Class B 
cumulative preference shares, calculated by applying the 
percentage stated below to the amount that must be paid up on 
those shares as at the start of the financial year for which the 
distribution is made. The percentage referred to above will be 
equal to the average of the Euribor rates for money market loans 
with a maturity of twelve months – weighted according to the 
number of days for which these rates prevailed – during the 
financial year for which the distribution is made, plus one 
percentage point. Euribor refers to the Euro Interbank Offered 
Rate as determined and published by the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of Article 31(6) of the Articles of 
Association, equal to an amount calculated by applying a 
percentage to the nominal amount of the financing preference 
share concerned at the start of that financial year, plus the 
amount of share premium paid in on the financing preference 
share issued in the series concerned at the time of initial issue of 
the financing preference shares of that series, less the amount 
paid out on each financing preference share concerned and 
charged to the share premium reserve formed at the time of issue 
of the financing preference shares of that series prior to that 
financial year. If and to the extent that a distribution has been 
made on the financing preference shares concerned in the course 
of the year and charged to the share premium reserve formed at 
the time of issue of the financing preference shares of the series 
concerned, or partial repayment has been made on such shares, 
the amount of the distribution will be reduced pro rata over the 
period concerned according to the amount of the distribution 
charged to the share premium reserve and/or the repayment with 
respect to the amount referred to in the preceding sentence.
The calculation of the dividend percentage for the financing 
preference shares of a certain series will be made for each of the 
series of financing preference shares referred to below, in the 
manner set forth for the series concerned.Series FP1 to FP4
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the 
arithmetic mean of the yield to maturity on euro government 
loans issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining 
term matching as closely as possible the term of the series 
concerned, as published in the Euronext Prices Lists, plus two 
percentage points.
Series FP5 to FP8
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of twelve 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus two percentage points.
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an 
amount of no more than 300 basis points.
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and 
FP7: seven years and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a period 
expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance with the 
rules laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles of 
Association.
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal 
by the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. 
The part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of 
the General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further 
dividends will be distributed on the preference shares and with 
due consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the 
Articles of Association.
Please note that, as at the balance sheet date, neither preference 
shares B nor preference shares F have been issued.
Limits on the transfer of shares
The company has no limitation, under the Articles of Association 
or by contract, on the transfer of shares or depositary receipts 
issued with the company’s cooperation, apart from the restriction 
on the transfer of Class B preference shares contained in the 
Articles of Association. Article 13 of the company’s Articles of 
Association stipulates that approval is required from the 
company’s Executive Board for the transfer of Class B preference 
shares. The scheme is included in order to offer the company the 
facility – because of the specific purpose of issuing these shares, 
namely the acquisition of finance or achieving protection – of 
offering the holders of these shares an alternative in the event 
that they wish to dispose of their shares.
As regards the Class B preference shares, the company and 
Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (Foundation Preference 
Shares BAM Group) have agreed that the company will not 
proceed to issue these shares or to grant any rights to purchase 
them to anyone other than the said foundation without the 4.4 Decree on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 136 Integrated Report 2017Julie de Keersmaeker, Interbuild
‘Collaboration improves
when you know each other better’Project Management Assistent Julie de Keersmaeker 
has an important role in the coordination of 
Interbuild’s on-site activities. ‘Being relatively new to 
the job I feel I still have a lot to learn, but I’ve found 
that my colleagues are eager to share their knowledge. 
There is real team spirit and we also get plenty of 
opportunity to learn to know each other on a personal 
level. Part of that is through the many events 
organised by the social committee, like football 
matches, cycling tours, ski breaks, you name it.’ 
‘And then there is Young BAM, an important platform 
for the younger generation at Interbuild and other 
BAM companies, where we meet through workshops, 
excursions and exchange sessions. Working together is 
easier when you know each other as a person.’foundation’s permission. The foundation will not dispose of or 
encumber any Class B preference shares, nor renounce the voting 
rights relating to them, without permission from the company. 
Please refer to page 252 onward of this Integrated Report with 
regard to the reasons behind protecting the company and the 
manner in which this is done.
Substantial interests
The company is aware of the following interests in its equity, 
which are now reported under the provisions concerning the 
reporting of controlling interests under the Disclosure of the 
Financial Supervision Act. See  table 74.
Special control rights
The shares into which the company’s equity is divided are not 
subject to any special control rights.
Employee share plan or employee option plan
The company does not have any employee share or employee 
option plans. Since 2015 a long term incentive plan based on performance shares has been introduced for the members of the 
Executive Board, which replaces the previous long-term incentive 
plan which was based on phantom shares. The new long-term 
incentive plan is cascaded down to a maximum number of 
fifteen  senior executive positions below the Executive Board.
Voting rights
Each share in the company provides entitlement to the casting of 
one vote at shareholders’ meetings. There are no restrictions on 
the exercising of voting rights. The company’s Articles of 
Association contain the usual provisions in relation to intimation 
for the purpose of being acknowledged as a proxy at shareholders’ 
meetings. Where the company’s Articles of Association mention 
holders of depositary receipts or depositary receipt holders, 
whether named or bearer, this is understood to mean holders of 
depositary receipts issued with the company’s cooperation and 
also individuals who, under the terms of Articles 88 or 89, Book 2 
of the Dutch Civil Code, have the rights accorded to holders of 
depositary receipts for shares issued with the company’s 
cooperation.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 137 Integrated Report 2017The Den Burg family in their new home in  
Platanenhof quarter in Zeist. BAM Wonen.
‘Our house has a highly 
personalised design’
Royal BAM Group nv 138 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 138 Integrated Report 201750 per cent of the shares in BAM are deemed to be held by one 
party), the banks may terminate further financing and the Group 
can be obliged to repay outstanding loans under these 
arrangements and to extend the capital base provided for 
outstanding bank guarantees. A change of control clause is not 
unusual in important collaboration agreements over a longer 
period, where the parties include parts of the Group. Partly 
because of the total size of the Group, these clauses are not 
considered significant within the meaning of the Decree on  
Article 10 of the Takeover Directive.
Change of control clauses in contracts of employment
No agreement has been concluded with directors or employees of 
the company providing for a severance payment on termination of 
employment resulting from a public bid for the company.Shareholders’ agreements
The company is not aware of any agreements involving one of the 
company’s shareholders and which might provide reasons for:
(i)   Restricting the transfer of shares or of depositary receipts 
issued with the company’s cooperation, or
(ii) Restricting the voting rights.
Appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board and 
members of the Executive Board and amendment of the Articles of 
Association
The company is obliged by law to operate a mitigated two-tier 
structure. The General Meeting appoints the members of the 
Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation from the 
Supervisory Board. The General Meeting also appoints the 
members of the Executive Board, with the Supervisory Board 
having the right of recommendation. A more detailed explanation 
of the appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory 
Board and members of the Executive Board can be found in the 
Articles of Association of the Company. Resolutions to amend the 
Articles of Association or to dissolve the Company may only be 
adopted by the General Meeting pursuant to a proposal of the 
Executive Board and subject to the approval of the Supervisory 
Board.
Powers of the Executive Board
The company is managed by an Executive Board. The Executive 
Board’s powers are those arising from legislation and regulations. 
A more detailed description of the Executive Board’s duties can be 
found in the Executive Board rules. The Executive Board was 
authorised by the General Meeting held on 19 April 2017 to issue 
ordinary shares and Class F preference shares and/or to grant 
options to purchase these shares, subject to approval from the 
Supervisory Board. This authorisation is limited in duration to 
eighteen months. It is also limited in scope to 10 per cent of the 
issued capital, plus an additional 10 per cent, which additional 10 
per cent may be used exclusively for mergers, acquisitions or 
strategic partnerships by the company or by operating companies. 
However, the General Meeting rejected the proposal to authorise 
the Executive Board to restrict or exclude pre-emptive rights in 
the event of an issue of or granting of rights to acquire ordinary 
shares. 
The General Meeting held on 19 April 2017 granted authority to 
the Executive Board for a period of eighteen months to repurchase 
shares in the company, within the limitations imposed by the law 
and the Articles of Association and subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. In principle, the General Meeting is asked to 
grant these authorisations every year. Resolutions to amend the 
Articles of Association, or to dissolve the company may only be 
passed by the General Meeting on the basis of a proposal put 
forward by the Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory 
Board.
Change of control provisions in important agreements
The Group’s most important financial rules state that in the event 
of a change of control (including in the event that more than 
Saskia Eggers (left page)
Saskia Eggers enjoys her new home in the BAM Wonen 
development Platanenhof in Zeist, the Netherlands. 
‘The house has a highly personalised design. We had a 
range of options, like bay windows or a flat façade, and 
sliding or French doors.’ She is pleased to own a home 
that was built sustainably. ‘The only thing missing at 
the moment is solar panels on the roof.’ The house is 
also a perfect home for a family with small children: 
‘There is lots of room for them to play outside.’ 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 139 Integrated Report 2017Biographies of the Supervisory Board members
H.L.J. (Harrie) Noy  (1951), Chairman
Mr Noy completed his studies at Eindhoven University of 
Technology in 1974. Mr Noy worked for Arcadis throughout his 
entire career. He joined that company, which at the time still 
operated under the name Heidemij, in 1975 and has since 
occupied various positions. From 1989 to 1994 he was a member 
of the Management Board of Arcadis’ consultancy division in the 
Netherlands, and served as Chairman of that Board from 1992 to 
1994. In 1994, Mr Noy was appointed as a member of the 
Executive Board. From 2000 to May 2012, Mr Noy served as CEO 
and Chairman of the Executive Board of Arcadis. Mr Noy is a Dutch 
national and does not own any shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Fugro; 
Chairman of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor TKH 
Group; extraordinary member of the Dutch Safety Board. 
Mr Noy was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2012 and 
reappointed in 2016. He was appointed as Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board in 2017.
K.S. (Klaas) Wester  (1946) Vice-chairman
Mr Wester graduated in civil engineering from Delft University of 
Technology in 1969. He then worked briefly for Fugro as a 
geotechnical engineer, after having performed military service. 
He went on to work at Costain Blankevoort and later at Ballast 
Nedam, working in the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates 
and Kuwait. In 1981, he returned to Fugro, where he held various 
management positions before being appointed as a member of 
the Fugro Executive Board under the Articles of Association in 
1996. Mr Wester went on to become Chairman of the Executive 
Board in 2005, a position he held until his retirement in 2012. 
Mr Wester is a Dutch national and does not own any shares in the 
company’s capital.
Other offices: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ACTA; 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Iv-Groep.
Mr Wester was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
reappointed in 2015. He was appointed as Vice-chairman of the 
Supervisory Board in 2017.
G. (Gosse) Boon  (1959)
Mr Boon studied both quantitative business economics and Dutch 
law at Erasmus University Rotterdam. He also completed the RA 
(Chartered Accountant) study at the same university. Mr Boon 
started his career at Unilever. From 1983 to 2000, he fulfilled 
various senior positions within the company, lastly as the CFO of 
Unilever Brazil. In 2000, Mr Boon was appointed the CEO of 
DiverseyLever Netherlands, a position he fulfilled until 2004. 
Subsequently, Mr Boon held the position of CFO and member of 
the Executive Board with Rijnmond Waste Processing and Van 
Gansewinkel Group respectively. In 2010, he transferred to 
Nutreco, being appointed CFO and Executive Board member in 
2011. In 2015, following the delisting of Nutreco, he decided to 
leave the company. He is a Dutch national and does not own any 
shares in the company’s capital. Other offices: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Albron; 
member of the Supervisory Board of KPMG; member of the 
Supervisory Board IDH (Sustainable Trade Initiative); lay judge 
(expert member) of the Companies and Business Court (Enterprise 
Chamber), which is part of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal.
Mr Boon was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.
C.M.C. (Carla) Mahieu (1959)
Mrs Mahieu studied economics at the University of Amsterdam, 
where she graduated in 1984. She began her career at Royal Dutch 
Shell, where she held various management positions dealing with 
human resources, communication and corporate strategy. After 
several years as a consultant, Mrs Mahieu joined Royal Philips 
Electronics as Senior Vice-President Corporate Human Resources 
in 2003. She took up her current position as Executive Vice-
President and Global Head of Human Resources at Aegon in 
September 2010. She became a member of Aegon’s Management 
Board in 2016. Mrs Mahieu is a Dutch national and does not own 
any shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices: member of the Supervisory Board of VodafoneZiggo.
Mrs Mahieu was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
reappointed in 2015.
M.P. (Paul) Sheffield CBE, BSc, CEng, MICE  (1961)
Mr Sheffield studied civil engineering at the University of Surrey 
(United Kingdom). He is a Chartered Engineer and Fellow at the 
British Institution of Civil Engineers. From 1983 to 2014 he was 
employed by the Kier Group, a large British construction and 
property development group, listed on the London stock 
exchange, where he held a number of management positions. 
During the first years of his career, Mr Sheffield was involved as an 
engineer in various projects in New Guinea, Turkey and the United 
Kingdom. Thereafter, he was responsible for projects in the  
United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong as a project 
manager. In 1998 he became Director of Operations and in 1999 
was appointed Managing Director of the Civil Division. In 2005 he 
joined the Board of the Kier Group with responsibility for all 
construction activities and he was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer in 2010. In 2014 Mr Sheffield left the Kier Group for Laing 
O’Rourke, one of the largest private construction companies of 
the United Kingdom, where he was a member of the Group 
Executive Committee until 2017, responsible for their activities in 
Europe and the Middle East. Mr Sheffield is a British national and 
does not own any shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices:  Non-Executive Director at Southern Water Services Ltd.
Mr Sheffield was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.4.5 Supervisory Board and Executive Board
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 140 Integrated Report 2017responsible for rolling out the new strategy and implementing a 
new business model. She started her career with IBM in 1992, 
after graduating as a Master of Engineering at Denmark Technical 
University. Ms Valentin is a Danish national and does not own any 
shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices:  Member of the Supervisory Board of PFA Pension 
fund; advisor of the National Disruption Council in Denmark.
Ms Valentin was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.H. (Helle) Valentin  (1967)
Since 2016, Ms Valentin has served as the COO of IBM’s Watson 
Internet of Things. In that capacity, she is responsible for 
developing the business and designing and building the business 
structure and product portfolio of this new IBM division. She is 
also an member of the supervisory board of IBM Denmark Aps 
since 2013. Before that, she was the COO of IBM’s Germany/
Austria/Switzerland region in the period 2014-2016, also 
67 - Retirement schedule for the Supervisory Board
Member Date of birthDate of initial 
appointmentYear of 
reappointmentEnd of  
current termEnd of  
second term
H.L.J. Noy*, Chairman 27-03-1951 25-04-2012 2016 2020 2020
K.S. Wester, Vice-chairman 02-07-1946 20-04-2011 2015 2019 2019
G. Boon 09-04-1959 19-04-2017 - 2021 2025
C.M.C. Mahieu* 16-10-1959 20-04-2011 2015 2019 2019
M.P. Sheffield 25-05-1961 24-08-2017 - 2021 2025
H. Valentin 16-01-1967 19-04-2017 - 2021 2025
* Strengthened right of recommendation of Central Works Council.
From the left: C.M.C. Mahieu, K.S. Wester, H.L.J. Noy, M.P. Sheffield, H. Valentin and G. Boon.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 141 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 141 Integrated Report 2017E.J. (Erik) Bax  (1957), COO
Mr Bax studied engineering, building 
and construction at the Tilburg 
Institute for Technology and obtained 
an MBA at Erasmus University 
Rotterdam and Georgia State University 
in Atlanta, USA. He joined CRH, the 
international leader for production and 
distribution of building materials, in 
1984 and held various management 
positions at CRH’s different operating 
companies and divisions. He then fulfilled a number of positions in 
CRH’s senior management. As of 2010 he was Managing Director 
CRH Europe and member of the Executive Committee of CRH in 
Dublin. Mr Bax has been a member of the Executive Board of 
Royal BAM Group since May 2014 and COO since October 2014. 
He is a Dutch national and holds no other offices. Information 
about Mr Bax’ shareholding position is on pages 133 and 134.T. (Thessa) Menssen  (1967), CFO
Mrs Menssen graduated from the 
University of Technology Eindhoven in 
1990 with a degree in mechanical 
engineering. She then received a 
master’s degree in business 
administration from the Technical 
University of Twente. In 1992 
Mrs Menssen joined Unilever, where  
she held various management 
positions. In 2006 Mrs Menssen  
was appointed to the Executive Board of Havenbedrijf Rotterdam 
(Rotterdam Port Authority), first as CFO and from 2010 as COO. 
Mrs Menssen has been a member of the Executive Board of Royal 
BAM since October 2012 and CFO since January 2013. She is a 
Dutch national. Information about Mrs Menssen’s shareholding 
position is on pages 133 and 134.
Other offices: member of the Supervisory Board of PostNL; 
member of the Supervisory Board of FMO; member of the 
Supervisory Board of the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra; 
member of the Monitoring Committee of the ‘Talent naar de Top’ 
programme; member of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation 
‘Topvrouw van het Jaar’ (a platform for the promotion of gender 
diversity at board level in the Netherlands).Biographies of the Executive Board members
R.P. (Rob) van Wingerden  (1961), CEO 
Mr Van Wingerden graduated as a civil 
engineer from Delft University of 
Technology in 1988. He joined the 
Group as a project surveyor in 1988 
and subsequently worked in a variety 
of project management and other roles 
for operating companies in the 
Netherlands and elsewhere (including 
Taiwan and Hong Kong). He completed 
his MBA cum laude at Twente School of 
Management in 1994. During this period he attended the 
Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School, 
Boston, USA. He was appointed Director of HBG Bouw en 
Vastgoed in 2000, became Director at BAM Utiliteitsbouw in  
2002 and was appointed Chairman of the Board of BAM 
Woningbouw in 2005. Mr Van Wingerden has been a member  
of the Executive Board of Royal BAM Group since 2008. In 
October 2014 he was promoted to the position of CEO and 
Chairman of the Executive Board. He is a Dutch national. 
Information about Mr Van Wingerden’s shareholding position is 
on pages 133 and 134.
Other offices: member of the Supervisory Board of Royal Saan; 
member of the Board of Governors of the Dutch Construction and 
Infrastructure Federation (Bouwend Nederland); member of the 
Board of De Bouwcampus; member of the Taskforce Bouw; 
member of the Advisory Board of DIMI (Delft Deltas, 
Infratructures & Mobility Initiative).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 142 Integrated Report 201768 - Retirement schedule for the Executive Board
Member Date of birthDate of initial 
appointmentYear of 
reappointmentEnd of  
current term
R.P. van Wingerden, Chairman 21-07-1961 07-05-2008 2012, 2016 2020
T. Menssen104-05-1967 01-10-2012 2016 2020
E.J. Bax 21-04-1957 01-05-2014 2018
1 Mrs Menssen will step down from the Executive Board with effect from 1 July 2018.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 143 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 143 Integrated Report 20174.6 Management Board
In addition to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, BAM’s 
governance structure is complemented with the Management 
Board. This corporate body was established to strengthen the 
One BAM approach and supports the Executive Board in achieving 
the objectives of the strategic agenda. The Management Board 
consists of the members of the Executive Board, the managing 
directors of the ten operating companies (see the organisational 
structure at page 11) and a number of selected corporate function 
directors. 
Executive Board
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2018
From the left: M. Peeters (BAM Belgium), G. Cash (BAM Construct UK), T.M. Cullinane (BAM Contractors), M. Koch (BAM Deutschland), K. Meade 
(BAM PPP), T. Menssen (CFO Royal BAM Group), R. Vollebregt (BAM Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland), R.P. van Wingerden (CEO Royal BAM Group),  
R. Zuidema (Director of Human Resources Royal BAM Group), E.J. Bax (COO Royal BAM Group), M.H. Schimmel (BAM Infra Nederland),  
G.K. Mazloumian (BAM International), T.W. Muntinga (Director of Finance Royal BAM Group), S. Beckers (General Counsel/Company Secretary 
Royal BAM Group) and B.J. Wierenga (Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau).  
Not in this picture: S.C. Fox (BAM Nuttall) and S. Capper (CIO Royal BAM Group).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 144 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 144 Integrated Report 2017In Berlin, Futurium offers visitors the opportunity to
experience the future in laboratories, discussions and
expositions. BAM Deutschland.
Royal BAM Group nv 145 Integrated Report 2017The 1,354 m² courthouse at Drogheda comprises two 
courtrooms and associated facilities and is located on a 
landmark town centre site adjacent to the River Boyne. 
The Drogheda building is the first of the Courts Bundle 
Public Private Partnership (PPP) to open. The Courts 
Bundle PPP involved the construction and refurbishment 
of seven landmark courthouses across Ireland. BAM will 
also manage the courts facility for a period of 25 years. 
BAM PPP and BAM Contractors.5. Financial statements
Royal BAM Group nv 146 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 146 Integrated Report 2017Contents 
148 Consolidated income statement
149 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
150 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
151 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
152 Consolidated statement of cash flows
153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
153 1. General information
153 2. Summary of significant accounting policies
168 3. Financial risk management
174 4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties
176 5. Segment information
179 6. Projects
181 7. Property, plant and equipment
182 8. Intangible assets
184 9. PPP receivables
185 10. Investments 
189 11. Other financial assets
190 12. Inventories
191 13. Trade and other receivables
193 14. Cash and cash equivalents
194 15. Share capital and premium
195 16. Reserves
196 17. Capital base
196 18. Borrowings
201 19. Derivative financial instruments
202 20. Employee benefits
208 21. Provisions
209 22. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
212 23. Trade and other payables
212 24. Employee benefit expenses
212 25. Impairment charges
213 26. Exceptional items
213 27. Audit fees
214 28. Finance income and expense
215 29. Income tax
216 30. Earnings per share  
216 31. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
217 32. Contingencies
218 33. Commitments
219 34. Business combinations
219 35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
220 36. Related parties
222 37. Share-based payments
225 38. Joint operations
226 39. Service concession arrangements
228 40. Government grants
228 41. Research and development
228 42. Events after the reporting period
229 Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
230 Company income statement
231 Notes to the company financial statements
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 147 Integrated Report 2017The notes on pages 153 to 228  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated income statement
(x €1,000)
Notes 2017 2016
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 6,603,706 6,976,090
Raw materials and consumables used (1,330,918) (1,295,185)
Subcontracted work and other external charges (3,652,244) (4,013,649)
Employee benefit expenses 24 (1,273,614) (1,276,214)
Depreciation and amortisation charges 7,8 (59,548) (64,449)
Impairment charges 25 (4,579) (50,659)
Other operating expenses (254,194) (245,131)
Exchange rate differences 29 2,137
(6,575,068) (6,943,150)
  
Operating result 28,638 32,940
Finance income 28 30,002 31,805
Finance expense 28 20,440 24,485
9,562 7,320
Share of result of investments 10 20,317 19,827
Share of impairment charges in investments 10,25 (193)  - 
20,124 19,827
  
Result before tax 58,324 60,087
Income tax 29 (44,939) (10,883)
Result for the year from continuing operations 13,385 49,204
Discontinued operations
Result for the year from discontinued operations 35 - -
  
Net result 13,385 49,204
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company 12,520 46,831
Non-controlling interests 865 2,373
13,385 49,204
Earnings per share 
(x €1)
Basic 30
Continuing operations 0.05 0.17
Discontinued operations -  - 
Total 0.05 0.17
Diluted 30
Continuing operations 0.05 0.17
Discontinued operations -  - 
Total 0.05 0.17
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 148 Integrated Report 2017The notes on pages 153 to 228  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2017 2016
Net result 13,385 49,204
Items that may be subsequently reclassifed to the income statement
Fair value of cash flow hedge 12,629 24,605
Tax on fair value of cashflow hedge (3,109) (7,344) 
Cash flow hedges 19 9,520  17,261 
Fair value movement hedges in joint ventures 12,494  (24,308)
Tax on fair value movement hedges in joint ventures (4,395)  6,979 
Cash flow hedges of investment in joint ventures 19 8,099  (17,329)
Exchange rate differences (17,279)  (65,862)
Items that will not be subsequently reclassifed to the income statement, net of tax
Movement in remeasurements 17,365  (62,559)
Tax on movement in remeasurements (2,853)  9,262 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 20 14,512  (53,297)
  
Other comprehensive income 14,852  (119,227)
  
Total comprehensive income 28,237  (70,023)
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company 27,361  (72,111)
Non-controlling interests 876  2,088 
28,237  (70,023)
Total comprehensive income attributable to the shareholders of the Company arises from:
Continuing operations 27,361  (72,111)
Discontinued operations -  - 
27,361  (72,111)Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(x €1,000)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 149 Integrated Report 2017Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
(x €1,000)
Notes 2017 2016
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 281,874 270,173
Intangible assets 8 403,718 389,992
PPP receivables 9 240,687 296,395
Investments 10 95,594 85,866
Other financial assets 11 91,903 92,044
Derivative financial instruments 19 464 -
Employee benefits 20 75,020 62,773
Deferred tax assets 22 217,971 248,845
1,407,231 1,446,088
Current assets
Inventories 12 606,731 645,433
Trade and other receivables 13 1,845,399 1,934,542
Income tax receivable 6,462 6,226
Derivative financial instruments 19 1,058 983
Cash and cash equivalents 14 695,779 738,577
3,155,429 3,325,761
Assets held for sale 35 8,516 40,245
3,163,945 3,366,006
  
Total assets 4,571,176 4,812,094
Equity attributable to the shareholders of Company
Share capital 15 839,311 839,311
Reserves 16 (157,923) (170,252)
Retained earnings 170,830 165,191
852,218 834,250
Non-controlling interests 5,556 5,061
Total Equity 857,774 839,311
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 18 398,146 463,515
Derivative financial instruments 19 14,952 20,347
Employee benefits 20 118,512 144,708
Provisions 21 65,611 86,058
Deferred tax liabilities 22 28,062 26,287
625,283 740,915
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18 104,944 148,131
Trade and other payables 23 2,917,155 3,004,428
Derivative financial instruments 19 133 4,354
Provisions 21 48,268 55,805
Income tax payable 17,619 14,817
3,088,119 3,227,535
Liabilities held for sale 35 - 4,333
3,088,119 3,231,868
  
Total equity and liabilities 4,571,176 4,812,094
Capital base 17 967,205 946,741
The notes on pages 153 to 228  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 150 Integrated Report 2017Consolidated statement of changes in equity
(x € 1,000)
 Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
NotesShare capital 
and premium ReservesRetained
earnings TotalNon-
controlling 
interests Total equity
As at 1 January 2016  839,311  (104,536)  167,372  902,147  3,638  905,785 
Cash flow hedges 19 -  (45) -  (45)  (23)  (68)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 20 - -  (53,226)  (53,226)  (71)  (53,297)
Exchange rate differences  -  (65,671)  -  (65,671)  (191)  (65,862)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax -  (65,716)  (53,226)  (118,942)  (285)  (119,227)
Net result  -  -  46,831  46,831  2,373  49,204 
Total comprehensive income -  (65,716)  (6,395)  (72,111)  2,088  (70,023)
Issue of convertible bonds - -  7,852  7,852 -  7,852 
Dividends 31 - -  (1,978)  (1,978)  (540)  (2,518)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 15 - -  (2,529)  (2,529) -  (2,529)
Share based payments - -  606  606 -  606 
Other movements  -  -  263  263  (125)  138 
- -  4,214  4,214  (665)  3,549 
      
As at 31 December 2016  839,311  (170,252)  165,191  834,250  5,061  839,311 
Cash flow hedges 19 - 17,505 - 17,505 114 17,619
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 20 - - 14,512 14,512 - 14,512
Exchange rate differences - (17,176) - (17,176) (103) (17,279)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - 329 14,512 14,841 11 14,852
Net result - - 12,520 12,520 865 13,385
Total comprehensive income - 329 27,032 27,361 876 28,237
Issue of convertible bonds - - - - - -
Dividends 31 - - (7,466) (7,466) (410) (7,876)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 15 - - (2,696) (2,696) - (2,696)
Share based payments - - 818 818 - 818
Development cost - 12,000 (12,000) - - -
Other movements - - (49) (49) 29 (20)
- 12,000 (21,393) (9,393) (381) (9,774)
      
As at 31 December 2017 839,311 (157,923) 170,830 852,218 5,556 857,774
The notes on pages 153 to 228  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 151 Integrated Report 2017Consolidated statement of cash flows
(x € 1,000)
Notes 2017 2016
Net result 13,385  49,204
Adjustments for:
 - Income tax 29 44,939  10,883 
 - Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7 55,042  60,305 
 - Amortisation of intangible assets 8 4,506  4,144 
 - Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7,25 -  2,213 
 - Impairment of other financial assets 11,25 153  (196)
 - Impairment of intangible assets 8,25 703  833 
 - Impairment of inventories 12,25 3,723  47,809 
 - Share of impairment charges in investments 10,25 193  - 
 - Result on sale of subsidiaries - (270)
 - Result on sale of PPP projects 35 (900) (4,400)
 - Result on sale of property, plant and equipment (4,736) (6,291)
 - Share based payments 37 818  606 
 - Share of result of investments 10,11 (20,317) (19,826)
 - Finance income 28 (30,002)  (31,805)
 - Finance expense 28 20,440  24,485 
Interest received 9,870  10,866 
Dividends received from investments 10,11 23,331  13,033 
Changes in provisions and pensions 20,21 (46,368)  (62,423)
Changes in working capital (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 48,857 176,425
Cash flow from operations 123,637 275,595
Interest paid (25,179) (38,468)
Income tax paid (10,762)  (14,473)
Net cash flow from ordinary operations 87,696 222,654
Investments in PPP receivables 9 (127,161)  (189,785)
Repayments of PPP receivables 9 104,982  35,048 
Net cash flow from operating activities 65,517 67,917
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired -  (904)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 7, 18 (72,933)  (61,927)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7 16,488  16,004 
Purchases of intangible assets 8 (23,513)  (4,993)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 8 60 -
Investments in non-current receivables 11 (23,206) (11,892)
Repayments of non-current receivables 11 14,699 11,799
Investments in other financial assets 10,11 (15,166) (15,690)
Proceeds from disposal of other financial assets 10,11 2,634 3,357
Proceeds from sale of PPP projects 35 20,500  16,600 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries - (2,318)
Net cash flow from investing activities (80,437)  (49,964)
Proceeds from borrowings 18 175,230 312,216
Repayments of borrowings 18 (184,327)  (189,976)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 31 (7,466)  (1,978)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (410)  (540)
Repurchase of ordinary shares with respect to Performance Share Plan (2,696)  (2,529)
Net cash flow from financing activities (19,669) 117,193
Change in cash and cash equivalents (34,589)  135,146 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 14 738,575  637,209 
Change in cash and cash equivalents in assets and liabilities held for sale 35 -  (614)
Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents (8,207) (33,166)
Net cash position at end of year 14 695,779 738,575
The notes on pages 153 to 228  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 152 Integrated Report 2017Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. General information
Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’), its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) and its share in joint operations offers its clients a 
substantial package of products and services in the sectors Construction and property, Civil engineering and Public Private Partnerships 
(‘PPP’). The Group is mainly active in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. The Group is also involved in 
specialist construction and civil engineering projects in niche markets worldwide.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on Euronext Amsterdam, with its registered seat and head office in Bunnik,  
the Netherlands. 
On 20 February 2018 the Executive Board authorised the financial statements for issue. The financial statements as presented in this 
report are subject to the adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2018.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.  
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code, as far as applicable. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in note 4.
2.1.1  Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a) Application of new and revised standards
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows has been amended as per 1 January 2017, requiring entities to provide disclosure about changes in their 
liabilities resulting from financing activities. The Group has added this disclosure in Note 18 Borrowings.
IAS 12 Income Taxes – Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses has been amended as per 1 January 2017 however not 
resulting in significant changes for the Group, since these amendments mainly contain clarifications.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC amendments as per 1 January 2017 that have a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
The Group has applied the amendments for the first time for their annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2017 in connection 
with the ‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2014-2016 Cycle’. The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current 
period or any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods. 
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 
1 January 2017 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a 
significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except the following set out below:
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities 
and introduces new rules for hedge accounting. IFRS 9 brings together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments 
project: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective for financial years beginning on or after 
1 January 2018, with early application permitted. The Group will adopt the new standard in its 2018 (half year) financial statements. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 153 Integrated Report 2017Except for hedge accounting, retrospective application is required but providing comparative information is not compulsory. For hedge 
accounting, the requirements are generally applied prospectively, with some limited exceptions.
The new hedging rules align hedge accounting more closely with the Group’s risk management practices. As a general rule it will be 
easier to apply hedge accounting going forward as the standard introduces a more principles-based approach. The new standard also 
introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation. 
The Group has performed a detailed assessment of all three aspects of IFRS 9. The new impairment model is an expected credit loss (ECL) 
model which may result in the earlier recognition of credit losses, resulting in a negative impact on equity. The Group has performed an 
impact assessment and concluded that no significant impact on its balance sheet and equity occurs. Limited impact is expected for the 
impairment requirements of IFRS 9, based on analysis of historic data. Further analysis will be performed in the first half of 2018 on client 
segments on actual occurred losses.
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an 
entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to 
direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18, ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11, ‘Construction 
contracts’ and related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier 
application is permitted. The Group will adopt this standard in its 2018 (half year) financial statements. 
The Group is in the process of finalizing a full contract by contract analysis in 2017 to complete the preparations for the implementation. 
Guidelines have been adjusted and processes and knowledge of the new standard is in place to guarantee a successful implementation. 
The Group will use the retrospective method for implementation, which means that the financial statements of 2018 will contain 
comparative figures over 2017 based on IFRS 15. 
The impact on the consolidated income statement over the year 2017 is to be finalised since the analysis of the contract positions as per 
31 December 2017 needs to be completed, together with some specific areas identified as part of the transition process and pending 
discussions at IFRIC. The Group will complete the analysis after the release of the Annual financial statements. 
Specific areas of attention are the following:
• In general the activities of the Group qualify for recognition of revenue over time in line with the current accounting. The Group is in 
the process of making its final assessment in respect of its property development activities.
• Under IFRS 15 bid fees in respect of won PPP-projects will no longer be recognised upfront, but during the construction phase of the 
project. This will have a limited negative impact on equity.
• Under IFRS 15 a variable consideration is only recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that no significant reversal of revenue 
will occur. The valuation threshold therefore increases from ‘more likely than not’ to ‘highly probable’. This means that certain 
valuations of claims and variation orders, which are currently valued based on the probable criterion under IAS 11, may not qualify in 
full for recognition under IFRS 15. The assessment of this effect is currently still in progress and may have a negative impact on equity 
upon transition.
Several discussions are taking place at IFRIC which may affect the Group:
• Onerous contracts: IFRIC is discussing the measurement of provisions for onerous contracts, as the specific guidance under IAS 11 no 
longer applies. Two options are allowed: using incremental cost or integral cost. The Group monitors these discussions, but has taken 
the position that it will continue to apply its current approach based on the assessment of integral contract costs versus total contract 
revenues. Related to onerous contracts, the Group investigates the interaction between loss making performance obligations and 
profitable  performance obligations within one contract. 
• Land and buildings: IFRIC is discussing whether land and buildings need to be classified as separate performance obligations. The 
outcome of this discussion will be relevant to the Group. Although such separation may affect the accounting for individual 
transactions, it is not expected to have a material effect on the Group.
The overall contract profitability is not affected as the IFRS 15 impact is in particular a matter of timing. The overall impact on equity 
cannot yet be reliably quantified, also considering the pending issues at IFRIC.
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ was issued by the IASB on 13 January 2016. Under existing rules, lessees generally account for lease transactions either 
off-balance if the lease is classified as operating lease or on balance if the lease is classified as finance lease. IFRS 16 requires lessees to 
recognise nearly all leases on balance which will reflect their right to use an asset for a period of time and the associated liability to pay 
rentals. The lessor’s accounting’ model largely remains unchanged. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 154 Integrated Report 20171 January 2019, with earlier adoption permitted if IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ also has been applied. As disclosed 
in note 33.2, the Group has several operating lease contracts for buildings, equipment and company cars for which the accounting will in 
principle change for all from off balance to on balance. Changes may occur due to the present value approach and the timeframe for 
which the leases need to be taken into account for. The Group has started an impact analysis in 2017 to identify the effect of this 
standard on its financial statements and is in the process of choosing the transition method. A lessee can choose to apply the standard 
using either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach. The Group plans to implement this standard on the required date. 
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
2.2 Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in 
the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to 
the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in 
the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value 
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the 
total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of 
the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are 
also eliminated. When necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the Group’s accounting policies.
(b) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as 
transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant 
share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling 
interests are also recorded in equity.
(c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, 
with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income statement. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of 
subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related 
assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the profit or 
loss.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 155 Integrated Report 2017(d) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, accompanying a shareholding of between 20 
and 50 per cent of the voting rights or based on the representation on the board of directors. Investments in associates are accounted 
for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying 
amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The 
Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition. 
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement, where appropriate.
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in 
other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of 
the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other 
unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If 
this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and 
its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Group’s financial statements 
only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. When necessary amounts reported by associates have been adjusted to conform 
with the Group’s accounting policies. 
(e) Joint arrangements
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint operations depending on the contractual rights and 
obligations. 
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the 
net assets of the joint venture. The parties to the arrangement have agreed contractually that control is shared and decisions regarding 
relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties which have joint control of the joint venture. 
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially 
recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in 
other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures 
(which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the joint ventures), the Group does 
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint 
ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the 
assets and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the joint operation. The Group recognises its share in the joint operations’ individual 
revenues and expenses, assets and liabilities and includes it on a line-by-line basis with corresponding items in the Group’s financial statements.
2.3 Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Board. The Executive Board 
considers the business from a sector perspective and identifies Construction and Property, Civil engineering and PPP as operating segments. 
2.4 Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in ‘euro’ (€), 
which is the Group’s presentation currency.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 156 Integrated Report 2017(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions 
or valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income 
statement within ‘exchange rate differences’, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges. 
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
• all resulting exchange rate differences are recognised separately in equity in ‘other comprehensive income’.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. Exchange rate differences arising are recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’.
(d) Exchange rates
The following exchange rates of the euro against the pound sterling (£) have been used in the preparation of these financial statements:
2017 2016
Closing exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.88763 0.85940
Average exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.87420 0.81301
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Other 
costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual 
values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Land improvements 10%-25%
Buildings 2%-10%
Equipment and installations 10%-25%
IT equipment 10%-25%
Furniture and fixtures 10%-25%
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount (note 2.7).
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within ‘other 
operating expenses’ in the income statement.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 157 Integrated Report 20172.6 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in 
net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the amount of the non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-
generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. Each unit to which the goodwill is 
allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment. The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in 
use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
(b) Non-integrated software
Non-integrated software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation on non-integrated software is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over 
their estimated useful lives (between 4 and 10 years).
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
(c) Other
Other intangible assets relate to market positions, including (brand) names, the management of acquired subsidiaries and development 
cost and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Research cost are expensed as incurred. Development cost on an individual project are recognised as an intangible asset when the 
following can be demonstrated:
• technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale;
• its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset;
• how the asset will generate future economic benefits;
• the availability of resources to complete the asset;
• the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development;
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use. 
Additional recognition of cost of development may apply when development continues. It is amortised over the period of expected 
future benefit. Amortisation is recorded in depreciation and amortisation charges. During the period of development, the asset is tested 
for impairment annually.
Amortisation on other intangible assets is calculated over their estimated useful lives. The assets’ useful lives are reviewed and adjusted 
if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
2.7 Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely 
independent cash inflows (CGUs). Prior impairments of non-financial assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at 
each reporting date.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 158 Integrated Report 20172.8 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its 
present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at 
the lower of the asset’s carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation or amortisation of an asset ceases when it is 
classified as held for sale. Equity accounting ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, and represents a 
separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major 
line of business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the 
component disposed of and that will not be recognised subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the 
income statement. Results and cash flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial 
statements so that the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the 
balance sheet date for the latest period presented.
2.9 Financial assets
2.9.1 Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The classification depends on the purpose for 
which the financial assets were acquired. 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the category ‘loans and receivables’ and ‘derivative financial instruments’ (note 2.12). Loans 
and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are 
included in current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the end of the reporting period. These are classified as 
non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘PPP receivables’, ‘other financial assets’, ‘trade receivables – net’, 
‘retentions’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet.
2.9.2 Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or 
loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in 
the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or 
have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Loans and receivables are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
2.10 Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in 
the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
2.11 Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial 
assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective 
evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (‘loss event’) and that 
loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably 
estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, 
default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 159 Integrated Report 2017and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or 
economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
For loans and receivables, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present 
value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is 
reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for 
measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the income 
statement.
2.12 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising 
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being 
hedged. The Group designates the derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly 
probable forecast transaction (‘cash flow hedge’).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its 
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both 
at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in 
offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 19. Movements on the hedging 
reserve in other comprehensive income are shown in note 16. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset 
or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity 
of the hedged item is less than twelve months. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss 
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income 
statement within ‘finance income/expense’. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward foreign exchange contracts is 
recognised in profit or loss within ‘operating result’.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain 
or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the 
income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is 
immediately transferred to the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
2.13 Inventories
Land, building rights and property developments are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group capitalises 
interest on finance raised to facilitate the development of specific projects once development commences and until practical 
completion, based on the total actual finance cost incurred on the borrowings during the period. When properties are acquired for 
future redevelopment, interest on borrowings is recognised in the income statement until redevelopment commences.
Raw materials and finished goods are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the ‘first-in, first-out 
(FIFO) method’. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling 
expenses.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 160 Integrated Report 20172.14 Construction contracts
A construction contract is defined as a contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset.
On the balance sheet, the Group reports the net contract position for each contract as either an asset or a liability. A contract represents 
an asset where costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) exceed progress billings; a contract represents a liability 
where the opposite is the case.
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually certain that a contract will be awarded, from which time further pre-
contract costs are recognised as an asset and charged as an expense over the period of the contract. Amounts recovered in respect of 
pre-contract costs that have been written off are deferred and amortised over the life of the contract.
For further guidelines regarding construction contracts see paragraph 2.24 revenue recognition under (a).
2.15 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in 
one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment.
2.16 Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other 
short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. In the consolidated balance 
sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within ‘borrowings’ in current liabilities.
2.17 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds. When share capital is repurchased in order to prevent dilution as a result of the share-based compensation plan, the 
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of tax, is deducted from equity. Repurchased shares (treasury shares) are 
presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or re-issued subsequently, any amount received is recognised 
as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to/from retained earnings.
2.18 Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. 
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current 
liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method.
2.19 Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost; 
any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings using the effective interest method (in case not attributable to property development projects).
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some 
or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 161 Integrated Report 2017that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and 
amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
The subordinated convertible bonds are separated into liability and equity components based on the terms of the contract. On issuance 
of the subordinated convertible bonds, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent 
non-convertible instrument. This amount is classified as a financial liability measured at amortised cost (net of transaction costs) until it 
is extinguished on conversion or redemption. The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised and 
included in equity. 
Transaction costs are deducted from equity, net of associated income tax. The carrying amount of the conversion option is not 
remeasured in subsequent years. Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the subordinated 
convertible bonds, based on the allocation of proceeds to the liability and equity components when the instruments are initially 
recognised.
2.20 Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income respectively directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the 
countries where the Group operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the 
basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred 
income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow 
the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint arrangements, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by 
the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is sufficient taxable 
profit available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on 
either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.21 Employee benefits
(a) Pension obligations
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no 
legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits 
relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution 
plan.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 162 Integrated Report 2017Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on 
one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. 
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Current service costs of defined benefit plans are recognised immediately in the income statement, as part of ‘employee benefit 
expenses’, and reflect the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, 
curtailments and settlements. 
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. Interest expenses are included in the ‘employee benefit 
expenses’.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or 
voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised 
as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a 
reduction in the future payments is available.
(b) Other employment obligations
Other employment obligations comprise jubilee benefits, retirement gifts, temporary leaves and similar arrangements and have a 
non-current nature. These obligations are stated at present value.
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an 
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits at the earlier of the 
following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognises costs for a 
restructuring and involves the payment of termination benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the 
termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 
12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their present value.
2.22 Share-based payments
(a) Performance Share Plan
The Group operates an equity-settled share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a corresponding credit 
entry of equity. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting 
conditions are to be satisfied. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted:
• including a market performance condition based on the Company’s share price;
• excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions; and
• including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market vesting conditions and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income 
statement within ‘personnel expenses’, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value 
is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the performance shares and are re-invested.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 163 Integrated Report 2017(b) Phantom Share Plan
The Group operates a cash-settled share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a corresponding credit 
entry of liabilities for the period until the date on which the Executive Board members are unconditionally entitled to payment. The 
valuation of the liability is re-assessed on every reporting date and on the settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the liability 
are recognised in the income statement within ‘personnel expenses’.
Phantom shares become unconditional three years after the date of grant, while the percentage of phantom shares that become 
unconditional depends on the market performance condition based on the Company’s share price.
These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the phantom shares and are re-invested.
Upon vesting date, unconditional phantom shares are locked up for another two years. Cash distribution takes place at the end of the 
lock-up period. 
2.23  Provisions
Provisions for warranties, restructuring costs, rental guarantees and associates and joint ventures are recognised when: (a) the Group has 
a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; (b) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation; and (c) the amount has been reliably estimated. 
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision 
due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan has been approved, and the restructuring has either commenced or 
has been announced publicly. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments. 
Future operating losses are not recognised.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment (including separately presented goodwill and other 
uninsured receivables), further losses will not be recognised, unless the Group has provided securities to the associate or joint venture, 
committed to liabilities or payment on behalf of the associate and joint venture. In that case, the excess will be provided for. 
2.24  Revenue recognition
(a) Construction contracts
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be profitable, contract 
revenue is recognised over the period of the contract by reference to the stage of completion. The net contract position as per period 
end is included on the balance sheet. See paragraph 2.14.
The outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
• total contract revenue can be measured reliably;
• it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group;
• both the contract costs to complete and the stage of contract completion at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably; 
and
• the contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract costs incurred 
can be compared with prior estimates.
The Group uses the ‘percentage-of-completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period. The stage 
of completion is measured by reference to the contract costs incurred up to the end of the reporting period as a percentage of total 
forecasted costs for each contract. Costs incurred in the year in connection with future activity on a contract are excluded from contract 
costs in determining the stage of completion.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 164 Integrated Report 2017When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract 
costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in contract revenue to the extent that may have been agreed 
with the customer and are capable of being reliably measured. 
A variation order is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of a project to be performed under the contract. Regarding 
variation orders the following basis for valuation is applied:
• it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation; and 
• the amount of revenue can be reliably measured. 
In the normal course of business the Group recognises amounts receivable in connection with claims for (un)completed work due from 
the principal and/or insurance claims as reimbursement for certain loss events on projects. Project related claims on the principal are 
recognised when:
• negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim; and
• the amount that is probable will be accepted by the customer can be measured reliably.
In some markets, given local circumstances and practices with our principals, historic data on receiving comparable claims is also taken 
into account when assessing the probability of receiving a claim. 
Insurance claims can be recognised only if it is virtually certain that the amount recognised will be reimbursed.
(b) Property development
The Group develops property, which it sells in the ordinary course of business and has entered into contracts to sell certain of these 
properties on completion of construction. The Group has concluded that these pre-completion contracts were not, in substance, 
construction contracts. 
Sale of property development are recognised in respect of contracts exchanged during the year, provided that no material conditions 
remain outstanding on the balance sheet date and all conditions are fully satisfied by the date on which the contract is signed. 
Construction and other expenditure attributable to such property are included in inventory property development until disposal. Rental 
income from incidental operations in connection with property development is recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis.
Known and expected losses are recognised as an expense immediately on completing a development once such losses are foreseen. The 
profit on disposal of property developments is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset at the commencement of the reporting period including additions in the period and any residual commitments.
When the buyer is able to specify the major structural elements of the design of property development before construction begins and/
or specify major structural changes once construction is in progress (whether it exercises that ability or not), revenue is recognised in 
accordance with construction contracts.
When the Group transfers control and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in its current state as 
construction progresses to the buyer, revenue is recognised in accordance with ‘construction contracts’. This may be the case in 
house-building projects as from the moment that the land and buildings, if any, have been legally transferred to the buyer.
(c) Service concession arrangements 
Under the terms of IFRIC 12 ‘Service concession arrangements’ comprise construction and/or upgrade activities, as well as operating and 
maintenance activities. The consideration (concession payments) received is allocated between construction/upgrade activities and 
operating/maintenance services according to the relative fair values of the respective activities. 
Revenue from construction and/or upgrade activities is recognised in conformity with the revenue recognition principles of construction 
contracts (IAS 11). Revenue from operating and maintenance activities is recognised in conformity with revenue from services (IAS 18).
The financial assets relating to service concession arrangements (‘PPP receivables’) are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Interest is calculated using the effective interest method and is recognised in the income statement as ‘finance income’.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 165 Integrated Report 2017(d) Services and other
Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to stage of completion of the 
specific transaction and assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Sales of goods are recognised upon delivery to the customer and there is no unfulfilled obligation that could affect the customer’s 
acceptance of the products.
When the outcome of a transaction cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the expenses recognised 
that are recoverable.
Other revenue includes, among other items, rental income under an operating lease and (sub)lease of property, plant and/or equipment. 
When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet based on the nature of the asset. Lease 
income on operating leases is recognised over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis.
2.25 Finance income and expenses
Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method. When a loan and receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the 
carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the 
instrument and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Finance income on impaired loan and receivables is recognised 
using the original effective interest rate.
Finance expenses comprise interest expenses on borrowings, finance lease expenses, gains and losses relating to hedging instruments 
and other financial expenses. Interest expenses on borrowings and finance lease expenses are recognised in the income statement using 
the effective interest method.
2.26  Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group leases certain property, plant and/or equipment. Leases of property, plant and/or equipment where the Group has 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s 
commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included in ‘borrowings’. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and/or 
equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
2.27  Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to 
them and that the grants will be reviewed.
Government grants that are receivable as a compensation for expenses or losses already incurred are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which they become receivable.
2.28  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of 
the financial performance of the Group. These are material items of income and expense that have been shown separately due to the 
significance of their nature or amount.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 166 Integrated Report 20172.29 Statement of cash flows
The statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method. The net cash position in the statement of cash flows consists of cash 
and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts. 
Cash flows in foreign exchange currencies are converted using the average exchange rate. Exchange rate differences on the net cash position 
are separately presented in the statement of cash flows. Payments in connection with interest and income tax are included in the cash flow 
from operations. Cash flows in connection with PPP receivables are included in the cash flow from operating activities. Paid dividend is 
included in cash flows from financing activities. The purchase price of acquisitions of subsidiaries are included in the cash flow from investing 
activities as far as payments have taken place. Cash and cash equivalents in the subsidiaries are deducted from the purchase price.
Non-cash transactions are not included in the statement of cash flows.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 167 Integrated Report 20173. Financial risk management
3.1 Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk), 
credit risk and liquidity risk. Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the Group is exposed is not unusual or different 
from what is considered acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk management system is designed to identify and manage threats and 
opportunities. Effective risk management enables BAM to capitalise on opportunities in a carefully controlled environment. The Group’s 
overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse 
effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Financial risk management is carried out by Group treasury under policies approved by the Executive Board, which has the overall 
responsibility for risk management in the Group and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Group treasury identifies, evaluates 
and hedges financial risks in close collaboration with the group companies. The Executive Board provides written principles for overall 
risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
A substantial part of the Group’s activities takes place in the United Kingdom and, to a limited extent, in other non-euro countries. 
The Group’s results and shareholders’ equity are therefore affected by foreign exchange rates. Generally, the Group is active in these 
non-euro countries through local subsidiaries. The exchange risk is therefore limited, because transactions are denominated largely in 
the functional currencies of the subsidiaries. The associated translation risk is not hedged. Due to the translation effect the decrease of 
exchange rate of the pound sterling in 2017 has on Group level reduced the reported revenue, results, equity and closing order book for 
the UK companies. Based on the value per end of 2017 of the Group’s UK subsidiaries, an increase or decrease of 10 per cent of the 
exchange rate of the pound sterling, will have an effect on the Group’s equity of approximately €37 million.
A limited number of group companies are active in markets where contracts are denominated in a different currency than their 
functional currency. Group policy is that costs and revenues from these projects are mainly expressed in the same currency, thus limiting 
foreign exchange risks. The Group hedges the residual exchange risk on a project-by-project basis, using forward exchange contracts. 
This involves hedging of unconditional project related exchange risks in excess of €1 million as soon as these occur. The Group reports 
these hedges by means of cash flow hedge accounting. Additional exchange risks in the tender stage and arising from contractual 
amendments are assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
Procedures have been established for proper recording of hedge transactions. Systems are in place to ensure the regular performance 
and analysis of the requisite hedge effectiveness measurements for hedge accounting. 
With regard to financial instruments, the Group predominantly faces an exchange rate risk for current account balances in pound 
sterling. This risk is covered by forward exchange contracts. The residual effect of the exchange rate risk with regard to financial 
instruments in pound sterling and other currencies on the Group’s result and equity, is limited. 
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk is associated with interest-bearing receivables and cash and cash equivalents, on the one hand and 
interest-bearing borrowings, on the other. If the interest is variable, it presents the Group with a cash flow interest rate risk. If the interest 
rate is fixed, there is a fair value interest rate risk. 
The Group mitigates the cash flow interest rate risk to the extent possible through the use of interest rate swaps, under which interest 
liabilities based on a variable rate are converted into fixed rates. The Group does not use interest rate swaps under which fixed-rate 
interest liabilities are converted into variable rates in order to hedge the fair value interest rate risk. 
The analysis of the cash flow interest rate risk takes into account cash and cash equivalents, the debt position and the usual fluctuations 
in the Group’s working capital requirements. In addition, alternatives are being studied and hedges are being considered. Under Group 
policy, cash flow interest rate risks with regard to long-term borrowings (mainly PPP loans) are largely hedged by interest swaps. As a 
result, the Group is not entirely insensitive to movements in interest rates. At year-end 2017, 82 per cent (2016: 82 per cent) of the 
interest on the Group’s debt position was fixed. The part not covered consists almost entirely of property financing. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 168 Integrated Report 2017If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been an average of 100 basis points higher or lower during 2017, the Group’s net result after 
tax (assuming that all other variables remained equal) would have been approximately €0.5 million higher or approximately €0.6 million 
higher (2016: approximately €0.1 million higher or approximately €1.0 million higher). If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been 
100 basis points higher or lower during 2017, the Group’s cash flow hedge reserves in Group equity (assuming that all other variables 
remained equal) would have been approximately €10 million higher or approximately €10 million lower (2016: approximately €12 million 
higher or approximately €12 million lower). 
(iii) Price risk
The price risk run by the Group relates to the procurement of land and materials and subcontracting of work and consists of the 
difference between the market price at the point of tendering or offering on a contract and the market price at the time of actual 
performance. 
The Group’s policy is to agree a price indexation reimbursement clause with the customer at the point of tendering or offering on major 
projects. The Group also endeavours to manage the price risk by using framework contracts, suppliers’ quotations and high-value 
sources of information. If the Group is awarded a project and no price indexation reimbursement clause is agreed with the customer, the 
costs of land and materials, as well as the costs for subcontractors, are fixed at an early stage by establishing prices and conditions in 
advance with the main suppliers and subcontractors. 
While it is impossible to exclude the impact of price fluctuations altogether, the Group takes the view that its current policy reflects the 
optimum economic balance between decisiveness and predictability. The Group occasionally uses financial instruments to hedge the 
(residual) price risks. 
(b) Credit risk
The Group has credit risks with regard to financial assets including ‘PPP receivables’, ‘non-current receivables’, ‘derivative financial 
instruments’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘retentions’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’. 
‘PPP receivables’ and a substantial part of the ‘trade receivables – net’ consist of contracts with governments or government bodies. 
Therefore, credit risk inherent in these contracts is limited. Furthermore, a significant part of ‘trade receivables – net’ is based on 
contracts involving prepayments or payments proportionate to progress of the work, which limits the credit risks, in principle, to the 
balances outstanding. 
The credit risk arising from ‘PPP receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ is monitored by the relevant subsidiaries. Clients’ 
creditworthiness is analysed in advance and then monitored during the performance of the project. This involves taking account of the 
client’s financial position, previous collaborations and other factors. Group policy is designed to mitigate these credit risks through the 
use of various instruments, including retaining ownership until payment has been received, prepayments and the use of bank 
guarantees. 
The Group’s ‘cash and cash equivalents’ are held in various banks. The Group limits the associated credit risk as a result of the Group’s 
policy to work only with respectable banks and financial institutions. This involves ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in excess of €10 million 
being held at banks and financial institutions with a minimum rating of ‘A’. The Group’s policy aims to minimise any concentration of 
credit risks involving ‘cash and cash equivalents’.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 169 Integrated Report 2017The carrying amounts of the financial assets exposed to a credit risk are as follows:
Notes 2017 2016
Non-current assets
PPP receivables 9 240,687  296,395 
Non-current receivables 11 89,982  90,138 
Derivative financial instruments 19 464 - 
Current assets
Trade receivables – net 13 838,317  915,067 
Retentions 13 108,419  112,607 
PPP receivables 13 8,411  62,338 
Other financial assets 11 1,726  720 
Derivative financial instruments 19 1,058  983 
Cash and cash equivalents 14 695,779  738,577 
1,984,843  2,216,825 
Non-current receivables predominantly concern loans granted to property and PPP associates and joint ventures. These loans are in 
general not past due at the balance sheet date. Triggering events for impairments are identified based on the financial position of these 
associates and joint ventures, which also include the value of the underlying property development positions. For a part of these loans 
property developments positions are held as securities generally subordinated to the providers of the external financing. 
Impairments are included in ‘non-current receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ (notes 11 and 13). None of the other assets were 
overdue at year-end 2017 or subject to impairment. The maximum credit risk relating to financial instruments equals the carrying 
amount of the financial instrument concerned.
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risks may occur if the procurement and performance of new projects stagnate and less payments (and prepayments) are 
received, or if investments in land or property development would have a significant effect on the available financing resources and/or 
operational cash flows. 
The size of individual transactions can cause relatively large short-term fluctuations in the liquidity position. The Group has sufficient 
credit and current account facilities to manage these fluctuations. 
Partly to manage liquidity risks, subsidiaries prepare monthly detailed cash flow projections for the ensuing twelve months. The analysis 
of the liquidity risk takes into account the amount of cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities and the usual fluctuations in the Group’s 
working capital requirements. This provides the Group with sufficient opportunities to use its available liquidities and credit facilities as 
flexible as possible and to indicate any shortfalls in a timely manner. 
The first possible expected contractual cash outflows from financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments as at the end of the 
year and settled on a net basis, consist of (contractual) repayments and (estimated) interest payments. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 170 Integrated Report 2017The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is as follows:
 Carrying  
 amount  Contractual  
 cash flows < 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years
2017
Subordinated convertible bonds 114,987 140,313 4,375 135,938 -
Non-recourse PPP loans 189,965 215,537 12,014 47,680 155,843
Non-recourse property financing 68,942 72,109 19,385 52,724 -
Other non-recourse financing 5,916 6,431 1,755 3,401 1,275
Recourse PPP loans 29,454 30,016 16,435 13,581 -
Recourse property financing 75,288 77,346 58,631 18,715 -
Other recourse financing 5,550 5,920 170 5,750 -
Finance lease liabilities 12,988 14,360 3,604 10,112 644
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts) (1,389) (482) (452) (30) -
Derivatives (interest rate swaps) 14,952 14,910 3,643 8,834 2,433
Other current liabilities 865,797 865,797 865,797 - -
1,382,450 1,442,257 985,357 296,705 160,195
2016
Subordinated convertible bonds 112,491 144,688 4,375 140,313 - 
Non-recourse PPP loans 274,348 332,434 67,990 50,167 214,277
Non-recourse property financing 85,678 89,025 36,757 52,268 - 
Other non-recourse financing 7,922 8,543 2,227 5,686 630
Recourse PPP loans 50,103 51,176 37,368 13,808 - 
Recourse property financing 68,745 72,342 11,473 60,869 - 
Other recourse financing 5,550 6,090 170 5,920 - 
Finance lease liabilities 6,807 7,357 2,729 4,260  368 
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts) 4,030 5,137 3,484 1,653 - 
Derivatives (interest rate swaps) 19,688 23,570 4,304 11,218  8,048 
Bank overdrafts 2 2 2 - - 
Other current liabilities 932,818 932,818 932,818  -  - 
 1,568,182  1,673,182  1,103,697  346,162  223,323 
The expected cash outflows are offset by the cash inflows from operations and (re-)financing. In addition, the Group has committed 
syndicated and bilateral credit facilities of €400 million (2016: €400 million) respectively €163 million (2016: €163 million) available.
3.2 Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s aim is for a financing structure that ensures continuing operations and minimises cost of equity. For this, flexibility and 
access to the financial markets are important conditions. As usual within the industry, the Group monitors its financing structure using a 
capital ratio, among other factors. 
Capital ratio is calculated as the capital base divided by total assets. The Group’s capital base consists of equity attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company and the subordinated instruments (notes 17 and 18). At year-end 2017, the capital ratio was 21.2 per cent 
(2016: 19.7 per cent). For the strategic objectives regarding the capital ratio, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance of the Executive 
Board Report. 
Under the terms of our borrowings facilities the group is required to comply with financial covenants. For information on these financial 
covenants see note 18.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 171 Integrated Report 20173.3 Financial instruments by categories
The Group has three categories of financial instruments. A significant number of these are inherent to the Group’s business activities and 
are presented in various other balance sheet items. The following summary indicates the values for which financial instruments are 
included for each relevant balance sheet item:
Financial instruments
Notes  Loans and 
 receivablesFinancial 
liabilitiesHedging Non-financial
instrumentsTotal
2017
PPP receivables 9 240,687 - - - 240,687
Other financial assets 11 91,903 - - - 91,903
Derivative financial instruments 19 - - 1,522 - 1,522
Trade and other receivables 13 957,201 - - 888,198 1,845,399
Cash and cash equivalents 14 695,779 - - - 695,779
Borrowings 18 - 503,090 - - 503,090
Derivative financial instruments 19 - - 15,085 - 15,085
Trade and other payables 23 - 865,797 - 2,051,358 2,917,155
1,985,570 1,368,887 16,607 2,939,556 6,310,620
2016
PPP receivables 9  296,395 - - -  296,395 
Other financial assets 11  92,044 - - -  92,044 
Derivative financial instruments 19 - -  983 -  983 
Trade and other receivables 13  1,091,497 - -  843,045  1,934,542 
Cash and cash equivalents 14  738,577 - - -  738,577 
Borrowings 18 -  611,646 - -  611,646 
Derivative financial instruments 19 - -  24,701 -  24,701 
Trade and other payables 23  -  932,818  -  2,071,610  3,004,428 
 2,218,513  1,544,464  25,684  2,914,655  6,703,316 
3.4 Fair value estimation 
The fair value of financial instruments not quoted in an active market is measured using valuation techniques. The Group uses various 
techniques and makes assumptions based on market conditions on balance sheet date. The valuation also includes (changes in) the 
credit risk of the counter party and the credit risk of the Group in conformity with IFRS 13. 
One of these techniques is the calculation of the net present value of the expected cash flows (discounted cash flow projections). The fair 
value of the interest rate swaps is calculated as the net present value of the expected future cash flows. The fair value of the forward 
exchange contracts is measured based on the ‘forward’ currency exchange rates on balance sheet date. In addition, valuations from 
banks are requested for interest rate swaps. 
Financial instruments valued at fair value consist of only interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. In line with the current 
accounting policies the derivatives are classified as ‘level 2’. 
It is assumed that the nominal value (less estimated adjustments) of ‘borrowings’ (current part), ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘trade 
and other payables’ approximate to their fair value.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 172 Integrated Report 20173.5 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise 
the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
A master netting agreement is applicable to a part of ‘cash and cash equivalents’. At 31 December 2017 a positive balance of €263 million 
has been offset against a negative balance of nil (2016: positive balance of €344 million offset against a negative balance of €0.5 million).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 173 Integrated Report 20174.  Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainties
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
The critical judgements including those involving estimations assumptions concerning the future, that the Group has made in the 
process of applying the accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements are addressed below. 
(a) Contract revenue and costs 
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be profitable, contract 
revenue and costs are recognised over the period of the contract by reference to the stage of completion using the ‘percentage-of-
completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period. When it is probable that total contract costs 
will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
In determining the stage of completion the Group has efficient, coordinated systems for cost estimating, forecasting and revenue and 
costs reporting. The system also requires a consistent judgment (forecast) of the final outcome of the project, including variance 
analyses of divergences compared with earlier assessment dates. Estimates are an inherent part of this assessment and actual future 
outcome may deviate from the estimated outcome, specifically for major and complex construction contracts. However, historical 
experience has also shown that estimates are, on the whole, sufficiently reliable. See paragraph 2.24 for further explanation regarding 
the valuation of construction contracts.
(b) Claims receivable
In the normal course of business the Group recognises amounts receivable in connection with claims for completed work due from the 
principal and/or insurance claims as reimbursement for certain loss events on projects. Project related claims on principals are 
recognised when it is probable that the claim amount will be received. Insurance claims can be recognised only if it is virtually certain 
that the amount recognised will be reimbursed. See paragraph 2.24 for further explanation regarding the recognition of claims 
receivable.
(c) Income tax 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for 
income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises 
liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of 
these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carry-forwards, temporary differences and tax credits to the extent that the realisation 
of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Estimates are an inherent part of this process and they may differ 
from the actual future outcome. Additional information is disclosed in note 22.
(d) Pension obligations 
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of 
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these 
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to determine 
the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining the 
appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds (AA) that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed in  
note 20.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 174 Integrated Report 2017(e) Impairment of land and building rights and property development
The valuation of land and building rights and property development is based on the outcome of the related calculations of the land’s net 
realisable value. These calculations are based on assumptions relating to the future market developments, decisions of governmental 
bodies, interest rates and future cost and price increases. In most cases the Group uses external valuations (by rotation) to benchmark 
the net realisable value. Partly because estimates relate to projects with a duration varying from one year to more than thirty years, 
significant changes in these assumptions might result in an impairment.
(f) Impairment of goodwill 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on 
value-in-use calculations. These calculations are determined using discounted cash flow projections and require estimates in connection 
with the future development of revenues, profit before tax margins and the determination of appropriate discount rates. An impairment 
loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset of CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 175 Integrated Report 20175. Segment information
The segment information reported to the Executive Board is measured in a manner consistent with the financial statements. 
 
Revenue and resultsConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2017
Construction contracts 3,008,823 2,879,896 114,204 - 6,002,922
Property development 426,611 - - - 426,611
Service concession arrangements 88,721 - 20,935 - 109,656
Services and other 18,542 44,816 - 1,159 64,517
Revenue from external customers 3,542,697 2,924,712 135,139 1,159 6,603,706
Sector revenue 165,017 39,314 - (204,331) -
Revenue 3,707,714 2,964,026 135,139 (203,172) 6,603,706
Operating result 61,516 (27,250) (2,181) (3,447) 28,638
Finance result (4,104) 545 13,996 (875) 9,562
Share of result of investments 12,988 1.495 7,141 (1,500) 20,124
Result before tax 70,400 (25,210) 18,956 (5,822) 58,324
Exceptional items 2(2,616) (869) - (1,444) (4,929)
Adjusted result before tax 73,016 (24,341) 18,956 (4,378) 63,253
 
2016
Construction contracts  3,520,728  2,752,838  175,230 - 6,448,796
Property development 355,922 - - - 355,922
Service concession arrangements 94,828 - 21,442 - 116,270
Services and other  15,085  36,922  -  3,095  55,102 
Revenue from external customers 3,986,563 2,789,760 196,672 3,095 6,976,090
Sector revenue  137,809  109,358  -  (247,167)  - 
Revenue 4,124,372 2,899,118 196,672 (244,072)  6,976,090 
Operating result (46,027) 88,418 35 (9,487) 32,940
Finance result (3,716) 611 12,220 (1,795) 7,320
Share of result of investments  3,046  1,797  4,849  10,135  19,827 
Result before tax (46,697) 90,826 17,104 (1,147) 60,087
Exceptional items 2 (50,187)  7,439  -  164  (42,584)
Adjusted result before tax  3,490  83,387  17,104  (1,311)  102,670 
1 Including non-operating segments.
2 For further explanation see note 26.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 176 Integrated Report 2017Balance sheet disclosures Construction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2017
Assets 2,526,392 1,972,249 378,587 (401,646) 4,475,582
Investments 76,419 31,205 12,628 (24,658) 95,594
Total assets 2,602,811 2,003,454 391,215 (426,304) 4,571,176
Liabilities 2,357,753 1,453,634 278,568 (376,553) 3,713,402
Group equity 245,058 549,820 112,647 (49,751) 857,774
Total equity and liabilities 2,602,811 2,003,454 391,215 (426,304) 4,571,176
2016
Assets  2,973,796  1,945,160  488,955  (681,683)  4,726,228 
Investments  67,519  6,978  9,144  2,225  85,866 
Total assets  3,041,315  1,952,138  498,099  (679,458)  4,812,094 
Liabilities  2,853,054  1,435,740  395,599  (711,610)  3,972,783 
Group equity  188,261  516,398  102,500  32,152  839,311 
Total equity and liabilities  3,041,315  1,952,138  498,099  (679,458)  4,812,094 
1 Including non-operating segments.
Other disclosuresConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2017
Additions to property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets 17,418 64,834 7 23,666 105,925
Depreciation and amortisation charges 15,458 35,720 6 8,364 59,548
Average number of FTE 29,392 10,003 90 235 19,720
Number of FTE at year-end 9,422 10,085 90 240 19,837
2016
Additions to property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets  14,367  43,917  10  8,603  66,897 
Depreciation and amortisation charges 18,214 39,868  12  6,354  64,449 
Average number of FTE  9,031  11,010  89  240  20,370 
Number of FTE at year-end  8,944  10,213  86  243  19,486 
1 Including non-operating segments.
² Fulltime equivalent.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 177 Integrated Report 2017Revenues from external customers by country, based on the location of the projects 
Construction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2017
Netherlands 1,217,138 1,153,624 12,665 (60,951) 2,322,476
United Kingdom 1,094,885 828,883 13,837 (8,375) 1,929,230
Belgium 435,650 281,591 - (27,547) 689,694
Germany 428,375 369,637 6,960 (1,022) 803,950
Ireland 361,820 62,230 101,677 (105,171) 420,556
Other countries 169,846 268,061 - (107) 437,800
3,707,714 2,964,026 135,139 (203,173) 6,603,706
2016
Netherlands  1,405,372  1,173,733  106,739  (154,410)  2,531,434 
United Kingdom  1,319,918  856,780  17,040  (8,605)  2,185,133 
Belgium  496,006  262,960  584  (16,434)  743,116 
Germany  424,413  304,718  2,426  351  731,908 
Ireland  257,993  17,697  69,883  (64,561)  281,012 
Other countries  220,670  283,230  -  (413)  503,487 
 4,124,372  2,899,118  196,672  (244,072)  6,976,090 
1 Including non-operating segments.
Revenues from the individual countries included in ‘other countries’ are not material. 
Total assets and capital expenditures in connection with property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by country are stated below:
Total assets ¹ 2017 2016
Netherlands 1,682,657  2,126,703 
United Kingdom 918,315  967,485 
Belgium 635,490  640,398 
Germany 623,076  575,318 
Ireland 312,736  267,826 
Other countries 658,418  786,150 
Other including eliminations (259,516)  (551,786)
4,571,176  4,812,094 
Investments ² 2017 2016
Netherlands 65,880 29,374
United Kingdom 12,125  5,834 
Belgium 10,193  6,083 
Germany 13,990  12,336 
Ireland 2,232  2,323 
Other countries 1,505  10,947 
Total assets 105,925 66,897
¹ Geographical allocations based on the location of the assets.
² Gross invesments in tangible and intangible assets based on geographical location.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 178 Integrated Report 20176. Projects
Construction contracts and property development
A major part of the Group’s activities concerns construction contracts and property development which are reflected in various balance 
sheet items. An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to construction contracts and property development is stated below:
Construction 
contractsProperty 
development Total
2017
Land and building rights - 415,504 415,504
Property development - 175,014 175,014
Amounts due from customers 360,863 7,349 368,212
Assets 360,863 597,867 958,730
Non-recourse property financing - (68,942) (68,942)
Recourse property financing - (75,288) (75,288)
Amounts due to customers (692,456) (75,629) (768,085)
Liabilities (692,456) (219,859) (912,315)
   
As at 31 December (331,593) 378,008 46,415
 
2016
Land and building rights -  386,795  386,795 
Property development -  242,727  242,727 
Amounts due from customers  389,131  7,533  396,664 
Assets  389,131  637,055  1,026,186 
 
Non-recourse property financing -  (85,678)  (85,678)
Recourse property financing -  (68,745)  (68,745)
Amounts due to customers  (770,470)  (33,456)  (803,926)
Liabilities  (770,470)  (187,879)  (958,349)
   
As at 31 December  (381,339)  449,176  67,837 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 179 Integrated Report 2017The breakdown of the balance sheet items ‘amounts due from customers’ and ‘amounts due to customers’ is as follows:
Construction 
contractsProperty 
development Total
2017
Costs incurred plus recognised results 11,365,779 69,769 11,435,548
Progress billings (11,004,916) (62,420) (11,067,336)
Amounts due from customers 360,863 7,349 368,212
Costs incurred plus recognised results 10,508,625 498,017 11,006,642
Progress billings (11,201,081) (573,646) (11,774,727)
Amounts due to customers (692,456) (75,629) (768,085)
2016
Costs incurred plus recognised results  11,759,866  60,856  11,820,722 
Progress billings  (11,370,735)  (53,323)  (11,424,058)
Amounts due from customers  389,131  7,533  396,664 
Costs incurred plus recognised results  9,707,580  545,941  10,253,521 
Progress billings  (10,478,050)  (579,397)  (11,057,447)
Amounts due to customers  (770,470)  (33,456)  (803,926)
As at 31 December 2017 advance payments (as included in amounts due to customers) in connection with construction contracts  
and property development amount to €213 million (2016: €267 million) respectively €3 million (2016: €7 million).
PPP
The joint venture BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (‘joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM’) invests in PPP markets for social  
and transport infrastructure in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland. BAM PPP continues  
to be fully responsible for issuing new project tenders, rendering services with regard to asset management for the joint venture and 
representing the joint venture in transactions. PGGM provides the majority of capital required for existing projects.
An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to PPP projects (excluding joint ventures) is stated below:
Non-current Current Total
2017
PPP receivables 240,687 8,411 249,100
(Non-)recourse PPP loans (193,707) (25,712) (219,419)
Amounts due from customers 46,980 (17,301) 29,681
Net assets and liabilities (6,164) 12,190 6,026
As at 31 December 40,816 (5,111) 35,707
2016
PPP receivables  296,395  62,338  358,733 
(Non-)recourse PPP loans  (224,866)  (99,585)  (324,451)
Amounts due from customers  71,529  (37,247)  34,282 
Net assets and liabilities  (7,904)  (32,429)  (40,333)
As at 31 December  63,625  (69,676)  (6,051)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 180 Integrated Report 20177. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildingsPlant and 
equipmentConstruction 
in progress Other assets Total
As at 1 January 2016
Cost  201,710  540,834  8,247  115,172  865,963 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (92,742)  (397,132)  -  (83,930)  (573,804)
 108,968  143,702  8,247  31,242  292,159 
Additions  3,808  40,579  5,083  12,457  61,927 
Acquisition of subsidiaries  280  491 -  133  904 
Disposals  (10,751)  (6,274)  (14)  255  (16,784)
Reclassifications  (2,052)  2,722  (3,370)  (473)  (3,173)
Impairment charges  (2,213) - - -  (2,213)
Depreciation charges  (6,726)  (40,920) -  (12,659)  (60,305)
Exchange rate differences  (699)  (1,228)  (8)  (407)  (2,342)
 90,615  139,072  9,938  30,548  270,173 
As at 31 December 2016  
Cost  193,604  573,197  9,938  124,610  901,349 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (102,989)  (434,125)  -  (94,062)  (631,176)
 90,615  139,072  9,938  30,548  270,173 
Additions 17,334 44,160 9,318 11,600 82,412
Acquisition of subsidiaries - - - - -
Disposals (2,967) (6,213) (349) (2,223) (11,752)
Reclassifications (1,317) 8,579 (8,174) (563) (1,475)
Impairment charges - - - - -
Depreciation charges (6,947) (35,615) (440) (12,040) (55,042)
Exchange rate differences (128) (2,221) (4) (89) (2,442)
96,590 147,762 10,289 27,233 281,874
As at 31 December 2017
Cost 193,821 574,191 10,731 126,021 904,764
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (97,231) (426,429) (442) (98,788) (622,890)
96,590 147,762 10,289 27,233 281,874
Asset construction in progress mainly comprises plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment is not pledged as a security for 
borrowings, except for leased assets under finance lease agreements. 
Property, plant and equipment includes the following carrying amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2017 2016
Land and buildings - -
Property, plant and equipment 17,795  11,112 
Other assets 3  13 
17,798  11,125 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 181 Integrated Report 20178. Intangible assets
 GoodwillNon-
integrated 
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2016
Cost  707,340  19,816  23,325  750,481 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (301,207)  (12,686)  (20,536)  (334,429)
 406,133  7,130  2,789  416,052 
Additions -  3,922  1,071  4,993 
Disposals  (3,639)  (62)  (2)  (3,703)
Reclassifications -  1,031 -  1,031 
Impairment charges  (176) -  (657)  (833)
Amortisation charges -  (3,398)  (746)  (4,144)
Exchange rate differences  (22,933)  (474) 3  (23,404)
 379,385  8,149  2,458  389,992 
As at 31 December 2016
Cost  678,186  24,114  7,301  709,601 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (298,801)  (15,965)  (4,843)  (319,609)
 379,385  8,149  2,458  389,992
Additions - 10,115 13,398 23,513
Disposals - (60) - (60)
Reclassifications - - - -
Impairment charges (372) - (331) (703)
Amortisation charges - (3,904) (602) (4,506)
Exchange rate differences (4,382) (43) (93) (4,518)
374,631 14,257 14,830 403,718
As at 31 December 2017
Cost 672,414 32,656 20,342 725,412
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (297,783) (18,399) (5,512) (321,694)
374,631 14,257 14,830 403,718
The increase in Other mainly relates to investments in innovation. The Group invested in the patented development of Gravity Based 
Foundations for offshore wind power and capitalised €12 million. The development cost are amortised on a straight line basis over the 
estimated useful life of 10 years. 
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs 
expected to benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of total goodwill is €375 million (2016: €379 million). 
The decrease of goodwill mainly relates to the exchange rate effect. The change in exchange rate of the pound sterling compared to the 
prior year had an downward effect of €4.4 million.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that a 
particular CGU might be impaired. The recoverable amount of each CGU was determined based on value-in-use calculations. Value-in-use 
was determined using discounted cash flow projections that cover a period of five years and are based on the financial plans approved by 
management. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding discount rate, revenue growth rate and profit 
before tax margin.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 182 Integrated Report 2017Goodwill relates to 15 CGUs, of which BAM Construct UK (€60 million) and BAM Nuttall (€73 million) are deemed significant in 
comparison with the Group’s total carrying amount of goodwill. For each of these CGUs the key assumptions used in the value-in-use 
calculations are as follows:
         BAM Construct UK           BAM Nuttall
2017 2016 2017 2016
Discount rate (post-tax) 7.9% 7.8% 7.9% 7.8%
Growth rate:
- In forecast period (average) 4.3% 1.9% 2.1% 2.3%
- Beyond forecast period 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5%
Profit before tax margin
- In forecast period (average) 2.9% 2.6% 3.0% 2.8%
- Beyond forecast period 3.1% 3.1% 3.5% 3.5%
Growth rate used to estimate future performance in the forecast period is the average annual growth rate based on past performance and 
management’s expectations of BAM’s market development referenced to external sources of information. The profit before tax margin in the 
forecast period is the average margin as a percentage of revenue based on past performance and the expected recovery to a normalised 
margin deemed achievable by management in the concerning market segment.
For BAM Construct UK, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amount by approximately €585 
million (2016: €432 million). The sensitivity analysis indicated that if the growth rate of BAM Construct UK is reduced by 50 basis points, 
the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all 
changes taken in isolation, the recoverable amount of this CGU would still exceed the carrying amount with sufficient and reasonable 
headroom.
For BAM Nuttall, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amount by approximately €270 million 
(2016: €257 million). The sensitivity analysis indicated that if the growth rate of BAM Nuttall is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit 
before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in 
isolation, the recoverable amount of this CGU would still exceed the carrying amount with sufficient and reasonable headroom.
The sensitivity analysis indicated that if the growth rate is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis 
points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in isolation, the recoverable amounts of 
the other CGUs would still be in excess of the carrying amounts with sufficient and reasonable headroom, except for one CGU in Belgium, 
representing a goodwill amount of €16 million, with a limited headroom.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 183 Integrated Report 20179. PPP receivables
2017 2016
As at 1 January 358,732 284,337 
Receivables issued 127,161  189,785 
Finance income 20,357 20,679
Disposals (149,718)  (87,313)
Progress billings (104,982)  (35,048)
Exchange rate differences (2,452)  (13,707)
As 31 December 249,098 358,733
Note 2017 2016
Non-current 240,687  296,395 
Current 13 8,411  62,338 
249,098  358,733 
The decrease in receivables is mainly related to the divestment of one project to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM. 
The average duration of PPP receivables is 21 years (2016: 23 years). Approximately €195 million of the non-current part has a duration of 
more than five years (2016: €263 million). 
The interest rates on PPP receivables are virtually the same as the interest rates (after hedging) of the related non-recourse PPP loans. 
The contractual interest percentages are fixed for the entire duration. The average interest rate on PPP receivables is 5 .6 per cent (2016: 
5.9 per cent). At year-end 2017, the fair value of the non-current part is approximately €256 million (2016: approximately €315 million). 
The fair value of the non-current part is based on the value of the hedge of the corresponding loan.
There are no renewal and/or termination options, the assets will flow to the Grantor at the end of the concession period.
PPP receivables are pledged as a security for the corresponding (non-)recourse PPP loans included under ‘borrowings’. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 184 Integrated Report 201710. Investments 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2017 2016
Associates 25,645  22,339 
Joint ventures 69,949  63,527 
As at 31 December 95,594  85,866 
10.1 Investment in associates
Set out below are the associates of the Group as at 31 December 2017 that are individually material to the Group.
Nature of investment in associates in 2017 and 2016:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation           % Interest
2017 2016
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv Exploitation of rail infrastructure Netherlands 10.54% 10.54%
Justinvest bv Lease and exploitation real estate Belgium 33.33% 33.33%
Rabot Invest nv Lease and exploitation real estate Belgium 25.00% 25.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the associates that are material to the Group, including reconciliation to the 
carrying amount of the Group’s share in the associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements. This information reflects 
the amounts presented in the financial statements of these associates adjusted for differences in the Group’s accounting policies and the 
associates.
           Infraspeed (Holdings) bv          Justinvest nv           Rabot Invest nv
2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016
Current assets 105,778  101,675 14,408  13,746 8,835  8,508 
Non-current assets 796,156  830,001 151,686  161,340 81,546  86,573 
Current liabilities (25,534)  (22,909) (13,183)  (12,639) (7,441)  (7,266)
Non-current liabilities (817,871)  (856,112) (152,362)  (161,943) (82,281)  (87,167)
Net assets 58,529  52,655 549  504 659  648 
Revenue 45,691  56,509 861  840 940  922 
Net result 9,208  9,772 47  44 7  36 
Share in result 10.54% 10.54% 33.33% 33.33% 25.00% 25.00%
Share in net result  971  1.030  16  14  2  9 
Net assets 58,529  52,655 549  504 659  648 
Share in equity 10.54% 10.54% 33.33% 33.33% 25.0% 25.00%
Carrying amount 6,169  5,550 183  168 165  162 
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv is classified as an associate based on significant influence by the Group through board membership.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 185 Integrated Report 2017Reconciliation with net result of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements,  
is as follows:
2017 2016
Share in net result associates that are material to the Group  989  1,053 
Share in net result associates that are not individually material to the Group  5,417  13,839 
 6,406  14,892 
In 2017 the Group’s share in the net result of associates included an impairment charge amounting to €0.2 million.
Reconciliation with the carrying amount of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements,  
is as follows:
2017 2016
Share in equity associates that are material to the Group 6,517  5,880 
Share in equity associates that are not individually material to the Group 6,038  2,832 
12,555  8,712 
Recognised as provision for associates 379  411 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables 12,711  13,216 
25,645  22,339 
The associates not individually material to the Group mainly comprise the Group’s share in structured entities for property development 
projects.
Dividend received from associates amounts to €7.8 million in 2017 (2016: €5.8 million). Cash and cash equivalents of a number of 
associates are subject to restrictions. These restrictions mainly concern the priority of loan repayments over dividend distribution.
10.2  Investment in joint ventures
Set out below is the joint venture of the Group as at 31 December 2017 that is individually material to the Group.
Nature of investment in the joint venture in 2017 and 2016:
Principal activity Country of 
incorporation       % Share
2017 2016
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. Asset management Netherlands 50.00% 50.00%
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 186 Integrated Report 2017Set out below are the summarised financial information for the joint venture that is individually material to the Group, including 
reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the joint venture, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in the Group’s 
accounting policies and the joint venture.
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. 2017 2016
Current assets  139,123  130,286 
Non-current assets  1,916,019  1,841,165 
Current liabilities  (326,462)  (306,107)
Non-current liabilities  (2,010,566)  (1,962,276)
Net assets  (281,886)  (296,932)
Of which:
Cash and cash equivalents  99,354  97,106 
Current financial liabilities  (56,878)  (41,426)
Non-current financial liabilities  (1,973,117)  (1,949,552)
Revenue  47,232  44,082 
Net result  12,406  9,673 
Other comprehensive income  21,905  123,982 
Of which:
Finance income  117,177  102,561 
Finance expense  (104,132)  (94,025)
Income tax  (2,440)  (2,511)
Net result  12,406  9,673 
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Share in net result  2,165  1,805 
Net assets  (281,886)  (296,932)
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Carrying amount  (39,794)  (42,828)
Negative cash flow hedge reserve not recognised  18,840  20,032 
 (20,954)  (22,796)
The Group’s share in the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM is based on its share in the members’ capital. Contractually, the Group predominantly 
has a 20 per cent share in profit rights. The Group has a 10 per cent share in profit rights within two joint ventures, resulting in a carrying 
amount of €17 million. In addition, the Group bears the risks in the operational phase until completion of the projects which are acquired by 
the joint venture.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the joint venture, further losses will not be recognised, unless the Group 
has a legal or constructive obligation. In 2017 €1 million reversal (2016: €11 million loss) was not recognised. At year-end 2017 
unrecognised losses amounted to €19 million (2016: €20 million).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 187 Integrated Report 2017Set out below are the aggregate information of joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group. 
2017 2016
Share in net result joint venture BAM/PGGM  2,165  1,805 
Share in net result property development joint ventures that are not material to the Group  7,579  1,352 
Share in net result joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group  3,974  1,777 
 13,718  4,934 
Share in equity joint venture BAM/PGGM  (20,954)  (22,796)
Share in equity property development joint ventures that are not material to the Group  36,547  34,726 
Share in equity other joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group  (53,936)  (64,886)
 (38,343)  (52,956)
Recognised as provision for joint ventures  24,118  26,782 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables  84,174  89,701 
 69,949  63,527 
Revenue of property development joint ventures amounts to €73 million (2016: €58 million) and property development recognised in 
the balance sheet amounts to €116 million (2016: €127 million) of which an amount of €36 million (2016: €65 million) externally financed 
(share of the Group).
Dividend received from joint ventures amounts to €15.3 million in 2017 (2016: €7.2 million).
The financial years of many joint ventures run from 1 December up to and including 30 November to ensure timely inclusion of the 
financial information in the Group’s financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 188 Integrated Report 201711. Other financial assets
NoteNon-current 
receivables Other Total
As at 1 January 2016  102,834  2,380 105,214
Loans granted 11,892 - 11,892
Loan repayments (11,799) - (11,799)
Disposals  (362)  (123)  (485)
Impairment charges 25  (1,152)  (338)  (1,490)
Reversal of impairment charges 25  1,775 -  1,775 
Reclassifications (12,141)  (13) (12,154)
Exchange rate differences  (189) -  (189)
 90,858  1,906  92,764 
Of which current:  (720)  -  (720)
As at 31 December 2016  90,138  1,906  92,044 
Additions - 16 16
Loans granted 23,206 - 23,206
Loan repayments (14,699) - (14,699)
Impairment charges 25 (356) - (356)
Reversal of impairment charges 25 203 - 203
Net result for the year - 175 175
Dividend received - (175) (175)
Reclassifications (7,451) (1) (7,452)
Exchange rate differences (53) - (53)
91,708 1,921 93,629
Of which current: (1,726) - (1,726)
As at 31 December 2017 89,982 1,921 91,903
The fair value of non-current receivables at year-end 2017 amounts to €109 million (2016: €96 million). 
The effective interest rate is 4.3 per cent (2016: 2.1 per cent).
Category ‘Other’ mainly comprises shares in (unlisted) investments over which the Group has no significant influence.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 189 Integrated Report 201712. Inventories
2017 2016
Land and building rights 415,504  386,795 
Property development 175,014  242,727 
590,518  629,522 
Raw materials 14,519  14,031 
Finished products 1,694  1,880 
606,731  645,433 
Land and building rights are to be presented as current on the balance sheet within the ordinary course of business, however by its 
nature, the realisation will be non-current. The majority of the investments in property development is considered to be current by 
nature.
The impairments during 2017 relating to the property portfolio are as follows:
Note 2017 2016
Impairment charges 8,366  54,974 
Reversal of impairment charges (4,643)  (7,165)
25 3,723  47,809 
Of the net amount of impairments and reversals, €3.7 million relates to property developments in the Netherlands and Ireland.  
The reversal of impairments mainly relates to Land and buildings rights in the Netherlands based on renewed taxation.
Property development includes the following completed and unsold property:
2017 2016
Unsold and finished property Number/m² Carrying 
amountNumber/m² Carrying 
amount
Houses ¹ 7 1,602  33  11,613 
Commercial property - rented 13,083 13,718  45,031  54,832 
Commercial property - unrented 13,862 12,007  26,980  25,876 
27,327  92,321 
¹ Of which 0 houses (2016: 31 houses) rented in anticipation of sale.
The decrease in carrying amount in 2017 mainly relates to the sale of Dutch commercial property.
Other inventories were not subject  to write-down in 2017 nor 2016.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 190 Integrated Report 201713. Trade and other receivables
Notes 2017 2016
Trade receivables 850,301  943,630 
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (11,984)  (28,563)
Trade receivables - net 838,317  915,067 
Amounts due from customers 6 368,212  396,664 
Amounts due from related parties 36 10,859  13,173 
Retentions 108,419  112,607 
Amounts to be invoiced work completed 102,668  78,407 
Amounts to be invoiced work in progress 234,422  222,489 
PPP receivables 9 8,411  62,338 
Other financial assets 2,054  1,485 
Other receivables 53,169  53,797 
Prepayments 118,868  78,515 
1,845,399  1,934,542 
Trade and other receivables are due within one year, except for approximately €10 million (2016: €33 million). The fair value of this 
non-current part is approximately €10 million (2016: approximately €33 million) using an effective interest rate of 0.15  per cent 
(2016: -0.2 per cent).
The concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited, as the Group’s customer base is large and geographically 
spread. As at 31 December 2017 a part of the trade receivables amounting to €175 million (2016: €193 million) is past due over one year 
but partly impaired. These overdue payments relate to a number of customers, predominantly in the public sector outside the 
Netherlands where a limited default risk exists. The duration to reach final agreement, including legal proceedings, on invoiced variation 
orders and claims with these customers remains long. With some customers final agreement was reached in 2017 leading to decreased 
trade receivables that were past due over two years. Management assessed that the provision for impairment, taking all facts and 
circumstances into account, is sufficient. None of the other assets were subject to impairment.
Retentions relate to amounts retained by customers on progress billings. In the United Kingdom and Ireland in particular, it is  
common practice to retain a previously agreed percentage until completion of the project.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 
2017 2016
Trade 
receivablesProvision for 
impairmentTrade 
receivablesProvision for 
impairment
Not past due 494,101  (90)  561,006  (491)
Up to 3 months 107,185  (954)  118,395  (917)
3 to 6 months 22,902  (831)  21,926  (392)
6 to 12 months 51,090  (1,247)  49,569  (3,960)
1 to 2 years 44,073  (631)  41,174  (575)
Over 2 years 130,950  (8,231)  151,560  (22,228)
850,301  (11,984)  943,630  (28,563)
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (11,984)  (28,563)
Trade receivables - net 838,317  915,067 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 191 Integrated Report 2017Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2017 2016
As at 1 January 28,563  25,236 
Provision for impairment 11,583  14,850 
Release (9,928)  (4,213)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (18,214)  (5,394)
Disposals 30  (1,073)
Reclassifications -  (716)
Exchange rate differences (50)  (127)
As at 31 December 11,984  28,563 
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘Other operating expenses’ in the income 
statement.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 192 Integrated Report 201714. Cash and cash equivalents
2017 2016
Cash at bank and in hand 692,344  737,545 
Short-term bank deposits 3,435  1,032 
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 695,779  738,577 
Cash and cash equivalents include the Group’s share in cash of joint operations and in PPP entities as part of the conditions in project 
specific funding agreements and amount to €217 million (2016: €223 million) respectively €16 million (2016: €15 million). Other cash and 
cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Group. 
The average effective interest on short-term bank deposits is 3.5 per cent (2016: 2.9 per cent). The deposits have an average remaining 
term to maturity of approximately 14 days (2016: approximately 11 days).
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term 
bank deposits, net of bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as reported in the consolidated 
statement of cash flows is reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows:
2017 2016
Cash and cash equivalents 695,779 738,577
Bank overdrafts -  (2)
Net cash position 695,779 738,575
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 193 Integrated Report 201715. Share capital and premium
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of 
treasury 
sharesNumber of 
ordinary 
shares 
in issueOrdinary 
sharesShare 
premiumTotal
As at 1 January 2016  270,998,957  604,975 270,393,982  27,099  812,212  839,311 
Repurchased shares -  588,170  (588,170) - - -
Dividends  815,771  -  815,771  82  (82)  - 
As at 31 December 2016  271,814,728  1,193,145 270,621,583  27,181  812,130  839,311 
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 518,940 (518,940) - - -
Dividends 3,110,691 - 3,110,691 312 (312) -
As at 31 December 2017 274,925,419 1,712,085 273,213,334 27,493 811,818 839,311
15.1 General
At year-end 2017, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2016: 400 million) and 600 million preference 
shares (2016: €600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2016: €0.10 per share). All issued shares have been paid in full 
(only ordinary shares).
The Company granted Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (‘the Foundation’) a call option to acquire class B cumulative preference 
shares in the Company’s share capital on 17 May 1993. This option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation might require, 
subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that would result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative preference shares in 
issue and not held by the Company equalling no more than ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9 per cent) of the nominal amount of the 
issued share capital in the form of shares other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by the Company at the time of 
exercising of the right referred to above. The Executive Committee of the Foundation has the exclusive right to determine whether or 
not to exercise this right to acquire class B cumulative preference shares. Additional information has been disclosed in section Other 
information.
15.2 Ordinary shares
To prevent dilution as a result of the (equity-settled) share-based compensation plan introduced in 2015, the Company’s own shares 
were repurchased as follows:
Note Repurchased 
sharesPrice 
(in €)Total 
consideration
(x € 1.000)
4 December 2015 302,488 5.10 1,543
5 December 2015 302,487 5.11 1,546
28 April 2016 15.1 588,170 4.27 2,512
28 April 2017 15.1 345,000 5.17 1,784
2 May 2017 15.1 173,940 5.23 909
In 2017, the number of issued ordinary shares increased by 3,110,691 due to dividend payment in shares. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 194 Integrated Report 201716. Reserves
Hedging Translation Development
costTotal
As at 1 January 2016 (77,108) (27,428) - (104,536)
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment
 - Fair value of cash flow hedge  12,667 - -  12,667 
 - Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge  (3,538) - -  (3,538)
Cash flow hedges
- Fair value movement  (12,354) - -  (12,354)
- Tax on fair value movement  3,180 - -  3,180 
Exchange rate differences  -  (65,671) -  (65,671)
 (45)  (65,671) -  (65,716)
  -  
As at 31 December 2016  (77,153)  (93,099) -  (170,252)
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment
 - Fair value of cash flow hedge 34 - - 34
 - Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge (9) - - (9)
Cash flow hedges
- Fair value movement 24,952 - - 24,952
- Tax on fair value movement (7,472) - - (7,472)
Legal reserve for development cost
- Investments - - 12,000 12,000
Exchange rate differences - (17,176) - (17,176)
17,505 (17,176) 12,000 12,329
    
As at 31 December 2017 (59,648) (110,275) 12,000 (157,923)
The legal reserves consists of hedging reserves and a reserve for the capatalisation of development cost.
The positive movement in the hedge reserve in 2017 of €17,5 million was predominantly caused by the fact that the long-term interest 
in 2017 is higher than in 2016. 
The hedging reserve will in due course be subsequently reclassified to the income statement. Based on the remaining duration of the 
derivative financial instruments, reclassification will take place between 1 and 30 years. An amount of €48 million (2016: €57 million) 
in the hedging reserve relates to joint ventures. 
The legal reserve for the capatalisation of development cost amounts €12 million (2016: nil) and relates to the investments in the 
patented Gravity Based Foundations for the offshore wind power sector.
The negative movement in the translation reserve in 2017 and 2016 is linked to the decrease in the value of the pound sterling.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 195 Integrated Report 201717. Capital base
2017 2016
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company 852,218  834,250 
Subordinated convertible bonds 114,987  112,491 
967,205  946,741 
18. Borrowings
 Changes from financing  
cash flows  Other changes 
As at 
1 January 
2017Proceeds 
from
 borrowingsRepayments 
of borrowingsEffective
 interest
 methodNew finance 
leasesTransfers to/
from joint 
venturesOther
 movementsExchange 
rate 
differencesAs at 
31 December 
2017
Non-recourse PPP loans  274,348  109,095  (62,747)  963 -  (130,036) -  (1,658)  189,965 
Non-recourse property 
financing  85,678  64,106  (83,250) - -  2,408 - -  68,942 
Recourse PPP loans  50,103 -   (20,943)  294 - - - -  29,454 
Recourse property 
financing  68,745  2,029  (12,121) - -  16,635 - -  75,288 
Subordinated convertible 
bonds  112,491 -  2,496 - - - -  114,987 
Finance lease liabilities  6,807 -  (3,260) -  9,479 - -  (38)  12,988 
Other non-recourse 
financing  7,922 -  (2,006) - - - - -  5,916 
Other recourse financing  5,550 - - - - - - -  5,550 
Bank overdrafts  2 - - - - -  (2) -  -  
 611,646  175,230  (184,327)  3,753  9,479  (110,993)  (2)  (1,696)  503,090 
2017 2016
Up to 1 year 104,944  148,131 
1 to 5 years 253,895  279,540 
Over 5 years 144,251  183,975 
503,090  611,646 
18.1 Non-recourse PPP loans
These relate to PPP projects in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Of the non-current part, €142  million has a term to maturity of more 
than five years (2016: €183 million). The average term to maturity of the PPP loans is 21 years (2016: 17 years).
The interest rate risk on the non-recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps. The average interest rate on PPP loans is  4.3 per 
cent (2016: 5.5 per cent). Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during the term of these loans.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 196 Integrated Report 2017The related PPP receivables amount to €227 million in total (2016: €338 million) and represent a security for lenders. These loans will be 
payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions regarding interest coverage, solvency, among other things, are 
not met.
18.2 Non-recourse property financing
These loans are contracted to finance land for property development and ongoing property development projects. The average term of 
non-recourse property financing is approximately 1.6 years (2016: approximately 1.5 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during 
the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The principal sum of these financing loans is 
€54 million (2016: €41 million).
The carrying amount of the related assets is approximately €160 million at year-end 2017 (2016: approximately €225 million). The assets 
are pledged as a security for lenders. These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions relating 
to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
18.3 Recourse PPP loans
Equity bridge loans relating to PPP contracts are recognised under recourse PPP loans. The interest rate risk on the recourse PPP loans is 
hedged by interest rate swaps.
Recourse PPP loans relate directly to the accompanying assets, but also have an additional security in the form of a guarantee provided 
by the Group, in several cases supplemented by a bank guarantee.
The average term to maturity of the recourse PPP loans is approximately 0.7 years (2016: approximately 1.1 years).
18.4 Recourse property financing
Recourse property financing is contracted to finance land and building rights and property development. The average term of recourse 
property financing is approximately 0.9 years (2016: approximately 1.7 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during 
the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The principal sum of these financing loans is 
€7 million (2016: €14 million).
Recourse property financing relates directly to the accompanying assets, that constitute a security for lenders. The carrying amount of 
the accompanying assets amounts to approximately €125 million at year-end 2017 (2016: approximately €125 million). Additional 
securities exist in the form of a guarantee provided by the Group, in some cases supplemented by a bank guarantee. These loans will be 
repayable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions relating to interest and capital repayments, among other 
things, are not met.
18.5  Subordinated convertible bonds
In June 2016, the Group placed €125 million subordinated unsecured convertible bonds to repay the existing subordinated loan of the 
same amount. 
The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.50 per cent, an initial conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible into ordinary 
shares of Royal BAM Group nv with a nominal value of €0.10 each. The coupon is payable semi-annually in arrear in equal instalments on 
13 June and 13 December. The Bonds were issued at 100 per cent of their principal amount and, unless previously redeemed, converted 
or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount on or around 13 June 2021. Upon exercise of their 
conversion rights, holders will receive shares at the then prevailing conversion price. At 31 December 2017 the conversion price is  
€5.1291 (31 December 2016: €5.2245). The Group will have the option to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their principal 
amount plus accrued but unpaid interest from 28 June 2019, if the value of the shares underlying a bond exceeds €130,000 for a specified 
period of time. The bonds are trading on the Open Market (Freiverkehr) segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
All payment obligations to the bondholders are subordinated to the payment obligations towards our senior debt holders.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 197 Integrated Report 2017At 31 December 2017 the fair value of the liability component of the subordinated convertible bonds amounts to €122  million (31 
December 2016: €116 million). The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using a market rate for an equivalent 
non-convertible instrument.
More details of the subordinated convertible bonds are published on the website. 
The reconciliation of the subordinated convertible bonds to the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity is as follows:
     Allocated to:
Face valueLiability 
componentEquity 
component
Gross proceeds  125,000  114,253  10,747 
Transaction costs 1 (3,233)  (2,955)  (278)
Net proceeds  121,767  111,298  10,469 
Tax effect equity component -  (2,617)
Effective interest method  1,193 - 
As at 31 December 2016  112,491  7,852 
Effective interest method  2,496  - 
As at 31 December 2017  114,987  7,852 
¹ Transaction costs include fees and commissions paid to advisors, bankers and lawyers.
18.6  Committed syndicated credit facility
In November 2016 the Group renewed its committed revolving credit facility agreement for an amount of €400 million. The facility 
agreement has a remaining term to maturity of 4.3 years and runs until 31 March 2022. 
The facility can be used for general corporate purposes, including the usual working capital financing. As a result of this flexible use, the 
level of draw-downs fluctuates throughout the year. At year-end 2017, the Group did not use the facility (year-end 2016: not used).
As at 30 June 2017 the Group did not use the facility (30 June 2016: not used). Variable interest rates apply to the draw-downs on this 
facility with a margin between 150 and 275 basis points. As at 31 December 2017 the margin was 150 basis points (2016: 150 basis points).
18.7 Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities mainly consist of financing arrangements for buildings and equipment. The maturity of the finance lease liabilities 
is as follows:
2017 2016
Up to 1 year 3,604  2,643 
1 to 5 years 10,112  4,311 
Over 5 years 644  403 
14,360  7,357 
Future finance charges on financial leases (1,372)  (550)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 12,988  6,807 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 198 Integrated Report 2017The present value of the finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2017 2016
1 to 5 years 9,135  3,971 
Over 5 years 586  358 
9,721  4,329 
Up to 1 year 3,267  2,478 
12,988  6,807 
18.8 Other financing
Other loans relate to financing of property, plant and equipment.
18.9 Bank overdrafts
In addition to the non-current committed syndicated credit facility (note 18.6), the Group holds €163  million in bilateral credit facilities 
(2016: €163 million). At year-end 2017 as well as 2016 these facilities were not utilised.
18.10  Covenants
With regard to the various finance arrangements, the Group is bound by terms and conditions, both qualitative and quantitative and 
including financial ratios, in line with the industry’s practice.
Terms and conditions for project financing, being (non-) recourse PPP loans, (non-) recourse property financing loans, are directly linked 
to the respective projects. A relevant ratio in property financing arrangements is the loan to value, i.e. the ratio between the financing 
arrangement and the value of the project. In PPP loans and recourse property financing arrangements the debt service cover ratio is 
applicable. This ratio relates the interest and repayment obligations to the project cash flow. No early payments were made in 2017 as a 
result of not adhering to the financing conditions of project related financing.
Terms and conditions for the committed syndicated credit facility are based on the Group as a whole, excluding non-recourse elements. 
The ratios for this financing arrangement (all recourse) are the leverage ratio, the interest cover, the solvency ratio and the guarantor 
covers. The Group complied with all ratios in 2017.
The set requirements and realisation of the recourse ratios described above, can be explained as follows:
Calculation Requirement 2017 2016
Leverage ratio Net borrowings/EBITDA ≤ 2.50 (4.99) (3.84)
Interest cover EBITDA/net interest expense ≥ 4.00 8.06 8.62
Solvency ratio Capital base/total assets ≥ 15% 29.4% 29.0%
Guarantor covers EBITDA share of guarantors ≥ 60% 83% 106%
Assets share of guarantors ≥ 70% 91% 99%
An increased recourse leverage ratio of a maximum of 2.75  is permitted under the terms and conditions and applies to the second and 
third quarters of the year. The capital base in our financial covenants (as part of the solvency ratio) is adjusted for the hedging reserve 
and remeasurements of post-employments benefits, among other things.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 199 Integrated Report 201718.11 Other information
The Group’s subordinated convertible bonds are part of the capital base. Repayment obligations are subordinated to not subordinated 
obligations. 
The non-recourse PPP loans relate directly to the associated receivables from government bodies. Therefore, the interest rates are 
influenced marginally by market adjustments applying to companies. The terms of property loans are relatively short, as a consequence 
of which interest margins are in line with the markets. Therefore, the carrying amounts of these loans do not differ significantly from 
their fair values. 
The effective interest rates (including hedging instruments) are as follows:
2017 2016
Euro Pound sterling Euro Pound sterling
Subordinated convertible bonds 6.1% - 6.1% -
Subordinated loan - - 7.1% -
Committed syndicated credit facility 1.6% - 1.8% -
Non-recourse PPP loans 3.7% 6.8% 5.0% 6.9%
Non-recourse property financing 3.5% - 3.4% -
Recourse PPP loans 2.0% - 2.5% -
Recourse property financing 2.4% - 2.2% -
Finance lease liabilities 4.1% - 4.6% -
Other non-recourse financing 3.3% - 3.1% -
Other recourse financing 3.1% - 3.1% -
The Group contracted interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of borrowings to interest rate fluctuations and contractual changes 
in interest rates.
The Group’s unhedged position is as follows:
Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Total borrowings 104,944 253,895 144,251 503,090
Fixed interest rates (9,217) (180,770) (59,836) (249,823)
Hedged with interest rate swaps (25,799) (53,627) (84,415) (163,841)
As at 31 December 2017 69,928 19,498 - 89,426
Total borrowings  148,131  279,540  183,975  611,646 
Fixed interest rates  (8,238)  (169,054)  (127,883)  (305,175)
Hedged with interest rate swaps  (100,708)  (39,546)  (54,552)  (194,806)
As at 31 December 2016  39,185  70,940  1,540  111,665 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2017 2016
Euro 452,623  557,211 
Pound sterling 50,467  54,435 
503,090  611,646 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 200 Integrated Report 201719. Derivative financial instruments
2017 2016
Assets Liabilities Fair value Assets Liabilities Fair value
Interest rate swaps - 14,952 (14,952) - 19,688 (19,688)
Forward exchange contracts 1,522 133 1,389  983  5,013  (4,030)
1,522 15,085 (13,563)  983  24,701 (23,718)
Of which current: 1,058 133 925  983  4,354  (3,371)
19.1 Interest rate swaps
At year-end 2017, interest rate swaps are outstanding to hedge the interest rate risk on the (non-) recourse PPP loans with a variable 
interest rate. Total borrowings amount to €503 million (2016: €612 million), of which an amount of €253 million (2016: €306 million) 
carries a variable interest rate. Of the borrowings with a variable interest rate an amount of €164 million (2016: €195 million) is hedged 
by interest rate swaps. All interest rate swaps are classified as hedge instruments. The fair value of the outstanding interest rate swaps 
amounts to €15 million negative (2016: €20 million negative). At year-end 2017 all interest rate swaps have a duration that exceeds one 
year. At year-end 2016, four interest rate swaps with a total fair value of €0.2 million negative had a duration of one year or less. The 
maximum duration of the derivative financial instruments is 24 years.
The fixed interest rates of these swaps vary from 1.5 per cent to 6.3 per cent at year-end 2017 (2016: between 0.6 per cent and 6.3 per 
cent). The variable interest rates of the corresponding loans are based on Euribor or Libor plus a margin.
At year-end 2017, all derivative financial instruments of the Group provide an effective compensation for movements in cash flows from 
the hedged positions. Therefore, the movements in 2017 are accounted for in other comprehensive income. The change in fair value of 
outstanding derivative financial instruments which do not provide an effective compensation are accounted for in the income statement 
within ‘finance income/expense’.
The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is disclosed in note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
19.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2017 were €194 million 
(2016: €205 million). The fair value amounts to €1 million positive (2016: €4 million negative).
 
The terms to maturity of these contracts are up to a maximum of 1 year for the amount of €187 million (2016: €190 million), between 
1 and 2 years for the amount of €7 million (2016: €8 million) and between 2 to 4 years nil (2016: €7 million).
20. Employee benefits
2017 2016
Defined benefit asset 75,020  62,773 
Defined benefit liability 92,411  114,254 
Other employee benefits obligations 26,101  30,454 
118,512  144,708 
The Group operates defined contribution plans in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Ireland under broadly similar 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 201 Integrated Report 2017regulatory frameworks. The legacy defined benefit pension plans in all countries are closed for new entrants. The pension risks in the 
plans have been decreased.
A further description of the post-employment benefit plans per country is as follows:
The Netherlands
In the Netherlands, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit schemes as well as defined contribution schemes.
The pension schemes in the Netherlands are subject to the regulations as stipulated in the Pension Act. Due to the Pension Act the 
pension plans need to be fully funded and need to be operated outside the Company through a separate legal entity. Several multi-
employer funds and insurers operate the various pension plans. The Group has no additional responsibilities for the governance of these 
schemes. 
The basic pension for every employee is covered by multi-employer funds in which also other companies participate based on legal 
obligations. These funds have an indexed average salary scheme and are therefore defined benefit schemes. Specifically, these are the 
industry pension funds for construction, metal & technology and railways. As these funds are not equipped to provide the required 
information on the Group’s proportionate share of pension liabilities and plan assets, the defined benefit plans are accounted for as 
defined contribution plans. The Group is obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any 
excess payment and is not obliged to make up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The part exceeding the 
basic pension amount (top-up part), which is not covered by multi-employer funds, is carried out by external parties and relates to 
defined contribution schemes. 
At year-end 2017, the (twelve-month average) coverage rate of the industry pension fund for construction is 115 per cent (2016: 105 per 
cent). The industry pension fund for metal & technology has a coverage rate of 100 per cent at year-end 2017 (2016: 93 per cent). The 
coverage rate of the industry pension fund for railways is 113 per cent (2016: 103 per cent). 
With effect from 2006, the defined benefit scheme is closed for new entrants. The build-up of future pension entitlements for these 
employees is covered by the multi-employer funds or external insurance companies. Defined benefit schemes are closed for future 
accumulation and index-linked to the industry pension fund for Construction. Future build-up is solely possible for the top-up pension 
scheme of BAM, which terminates in 2020; it is financed by the employer based on a percentage of the pensionable salaries of the 
employees.
In 2016 in a subsidiary of a Dutch operating company pension plan amendments were made, limiting the defined benefit obligation 
above a certain salary level. Above this salary level a defined contribution plan is now applicable. Future indexation will be paid from the 
interest income on a depot placed by an insurer. These amendments led to a reduction of the defined benefit obligation and a net 
one-off gain of €5.2 million. No changes were made in 2017.
In the context of accountability for the Group’s pension policy (to be) implemented, with regard to, inter alia, supplements and 
investment performance, the Group has established an accountability committee, with representation from the Central Works Council 
(CWC) and the Socio-Economic Committee of the BAM pensioners Associations (SEC).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 202 Integrated Report 2017United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution plans.
Three defined benefit pension schemes are executed by separate trusts. They were closed to new participants in 2004. Entitlements in 
these pension schemes have been changed in 2016 by means of delinkage of pension benefits from salaries. These amendments led to a 
reduction of the defined benefit obligation and a net one-off gain of €13.9 million in 2016. The Group is still responsible for making 
supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits. The plan for supplementary contributions was last revised after 
the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds in March 2016 and led to supplementary contributions in 2017 to the amount of 
approximately €10 million (2016: €10 million). The Group recognises a net defined benefit asset because it is entitled to a return of 
surplus at the end of the plans’ lifes.
The Group replaced the closed defined benefit pension schemes with defined contribution schemes, which are executed by an outside 
insurance company. Following the closure of future accumulation in defined benefit pension schemes in 2010, employees who 
participated in these schemes were invited to participate in the defined contribution schemes.
In addition, several defined benefit schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes due to the fact that external parties 
administering them are not able to provide the required information. These schemes have limited numbers of members. The Group is 
obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any excess payment and is not obliged to make 
up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The Group did not make any material contributions in 2017 nor 
2016.
Belgium
In Belgium, the Group makes contributions to a relatively small defined benefit scheme that is executed by an external insurance 
company. The Group has also made arrangements for employees to participate in a defined contribution scheme. 
Belgian defined contribution plans are subject to the Law of 28 April 2003 on occupational pensions, due to changes in the law in 
December 2015 defined contribution should be classified and accounted for as defined benefit plans under IAS 19R ‘Employee Benefits’. 
Germany
In Germany, the Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme financed by the employer. 
The Group closed two schemes to new participants and since 2006, the Group operates a defined contribution scheme, into which 
employees have the opportunity to contribute on an individual basis. 
Ireland 
The Group has a defined benefit scheme in Ireland, executed by a company pension fund. The multi-employer pension scheme was fully 
converted from a defined benefit scheme to a defined contribution scheme with effect from 1 January 2006 for new entrants. 
Employees who entered the company before 2006 remained in the defined benefit scheme. Entitlements to the scheme have been 
adjusted in 2016 by means of a cap on pensionable salary. These amendments led to a reduction of the defined benefit obligation and a 
net one-off gain of €22.5 million in 2016. No adjustments were made in 2017. 
The reduction in 2017 of the defined benefit obligation as well as the plan assets with €8m, accounted for under settlements, is the 
result of a number of members transferring out of the defined benefit scheme.
The Group is still responsible for making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits.
The plan for supplementary contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds in 2017 and led to 
supplementary contributions in 2017 to the amount of approximately €3 million.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 203 Integrated Report 2017Movements in the defined benefit pension plans over the year is as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2017
Defined benefit liability 17,386 - 3,688 54,099 17,238 92,411
Defined benefit asset - 75,020 - - - 75,020
17,386 (75,020) 3,688 54,099 17,238 17,391
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2017 434,513 1,015,303 20,363 78,576 108,243 1,656,998
Service cost 969 65 1,361 187 2,539 5,121
Interest expense 7,281 26,686 287 1,071 1,954 37,279
Remeasurements (1,555) 36,517 4,121 (2,626) (4,987) 31,470
Plan participants contributions - - 567 - 445 1,012
Benefit payments (12,420) (56,997) (1,535) (4,247) (3,128) (78,327)
Changes and plan amendments - - - - - -
Settlements - - - - (7,928) (7,928)
Disposals - - (49) - - (49)
Exchange rate differences - (32,380) - - - (32,380)
As at 31 December 2017 428,788 989,194 25,115 72,961 97,138 1,613,196
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2017 411,231 1,073,984 16,965 19,413 83,924 1,605,517
Interest income 6,953 28,451 249 274 1,531 37,458
Remeasurements (535) 44,022 3,725 462 1,159 48,833
Employer contributions 6,678 10,797 1,719 2,960 3,897 26,051
Plan participants contributions - - 567 - 445 1,012
Benefit payments (12,420) (56,997) (1,535) (4,247) (3,128) (78,327)
Administration cost (505) (1,517) (40) - - (2,062)
Settlements - - - - (7,928) (7,928)
Disposals - - (223) - - (223)
Exchange rate differences - (34,525) - - - (34,525)
As at 31 December 2017 411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
Present value of obligation 428,788 989,194 25,115 72,961 97,138 1,613,196
Fair value of plan assets 411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
      
As at 31 December 2017 17,386 (75,020) 3,688 54,099 17,238 17,391
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 969 65 1,361 187 2,539 5,121
Net interest expense 328 (1,765) 38 797 423 (179)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements - - - - - -
Administration cost 505 1,517 40 - - 2,062
1,802 (183) 1,439 984 2,962 7,004
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 535 (44,022) (3,727) (462) (1,159) (48,835)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (4,256) - 188 - - (4,068)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions 2,701 30,922 145 (2,694) (3,772) 27,302
-  Experience (gains)/losses - 5,595 3,788 68 (1,215) 8,236
(1,020) (7,505) 394 (3,088) (6,146) (17,365)
Income tax 255 1,303 (113) 640 768 2,853
Remeasurement net of tax (765) (6202) 281 (2,448) (5,378) (14,512)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 204 Integrated Report 2017NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2016
Defined benefit liability 23,282 4,092 3,398 59,163 24,319 114,254
Defined benefit asset - 62,773 - - - 62,773
23,282 (58,681) 3,398 59,163 24,319 51,481
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2016 426,552 938,083 2,968 73,600 111,703 1,552,906
Service cost 1,288 - 40 265 1,129 2,722
Interest expense 9,668 32,209 47 1,503 2,917 46,344
Remeasurements 31,795 242,384 17,445 7,365 20,937 319,926
Plan participants contributions 187 - 7 - 505 699
Benefit payments (12,101) (36,740) (144) (4,157) (1,289) (54,431)
Changes and plan amendments (5,248) (14,776) - - (21,523) (41,547)
Settlements (17,384) - - - (6,136) (23,520)
Disposals (244) - - - - (244)
Exchange rate differences - (145,857) - - - (145,857)
As at 31 December 2016 434,513 1,015,303 20,363 78,576 108,243 1,656,998
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2016 390,214 1,012,767 1,654 18,297 83,323 1,506,255
Interest income 8,930 35,312 26 377 2,226 46,871
Remeasurements 32,988 208,507 15,329 378 165 257,367
Employer contributions 8,992 12,235 99 4,518 4,145 29,989
Plan participants contributions 187 - 7 - 505 699
Benefit payments (12,101) (36,740) (144) (4,157) (1,289) (54,431)
Administration cost (595) (968) (6) - - (1,569)
Settlements (17,384) (925) - - (5,151) (23,460)
Disposals - - - - - -
Exchange rate differences - (156,204) - - - (156,204)
As at 31 December 2016 411,231 1,073,984 16,965 19,413 83,924 1,605,517
Present value of obligation 434,513 1,015,303 20,363 78,576 108,243 1,656,998
Fair value of plan assets 411,231 1,073,984 16,965 19,413 83,924 1,605,517
      
As at 31 December 2016 23,282 (58,681) 3,398 59,163 24,319 51,481
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 1,288 - 40 265 1,129 2,722
Net interest expense 738 (3,103) 21 1,126 691 (527)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements (5,248) (13,851) - - (22,508) (41,607)
Administration cost 595 968 6 - - 1,569
(2,627) (15,986) 67 1,391 (20,688) (37,843)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income (32,988) (208,507) (15,329) (378) (165) (257,367)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions 237 2,643 - - - 2,880
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions 32,738 237,052 32 6,559 20,609 296,990
-  Experience (gains)/losses (1,180) 2,689 17,413 806 328 20,056
(1,193) 33,877 2,116 6,987 20,772 62,559
Income tax 298 (4,982) (722) (1,511) (2,345) (9,262)
Remeasurement net of tax (895) 28,895 1,394 5,476 18,427 53,297
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 205 Integrated Report 2017The average duration of the defined benefit obligations per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
Average duration (in years) 16 21 17 13 23
The significant actuarial assumptions per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
2017
Discount rate 1.7% 2.5-2.6% 1.45% 1.7% 2.1%
Salary growth rate 0-1.9% 0-3.6% 1.80% 1.5% -
Pension growth rate 0-1.7% 2.2-3.3% - 1.5% 0-1.6%
2016
Discount rate 1.70% 2.80% 1.45% 1.4% 1.90%
Salary growth rate 0-1.8% 0-3.6% 1.80% 1.5% -
Pension growth rate 0-1.60% 2.20 -3.6% - 1.5% 0-1.5%
Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics and experience  
in each country.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
• If the discount rate is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will decrease by approximately  
€140  million (increase by approximately €160 million).
• If the expected salary increase is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€4 million (decrease by approximately €5 million).
• If the expected indexation is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€76 million (decrease by approximately €73 million). 
• If the life expectancy increases (decreases) by 1 year, the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€62 million (decrease by approximately €61 million).
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is 
unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit 
obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised 
within the statement of financial position.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 206 Integrated Report 2017Plan assets are comprised as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
2017
Equity instruments (quoted) - 252,367 - - 44,188 296,555
Debt instruments (quoted) - 649,436 - - 31,008 680,444
Property (quoted) - 44,554 - - 3,436 47,990
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted) 411,402 - 21,427 18,862 552 452,243
Cash and cash equivalents - 117,858 - - 716 118,574
411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
2016
Equity instruments (quoted) -  285,359 - -  48,345  333,704 
Debt instruments (quoted) -  648,648 - -  30,495  679,143 
Property (quoted) -  41,309 - -  3,195  44,504 
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted)  411,231 -  16,965  19,413  521  448,130 
Cash and cash equivalents  -  98,668  -  -  1,368  100,036 
 411,231  1,073,984  16,965  19,413  83,924  1,605,517 
Plan assets do not include the Company’s ordinary shares. The Group applies IAS 19.104 for the valuation of the plan assets in connection 
with the insured contracts.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility
The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, 
this will create a deficit.
Changes in bond yields
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the 
plans’ bond holdings.
Salary growth
The plan liabilities are calculated based on future salaries of the plan participants, so increases in future salaries will result in an increase 
in the plan liabilities.
Pension growth
The majority of the plan liabilities are calculated based on future pension increases, so these increases will result in an increase in the plan 
liabilities.
Life expectancy
The majority of the plan liabilities are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an 
increase in the plan liabilities.
With regard to the funded plans, the Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (‘ALM’) 
framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the pension schemes. 
Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest 
securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The Group monitors how the 
duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations. The 
Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. Investments are well diversified, such that the 
failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. 
Employer contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2018 are expected to be approximately at 
the same level as in 2017.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 207 Integrated Report 201721. Provisions
Warranty RestructuringRental 
guaranteesAssociates and 
joint ventures Other Total
As at 1 January 2017  58,359  41,894  2,083  27,193  12,334  141,863 
Charged/(credited) to the income 
statement:
 - Additional provisions 19,771 3,020 - 379 5,871 29,041
 - Release (5,540) (2,863) (1,571) - - (9,974)
Used during the year (13,655) (24,735) (223) (9,026) (4,444) (52,083)
Reclassifications 1,005 (1,913) - 5,951 - 5,043
Exchange rate differences - - - - (11) (11)
As at 31 December 2017 59,940 15,403 289 24,497 13,750 113,879
Provisions are classified in the balance sheet as follows:
2017 2016
Non-current 65,611  86,058 
Current 48,268  55,805 
113,879  141,863 
The provision for warranty concerns the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle complaints and deficiencies that become 
apparent after the delivery of projects and that fall within the warranty period. In reaching its best estimate, the Group takes into 
account the risks and uncertainties that surround the underlying events which are assessed periodically. Approximately 49 per cent of 
the provision is current in nature (2016: approximately 24 per cent). The additional provisions in 2017 mainly relate to warranties 
predominantly in the Netherlands and Germany.
The provision for restructuring concerns the best estimate of the expenditure associated with reorganisation plans already initiated. 
Approximately 93 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2016: approximately 89 per cent). The estimated staff restructuring costs 
to be incurred are recognised under ‘personnel expenses’. Other direct costs attributable to the restructuring, including lease 
termination, are recognised under ‘other operating expenses’. 
The provision for rental guarantees consists of commitments arising from rental guarantees issued to third parties. Approximately  
56 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2016: 88 per cent). 
The provision for associates and joint ventures arise from the legal or constructive obligation in connection with structured entities for 
property development projects (associates and joint ventures) and the development of the hedging reserves in PPP joint ventures.  
An amount of €0.4 million (2016: €0.4 million) relates to associates and €24.1 million (2016: €26.8 million) to joint ventures. 
Other provisions mainly include continuing rental commitments resulting from (temporarily) unused premises. Amounts provided for 
the liquidation of the old project development activities, claims and legal obligations in Germany are also included. Approximately 
34 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2016: approximately 19 per cent).
The non-current part of the provisions has been discounted at an interest rate of approximately 3 per cent (2016: approximately  
3 per cent).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 208 Integrated Report 201722. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
2017 2016
Deferred tax assets:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months 200,148  244,626 
- To be recovered within twelve months 17,823  4,219 
217,971  248,845 
Deferred tax liabilities:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months 26,967  25,249 
- To be recovered within twelve months 1,095  1,038 
28,062  26,287 
  
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (189,909)  (222,558)
The gross movement on the deferred income tax assets and liabilities is as follows:
2017 2016
As at 1 January (222,558)  (220,756)
Income statement charge/(credit) 27,975  2,201 
Tax charge/(credit) relating to components of other comprehensive income 5,361  (383)
Disposal of subsidiary -  676 
Changes in enacted tax rates (305)  (2,629)
Reclassifications -  (154)
Exchange rate differences (382)  (1,513)
As at 31 December (189,909)  (222,558)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 209 Integrated Report 2017The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances 
within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Provisions Tax losses DerivativesEmployee 
benefit 
obligations Other Total
Deferred tax assets
As at 1 January 2016  2,947  216,893  12,007  18,614  21,555  272,016 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement  (83)  10,683  (15)  (4,958)  (2,877)  2,750 
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income - -  (7,135)  4,169 -  (2,966)
Disposal of subsidiary -  (40) -  (61)  (750)  (851)
Changes in enacted tax rates  23 - - -  92  115 
Exchange rate differences  (228)  -  (408)  (40)  (854)  (1,530)
As at 31 December 2016  2,659  227,536  4,449  17,724  17,166  269,534 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement 2,664 (26,474) 215 (1,370) (2,214) (27,179)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income - - (1,722) (1,548) - (3,270)
Changes in enacted tax rates - (227) - (167) (13) (407)
Reclassifications - - (454) (684) (375) (1,513)
Exchange rate differences (36) - (74) (12) (81) (203)
As at 31 December 2017 5,287 200,835 2,414 13,943 14,483 236,962
Construction 
contractsAccelerated
 tax 
depreciation DerivativesEmployee
benefit
assets Other Total
Deferred tax liabilities
As at 1 January 2016  16,719  13,268  1,789  13,443  6,041  51,260 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement  247  (955) -  6,262  (603)  4,951 
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income - -  (1,682)  (5,093)  3,426  (3,349)
Disposal of subsidiary  (175) - - - -  (175)
Changes in enacted tax rates -  (441) -  (2,073) -  (2,514)
Reclassifications - - - -  (154)  (154)
Exchange rate differences  -  (1,174)  -  (1,869)  -  (3,043)
As at 31 December 2016  16,791  10,698  107  10,670  8,710  46,976 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 2,262 (637) - 2,086 (2,915) 796
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income - - 786 1,305 - 2,091
Changes in enacted tax rates (112) (352) - (247) (1) (712)
Reclassifications - (375) (454) (684) - (1,513)
Exchange rate differences - (208) - (377) - (585)
As at 31 December 2017 18,941 9,126 439 12,753 5,794 47,053
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 210 Integrated Report 2017Deferred income tax assets in a country are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits in that country 
are available against which the temporary differences and available tax losses carry-forwards can be utilised.
Tax losses available to the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for carry-forward at year-end 2017 amount to approximately €1 billion  
(2016: €1 billion). These unused tax losses relate to the years 2009 up to and including 2017 and result to a large extent from identifiable 
causes, which are unlikely to recur, including a loss relating to the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany, 
significant impairments on properties and restructuring costs during these years. The legal term within which these losses may be offset 
against future profits is nine years.
Based on estimates and timing of future taxable profits within the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for the upcoming nine years, 
approximately €751 million (2016: €850 million) of these losses are recognised. Management estimates of forecasted taxable profits in 
the Netherlands are based on financial budgets approved by management, extrapolated using growth rates for revenue and profit 
before tax margins that take into account external market data and benchmark information and taking into account past performance. 
Growth rates for revenue and profit before tax margins are in line with the Group’s mid- and long-term expectations. Subsequently these 
forecasts have been reduced to meet the recognition criteria under IFRS in respect of deferred tax assets. No specific tax planning 
opportunities have been taken into account. The measurement of the deferred tax asset is especially sensitive to the risk of expiry of tax 
loss carry forwards in 2020 and 2023, for which therefore appropriate discounts have been used.
The loss incurred in 2017 on sea lock IJmuiden in combination with cumulative past underperformance, necessitates a more prudent 
forecast of taxable profits to meet the recognition criteria under IFRS. This leads to a write-down of deferred tax assets of €40 million.
Tax losses to a minimum of €600 million (2016: €593 million) are expected to remain available for the companies in Germany, which can 
be offset against future taxable profits in Germany. Based on estimates of the level and timing of future taxable profits per operating 
company and per fiscal unity, approximately €32 million (2016: €32 million) of these losses are recognised. The legal term within which 
these losses may be offset against future profits is indefinite. Management estimates of forecasted taxable profits in Germany are based 
on financial budgets approved by management, extrapolated using estimated growth rates that are considered to be in line with the 
Group’s mid- and long-term expectations, taking into account past performance.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 211 Integrated Report 201723. Trade and other payables
Notes 2017 2016
Trade payables 864,164  930,851 
Amounts due to customers 6 768,085  803,926 
Amounts due to related parties 36 30,511  44,829 
Social security and other taxes 132,828  119,309 
Pension premiums 14,223  15,219 
Amounts due for work completed 161,827  152,864 
Amounts due for work in progress 581,398  507,394 
Other financial liabilities 1,633  1,967 
Other liabilities 105,511  156,826 
Accrued expenses and deferred income 256,975  271,243 
2,917,155  3,004,428 
24. Employee benefit expenses
Note 2017 2016
Wages and salaries  1,032,695 1,070,790
Social security costs  157,782  162,884 
Pension costs - defined contribution plans  76,591  79,254 
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 20  7,004  (37,843)
Other post-employment benefits  (458)  1,129 
 1,273,614 1,276,214
Wages and salaries include restructuring costs and other termination benefits of €0.2 million (2016: €28.3 million).
At year-end 2017, the Group had 19,837 employees in FTE (2016: 19,486). The average number of employees in FTE amounted to  
19,720 (2016: 20,370), of which 12,072 in other countries than the Netherlands (2016: 12,400). 
25. Impairment charges
Notes 2017 2016
Property, plant and equipment 7 -  2,213 
Intangible assets 8 703  833 
Other financial assets 11 153 (196)
Inventories 12 3,723 47,809
Impairment charges 4,579  50,659 
Share of impairment charges in investments 10 193  - 
4,772  50,659 
In 2017, the net impairment charges in connection with inventories relating to land and building rights are €4 million and (€0.3) million to 
commercial property development.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 212 Integrated Report 201726. Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or their nature, or that are non-recurring are considered as exceptional and are 
presented within the line items to which they best relate.
An analysis of the amount presented as exceptional items in these financial statements is given below:
Notes 2017 2016
Impairment charges 25 4,772  50,659 
Restructuring costs 21 158  33,532 
Pension one-off 20 -  (41,607)
4,930  42,584 
Pension one-off in 2016 relates to pension plan amendments in the United Kingdom, Ireland and the Netherlands. 
 
27. Audit fees
The total fees for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 2017 are listed below. The fees stated below for the audit of the 
financial statements are based on the total fees for the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the procedures were 
already performed in the financial year.
Expenses for services provided by the Company’s current independent auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY) and its foreign 
member firms to the Group are specified as follows: 
2017 2016
EY 
Netherlands EY foreign 
member firmsTotal EY 
Netherlands EY foreign 
member firmsTotal
Audit fees 3,551 2,690 6,241  2,800  1,493  4,293 
Audit-related fees 39 5 44 - - -
Tax fees - 26 26 -  44  44 
Other non-audit fees - 55 55 -  153  153 
6,366 4,490
The increase in the audit fee 2017 compared to 2016 relates to additional audit procedures on the application of new accounting 
standards such as IFRS 15, and the agreement on additional billings on the audit 2016 invoiced in 2017.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 213 Integrated Report 201728. Finance income and expense
2017 2016
Finance income
- Interest income - cash at banks 1,008  1,285 
- Interest income - other financial assets 2,158  1,976 
- Interest income - PPP receivables 20,357  20,679 
- Other finance income 6,479  7,865 
30,002  31,805 
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds 6,871  3,599 
- Subordinated loan -  3,585 
- Bank fees - subordinated loan -  665 
- Committed syndicated credit facility 16  109 
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility 2,708  3,324 
- Non-recourse PPP loans 11,165  13,170 
- Non-recourse property financing 3,127  3,084 
- Other non-recourse financing 169  188 
- Interest expense - bank overdrafts 145  376 
- Finance lease liabilities 433  717 
- Recourse property financing 1,765  1,524 
- Recourse PPP loans 916  1,284 
- Other recourse financing 1,697  1,145 
- Interest expense - other liabilities 137  658 
- Fair value result interest rate swaps 561  1,795 
- Fair value result - forward exchange contracts 305  422 
30,015  35,645 
Less: capitalised interest on the Group’s own projects (9,575)  (11,160)
20,440  24,485 
  
Net finance result 9,562  7,320 
Included in the finance expense is an amount of €3 million (2016: €6 million) relating to interest rate swaps that was reclassified from 
equity to the income statement. An overview of the applicable weighted average interest rates is disclosed in note 18 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 214 Integrated Report 201729. Income tax
2017 2016
Current tax 16,964  8,682 
Deferred tax 27,975  2,201 
44,939  10,883 
Income tax on the Group’s result before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate 
applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows:
2017 2016
Result before tax 58,324  60,087 
Tax calculated at Dutch tax rate 14,585  15,022 
Tax effects of:
- Tax rates in other countries (763)  (9,414)
- Income not subject to tax (743)  (1,040)
- Remeasurement of deferred tax – changes in enacted tax rates (125)  (2,542)
- Tax filings and previously unrecognised temporary differences (3,814)  1,269 
- Previously unrecognised tax losses (4,494)  (5,565)
- Tax losses no(t) (longer) recognised 42,647  13,153 
- Results of investments and other participations, net of tax (2,702)  (5,737)
- Other including expenses not deductible for tax purposes 348 5,737 
Tax charge/(gain) 44,939  10,883 
Effective tax rate 77.1% 18.1%
The weighted average tax rate applicable was 23.7 per cent (2016: 9.3 per cent). The difference is attributable to a different spread of 
results over the countries.
In 2017 as well as 2016, the tax burden was influenced predominantly by tax losses which are not recognised (anymore), as well as the 
recognition of tax losses that were previously unrecognised. An amount of €40 million of the tax losses not recognised in 2017 relates to 
the valuation of tax losses of the fiscal unity in the Netherlands.
As at 1 April 2017, the main rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom has been reduced from 20 per cent to 19 per cent, and 
subsequently will be reduced to 17 per cent as at 1 April 2020. 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 215 Integrated Report 201730. Earnings per share  
2017 2016
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000) 272,215  270,503 
Net result attributable to shareholders 12,520  46,831 
Basic earnings per share (in €) 0.05  0.17 
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 12,520  46,831 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (in €) 0.05  0.17 
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders - -
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (in €) - -
Allowing for dilution, the earnings per share are as follows:
2017 2016
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000) 296,428  283,643 
Net result attributable to shareholders (diluted) 17,673  49,530 
Diluted earnings per share (in €) 0.05  0.17 
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders (diluted) 17,673  49,530 
Diluted earnings from continuing operations per share (in €) 0.05  0.17 
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders (diluted)  - -
Diluted earnings from discontinued operations per share (in €)  - -
The calculation of the diluted earnings per share state €0.06, however due to IAS 33, no anti-dilutive effect is allowed.  
So diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share.
31. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
The net result for 2017, amounting to €12.5 million, has been accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2017 of 10 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase and cancellation of shares to offset dilution (2016: 9 eurocents). Based on the number of 
ordinary shares outstanding at year-end 2017, a maximum of €27.3 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares.  
As yet, the dividend proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
The dividends paid to shareholders of ordinary shares in 2017 were €24.4 million, €7.5 million in cash (€0.09 per share) and €16.9 million 
in shares (€0.09 per share). In 2016 dividends paid to shareholders of ordinary shares in 2016 were €5.4 million, €2.0 million in cash 
(€0.02 per share) and €3.4 million in shares (€0.02 per share). 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 216 Integrated Report 201732. Contingencies
32.1  Legal proceedings
In the normal course of business the Group is involved in legal proceedings predominantly concerning litigation in connection with 
(completed) construction contracts. The legal proceedings, whether pending, threatened or unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, 
may have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, operational result or cash flows. The Group may enter into discussions 
regarding settlement of these and other proceedings and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best 
interests of the Company’s shareholders. In accordance with current accounting policies, the Group has recognised provisions with 
respect to these proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. An example of a major legal proceeding is 
given below.
On 3 March 2009, during the construction of a section of the Cologne metro system, several adjacent buildings, including the building of 
the City Archives of the City of Cologne, collapsed. Two persons were killed as a result of this accident. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau is a 
one-third partner in the consortium carrying out this project but was not directly involved in the work performed at the site of the 
accident. The customer has instituted a judicial inquiry (known as a Beweisverfahren) before the district court (the Landgericht in 
Cologne). As part of these proceedings, a number of specialists are investigating the cause of the accident. Only when their investigation 
is complete will it be possible to determine if and to what extent the consortium might be held responsible for the accident. The German 
Public Prosecution Service has started a criminal law suit against 5 individuals, none of them an employee of Wayss & Freytag. The 
damage to property is considerable and the parties involved have claimed under several different insurance policies.
32.2 Guarantees
Bonds and Guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business to our clients, either by the Company (parental guarantees), by 
banks (bank guarantees), or by surety companies (surety bonds), securing due performance of the obligations under the contracts by the 
subsidiaries of the Company. 
It is not expected that any material risks will arise from these securities. These securities are limited in amount and can only be called 
upon in case of (proven) default.
The parent company guarantees issued amount to €169 million (2016: €151 million). Guarantees issued by banks and surety companies 
amount to €1,735 million (2016: €1,695 million). Guarantee facilities amount to €2.9 billion (2016: €2.7 billion).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 217 Integrated Report 201733. Commitments
33.1  Purchase commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred and conditional contractual obligations to 
purchase land for property development activities is as follows:
2017 2016
Property, plant and equipment 1,865 489 
Land 214,241  104,346 
216,106 104,835
The conditional nature of the contractual obligations to purchase land relate to, among other items, the amendment of development 
plans, the acquirement of planning permissions and the actual completion of property development projects.
33.2 Lease commitments
The Group leases various office buildings, equipment and company cars from third parties under non-cancellable operating lease 
agreements. The lease agreements vary in duration, escalation clauses and renewable options. 
In 2017 the costs associated with operating leases amount to €59 million (2016: €57 million).
The future aggregate minimum lease payments are as follows:
2017 2016
Up to 1 year 71,520  59,657 
1 to 5 years 141,130  117,685 
Over 5 years 24,368  23,401 
237,018  200,743 
The future aggregate minimum lease income is as follows:
2017 2016
Up to 1 year 86  116 
1 to 5 years -  88 
Over 5 years -  - 
86  204 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 218 Integrated Report 201734. Business combinations
No material acquisitions have taken place in 2017 nor 2016.
35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
2017 2016
Investments -  4,410 
Inventories 8,516  34,553 
Trade and other receivables -  668 
Cash and cash equivalents -  614 
Assets held for sale 8,516  40,245 
Trade and other payables -  3,986 
Provisions -  347 
Liabilities held for sale - 4,333
At year-end 2017, the assets held for sale related to inventories compromising of one remaining property development position in the 
Northeast part of the Netherlands, not yet transferred. In 2016 the assets held for sale related to the planned disposal  
of all 47  property development positions in the Northeast part of the Netherlands. 
During 2017 the Group transferred one operational project (2016: three projects), to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM and, after 
deduction of costs, realised a net result of €0.9 million (2016: €4.4 million). The total consideration received amounts to €24.3 million,  
of which €20.5 million in cash. The Group retained a 20 per cent share of its original share in these projects. 
The Group had no discontinued operations in 2017 nor 2016.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 219 Integrated Report 201736. Related parties
The Group identifies subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements, third parties executing the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and 
key management as related parties. Transactions with related parties are conducted at arm’s length, on terms comparable to those for 
transactions with third parties.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
36.1 Sales and purchase of goods and services
A majority of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements. These activities include the assignment and/or financing of land 
as well as carrying out construction contracts. 
The Group carried out transactions with associates and joint arrangements related to the sale of goods and services for €312.0 million 
(2016: €311.1 million) and related to the purchase of goods and services for €31.1 million (2016: €19.0 million).
The 2017 year-end balance of receivables arising from aforementioned transactions amounts to €10.9 million (2016: €13.2 million) and 
the liabilities to €30.5 million (2016: €44.8 million).
36.2 Loans to related parties
At year-end 2017, the Group granted loans to related parties (mainly relating to associates and joint ventures) for the amount of 
€70 million (2016: €67 million). These transactions were made on normal commercial terms and conditions, except that for a number of 
loans there are no fixed terms for the repayment of loans between the parties. Interests for these loans are at arm’s length. Loans to 
related parties are included in ‘Other financial assets’ in the statement of financial position.
36.3  Key management compensation
Key management includes members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.
Executive Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Executive Board for services is shown below:
2017
Management 
feeShort-term
incentivePost-
employment
benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term
incentiveTotal
R.P. van Wingerden ¹ 684 214 183 3 177 1,261
T. Menssen ² 484 152 49 3 85 773
E.J. Bax ³ 484 152 93 3 111 843
1,652 518 325 9 373 2,877
2016
Management 
feeShort-term
incentivePost-
employment
benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term
incentiveTotal
R.P van Wingerden ¹  680 408  126  8 119 1,341
T. Menssen ²  480 288  39  8  95 910
E.J. Bax ³  480 288  66 5  99 938
 1,640 984  231  21  313 3,189
1 Appointed as Chairman of the Executive Board with effect from 1 October 2014, reappointed as Chairman 20 April 2016.
2 Reappointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 20 April 2016.
3 Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 May 2014.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 220 Integrated Report 2017The short-term incentive is part of the remuneration package of the Executive Board with a target pay-out of 55 per cent with a 
maximum of 75 per cent. The STI is based on financial criteria (70 per cent) and non-financial performance targets (30 per cent). 
Performance incentive zones are defined for each of the targets. Pay-out gradually increases with performance, starting with a pay-out 
of 35 per cent of the target at threshold performance and potentially going up to 75 per cent pay-out at maximum performance per 
individual target. Performance below the threshold will result in a zero pay-out. The Supervisory Board sets the performance ranges (i.e. 
threshold, at target and maximum performance levels) and corresponding payout levels, with the constraint that the STI payout will not 
exceed 75 per cent of base salary. The Supervisory Board determined the pay-out for 2017 at 31 per cent (2016: 60 per cent).
 
Post-employment benefits relate to the pension costs of the defined benefit plans recognised in the income statement and are 
determined on the basis of the individual pension obligations. Interest results and return on plan assets are not allocated on an individual 
basis. Certain components of the post-employment benefits are conditional and paid if employment continues until the retirement age.
Other benefits relate to annual fixed expense allowances and insurance premiums.
The long-term incentive relates to the Performance Share Plan and Phantom Share Plan. Additional information is disclosed in note 37.
No share options have been granted to the members of the Executive Board. The members of the Executive Board do not hold any shares 
in the Company, except for the conditionally granted shares under the Performance Share Plan, nor have loans or advances been 
granted.
Supervisory Board
The compensation paid or payable (including annual fixed expense allowance) to the Supervisory Board for services is shown below:
2017 2016
H.L.J. Noy, Chairman 69  47 
K.S. Wester, Vice-Chairman 58  47 
G. Boon 42 -
C.M.C. Mahieu 56 47
M.P. Sheffield 24 -
H. Valentin 44  -
P.A.F.W. Elverding, former Chairman 18  58 
H. Scheffers, former Vice-Chairman 17 52
J.P. Hansen, former member 14 47
342 298
Three members of the Supervisory Board have been replaced by new members during 2017. Two existing Supervisory Board members 
have been appointed as Chairman respectively Vice-Chairman.
No share options have been granted to the members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board do not hold any 
shares in the Company nor have loans or advances been granted.
Other related parties
The Group has not entered into any material transaction with other related parties.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 221 Integrated Report 201737. Share-based payments
In 2017, BAM’s long-term incentive plan consisted of a conditional share-based compensation plan called Performance Share Plan. This 
equity-settled plan replaced the cash-settled Phantom Share Plan effective from 2011 through 2014 and is applicable for members of the 
Executive Board and selected positions below the Executive Board (‘Participants’) whereas the Phantom Share Plan solely included 
members of the Executive Board. In principle, the content of the plan rules will not be altered during the term of the plans.
37.1 Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value (expressed as a 
percentage of gross salary) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). 
The shares were granted on the fifth trading day following the day of the GM and vest subject to the achievement of pre-determined 
performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed by BAM. Participants are not 
allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year lock-up period has lapsed and the above minimum share ownership requirements 
are met, with the exception of any sale of shares during the lock-up period except to finance tax (and other levies) payable at the date of 
vesting. The maximum value at the date of vesting of the Performance Share Plan is capped at 2.5 times the award value.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to ten other listed construction companies in 
Europe, measured over a three-year period using total shareholder return (‘TSR’), which is the sum of share price growth and dividends 
paid. The peer group on balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, Carillion, Heijmans, Hochtief, Eiffage, Skanska, Strabag, 
Vinci and YIT. TSR is complemented with an additional financial target and a non-financial target. On top, the TSR measure will function 
as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting part linked to the other two criteria. When BAM ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer 
group, the other parts will not payout regardless of the performance in this area.
The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined performance 
conditions:
TSR Financial Non-financial
Ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below threshold 0% Below threshold 0%
6 25%
7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%
At the end of each reporting period, BAM revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the non-
market vesting conditions (financial and non-financial) and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, disability or death, the same vesting conditions as described above apply. Upon 
termination of employment without cause in certain circumstances (e.g. restructuring or divestment), a pro rata part of the granted 
shares will vest on the date of termination of employment. For the performance shares, the most recent performance results will be 
applied to calculate the number of vested shares.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 222 Integrated Report 2017The status of the Performance Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2017 for the members of the Executive Board and for all other 
participants is shown below:
As at
1 January
2017Granted Vested Forfeited As at
31 December
2017
R.P. van Wingerden  227,030 94,651 - - 321,681
T. Menssen  142,476 57,268 - - 199,744
E.J. Bax  142,476 57,268 - - 199,744
Other participants  624,242 309,753 - 28,439 905,556
 1,136,224 518,940 - 28,439 1,626,725
The fair value per share of the 2017 grant, for the Participants, in connection with the TSR performance part amounted to €4.12 per share 
and is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. For the other financial and non-financial performance part, the fair value 
equals the share price at the date of grant, corrected for the expected value of the possibility of achieving the ‘circuit breaker’. As 
participants receive dividend compensation the dividend yield on the awards equals nil. 
The shares awarded to Mrs T. Menssen with respect to the Performance Share Plan 2016 and 2017, will forfeit as per 1 July 2018 as  
Mrs T. Menssen will step down as CFO and member of the Executive Board of the company. The total number of shares that will forfeit 
amounts to 125,463. 
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2017
Share price at grant date (in €) 5.20
Risk-free interest rate (in %) 0.40
Volatility (in %) 45.76
Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of five years. 
In 2017, an amount of €818 thousand was charged to the income statement arising from the Performance Share Plan.
37.2  Phantom Share Plan
Under the Phantom Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value (expressed  
as a percentage of gross salary) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the AGM. 
The shares were granted on the fifth trading day following the day of the AGM and vest subject to the achievement of pre-determined 
performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed by BAM.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to five other listed construction companies in 
Europe, measured over a three-year period using TSR, which is the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. The peer group on 
balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, Ballast Nedam (until delisting), Bilfinger, Heijmans and Skanska. Participants are not 
allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year lock-up period has lapsed. The maximum cash distribution to the Participants at  
the date of vesting of the Phantom Share Plan is capped at 1.5 times the gross salary of the Participant.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 223 Integrated Report 2017The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined performance 
condition:
TSR Performance Vesting
< 0 0%
0 – 5 35%
5 – 10 45%
10 – 15 55%
15 – 20 65%
20 – 25 75%
25 – 30 85%
≥ 30 100%
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, death or in the event of a restructuring or divestment, the granted shares will be 
reduced for a pro rata part reflecting the period between the date of termination of employment and the vesting date. 
The status of the Phantom Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2017 for the individual Executive Board members is as follows:
As at
1 January
2017*Stock 
dividendPay-out As at  
31 December 
2017
R.P. van Wingerden  219,188 2,172 88,318 133,042
T. Menssen  130,870 2,172 - 133,042
E.J. Bax  60,360 1,002 - 61,362
 410,418 5,346 88,318 327,446
*  The opening balance has been changed with 5,607 shares, mainly due to an adjustment in the awarded shares for E.J. Bax for the 2014 Phantom Share Plan.  
The pro-rate calculation has been altered by the Remuneration Committee beginning of 2017, leading to a higher amount of awarded shares.
During 2017 the Phantom Share Plan 2012 has been paid out. The value has been based on the average share price of BAM on the  
5 trading days before the end of the blocking period as per 5 May 2017 (€5,231) and on the number of vested shares three years after  
the award against de vesting percentage of 35 per cent.
In addition, 67,855 shares are allocated to retired Executive Board members at year-end 2017. The lock-up period for the most recent 
phantom share plan will end at 4 May 2019.
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2017 2016
Risk-free interest rate (in %) (0.66)  (0.79) 
Volatility (in %) 30.84  52.73 
Assumed dividend yield (in %) 2.00  2.00 
In 2017, an amount of €36 thousand (2016: €7 thousand charged) was released to the income statement arising from the Phantom Share 
Plan. The finalisation of the 2012 grant (end of lock-up period 5 May 2017) has resulted in a pay-out of €387 thousand for the current and 
retired Executive Board members. As at 31 December 2017, the liability amounts to €681 thousand (2016: €1,042 thousand).
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 224 Integrated Report 201738. Joint operations
A part of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements classified as joint operations. This applies to all activities and all 
countries in which the Group operates. These arrangements remain in place until a project is finished. In practice, the duration of the 
majority of the joint operations is limited to a period of between 1 and 4 years, with the exception of joint operations in connection with 
land and building rights held for strategic purposes.
The Group’s share of the revenue of these joint operations amounts to approximately €1.3 billion in 2017 (2016: approximately  
€1.2 billion), which represents approximately 20 per cent of the Group’s revenue (2016: 17 per cent).
The Group’s share of the balance sheets of joint operations is indicated below: 
  
(in € million) 2017
Construction
and Property  Civil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets - 41,2 41,2
 - Current assets 347,6 468,4 816,0
347,6 509,6 857,2
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 40,0 3,7 43,6
 - Current liabilities 342,7 516,4 859,1
382,7 520,1 902,7
Net balance (35,1) (10,5) (45,5)
  
(in € million) 2016
Construction
and Property  Civil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets - 60,8 60,8 
 - Current assets 236,7 513,4 750,1 
236,7 574,2 810,9 
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 42,5 6,3 48,8 
 - Current liabilities 216,7 527,1 743,8 
259,2 533,4 792,6 
Net balance (22,5) 40,8 18,3 
The Group has no contingencies or capital commitments under joint operations. Transfers of funds and/or other assets are made in 
consultation with the partners of the joint operations.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 225 Integrated Report 201739. Service concession arrangements
The Group operates various service concession arrangements, both in the accommodation and infrastructure areas. These activities 
comprise the construction, exploitation, maintenance and divestment of (a part of) concession arrangements structured through 
separate legal entities and are principally carried out by BAM PPP independently and/or in collaboration with third parties.
The Group has a stake in the following concession arrangements:
Interest Classification Category Country Operational As fromConcession 
period 
(in years)
Accommodations
East Ayrshire Hospital 100% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2000 25
Wharfedale Hospital 75% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2004 30
Derby Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2000 30
Cheshire Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2003 30
Peacehaven Schools 100% Group company Education United Kingdom Yes 2001 25
Bromsgrove Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2008 30
Solihull Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 25
West Dunbartonshire Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 30
Somerset Schools 17.8% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Camden Schools 18% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Irish Schools Bundle 3 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2014 25
Irish Schools Bundle 4 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2016 25
Irish Courts Bundle 100% Group company Justice Ireland No 2017 25
Gent Universiteit 20% Joint venture Education Belgium Yes 2011 33
Beveren Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Belgium Yes 2013 25
Dendermonde Prison 100% Group company Justice Belgium No 2016 25
Schiphol 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2012 25
High Court 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2015 30
Ministry VROM 20% Joint venture Other Netherlands Yes 2017 25
Potsdam 100% Group company Other Germany Yes 2012 30
Bremervoerde Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Germany Yes 2013 25
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein 50% Joint venture Health Germany No 2015 29
Burgdorf Prison 17.6% Joint venture Justice Switzerland Yes 2012 25
Infrastructure
Dundalk By-pass 6.7% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2005 28
Waterford By-pass 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2009 30
Portlaoise 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2010 30
N11/N7 20% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2015 25
M11 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2019 25
N25 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2019 25
A59 14% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2005 15
N31 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2007 15
A12 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2012 20
N33 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2014 20
Infraspeed HSL 10.5% Associate Railway Netherlands Yes 2006 25
Lock IJmuiden 50% Joint venture Lock Netherlands No 2019 26
A8 5% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2010 30
A9 50% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2014 17
A94 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Germany No 2019 26
A10/A24 70% Joint venture Motorway Germany No 2023 25
Liefkenshoektunnel 10% Joint venture Railway Belgium Yes 2013 38
Brabo II 80.1% Joint venture Tramway Belgium No 2019 25
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 226 Integrated Report 2017The Group is also involved in (accommodation and infrastructure) concession arrangements and energy service companies through 
other group companies.
The Group’s equity investment in PPP projects amount to €68 million (2016: €66 million).
The Group has approximately €31 million (2016: €35 million) of obligations for capital contributions (after deduction of the PGGM share) 
in projects which have been awarded to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM. Construction revenue to be realised in connection with PPP 
projects amounts to approximately €0.7 billion (2016: approximately €0.8 billion).
A further description of the Group’s concession arrangements is as follows:
Accommodation
The accommodation concession arrangements relate to schools, police stations, hospitals, sport complexes, a penitentiary institution 
and a laboratory building. These arrangements are located in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and 
Switzerland. The concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the accommodation. The actual 
usage of the accommodation does not affect the amount of the concession payments. Most arrangements include maintenance and 
facility management services.
During the concession periods, payments are based on the availability of the related accommodation and the maintenance and facility 
management services. The majority of the concession arrangements are subject to indexation. The part of the concession payment that 
relates to the services will be evaluated every five years in general, using a benchmark. There may consequently be a limited settlement 
with the principal as a result. However, the volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
Infrastructure
The infrastructure concession arrangements relate to motorways in Ireland, the Netherlands and Germany, a railway tunnel in Belgium, 
a railway line in the Netherlands and a coastal defence scheme in the United Kingdom. The concession arrangements started between 
1999 up to and including 2014, for periods varying from 15 to 30 years.
The majority of the concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the related infrastructure. This 
availability is evaluated based on the contractually agreed upon criteria. These criteria cover the intensity of usage, temporary closures 
and maintenance. There may consequently be (temporarily) adjustments to the concession payments with the principal as a result. 
However, the volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
For three motorways in Ireland and one in Germany, concession payments are directly linked to the traffic volume (toll collection) and 
revenue and result are consequently volatile to some extent.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 227 Integrated Report 201740. Government grants
Government grants received in 2017, predominantly relating to education, amount to €3.9 million (2016: €3.3 million).
41. Research and development
Research and development costs, which predominantly relate to projects, are considered to be part of contract costs. Other research 
and development costs, in the amount of approximately €0.1 million (2016: approximately €0.2 million), are recognised in the income 
statement. The Group has capitalised €12 million related to the investments in the patented development of Gravity Based Foundations 
for offshore wind power.
42. Events after the reporting period
No material events after the reporting period have occurred.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 228 Integrated Report 2017Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
(before appropriation of result, x €1,000)
Notes 2017 2016
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2 7,578  7,027 
Intangible assets 3 360,591  362,908 
Financial assets 4 1,345,921  1,627,237 
Deferred tax assets 5 169,229  185,457 
1,883,319  2,182,629 
Current assets
Receivables 6 32,249 33,282
Cash and cash equivalents 7 43,516  53,025 
75,765  86,307 
  
Total assets 1,959,084  2,268,936 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
Issued and paid capital 8 27,493  27,181 
Share premium 811,818  812,130 
Reserves (157,923)  (170,252)
Retained earnings 158,310  118,360 
Net result 12,520  46,831 
852,218  834,250 
Provisions
Employee benefits 9 41,344  47,339 
41,344  47,339 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 10 114,987  112,491 
114,987  112,491 
Current liabilities
Other liabilities 11 950,535  1,274,856 
950,535  1,274,856 
  
Total equity and liabilities 1,959,084  2,268,936 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 229 Integrated Report 2017Company income statement
(x € 1,000)
 
Notes 2017 2016
Internal charges 12 81,877  71,724
External charges (8,005)  (7,801) 
Employee benefit expenses 13 (28,766)  (26,863) 
Depreciation and amortisation charges 2,3 (3,866)  (4,117) 
Other operating expenses (47,612)  (44,671) 
Exchange rate differences (455)  (296) 
(88,704)   (83,748) 
  
Operating result (6,827)  (12,024)
Finance income 14 17,809  18,601 
Finance expense 14 (14,872)  (17,884) 
2,937  717 
Share of result of investments 4 53,528  56,171 
  
Result before tax 49,638  44,864 
Income tax (37,118)  1,967
Result for the year from operations 12,520  46,831 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 230 Integrated Report 2017Notes to the company financial statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The company financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’) have been prepared in accordance with Part 9,  
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and 
measurement principles applied in these parent company financial statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated 
financial statements (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).
As a result of a change in section 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the income statement in the company financial statements is no 
longer condensed. BAM has included the full income statement and other additional notes resulting from this change, including the 
comparative figures.
1.2 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. The net asset value is calculated using the accounting policies, as described 
in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The net asset value of subsidiaries comprises the cost, excluding goodwill, of BAM’s 
share in the net assets of the subsidiary, plus BAM’s share in income or losses since acquisition, less dividends received. Corporate income 
tax is allocated to the subsidiaries forming part of the fiscal unit, as if they were independent taxable entities. 
2. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildingsOther
assets Total
As at 1 January 2016
Cost  16,896  17,076  33,972 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (4,884)  (9,078)  (13,962)
 12,012  7,998  20,010 
Additions -  3,497  3,497 
Disposals  (11,468)  (1,296)  (12,764)
Depreciation charges  (544)  (3,172)  (3,716)
 (12,012)  (971)  (12,983)
As at 31 December 2016
Cost -  18,109  18,109 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  -  (11,082)  (11,082)
 -  7,027  7,027 
Additions - 4,188 4,188
Disposals - (50) (50)
Depreciation charges - (3,587) (3,587)
- 551 551
As at 31 December 2017
Cost - 22,224 22,224
Accumulated depreciation and impairments - (14,646) (14,646)
- 7,578 7,578
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 231 Integrated Report 20173. Intangible assets
GoodwillNon-
integrated 
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2016
Cost  541,844  2,099 -  543,943 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (155,731)  (1,514)  -  (157,245)
 386,113  585  -  386,698 
Additions - -  883  883 
Disposals  (1,357) - -  (1,357)
Amortisation charges -  (335)  (66)  (401)
Exchange rate differences  (22,915)  -  -  (22,915)
 (24,272)  (335)  817  (23,790)
As at 31 December 2016
Cost  518,929  2,099  883  521,911 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (157,088)  (1,849)  (66)  (159,003)
 361,841  250  817  362,908 
Additions - 2,346 - 2,346
Amortisation charges - (191) (88) (279)
Exchange rate differences (4,383) - (1) (4,384)
(4,383) 2,155 (89) (2,317)
As at 31 December 2017
Cost 514,546 4,455 883 519,884
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (157,088) (2,050) (155) (159,293)
357,458 2,405 728 360,591
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 232 Integrated Report 20174. Financial assets
Shares in 
subsidiariesReceivables 
from 
subsidiariesOther 
participating 
interests Total
As at 1 January 2016  973,098  593,855  1,911  1,568,864 
Net result  46,487 -  9,684  56,171 
Dividends  (80,311) - -  (80,311)
Additions - -  180  180 
Disposals  (510) - -  (510)
Reclassifications  33,372  (33,372)  (9,684)  (9,684)
Capital contributions  55,266 - -  55,266 
Loans granted and repayments -  136,446 -  136,446 
Cash flow hedge  (2,130) - -  (2,130)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations  (54,299) - -  (54,299)
Exchange rate differences  (42,756)  -  -  (42,756)
As at 31 December 2016  928,217  696,929  2,091  1,627,237 
Net result 55,028 - 1,500 53,528
Dividends (25,604) - - (25,604)
Additions - - 57 57
Reclassifications (196,859) 196,859 - -
Adjustments in group structure (44) - - (44)
Loans granted and repayments - (326,973) - (326,973)
Cash flow hedge 16,765 - - 16,765
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 13,747 - - 13,747
Exchange rate differences (12,792) - - (12,792)
As at 31 December 2017 778,453 566,815 648 1,345,921
The reclassification relates to the restructured entities of the Dutch sector Construction and Property. None of the financial assets  
were subject to impairment.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is disclosed in section Other information.
5. Deferred tax assets
2017 2016
Deferred tax assets 169,229 185,457
169,229 185,457
Deferred tax assets include the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany and the tax loss carry-forwards of the 
operations in the Netherlands to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable offset 
against deferred tax liabilities.
Additional information on deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 233 Integrated Report 20176. Receivables
2017 2016
Amounts due from subsidiaries 19,600 22,495
Prepayments and accrued income 12,649 10,787
32,249 33,282
  
Receivables are due within one year.  
7. Cash and cash equivalents
2017 2016
Cash at bank 43,516 53,025
43,516 53,025
 
Cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Company.  
8. Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
At year-end 2017, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2016: 400 million) and 600 million  
preference shares (2016: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2016: €0.10 per share). 
All issued shares have been paid in full.
Movements in the number of ordinary shares are as follows:
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of 
treasury 
sharesNumber of
ordinary 
shares in issue
As at 1 January 2016  270,998,957  604,975  270,393,982 
Repurchased shares -  588,170  (588,170)
Dividends 815,771 - 815,771
As at 31 December 2016  271,814,728 1,193,145  270,621,583 
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 518,940 (518,940)
Dividends 3,110,691 - 3,110,691
As at 31 December 2017 274,925,419 1,712,085 273,213,334
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 234 Integrated Report 2017Movements in shareholders’ equity are as follows:
Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
Issued and 
paid capitalShare 
premium ReservesRetained 
earnings Net result Total
As at 1 January 2016  27,099  812,212  (104,536)  157,192  (10,180)  902,147 
Net result for the year - - - -  46,831  46,831 
Appropriation of result - - -  10,180  (10,180) -
Issue of convertible bonds - - -  7,852 -  7,852 
Dividends  82  (82) -  (1,978) -  (1,978)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - -  (53,226) -  (53,226)
Cash flow hedges - -  (45) - -  (45)
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - -  (2,529) -  (2,529)
Share-based payments - - -  606 -  606 
Exchange rate differences - -  (65,671) - -  (65,671)
Other - - -  263 -  263 
As at 31 December 2016  27,181  812,130  (170,252)  118,360  46,831  834,250 
Net result for the year - - - - 12,520 12,520
Appropriation of result - - - 46,831 (46,831) -
Issue of convertible bonds - - - - - -
Dividends 312 (312) - (7,466) - (7,466)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - - 14,512 - 14,512
Cash flow hedges - - 17,505 - - 17,505
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - - (2,696) - (2,696)
Share-based payments - - - 818 - 818
Exchange rate differences - - (17,176) - - (17,176)
Development cost - - 12,000 (12,000) - -
Other - - - (49) - (49)
As at 31 December 2017 27,493 811,818 (157,923) 158,310 12,520 852,218
8.1 Reserves
Reserves relate to the reserves for (cash flow) hedging, translation differences and legal reserve related to the capatalisation of 
development cost. The reserves for (cash flow) hedging and translation differences are legal reserves that are required by Dutch law. 
Distributions to the shareholders of the Company are restricted to the extent of the balance.
The hedging reserve amounts to €60 million negative (2016: €77 million negative) and the translation reserve €110 million negative 
(2016: €93 million negative). The total reserves includes as legal reserve for the development cost of €12 million.
For a further breakdown of the reserves see note 16 in the Consolidated statements.
8.2 Dividends per share
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2017 of 10 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase and cancellation of shares to offset dilution. (2016: 9 eurocents). Based on the number of 
ordinary shares outstanding at year-end 2017, a maximum of €27.3 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, 
the dividend proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 235 Integrated Report 20179. Provisions
2017 2016
Employee benefits 41,344 47,339
41,344 47,339 
The duration of the provisions is more than one year. Provisions with a duration less than one year are included in current liabilities.
10. Borrowings
2017 2016
Subordinated convertible bonds 114,987 112,491
114,987 112,491
Additional information on borrowings is disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. Current liabilities
2017 2016
Amounts due to subsidiaries 914,694 1,241,267
Provisions - 82
Other liabilities 35,841 33,507
950,535 1,274,856
The other liabilities mainly consist of trade and other payables.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 236 Integrated Report 201712. Internal charges
The internal charges represent services that have been charged to the other Group Companies. 
13. Employee benefit expenses
2017 2016
Wages and salaries 24,695  22,421 
Social security costs 2,312  2,097 
Pension costs - defined contribution plans 1,529  2,005 
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 230  340 
28,766  26,863 
At year-end 2017, the Company had 230 employees in FTE (2016: 225). The average number of employees in FTE amounted to 225  
(2016: 221). There are no employees in other countries than the Netherlands.
14. Finance income and expense
2017 2016
Finance income
- Interest income - intercompany 14,454  16,115 
- Interest income - cash at banks 1,426  817 
- Interest income - other financial assets 6  40 
- Other finance income 1,923  1,629 
17,809  18,601 
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds 6,871  3,599 
- Subordinated loan -  3,585 
- Bank fees - subordinated loan -  665 
- Committed syndicated credit facility 16  109 
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility 2,708  3,324 
- Other non-recourse financing -  44 
- Interest expense - intercompany 2,999  3,567 
- Interest expense - bank overdrafts -  4 
- Recourse property financing 199  206 
- Other recourse financing 1,518  986 
- Fair value result - interest rate swaps 561  1,795 
14,872  17,884 
  
Net finance result 2,937  717 
Additional information on finance income and expense is disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 237 Integrated Report 201715. Related parties
The Company has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. 
These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at market prices.
Additional information on key management compensation is disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
16. Commitments and contingencies
16.1 Guarantees
The Company has issued parent company guarantees amounting to €169 million (2016: €151 million) at year-end 2017.
16.2  Third-party liability
The Company is jointly and severally liable for the debts of the subsidiaries based in the Netherlands pursuant to section 403, Book 2 of 
the Netherlands Civil Code.
The Company, together with other participants, has a joint and several liability for deficits in the Group’s cash pool as a whole.
The Company forms a fiscal unity with BAM’s major Dutch and certain other subsidiaries for income tax and VAT purposes and, for that 
reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch income tax and Dutch VAT liabilities of the whole fiscal unity. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands
20 February 2018
Supervisory Board:  Executive Board:
H.L.J. Noy  R.P. van Wingerden
K.S. Wester  T. Menssen
G. Boon E.J. Bax
C.M.C. Mahieu 
M.P. Sheffield 
H. Valentin 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 238 Integrated Report 2017Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares AppendicesRoyal BAM Group nv 239 Integrated Report 20176. Other information
Royal BAM Group nv 240 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 240 Integrated Report 2017Our conclusions
What we have audited 
Consolidated and company financial statements 
Level of assurance 
Reasonable assurance 
Conclusion
• The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a 
true and fair view of the financial position of Royal BAM Group 
nv as at 31 December 2017 and of its result and its cash flows 
for 2017 in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
• The accompanying company financial statements give a true 
and fair view of the financial position of Royal BAM Group nv 
as at 31 December 2017 and of its result for 2017 in 
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil CodeWhat we have audited 
Material themes, Business conduct and transparency and Safety 
Level of assurance 
Reasonable assurance
Conclusion
• In our opinion, the non-financial information in Material 
themes (pages 36-43), Business Conduct and transparency 
(page 88) and Safety (IF BAM, KPI: number of serious accidents, 
KPI: Safety Behaviour Audit) in paragraph Social Performance 
(pages 76-93) in BAMs Integrated report 2017 (the Report) 
presents, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view 
of the policy and business operations with regard to these 
topics, the thereto related events and achievements for the 
year 2017 in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting 
Standards (‘comprehensive’ option) of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) and the applied supplemental reporting criteria 
as disclosed on page 265-269 of the Report.
What we have reviewed
Sustainability information 
Level of assurance
Limited assurance 
Conclusion
• Based on our procedures performed nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability 
information does not present, in all material respects, a reliable 
and adequate view of the policy and business operations with 
regard to sustainability and the thereto related events and 
achievements for the year 2017 in accordance with the 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (‘comprehensive’ option)  
of the GRI and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as 
disclosed on page 265-269 of the Report.
The other information included in the Integrated Report, including the Reports by the Executive Board and Supervisory Board:
• Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements
• Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
Basis for our conclusions
We conducted our assurance engagements in accordance with 
Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing and the 
Dutch Standard 3810N ‘Assurance engagements relating to 
sustainability reports’. Dutch Standard 3810N is a subject 
specific standard under the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other  
Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described 
in the section: ‘Our responsibilities’ in this report.
We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions.Royal BAM Group nv Integrated Report 20176.1  Combined independent auditor’s report on the 
2017  financial statements and Sustainability Information 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 241 Integrated Report 2017Our Independence
We are independent of Royal BAM Group nv in accordance with the 
EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of 
public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties 
(Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the ‘Verordening inzake de 
onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, 
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with 
respect to independence’ and other relevant independence 
regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not 
perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest with 
our independent assurance engagements. Furthermore, we have 
complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels 
accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics’. 
Our scope
Our engagement scope
The consolidated financial statements comprise:
• The consolidated statement of financial position as at 
31 December 2017;
• The following statements for 2017: the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows;
• The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
The company financial statements comprise: 
• The company statement of financial position as at 31 December 
2017;
• The company income statement for 2017;
• The notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies 
and other explanatory information.
The sustainability information in scope comprises:
• Reasonable assurance – Non-financial information in the 
following paragraphs/chapters: Material themes (pages 36-43), 
Business conduct and transparency (page 88) and Safety (KPI: 
IF BAM, KPI: number of serious accidents, Only KPI’s: Safety 
Behaviour Audit) in paragraph Social Performance (pages 76-93);
• Limited assurance – All other information reported in the 
paragraphs/chapters Strategy (page 22-33), Business Model 
(pages 11-21), Stakeholder engagement and material themes 
(pages 34-43), Social performance (pages 76-93), 
Environmental performance (pages 94-107), Sustainability 
reporting processes and methods (pages 265-269), GRI 
Disclosure (pages 271-275) and Charters, memberships and 
certifications (pages 276-277). 
Limitations in our scope
Unexamined prospective information
The sustainability information includes prospective information, 
such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and estimations. 
Inherently, the actual future results are uncertain. We do not 
provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of 
prospective information in the sustainability information. Unreviewed references to external sources
The references to external sources or websites in the sustainability 
information are not part the sustainability information in scope. 
We therefore do not provide assurance on this information.
Our scope for the group audit of the financial statements
Royal BAM Group nv is the head of a group of entities. The 
financial information of this group is included in the consolidated 
financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv.
Our group audit focused on the significant group entities located in 
BAM’s home countries (the Netherlands, Germany, United Kingdom, 
Ireland and Belgium) and BAM International with its various activities 
abroad. We have performed extensive audit procedures ourselves for 
group entities located in the Netherlands, thereby focusing on the 
key risk areas. Apart from focusing on significant group entities, we 
also reviewed and selected projects on a risk basis, thereby taking 
into consideration the size and nature of projects, as well as the 
countries in which projects are being executed.
For the foreign BAM home countries, we involved EY component 
auditors, who are familiar with local laws and regulations and who 
applied full scope audits. In order to take responsibility as group 
auditor in line with current auditing standards, we visited our 
component auditors in United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and 
Belgium and furthermore, we discussed the outcome of audit 
procedures with all component auditors.
For BAM International, for purpose of the 2017 audit, we visited 
Tanzania and Dubai as key locations ourselves to perform audit 
procedures. For the Middle East business and Costa Rica, BAM has 
involved a local audit firm who we also visited and we reviewed 
their work. We concluded that we can rely on their work 
performed in relation to the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Royal BAM Group nv. 
As a result of the above mentioned procedures, we have covered 
all entities and foreign locations that are material to the 
consolidated financial statements of BAM. In addition, we have 
performed analytical review procedures and made inquiries with 
management with respect to some smaller locations that are not 
material and made sure that there are no developments or 
exposures that should have been covered.
By performing the procedures mentioned above at group entities, 
together with additional procedures at group level, we have been 
able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the 
group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the 
consolidated financial statements.
Reporting criteria
The information in the scope of our engagements needs to be read 
and understood together with the reporting criteria, for which 
BAM is solely responsible for selecting and applying, taking into 
account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. The 
criteria used for the preparation of the Report and thus relevant for 
our examination are described below. We consider the reporting 
criteria used relevant and suitable for our assurance engagements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 242 Integrated Report 2017Materiality
General
The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the 
application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to 
provide assurance about whether the financial statements and the 
sustainability information are free from material misstatement. 
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered 
to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
users taken on the basis of the financial statements and the 
sustainability information. The materiality affects the nature, 
timing and extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation 
of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions.Consolidated financial 
statements: International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (EU-IFRS) and Part 9 
of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Corporate financial 
statements, Report by the 
Executive Board and the 
Supervisory Board:Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 
Code. 
Sustainability information 
including the CO2 
emission data 2017: Sustainability Reporting Standards 
(‘comprehensive’ option) of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and 
the applied supplemental reporting 
criteria as disclosed on pages 265-269 
of the Report.
Financial statements
For the audit of the financial statements our considerations regarding the materiality are as follows.
Materiality EUR 33.5 million (2016: EUR 35.0 million)
Benchmark used 0.5 per cent of revenue 
Additional explanation Based on our analyses of the common information needs of users of the financial statements, we consider 
profit before tax the most appropriate benchmark to determine materiality. However, profit before tax has 
been volatile in recent years and is not yet at a representative level, given the size of the business. For this 
reason we considered revenues to be a more appropriate benchmark to determine the materiality. The 
percentage applied is 0.5 per cent, which is at the lower end of an acceptable range. 
We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible 
misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the 
financial statements for qualitative reasons. 
We agreed with the supervisory board that misstatements in 
excess of EUR 1,650,000, which are identified during the audit, 
would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that 
in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds.
Sustainability Information
Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality 
levels for each part of the sustainability information and for the 
sustainability information as a whole. When evaluating our 
materiality levels, we have taken into account quantitative and 
qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of information 
for both stakeholders and the organisation. 
Based on our professional judgment, we determined the 
materiality for each of the identified key performance indicators 
at 5 per cent deviation, with the exception of the safety KPI’s, 
which has been determined at 3 per cent deviation.Our key audit and review matters
Key audit and assurance matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in our assurance 
procedures for the financial statements and the Sustainability 
Information. We have communicated the key audit and assurance 
matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit and assurance 
matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance 
procedures for the financial statements and the Sustainability 
Information as a whole and to conclude thereon. All these matters 
have been audited or reviewed by us with satisfactory results and 
we believe these have been properly disclosed where applicable. 
For the interest of the reader, we highlight the most important 
elements we focused on in 2017.
Compared to 2016, we excluded key audit and assurance matters 
on ‘Auditor transition, including the audit of opening balances’, ‘IT 
controls and procedures’ and ‘Business conduct, integrity and 
transparency’. The first Key Audit Matter is no longer applicable as 
this is not an initial audit. We no longer consider the other two 
items Key Audit Matters as in 2017 BAM has initiated 
improvements in these areas.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 243 Integrated Report 2017Risk How our audit response Key  
observations
Valuation of projects and revenue recognition   
Refer to pages 49-53 and 56-59 (Executive Board Report), pages 174-175 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties) and pages 179-180 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements)Audit of financial statementsBAM Group is involved in large and complex 
construction projects for which the company 
applies the percentage of completion method. The 
amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year 
on projects is dependent, inter alia, on the actual 
costs incurred, the assessment of the percentage 
of completion of (long-term) contracts and the 
forecasted contract revenue and costs to complete 
of each project. Furthermore, the amount of 
revenue and profit is influenced by the valuation of 
variation orders and claims. This often involves a 
high degree of judgment due to the complexity of 
projects, uncertainty about costs to complete and 
uncertainty about the outcome of discussions with 
customers on variation orders and claims, thereby 
taking into account the various parts of the world 
BAM operates in. Our audit procedures included an assessment of 
the internal control environment of BAM, testing 
relevant controls, performing site visits, vouching 
project valuations and testing executive board’s 
position against supporting documentation and 
BAM’s accounting policy. 
In cases where a high amount of judgement is 
involved, we gained additional comfort by 
comparing executive board’s positions to opinions 
from external parties such as lawyers or surveyors 
and / or we looked at BAM’s track record for 
collecting claims. 
For long-term contracts, we also compared BAM’s 
current positions taken to the positions taken in 
previous year, to ensure consistency in the 
valuation and to perform back testing on this 
estimate. Overall, we conclude that 
projects have been valued 
in accordance with IFRS, 
thereby taking into 
account the disclosures 
with respect to risk and 
uncertainty mentioned on 
the pages referred to 
above. The integrated 
annual report also includes 
references to those 
projects valuations 
considered most 
significant by the 
Executive Board.
Valuation of deferred tax assets
Refer to page 64 and 70 (Executive Board Report), pages 174-175 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties) and pages 209-211 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements)Audit of financial statementsThe recognised deferred tax assets amounts to 
€218 million at 31 December 2017 and relates to 
tax losses carried forward in the Netherlands and 
Germany. In view of recent losses in the Dutch 
fiscal unity, the Executive Board has reassessed the 
ability to realise projected future profits to meet 
the recognition criteria under IFRS in respect of 
deferred tax assets. 
The Executive Board has analyzed the history of 
losses and concluded that these are primarily  
due to incidental items.
Estimation of future profits inherently involves a high 
degree of judgement. As basis for their assessment 
of future profits, the Executive Board used the 2018 
operating plan and strategic forecasts as approved 
by the supervisory board and reduced these 
forecasts to include appropriate risk adjustments. 
This has led to an impairment charge of €40 million. Our audit procedures included an assessment of 
the company’s assumptions underlying the 
estimated future taxable profits for their 
reasonableness and consistency with internal 
budgets and strategic plans for future years. 
We also challenged the executive board’s 
expectations of a taxable profit increase for future 
years and we discussed this with the Supervisory 
Board. We note that the Executive Board expects 
the risk/reward ratio to improve following the back 
in shape initiatives, which is gradually visible by 
improved order book margins. 
Furthermore, we reviewed the company’s analyses 
of losses in previous years with respect to 
incidental items. The final deferred tax asset 
assessment resulted in a 
re-measurement of the 
deferred tax asset 
recognised which includes 
appropriate risk 
adjustments with respect 
to the profit forecasts in 
order to comply with IFRS. 
As such we concur with 
the Executive Board that 
deferred tax asset are fairly 
stated as at 31 December 
2017.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 244 Integrated Report 2017Risk How our audit response Key  
observations
Capitalisation of development costs on Gravity Based Foundations
Refer to page 26 and 67 (Executive Board Report) and page 182 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements)Audit of financial statementsBAM Group invested in the patented development 
of Gravity Based Foundations for offshore wind 
power and has concluded that part of the 
investment made qualifies as development cost 
under IFRS and should be capitalised. The amount 
capitalised in 2017 amounts to €12 million. 
Development cost can only be capitalised if strict 
IFRS criteria are met. Our audit procedures included challenging  
BAM’s ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during its 
development phase, which is a requirement for 
capitalisation according to IAS 38. Our audit 
procedures included an assessment of the 
substantiation of the development costs 
capitalised. We conclude that BAM was 
able to sufficiently 
substantiate that IFRS 
capitalisation criteria are 
met for the amount 
capitalised.
Valuation of land and building rights  
Refer to page 53 (Executive Board Report), pages 174-175  (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties)  
and pages 179-180 and 190 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements).Audit of financial statementsThe valuation of land held for residential property 
development (‘land’) is based on cost or lower net 
realisable value. The calculations of the net 
realisable value are based on assumptions relating 
to future market developments, decisions of 
governmental bodies, interest rates and future 
changes in costs and prices.
Because these estimates relate to terms which vary 
from one year to more than thirty years, the 
estimation uncertainty relating to the valuation of 
land held for residential property development is 
significant.We have assessed the calculations of the land’s net 
realisable values and challenged the reasonableness 
and consistency of the assumptions used by the 
Executive Board. We also determined consistency 
with prior years and external available information 
such as external appraisals and plans and decisions 
of government bodies. 
 
We also compared the Executive Board’s 
assumptions concerning the development of house 
prices with independent expectations of external 
parties and institutions.Overall, we are of the 
opinion that the valuation 
applied by BAM Group is in 
line with IFRS.
Completeness registration of safety incidents
Refer to pages 76-89 (Executive Board Report).Assurance on sustainability 
informationBAM uses and discloses own reporting criteria for 
the KPI ‘Incident Frequency BAM’ (hereinafter: 
IF BAM) and the ‘number of serious accidents’. 
The complexity of the scoping of the indicators 
and decentralised organisation of BAM may lead 
to a risk that not all safety incidents are reported. Our audit procedures focused on the suitability of 
the reporting criteria, inquiry of responsible 
personnel from different levels within the 
organisation on how BAM monitored this risk and 
which controls are in place to mitigate this risk. 
We performed testing procedures, on group and 
operational company level, to verify the 
completeness of the registered safety incidents. 
We have also reviewed whether the disclosures in 
the integrated report, including any inherent 
limitations in measurement, are adequate. We concur with the 
reporting criteria applied 
and the disclosures made.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 245 Integrated Report 2017• Assurance on sustainability information as described in the 
section ‘Our scope’ of this report.
All other non-prohibited services provided have been pre-approved 
by the Audit Committee.
Responsibilities
Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of the financial statements in accordance with 
EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
The Executive Board is also responsible for the preparation of the 
sustainability Information in accordance with accordance with the 
Sustainability Reporting Standards of the GRI (Comprehensive 
option) and the applied supplemental reporting criteria, including 
the identification of the stakeholders and the determination of 
material issues. The choices made by the Executive Board with 
respect to the scope of the sustainability information are included 
in paragraph 8.1 Sustainability reporting processes and methods 
(pages 265-269) of the Integrated Report. 
Furthermore, the Executive Board is responsible for such internal 
control as the Executive Board determines is necessary to enable 
the preparation of the financial statements and the sustainability 
information that are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error. 
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the 
Executive Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting 
frameworks mentioned, the Executive Board should prepare the 
financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless the Executive Board either intends to liquidate the 
company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but 
to do so. The Executive Board should disclose events and 
circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. 
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the 
company’s (financial) reporting process.Other information included in the integrated report
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon, the integrated report contains other information that 
consists of:
• Key figures;
• The Executive Board Report;
• Report from the Supervisory Board;
• Remuneration Report;
• Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch 
Civil Code;
• Chapter 7 Royal BAM Group nv shares
• Chapter 8 Appendices
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that 
the other information:
• Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain 
material misstatements
• Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code
We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and 
understanding obtained through our audit of the financial 
statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other 
information contains material misstatements. By performing 
these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of 
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The 
scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those 
performed in our audit of the financial statements or in our review 
of the sustainability information.
The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of the other 
information, including the Executive Board Report in accordance 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and other 
information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Engagement
We have been appointed in the shareholders meeting on 22 April 
2015 as auditors of Royal BAM nv as of the audit for the year 2016 
and have operated as statutory auditor since that date.
No prohibited non-audit services
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to 
in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements 
regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities.
Other non-prohibited services provided
In addition to the statutory audit of the financial statements we 
provided the following services:
• Agreed upon procedures on debt covenants and other financial 
ratio’s
• Assurance on other items than the consolidated financial 
statements of Royal BAM Group nv (such as local statutory 
audits, or assurance over the CO2 prestatieladder)
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 246 Integrated Report 2017Our responsibilities
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance 
assignments in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and 
appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusions. 
Our audit of the financial statements and our audit of the 
non-financial information in Material themes, Business conduct 
and transparency and selected KPI’s in Safety (see Our scope) have 
been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, 
which means we may not have detected all material errors and 
fraud. 
Our review of the sustainability information is aimed to obtain a 
limited level of assurance. The procedures performed to obtain a 
limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausibility 
of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in 
extent, than for a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of 
assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore 
substantially less than the assurance obtained in audit 
engagements.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably 
be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis 
of the financial statements and sustainability information. The 
materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our assurance 
procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified 
misstatements on our conclusion.
We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ 
(Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly 
maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including 
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and other applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements.
A further description of our responsibilities is included in the 
Annex to the combined auditor’s report.
Utrecht, 20 February 2018
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by W.H. Kerst
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 247 Integrated Report 2017Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial 
statements (consolidated and corporate) included the following: 
• Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of 
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control. 
• Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. 
• Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and 
the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the Executive Board. 
• Concluding on the appropriateness of Executive Board’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause an the 
company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of 
the financial statements, including the disclosures.
• Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation. Work performed
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements 
performed by a multi-disciplinary team, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N 
‘assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Annex to the combined independent auditor’s report
Our review to obtain limited assurance about the Sustainability 
Information included the following:
• Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining 
insight into relevant social themes and issues and the 
characteristics of the organisation.
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, 
their consistent application and related disclosures in the 
sustainability information, including the evaluation of the 
results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of 
estimates made by the Executive Board.
• Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the 
sustainability information, including obtaining a general 
understanding of internal control relevant to our review 
engagement Identifying areas of the sustainability information 
where material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, 
are likely to arise, and performing further procedures aimed at 
determining the plausibility of the sustainability information 
responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures consisted 
amongst others of:
• Interviewing the Executive Board and relevant staff at 
corporate and local levels responsible for the sustainability 
strategy, policies and results.
• Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the 
information as disclosed in the sustainability Information, 
carrying out internal control procedures on the data and 
consolidating of data in the Sustainability Information.
• Visits to multiple sites and offices of BAM’s Operating 
Companies in Belgium, United Kingdom, The Netherlands, 
Germany and Dubai to evaluate the source data, data 
collection and the design and implementation of control and 
validation procedures at local level.
• Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on 
a limited test basis; and
• Performing an analytical review of the data and trend 
explanations submitted for consolidation at group level.
• Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the 
sustainability information as a whole, including the 
disclosures, in relation to the reporting criteria used.
In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for non-financial 
information included in the paragraphs Material themes, Business 
conduct and transparency and for the information on Safety (KPI: 
IF BAM, KPI: number of serious accidents, KPI: Safety Behaviour 
Audit) in paragraph Social Performance we performed the 
following procedures to obtain reasonable assurance:
• Obtaining a more detailed understanding of the systems and 
reporting processes and internal controls, including where 
relevant to our assurance engagement, testing the design and 
existence of the relevant internal controls during the reporting 
year.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 248 Integrated Report 2017• Conducting more in-depth analytical procedures and 
substantive testing procedures on the relevant data.
• Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a 
test basis, to determine the reliability of the information in the 
sustainability information.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also 
responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group 
audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of 
the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive 
were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or 
operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an 
audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of 
financial information or specific items.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance 
procedures and significant findings, including any significant 
findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance 
engagements. In this respect we also submit an additional report 
to the audit committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU 
Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of 
public-interest entities. The information included in this additional 
report is consistent with our audit opinion on the financial 
statements in this auditor’s report. 
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships 
and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements and the assurance engagement 
of the sustainability information of the current period and are 
therefore the key audit and review matters. We describe these 
matters in our combined auditor’s report and assurance report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the 
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not 
communicating the matter is in the public interest.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 249 Integrated Report 2017The net result for 2017, amounting to €12.5 million, has been 
accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial 
year 2017 of 10 euro cents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, 
at the option of the shareholders with repurchase and cancellation 
of shares to offset dilution. Based on the number of ordinary 
shares outstanding at year-end 2017, a maximum of €27.3 million 
will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the 
dividend proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings 
under equity.6.2 Proposed appropriation of result
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 250 Integrated Report 2017(Summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association)
From the profit realised in any financial year, an amount will first 
be distributed, where possible, on the class B cumulative 
preference shares, calculated by applying the percentage stated 
below to the mandatory amount paid up on those shares as at the 
start of the financial year for which the distribution is made. The 
percentage referred to above will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of twelve 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor refers to 
the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and published by 
the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of this article, equal to an amount 
calculated by applying a percentage to the nominal amount of the 
financing preference share concerned at the start of that financial 
year, plus the amount of share premium paid up on the financing 
preference share issued in the series concerned at the time of 
initial issue of the financing preference shares of that series, less 
the amount paid out on each financing preference share 
concerned and charged to the share premium reserve formed at 
the time of issue of the financing preference shares of that series 
prior to that financial year.
If and to the extent that a distribution has been made on the 
financing preference shares concerned in the course of the year 
and charged to the share premium reserve formed at the time of 
issue of the financing preference shares of the series and 
sub-series concerned, or partial repayment has been made on 
such shares, the amount of the distribution will be reduced pro 
rata over the period concerned according to the amount of the 
distribution charged to the share premium reserve and/or the 
repayment with respect to the amount referred to in the 
preceding sentence. The calculation of the dividend percentage 
for the financing preference shares of a certain series will be made 
for each of the series of financing preference shares referred to 
below, in the manner set forth for the series concerned.Series FP1-FP4:
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the 
arithmetical mean of the yield to maturity on euro government 
loans issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining 
term matching as closely as possible the term of the series 
concerned, as published in the digital Official Price List of 
Euronext Amsterdam, plus two percentage points.
Series FP5-FP8:
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of 12 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus two percentage points.
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an 
amount of no more than three hundred basis points.
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and 
FP7: seven years; and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a 
period expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance 
with the rules laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles 
of Association.
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal 
by the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. 
The part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of 
the General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further 
dividends will be distributed on the preference shares and with 
due consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the 
Articles of Association.6.3  Articles of Association provisions governing  
the distribution of profit
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 251 Integrated Report 2017The Foundation’s board consists of three members who are 
appointed by the Foundation’s board, after notification to the 
Executive Board. The Foundation is supported by its own legal and 
communication advisors. 
In December 2017 Mr Nooitgedagt was appointed as a member of 
the board. He will succeed Mr Pieterse as chairman of the board of 
the Foundation per 1 January 2018. The composition of the board 
as per the end of this financial year is:
R. Pieterse, chairman
F.K. Buijn 
R. de Jong 
J.J. Nooitgedagt 
The chairman of the Foundation’s board receives an annual fee of 
€12,000 from the Foundation. The Foundation pays an annual fee 
of €10,000 to each of the other members of its board.
The particulars of the board members per the end of 2017 are:
R. (Rob) Pieterse  (1942), chairman
Mr Pieterse has served on the Foundation’s board since 2009 and 
was appointed chairman in 2012. He is a Dutch national. A former 
chairman of the Executive Board of Wolters Kluwer, Mr Pieterse is 
a member of the Supervisory Board of eVision and is chairman of 
the board of Stichting Preferente Aandelen USG People. In 2003, 
Mr Pieterse was a member of the committee that drew up the first 
Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
F.K. (Frederik) Buijn  (1950)
Mr Buijn has been a member of the Foundation’s board since 2012. 
He is a Dutch national. Due to his long-term experience as a 
qualified civil-law notary Mr Buijn is well-versed in commercial law. 
Mr Buijn is a member of the board of the Stichting Preferente 
Aandelen Arcadis N.V. He is involved in various large family 
companies as chairman or director of foundation trust offices and 
is also chairman of the board of the Stichting Instituut Gak.
R. (Rinse) de Jong  (1948)
Mr De Jong has been a member of the Foundation’s board since 
2009. He is a Dutch national. He was a member of the Executive 
Board and Chief Financial Officer of Essent. 
Mr De Jong is chairman of the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse 
Gasunie, chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rabobank Arnhem 
en Omstreken. He is a member of the Supervisory Board of 
Hogeschool van Amsterdam. He is a member of the board of 
Stichting tot het houden van preferente aandelen Wereldhave. 
J.J. (Jan) Nooitgedagt  (1953)
Mr Nooitgedagt serves on the Foundation’s board since 2017 and 
was appointed chairman in the same year. He is a Dutch national. 
A former member of the Executive Board and Chief Financial 
Officer of Aegon, Mr Nooitgedagt is a member of the 6.4 Anti-takeover measures 
The Company has taken the following measures to protect itself 
against any undesired developments that might have an impact on 
the independence, continuity and/or identity of the Company and 
the companies that are held by the Company and the group of 
companies associated with the Company (hereinafter ‘the Group’). 
Pursuant to a resolution passed by the General Meeting held on 
12 June 1972, the Articles of Association include the possibility of 
issuing preference shares. Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep 
(hereafter referred to as ‘the Foundation’) was founded with a view 
to this possibility in 1978. The objective of the Foundation is to 
look after the interests of the Company and the Group. Specifically, 
the Foundation seeks to ensure that the interests of the Company, 
the Group and all their stakeholders are safeguarded as much as 
possible, and that influences which could undermine the 
independence and/or continuity and/or identity of the Company 
and the Group and which are in conflict with those interests are 
averted to the best of the Foundation’s ability. The Foundation 
attempts to achieve its objective by acquiring and holding class B 
cumulative preference shares in the Company’s capital, by 
exercising the rights connected with those shares  
and/or by using its right of enquiry.
As announced at the General Meeting held on 4 June 1992 and 
considered at the General Meeting on 8 June 1993, the Company 
granted the Foundation an option to acquire class B cumulative 
preference shares in the Company’s capital on 17 May 1993. This 
option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation 
might require, subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that 
would result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative 
preference shares in issue and not held by the Company equalling 
no more than ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9%) of the 
nominal amount of the issued share capital in the form of shares 
other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by 
the Company at the time of exercising of the right referred to 
above. The board of the Foundation has the exclusive right to 
determine whether or not to exercise this right to acquire class B 
cumulative preference shares. No class B cumulative preference 
shares have been issued at this time.
On 6 October 2008, the Company granted the Foundation the 
right, under Article 2:346(c) of the Dutch Civil Code, to submit a 
petition as referred to in Article 2:345 of the Dutch Civil Code 
(right of enquiry).
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board reserve the right, 
in the interests of the Company and its associated companies, to 
resolve to take alternative measures in order to protect the 
Company and the Group against influences that might be 
regarded by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, after 
balancing the interests of the Company and all of the stakeholders 
in the Group, as being potentially damaging to the independence, 
continuity and/or identity of the Company and/or the Group.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 252 Integrated Report 2017He is also the chairman of the board of Stichting Nyenrode 
(Nyenrode University), chairman of the board of VEUO, member 
of the committee Financial Reporting and Accountancy at the 
Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) and member of 
the audit committee of the Dutch Ministry of Justice and 
Security. Supervisory Board of Rabobank, vice-chairman of the 
Supervisory Board BNG Bank, chairman of the Supervisory Board 
of Telegraaf Media Groep, member of the Supervisory Board of 
Robeco, member of the board of the Stichting 
Beschermingspreferente Aandelen Fugro and chairman of the 
board of the Stichting Administratiekantoor Aandelen Kas Bank. 
Marc Unger, Royal Schiphol Group‘The result was according to the targets: 
on time, within budget and safely built’
What is the added value of open collaboration in  
the construction industry?
‘Open collaboration, if organised well, will lead most effectively to the 
targets set’, according to Marc Unger, Director Corporate Procurement 
at Royal Schiphol Group.
 
Can you give an example?
‘Schiphol’s passenger growth exceeded expectations for a number of 
successive years, in which we noticed a substantial shift from non-
Schengen to Schengen passengers. As a consequence, we came to the 
conclusion that before the start of the May holiday season 2017, 
capacity of Schengen Departures had to be extended. This all had been 
decided in fall 2016. So there we were: facing the challenge of erecting a 
completely new building of approximately 3,500 square metres, with a 
150-metre-long aerial corridor to be designed, built and delivered safely 
into operations by 3 April, just 200 days after the initial decision. So we 
decided to organise the project in open collaboration with designers, 
construction companies and the most important suppliers. All with a 
single objective: to deliver the departure hall safely, on time and within 
budget, with very short organisational lines to the responsible directors 
of all parties and within a framework of an alliance. BAM was part of this 
team. The result was according to the targets: on time, within budget 
and builtsafely. And most importantly: all were very proud of the result.’
How can we learn from each other?
‘Be open to other people’s insights. Most of all it is behaviour and from 
an organisational point of view, top level should secure a safe 
environment in which there is also room for failure.’
How can we – together with all parties – live up 
to ‘best for project’? 
‘Set clear goals, invite all to share the opportunities but also the risks, 
organise as lean as possible with a keen eye on people’s needs in 
delivering the required results, ensure a safe environment, enlarge 
important milestones and have fun.’
Fire protection works including fire alarm systems, 
sprinklers and fire extinguishers for depature hall 
Schiphol Airport. BAM Bouw en Techniek.Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 253 Integrated Report 20176.5  Five-year overview
(x 1 million, unless otherwise stated) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Revenue  6,604 6,976  7,423  7,314  7,042 
Operating result  28.6  32.9  (10.7)  (104.7)  15.9 
Result before tax  58.3 60.1  13.3  (122.4)  44.4 
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company  12.5 46.8  10.2  (108.2)  46.2 
Basic earnings per share (in €1) 0.05 0.17  0.04  (0.40)  0.19 
Diluted earnings per share (in €1) 0.05 0.17  0.04  (0.40)  0.19 
Dividend per ordinary share (in €1)  10.10 0.09 0.02 -  0.05 
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  852.2  834.3  902.1  827.4  929.1 
Subordinated convertible bonds  115.0  112.5 - - -
Subordinated loan  -  -  124.3  124.5  124.0 
Capital base  967.2  946.7  1.026.5  951.9  1,053.1 
Net investment in property, plant and equipment  70.7 45.1 41.7  39.0  65.2 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges of:
- Property, plant and equipment  55.0  62.5  67.9  80.8  85.9 
- Intangible assets  5.2  5.0  7.4  3.7  3.2 
- Other impairment charges  3.9  47.6  34.3  114.1  29.5 
Cash flow before dividend 76.8 161.9  119.8  90.5  164.8 
Total impairment charges  4.8  50.7  39.1  115.9  30.0 
Order book 2 11,609  10,193  11,480  10,268  10,021 
Average number of employees (in FTE)  19,720  20,370  21,916  23,325  23,502 
Number of employees as at 31 December (in FTE)  19,837  19,486  21,248  23,137  23,329 
Ratios (in %)
Result before tax and impairment charges as % of revenue 1.0 1.6  0.7  (0.1)  1.2 
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue 0.2 0.7  0.1  (1.5)  0.7 
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % average equity 1.5 5.4  1.2  (12.3)  5.6 
Solvency ratios  (in %) -
Equity attributable to shareholders as % of total assets  18.6 17.3  18.6  16.7  17.5 
Capital ratio as % of total assets  21.2 19.7 21.2  19.2  19.8 
Current ratio as current assets divided by current liabilities  1.02  1.04  1.07  1.09  1.10 
1 For 2017 dividend proposal.
2 Order book comprises both signed contracts and verbally agreed upon orders.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 254 Integrated Report 20176.6  List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements  
and associates
Subsidiaries  %
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Bouw en Techniek bv*, Bunnik  100
 BAM Wonen bv*, Bunnik  100
 AM bv*, Utrecht 100
BAM Infra Nederland bv*, Gouda (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Infra bv*, Gouda 100
 BAM Infra Energie & Water bv, Zwolle 100
 BAM Infra Rail bv*, Breda 100
 BAM Infra Telecom bv, Zwammerdam 100
 BAM Infraconsult bv*, Gouda 100
BAM Belgium nv, Brussels (Belgium) 100
uniting the activities of:
 Interbuild nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
 Galère sa, Chaudfontaine 100
 BAM Contractors nv, Brussels  100
 Kairos nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
BAM Construct UK Ltd, Hemel Hempstead (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Nuttall Ltd, Camberley, Surrey (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Deutschland AG, Stuttgart (Germany) 100
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau AG, Frankfurt am Main (Germany) 100
BAM International bv*, The Hague (Netherlands) 100
BAM Contractors Ltd, Kill, County Kildare (Ireland) 100
BAM PPP bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
Joint arrangements
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (Netherlands)  50.0
Associates
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv, Haarlem (Netherlands) 10.5
Justinvest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium) 33.3
Rabot Invest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium)  25.0
A list of associates as referred to in Sections 379 and 414, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code 
has been deposited at the Office of the Trade Register in Utrecht.
*  In respect of these subsidiaries, Royal BAM Group nv has deposited a declaration of joint and several liability pursuant to Section 403,  
Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 255 Integrated Report 20176.7 Glossary 1
Adjusted result before tax Result before tax excluding restructuring costs and other exceptional costs, impairment charges 
and pension one-off.
Adjusted pre-tax margin Adjusted result before tax divided by rolling year revenue.
Capital base Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company plus subordinated debt.
Capital employed Non-current assets plus net working capital and cash and cash equivalents.
Capital ratio Capital base divided by total assets.
Carbon footprint Total amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during a defined period, or across the 
total or part of the duration of a project. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide 
equivalents CO2(e) emitted.
Cash flow before dividend Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company adjusted for depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges.
Community engagement The process by which community benefit organisations and individuals build ongoing, 
permanent relationships with the purpose of applying a collective vision for the benefit of a 
(local) community.
Comprehensive income The change in equity during a period resulting from transactions and other events, other than 
those changes resulting from transactions with shareholders in their capacity as shareholders
Current ratio Current assets including assets held for sale divided by current liabilities including liabilities 
held  for sale.
Earnings per share Net result attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year.
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax.
Emissions and waste BAM solely reports CO2 emissions. Other greenhouse substances, such as CH4 (methane), N2O 
(nitrous oxide) are excluded as they are considered not material. BAM reports all waste leaving 
its sites and offices.
General Meeting Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
GHG Greenhouse gases which have a global warming impact.
HSE Health, safety and environment.
IF BAM Incident frequency including all BAM site employees on own work and joint ventures.
Incident frequency (IF) The total number of industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million hours worked 
on construction sites.
Industrial accident An unintended occurrence during a period of paid work that results in physical injury or illness, 
including accidents that occur during business trips (during working hours, no commuting). 
In case of an accident involving multiple victims the number of accidents is considered equal 
to the number of victims.
Net debt Long-term borrowings plus short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net working capital Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) minus current liabilities (excluding 
borrowings).
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Rolling year EBIT divided by the average four-quarter rolling capital employed.
Return on equity (ROE) Rolling year net result divided by the average four-quarter rolling invested equity.
Serious accident An industrial accident that leads to the person involved being admitted to hospital for more than 
24 hours or results in electrocution, amputation or fracture with and without lost time.
Solvency Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company divided by total assets.
Total shareholder return (TSR) Metric used to compare the performance of companies in BAM’s peer group’s shares over time. 
The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to the 
peer group.
Trade working capital Net working capital excluding land and building rights, property development, PPP receivables, 
other financial assets, other receivables, taxes, derivative financial instruments, provisions, other 
liabilities and assets and liabilities held for sale.
Trade working capital efficiency The average four-quarters’ trade working capital divided by rolling year revenue.
1   In 2016, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) published a statement on the use of Alternative Performance Measures (APMs).  
An APM is a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or 
specified in the applicable financial reporting framework. All APMs included in the list of definitions above and used by management, are included in  
this report to provide extra information to our stakeholders on the Group’s financial performance on top of information from the consolidated financial 
statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. APMs defined above, or elsewhere in the report, are fully reconcilable with the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 256 Integrated Report 2017BAM Bouw en Techniek is responsible for the technical 
management and maintenance of Isala’s health clinic in 
Zwolle, the Netherlands, through its subsidiary BAM 
Accommodatie Asset Management (BAM AAM). These 
specialists in complex multi-disciplinary contracts are 
ensuring the reliability and impeccable performance of 
Isala’s buildings and installations. 
Royal BAM Group nv 257 Integrated Report 2017Clinical Research Facility and Translational Research 
Facility (CRF-TRF) at the National University of Ireland, 
Galway. The four-storey building is 5,345 square metres. 
The building will facilitate medical research side-by-side 
with patient care in UHG. It is situated on the grounds of 
University Hospital Galway (UHG) and is adjacent to the 
university’s Clinical Science Institute, UHG’s critical care 
facilities, ward accomodation block and the maternity 
wards. BAM Ireland. 7. Royal BAM Group nv shares
Royal BAM Group nv 258 Integrated Report 2017Stock exchange listing
BAM has been listed on Euronext Amsterdam since 1959 (symbol: 
BAMNB; ISIN code: NL0000337319). The share is included in the 
Amsterdam Midcap Index (AMX) and the Euronext NEXT-150 
Index. Options are traded by Liffe, the Euronext derivatives 
exchange. The market capitalisation was €1.1 billion at year-end 
2017 (year-end 2016: €1.2 billion).
Investor relations policy
The purpose of the investor relations policy is to provide accurate, 
transparent, consistent, simultaneously and timely information to 
stakeholders, which include existing and potential shareholders, 
financial institutions, brokers and the media. BAM wants to ensure 
a clear understanding about its the strategy, performance and 
decisions to create awareness and confidence. Information is 
made available through the annual integrated report, quarterly 
(financial) information, press releases and presentations to 
investors which are all available on the website. BAM publishes 
price sensitive information without delay by a press release and on 
its site. 
BAM publishes quarterly (financial) information. The full year and 
half year results are presented at analyst meetings. The trading 
updates for the first quarter and the nine months are presented 
during conference calls. These events are held in the English 
language and can be followed live or on demand on the website. 
BAM organises road shows and participates at investor 
conferences to meet existing and potential investors. All data and 
venues are published on the website.
BAM observes a closed period in which no meetings with existing 
or potential investors take place. For the annual results, this 
period extends from 1 January up to date of publication. For the 
half year results the closed period extends from 1 July up to the 
day of publication. For the trading updates after the first quarter 
and the nine months, it extends from 1 April and 1 October, up to 
the day of publication. 
BAM is covered by analysts of all major Dutch brokers, they are 
key in distributing information to support the investment case to 
their clients. Research reports about BAM are available through 
these brokers. Contact details are available on the website.
All the activities comply with the rules and regulations of Euronext 
Amsterdam and the Dutch Authority for financial markets (AFM). 
For more information about investor relations www.bam.com 
under the link Investor relations or contact Investor Relations 
Manager Joost van Galen, e-mail ir@bam.com, telephone  
+31 (0)30 659 87 07.Share price 
The 2017 closing price of the ordinary share was €3.83, which was 
13 per cent below the closing price at year-end 2016 (€4.39). The 
AMX index ended the year 21 per cent higher. BAM’s share price 
rose by about 19 per cent over the last five years. By way of 
comparison, the AEX and the AMX index rose by 59 per cent and 
56 per cent in the same period.
 Graph 69 shows the history of the BAM ordinary share price over 
the past five years.
69 -  Ordinary share price movement  
(in €)
2017 2016 2014 2015 2013
BAM AEX AMX0123456
Trading volume on Euronext Amsterdam 
In 2017, the number of ordinary shares traded were 491 million 
(2016: 441 million).
The average daily trade was 1,926,000 ordinary shares (2016: 
1,717,000). The value of ordinary shares traded in 2017 was €2,311 
million (2016: €1,804 million). In 2017 the average daily trade in 
BAM shares was €9.0 million (2016: €7.0 million). 
If necessary, ING and Rabobank act as liquidity providers for the 
trade in ordinary shares.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 259 Integrated Report 2017 Graph 72 shows the development of the average value of traded 
ordinary shares on Euronext Amsterdam in 2017.
72 -  Value of traded ordinary shares in 2017  
(average € per day - Euronext 2017)
02,000,0004,000,0006,000,0008,000,00010,000,00012,000,00014,000,00016,000,000
value of traded
shares per dayj fm a m j j a s o n d
moving average Graph 70 shows the development of the average number of 
ordinary shares traded in 2017 on Euronext Amsterdam.
70 -  Number of traded ordinary shares in 2017  
(average per day - Euronext 2017)
0500,0001,000,0001,500,0002,000,0002,500,0003,000,0003,500,0004,000,0004,500,000
j f m a m j j a s o n d
number of shares moving average
71 - Information per share
(in € per share, unless otherwise indicated) 
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend 273,213,334 270,621,583 270,393,982  270,998,957 269,424,089
Average number of ordinary shares 272,215,432 270,503,004 270,956,691  270,394,899 245,951,992
Net result ranking for dividend 0.05 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.19
Net result from continued operations 0.05 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.15
Average number of ordinary shares  (diluted) 296,427,682 283,642,546 270,956,691  270,394,899 245,951,992
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend (diluted) 297,584,081 294,547,317 270,393,982  270,998,957 269,424,089
Net result  (diluted) 0.05 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.19
Net result from continued operations (diluted) 0.05 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.15
Cash flow before dividend 0.28 0.60 0.44  0.33 0.67
Equity attributable to shareholders 3.12 3.08 3.34  3.05 3.45
Dividend 1 0.10 0.09 0.02  - 0.05
Payout  (in %) 50 50 50  - 30
Dividend yield (in %) 22.6 2.1 0.4  - 1.4
Highest closing price 5.46 5.02 5.16 4.50 4.73
Lowest closing price 3.45 2.97 2.22 1.65 2.99
Price on 31 December 3.83 4.39 5.13 2.58 3.78
Average daily trade  (in number of shares) 1,926,000 1,717,000 3,117,000 2,742,000 1,439,200
Market capitalisation at year-end (x €1,000) 3 1,053,239 1,193,267 1,387,121 698,093 1,019,321
1 Dividend proposal 2017.
2 Based on share price at year-end.
3 Based on total number of ordinary shares in issue.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 260 Integrated Report 2017Shareholders
BAM closely monitors the development in its shareholder base by 
following public market information and a yearly shareholder 
identification report. Under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, 
shareholders of 3 per cent or more must disclose to the Dutch 
Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) and when these 
shareholders transfer to a different threshold level. The Company 
holds 1,712,085 (0.6 per cent) treasury shares for the long-term 
incentive plan of management.
73 -  Geographical distribution shareholders  
as at 31 December 2017
Netherlands 1
Retail 2
United Kingdom
Germany
BelgiumFranceSwitzerlandAmericasOtherUnidenti/f_ied 
1 Including treasury shares.
2 Primary Dutch shareholders.74 -  Shareholders owning 3 per cent or more in BAM’s  
share capital as at 31 December 2017 
OwnershipDate of last 
notificationInterest above  
3 per cent since
A. van Herk 9.9% 2 March 2017 October 2005
NN Group N.V. 5.5% 26 May 2015 February 1992
I.M. Fares 5.0% 24 October 2014 July 2013
* According to the AFM register of substantial shareholdings, three 
institutional investors have real interests of 3 per cent or more. 
Changes may have occurred, however, within the disclosure thresholds. 
Danske Invest SICV is no longer a shareholder owning 3 per cent or more in 
BAM’s share capital (2016: 4.3%).*
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 261 Integrated Report 2017Dividend policy 
BAM has a dividend policy to distribute a dividend between 30 
and 50 per cent of the net result for the year. When deciding upon 
the dividend, the company takes into account the balance sheet 
structure supporting the strategic agenda ‘Building the present, 
creating the future’ and the interest of the shareholders. 
In accordance with the company’s dividend policy the proposal is 
to distribute a dividend of 10 euro cents per ordinary share for 
2017 (2016: 9 euro cents). This equates to a pay-out ratio of 50 per 
cent of net result corrected for the non-operational and non-cash 
impairment of deferred tax assets (2016: 50 per cent) in line with 
BAM’s policy. Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting 
on 18 April 2018, this will be paid in cash with a scrip alternative 
on 16 May 2018. BAM will repurchase and cancel shares to offset 
the dilution due to shareholders taking the scrip alternative.Number of outstanding ordinary shares 
The movement in the number of outstanding shares is shown in
 table 75. 
75 -  The movement in the number of outstanding shares
2017 2016
Outstanding ordinary shares as at 1 January 271,814,728 270,998,957
Shares issued for stock dividend 3,110,691 815,771
Outstanding ordinary shares as at 31 December 274,925,419 271,814,728
Treasury shares held for Performance Share Plan (1,712,085) (1,193,145)
Ordinary shares ranking for dividend as at 31 December 273,213,334 270,621,583
Percentage ordinary shares ranking for dividend 99.4% 99.6%
Subordinated unsecured convertible bonds
In 2016, BAM placed €125 million subordinated unsecured 
convertible bonds to redeem the existing subordinated loan of 
the same amount. The transaction was in line with BAM’s 
financing strategy to strengthen its balance sheet by lengthening 
the maturity and broadening the sources of its funding. It also 
improved BAM’s commercial position and supports the execution 
of its strategy ‘Building the present, creating the future’. 
The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.5 per cent, an initial 
conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible into 
ordinary shares of BAM with a nominal value of €0.10 each. The 
Bonds were issued at 100 per cent of their principal amount and, 
unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and 
cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount 
on or around 13 June 2021. Upon exercise of their conversion 
rights, holders will receive shares at the then prevailing 
conversion price. BAM will have the option to call all but not some 
of the outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus accrued 
but unpaid interest from 28 June 2019, if the value of the shares 
underlying a bond exceeds €130,000 for a specified period of 
time. The bonds are trading on the Open Market (Freiverkehr) 
segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. 
More details of the subordinated unsecured convertible bond are 
published on the website.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 262 Integrated Report 2017Built in the early nineties, the former ministry building 
Rijnstraat 8 in The Hague has undergone a transformation 
to ensure it can meet today’s standards in sustainability, 
security and the New Way of Working. Originally designed 
by architect Jan Hoogstad for the Ministry of Social 
Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (VROM), 
the building has been made into a flexible government 
office building by the consortium MTC PoortCentraal b.v. 
for its client, the Central Government Real Estate Agency 
(Rijksvastgoedbedrijf). Partners in MTC PoortCentraal are 
BAM FM, ISS and OMA (Office for Metropolitan 
Architecture).
Royal BAM Group nv 263 Integrated Report 20178. Appendices
Working to double the number of railroad tracks on a 
section near Utrecht Central Station, the Netherlands. 
BAM Infra.
Royal BAM Group nv 264 Integrated Report 2017This chapter provides specific information on the reporting 
process and reporting methods BAM used to arrive at the 
sustainability figures and topics included in this report.
Target audience
BAM reports its sustainability policy and the associated results to  
all stakeholders. BAM’s stakeholders include clients, the company’s 
employees, suppliers and subcontractors, shareholders, other 
organisations in the construction industry, NGOs and public 
authorities.
Reporting criteria – GRI Standards – Comprehensive 
This report has been prepared ‘in accordance’ with the GRI 
Standards: Comprehensive option. Chapter 8.2 includes an 
overview of the GRI Standards economic, environmental and social 
performance indicators covered by this report. In this section, 
more information is disclosed on the nature and coverage of 
reporting per GRI disclosure (e.g. quantitatively or qualitatively).
Reporting period and reporting frequency
This report presents both quantitative and qualitative data for the 
calendar year 2017. An exception is made for all CO2 and waste data 
reported by BAM International which applies a reporting period of 
1 December 2016 to 30 November 2017. BAM allows for this 
different reporting period as BAM International has a complex 
operating and reporting structure and more time is required to 
ensure that the reported data are reliable and adequate. BAM 
believes that the effects of a different reporting period by BAM 
International is not material to the Group’s integrated report. All 
other data are reported annually. There have been no significant 
changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and 
boundaries.
Reporting boundaries
This report contains data of all operating companies and thus BAM’s 
own activities. Sustainability performance and data are accounted 
for according to BAM’s share of equity. As an exception to this rule, 
BAM International reports all sustainability data for joint 
arrangement projects in which it is the leading party. In general 
BAM views disclosure regarding acquisitions and divestments on a 
case-by-case basis. 
Reporting process
The integrated report, including all material aspects, is approved by 
the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. Data collection 
takes into account BAM’s organisational structure. Both qualitative 
and quantitative information is reported by operating companies to 
the Group. The data is consolidated and validated first at company 
level and then consolidated and further validated at Group level. 
Every reporting entity has a CSR manager, CSR controller and 
director responsible for CSR who are together responsible for 
accurate and reliable reporting. In 2009 BAM established a reporting 
system for non-financial information (including safety, CO2, waste 
and HR), this system was launched as an extension of the financial 
reporting system.The applied reporting processes and definitions are formalised in 
BAM’s CSR reporting manual. The CSR reporting manual provides 
guidance on how to measure, calculate and estimate data.
Reporting indicators
For BAM’s main sustainability indicators this chapter provides 
further insight below. For other quantitative indicators disclosures 
on the reporting scope and methods used are given in the annual 
report itself. Where relevant, figures are presented in a relative way 
(using percentages and ratios). This allows readers to monitor and 
measure progress year-on-year, unless the reporting criteria require 
absolute figures to be disclosed.
Safety
BAM defined its incident frequency (IF) as the number of BAM 
employees involved in industrial incidents per million manhours 
worked on construction sites. Reportable incidents are based on 
actual occurrences and are never extrapolated or estimated. Despite 
all measures and an open safety culture there is an inherent risk of 
incomplete accident reporting. BAM is partially dependent on 
information provided by the person involved in an accident. 
Reported hours are measured, calculated or estimated. Outsourced 
BAM site employees to external companies are not included in IF 
BAM calculation.
For all companies, except for BAM International, BAM includes only 
BAM employee related accidents and hours. BAM International takes 
into account all persons working under their direct supervision 
although they may not have a labour contract with BAM directly. 
As a result, the accidents and hours worked by all persons working 
under the supervision of BAM International and irrespective of their 
labour contract are included in the reported incident frequency. This 
is inherent to BAM International’s business model. 
Human Resources (HR)
HR data are obtained twice a year using a standardised reporting 
platform. HR data are derived from the HR accounts held by BAM’s 
operating companies. Due to different definitions used, breakdowns 
in chapter Employee recruitment, development and retention are 
based on figures that do not match the total number of FTE in Key 
figures. This does not cause different insights. 
Energy consumption and CO2 emissions
Our energy consumption and greenhouse gas inventory is based on 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard, Revised Edition (2013: Corporate Standard) as issued by 
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the 
World Resources Institute. For greenhouse gas emissions BAM has 
chosen to report only on CO2. Other greenhouse gases, such as CH4 
(methane), N2O (nitrous oxide) are excluded from BAM’s emissions 
inventory as they are considered not material. BAM uses country 
specific emission factors for the calculation of the greenhouse gas 
emissions, or more accurate factors if available. BAM uses 
standardised conversion factors to calculate energy consumption. 
The Group’s reporting scope includes its direct CO2 emissions 
(scope 1 emissions, from BAM’s own sources), indirect CO2 emissions 
from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by BAM 8.1 Sustainability reporting process and methods
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 265 Integrated Report 2017footprint. Also, as BAM only receives information on CO2 emissions 
associated with air travel, which BAM includes in its scope 3 
emissions.
BAM calculates the energy consumption (in TJs) and CO2 emissions 
associated with BAM’s energy consumption, using conversion 
factors from reputable and authoritative sources. The factors follow 
the Kyoto protocol and UNFCCC charter as closely as possible. BAM 
applies country specific conversion factors for electricity and natural 
gas, these are based on GHG emissions reported in national 
inventory reports (NIR). All conversion factors are updated annually.
 
It occurs on projects that BAM supplies fuel and electricity to 
subcontractors. BAM’s CSR reporting manual states that fuel and 
electricity supplied to subcontractors should be measured and 
excluded from reported figures, unless fuel and electricity is 
supplied under the supervision of BAM. In practice, however, it is not 
always possible to determine how much fuel is supplied to 
subcontractors. In that case BAM accounts for all CO2 emissions. 
BAM continues to encourage measuring fuel and electricity supplied 
to third parties. This will result in more accurate figures of its own 
CO2 emissions and further insight in reduction potential to all 
involved.(scope 2 emissions) and three indirect categories of CO2 emissions 
that are a consequence of BAM’s business activities from sources 
not owned and controlled by BAM: employee air travel, employee 
car travel with privately owned cars and business travel (scope 3 
emissions).
The GHG Corporate value chain (scope 3) accounting and reporting 
standard for full scope 3 reporting has not been implemented. 
Contrary to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol BAM reports fuel 
consumption by leased vehicles under scope 1 emissions. Energy 
consumption from district heating and use of public transport are 
considered negligible and therefore not included in BAM’s overall 
energy consumption and related CO2 emissions.
The basis for consolidated energy consumption and CO2 emissions 
is activity data which in turn is based mostly on meter readings, 
invoices and data provided by suppliers. Where reliable data are not 
available, BAM uses calculations or estimations using reliable 
methods and input data. BAM is satisfied that the estimates are 
reliable in all material respects.
Where clients provide BAM with electricity and BAM is able to 
receive reliable information on its client supplied electricity 
consumption, the company includes this consumption in its carbon 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 266 Integrated Report 2017 Royal BAM Group nv 266 Integrated Report 2017On 25 May 2017, the impressive new NATO headquarters 
in Brussels officially opened its doors, with a ceremony 
attended by all the government leaders of the NATO 
countries, including US president Donald Trump. The BAM 
Alliance consortium was responsible for the construction 
of the new NATO headquarters, based on a design by SOM 
(the American Skidmore, Owings & Merrill) and the Belgian 
ASSAR Architects. The intertwined wings symbolise the 
unity and collaboration of the alliance joining forces for a 
better future.
Royal BAM Group nv 267 Integrated Report 2017Al Ain Stadium and mixed development, phase 2, Abu Dhabi, 
United Arab Emirates, comprised housing (650 apartments in 
seven five-storey buildings), a commercial building, a multi-
storey car park, a food and beverage souk and a 173-bed hotel 
with its own car park (managed by the Starwood hotel chain).
The project also included associated infrastructure such as 
roads, underground services and the high-quality public area. 
In total, the phase two works represent approximately 
300,000 square metres of built-up area, all of which must 
achieved an Estidama 2 Pearl rating. BAM International.
Royal BAM Group nv 268 Integrated Report 2017Business conduct
Business conduct includes information regarding the Group’s 
Business Principles and Code of Conduct, on which BAM reports 
qualitatively. In addition, this report contains quantitative 
information on a mandatory e-learning course to increase awareness 
and understanding of the Code of Conduct and expected ethical 
behaviour. The performance indicator concerned is the percentage 
of these employees that successfully completed the course between 
introduction in 2014 and 31 December 2017.
 
Verification of this report
In order to provide BAM’s stakeholders comfort over BAM’s 
sustainability information, the Executive Board has appointed Ernst 
& Young Accountants LLP (EY) to provide independent assurance of 
the Report. As in previous years, BAM obtained reasonable 
assurance for the KPI’s: IF BAM, number of serious accidents, Safety 
Behaviour Audit as included in the ‘Safety’ section in chapter 3.2. 
Additionally EY provided reasonable assurance over the ‘Material 
themes’ section in chapter 2.3 and the ‘Business conduct and 
transparency’ section in chapter 3.2. For all other information 
reported in chapters 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 3.2, 3.3 and 8.1, 8.3 and 8.4 BAM 
obtained limited assurance.
As BAM applies the ‘best standard’ principle with regard to external 
assurance, the Group asked EY to apply NV COS 3810N, a standard 
explicitly developed to verify sustainability reports.
This standard includes strict requirements for the quality of 
accounts, the indicators used and the wording of the Report. 
Readers can therefore be confident that the report provides a fair 
and true representation of sustainability within BAM. The Group 
aims to achieve the highest level of assurance (reasonable 
assurance) through a staged approach, focusing on the most 
material themes. Increasing the maturity of internal processes  
in the coming years will help in also increasing the level of  
assurance of the report.
Other sources of information
Royal BAM Group welcomes your comments on sustainability. If you 
have any questions or remarks, please contact BAM’s sustainability 
department via e-mail (sustainability@bam.com).Waste
BAM’s reporting scope includes all waste leaving its sites and offices, 
mainly based on waste tickets and data provided by suppliers. 
Reported waste is either measured, calculated or estimated using 
reliable methods and input data which can be based on BAM’s 
experience in comparable works e.g. the relation of asphalt and 
aggregates. Excavation waste and demolition waste are especially 
difficult to measure and is more often calculated.
The percentage on waste separation relates to BAM’s Dutch 
companies and is based on information from BAM’s waste
management suppliers. 
Materials
In 2011 BAM started reporting on the amount of materials used and 
the recycled content of various materials used by Dutch operating 
companies. BAM has selected the raw materials which are consumed 
in large quantities and which have a significant impact on natural 
resources. The Group reports on concrete, timber, asphalt and steel.
The raw material consumption in the Netherlands was determined 
using supplier reports. An extrapolation of data is applied to cover 
all suppliers. BAM aspires to keep the calculated data smaller than 
20 per cent. The results are verified against BAM’s procurement 
database, internal and external experts. The recycled content is 
determined based on information provided by  suppliers.
 
True Price of asphalt
The True Price calculations of LE2Ap and STAB in section materials 
are made by a third party and contain inherent estimates and 
specialised supplier data. The methodology has been checked for 
logic and consistency, yet it is known that different visions on the 
cost of CO2 are available and that the cost of CO2 is subjective.
A comparison by True Price has been performed to evaluate the
bandwidth of CO2 cost, in which a conservative estimate is used by 
True Price. LE2AP is a product with new data and is compared to 
STAB, of which the most accurate data are five years old.
Water
Potable water consumption volume is based on final settlements 
paid in 2017. 
Local sourcing
For the Dutch companies BAM has investigated the extent to which 
its purchases are sourced locally. BAM has defined local sourcing as 
a purchase done with a supplier who is located in the same country 
as the construction site. Based on the country of residence of its 
suppliers, BAM determined the percentage of local sourcing. 
NOX
BAM reported the NOX emissions from asphalt plants, using actual 
NOX emission factor from fuel combustion. An independent auditor 
determined the NOX emissions per consumed unit of fuel at each 
asphalt plant. For joint arrangement asphalt plants BAM reports the 
NOX emissions based on its share of equity in these asphalt plants.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 269 Integrated Report 2017Topic SubtopicIncluded (yes/
no) Page reference
Business model N/A Yes 11-23
Relevant social and personnel maters 
(e.g. HR, safety etc.)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence. Yes 15, 37, 38, 61
The outcome of those policies. Yes 61, 76, 78-80,  
87, 88
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managed.Yes 61, 49, 50
Non-financial key performance indicators. Yes 76
Relevant Environmental maters  
(e.g. climate-related impacts)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence. Yes 12, 13, 39, 61
The outcome of those policies. Yes 61, 67, 95, 96
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managed.Yes 61, 49, 50, 53
Non-financial key performance indicators. Yes 94
Relevant matters with respect for human 
rights (e.g. labour protection)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence. Yes 43, 61, 88, 90
The outcome of those policies. Yes 88, 90
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managed.Yes 61, 49, 50
Non-financial key performance indicators. Yes 61, 49, 50
Relevant matters with respect to 
anti-corruption and bribery A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence. Yes 37, 38, 61
The outcome of those policies. Yes 88
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managed.Yes 61, 49, 50
Non-financial key performance indicators. Yes 88
Insight into the diversity (executive board 
and the supervisory board)A description of the policies pursued. Yes 111, 120
Diversity targets Yes 111, 120
Description of how the policy is implemented Yes 111, 120
Results of the diversity policy Yes 111, 1208.2  EU Directive Non-Financial Information and  
Diversity information reference table
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 270 Integrated Report 20178.3 GRI content index 
Title Disclosure Description Reason for (partial) omission
General Disclosures
NA 101 Foundation 101 General foundation
1 102-1 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation
11 102-2 General Disclosures 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services
2 102-3 General Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters
11 102-4 General Disclosures 102-4 Number of countries where the organisation 
operates, and the names of countries where 
it has significant operations and/or that are 
relevant to the topics covered in the report
259-263 102-5 General Disclosures 102-5 Ownership and legal form
11 102-6 General Disclosures 102-6 Markets served
11 102-7 General Disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organisation
15, 16, 87, 265 102-8 General Disclosures 102-8 Information on employees and other workers
15, 16, 19 102-9 General Disclosures 102-9 Supply chain
15, 16, 76 102-10 General Disclosures 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and 
its supply chain
78, 96-98, 111 102-11 General Disclosures 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach
26, 27, 30, 82, 90, 102-12 General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives
276 102-13 General Disclosures 102-13 Membership of associations 
9 102-14 General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker
9, 109 102-15 General Disclosures 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
NA 102-16 General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behavior https://www.bam.com/en/about-bam/
business-principles
88 102-17 General Disclosures 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethics
111-111 102-18 General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 
123, 139, 144 102-19 General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority 
123, 139, 144 102-20 General Disclosures 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topics 
34, 36 102-21 General Disclosures 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics 
111, 140 102-22 General Disclosures 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 
and its committees no membership of under-represented social 
groups known to BAM
111-124, 265, 271 102-23 General Disclosures 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 
111-124 102-24 General Disclosures 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body 
122, 123 102-25 General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest 
114 102-26 General Disclosures 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values, and strategy
111 102-27 General Disclosures 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance 
body
114 -134 102-28 General Disclosures 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 
performance 
34-43, 265 102-29 General Disclosures 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impacts
111 102-30 General Disclosures 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 
111-124, 265 102-31 General Disclosures 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and 
social topics
111-124 102-32 General Disclosures 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 
sustainability reporting 
37, 88 102-33 General Disclosures 102-33 Communicating critical concerns
NA 102-34 General Disclosures 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns There have been no significant critical 
concerns communicated to the highest 
governance body.
124 102-35 General Disclosures 102-35 Remuneration policies
124 102-36 General Disclosures 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 
122 102-37 General Disclosures 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 
88 102-38 General Disclosures 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio
88 102-39 General Disclosures 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total 
compensation ratio
32 102-40 General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 
NA 102-41 General Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 60 percent
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 271 Integrated Report 2017Title Disclosure Description Reason for (partial) omission
34-36 102-42 General Disclosures 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 
34-36 102-43 General Disclosures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement
34-36 102-44 General Disclosures 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised
255, 154, 155 102-45 General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements 
34, 36, 265 102-46 General Disclosures 102-46 Defining report content and topic 
Boundaries 
36-40 102-47 General Disclosures 102-47 List of material topics 
88 102-48 General Disclosures 102-48 Restatements of information
265-270 102-49 General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting 
265 102-50 General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period 
272 102-51 General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 20-02-16
265-270 102-52 General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle
265-270 102-53 General Disclosures 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 
report 
265-270 102-54 General Disclosures 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 
GRI Standards
271 102-55 General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index
265, 122, 243 102-56 General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance 
Financial performance
38, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
38, chapter 4.1 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
63 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
4, 63-74 201-1 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed 
94, 108, 36, 37, 39 201-2 Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change 
162, 163 201-3 Economic Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 
retirement plans 
166, 227, 201-4 Economic Performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from 
government 
Business Conduct and Transparency 
37, 265, 269 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
37, chapter 4.2 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
269, 38, 88 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
49 205-1 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption 
88 205-2 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 
anti-corruption policies and procedures 
88 205-3 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions taken 
88 206-1 Anti-competitive 
Behavior206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practices 
Energy and Emissions 
39, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
39, chapter 4.3 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
94-96 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
265-270 302-1 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation  
265-270 302-2 Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organisation 
95 302-3 Energy 302-3 Energy intensity  
95 302-4 Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption  
104, 107 302-5 Energy 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and services 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 272 Integrated Report 2017Title Disclosure Description Reason for (partial) omission
96 305-1 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions BAM has has omitted a (sub)part of the 
Standards definition for this indicator since 
BAM is of the opinion that current 
indicator(s) better covers the information 
need of its stakeholders.
96 305-2 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Location based scope 2 emissions: 
32,269 ktCO2
96 305-3 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  
98 305-4 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity  
97, 98 305-5 Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as other 
greenhouse gas emissions are considered 
not material.
265-270 305-6 Emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 
(ODS)This indicator is not applicable, as ozone 
depleting gasses and SO2 (sulphur dioxide) 
are not emitted in material amounts.
265-270 305-7 Emissions 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 
and other significant air emissionsThis indicator is not applicable, as ozone 
depleting gasses and SO2 (sulphur dioxide) 
are not emitted in material amounts.
Circular Economy
39, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
39 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
94, 100 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
103 301-1 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
103 301-2 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used
NA 301-3 Materials 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging 
materialsInformation has been omitted, indicator not 
applicable to BAM.
NA 306-1 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Information outside the Netherlands is not 
yet available, therefore water dicharges by 
quality and destination have been omitted for 
BAM’s operations outside the Netherlands. 
BAM aims to expand its scope by reporting 
country by country in the next years.
265-270 306-2 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method  
NA 306-3 Effluents and Waste 306-3 Significant spills No spills are included in BAM’s financial 
statements (such as due to resulting 
liabilities) or recorded as a spill by BAM.
NA 306-4 Effluents and Waste 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste In its General Purchase and Subcontract 
Conditions BAM warrants its suppliers to 
respect the Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights of the United Nations and 
to monitor complience in the chain of its 
own suppliers and contractors.
NA 306-5 Effluents and Waste 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges 
and/or runoffInformation been omitted. BAM works 
according to national environmental 
legislation. This information is therefore not 
significant.
Procurement Strategy
39, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
39, 94, chapter 4.2 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
40, 94 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
NA 308-1 Supplier Environmental 
Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaInformation has been omitted. BAM aims to 
seek long term, mutually preferred 
relationships with partners who can help 
BAM improve its supply chain in the coming 
years.
NA 308-2 Supplier Environmental 
Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions takenInformation has been omitted. BAM aims to 
seek long term, mutually preferred 
relationships with partners who can help 
BAM improve its supply chain in the coming 
years.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 273 Integrated Report 2017Title Disclosure Description Reason for (partial) omission
NA 414-1 Supplier Social 
Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteriaIn its General Purchase and Subcontract 
Conditions BAM warrants its suppliers to 
respect the Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights of the United Nations and 
to monitor complience in the chain of its 
own suppliers and contractors.
NA 414-2 Supplier Social 
Assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenIn its General Purchase and Subcontract 
Conditions BAM warrants its suppliers to 
respect the Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights of the United Nations and 
to monitor complience in the chain of its 
own suppliers and contractors.
Health and Safety
37, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
37, chapter 4.2 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
76, 78 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
NA 403-1 Occupational Health 
and Safety403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 
management–worker health and safety 
committees87 per cent of total workforce is represented 
in health and safety committees.
86 403-2 Occupational Health 
and Safety403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases, lost days, and 
absenteeism, and number of work-related 
fatalitiesBAM has has omitted a (sub)part of the 
Standards definition for this indicator since 
BAM is of the opinion that current 
indicator(s) cover the information need of its 
stakeholders. 
76 403-3 Occupational Health 
and Safety403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of 
diseases related to their occupationBAM has has omitted a (sub)part of the 
Standards definition for this indicator since 
BAM is of the opinion that current 
indicator(s) cover the information need of its 
stakeholders.
NA 403-4 Occupational Health 
and Safety403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 
agreements with trade unionsLaid down in Collective Labour Agreements.
Employee recruitment, development and retention
86, 87, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
86, 87, chapter 4.2 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
87 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
87 404-1 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 
employee 
NA 404-2 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsBAM has has omitted a (sub)part of the 
Standards definition for this indicator since 
local BAM organisations have differing 
policies on this subject.
NA 404-3 Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development 
reviewsBAM has has omitted a (sub)part of the 
Standards definition for this indicator since 
policy states that alle mployees receive 
stated reviews, yet this is currently not 
measured in BAM's systems.
111, 87 405-1 Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees 
111, 87 405-2 Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menBAM has has omitted a (sub)part of the 
Standards definition for this indicator since 
BAM is of the opinion that current 
indicator(s) cover the information need of its 
stakeholders.
 Human Rights    
43, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
43, 114 -124 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
61, 269 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
90 412-1 Human Rights 
Assessment412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessments 
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 274 Integrated Report 2017Title Disclosure Description Reason for (partial) omission
NA 412-2 Human Rights 
Assessment412-2 Employee training on human rights policies 
or proceduresInformation has been omitted. BAM 
complies with local legislation in the 
countries where it operates. In countries 
with poor human rights record, BAM 
internally and externally audits labour 
practices of its suppliers and subcontractors.
NA 412-3 Human Rights 
Assessment412-3 Significant investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights clauses 
or that underwent human rights screeningInformation has been omitted. BAM 
complies with local legislation in the 
countries where it operates. In countries 
with poor human rights record, BAM 
internally and externally audits labour 
practices of its suppliers and subcontractors.
Local Community Engagement
40, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
40 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
40 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
91, 93 413-1 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs 
15, 19 413-2 Local Communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and 
potential negative impacts on local 
communities 
Project & Product Quality and Control
37, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
37, Chapters 2.2; 2.4 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
37, 47, 48 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
48 NA Quality and control NA Statement regarding internal policies 
regarding product quality and control
Fair Taks
43, 265 103-1 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary
43, chapter 4.2 103-2 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
90 103-3 Management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
90 NA Tax policies NA Explanation of the material topic and how 
the company provides insight to the 
stakeholders
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 275 Integrated Report 2017Name Operating Company
Global
BWI (Building and Wood Workers’ International) Royal BAM Group
CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project Royal BAM Group
CE100 (Ellen MacArthur Foundation) Royal BAM Group
ISO 14001 BAM  Contractors nv, BAM  Contractors Ltd, 
BAM Construct UK, BAM Infra Nederland, Galère, 
BAM International, BAM Nuttall, BAM Bouw en 
Techniek, Interbuild, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
ISO 26000 Royal BAM Group
ISO 9001 BAM Infra Nederland, BAM Construct UK, 
BAM  Contractors Ltd, BAM  Deutschland, 
BAM  International, BAM  Materieel, BAM  Nuttall, 
BAM  Bouw en Techniek, BAM  Wonen, 
BAM Contractors nv, Galère, Interbuild, Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau, Pennings
OHSAS 18001 BAM  Construct UK, BAM  Contractors Ltd, 
BAM Deutschland, BAM Infra Nederland, 
BAM International, BAM Nuttall, BAM Bouw en 
Techniek, BAM  Wonen, BAM  Contractors nv, Galère, 
Interbuild, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Europe
 E2B (Energy Efficient Buildings Committee) Royal BAM Group
ECTP (European Construction Technology Platform) Royal BAM Group
EIC (European International Contractors) BAM  International
ENCORD (European Network of Construction Companies for Research and 
Development)Royal BAM Group
FIEC (European Construction Industry Federation) Indirect membership Royal BAM  Group through  
Bouwend Nederland
Horizon 2020, REnnovates, BAMB Royal BAM Group
STTC (European Sustainable Tropical Timber Coalition) Royal BAM Group
Belgium
ADEB - VBA BAM  Contractors nv, Galère, Interbuild
BVA (Belgische Vereniging van Asfaltproducenten) BAM  Contractors nv
CCW (Confédération de la Construction Wallonie) Galère
CNC (National Chamber of the Construction) Galère
Confederatie Bouw BAM  Track, BAM  Contractors nv
Recy Liège (Recycle Construction Waste Center - Liège) Galère
Sideco (Industrial society for construction waste) Galère
VC A** BAM  Mat, BAM  Track, BAM  Contractors nv
Germany
BG Bau BAM  Deutschland, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Central Federation Building Industry BAM  PPP
DGNB BAM  Deutschland
eeEmbedded BAM  Deutschland
Hauptverband der Deutschen Bauindustrie e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Ireland
American Chamber of Commerce BAM  Contractors
Business in the Community (BITC) BAM  Contractors
Chambers Ireland BAM  Contractors
Construction Employers Federetion (CEF) BAM  Contractors
Construction Industry Federation (CIF) BAM  Contractors
Construction Industry Register Ireland (CIRI) BAM  Contractors
Construction IT Alliance (CITA) BAM  Contractors
Engineers Ireland BAM  Contractors
Society of Chartered Surveyors Ireland (SCSI) BAM  Contractors8.4 Charters, memberships and certifications
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 276 Integrated Report 2017Name Operating Company
Netherlands
Amsterdam Economic Board AM
Bewuste Bouwers Royal BAM Group
Bouw en Hout Convenant Royal BAM Group
Bouwen met Staal BAM  Infraconsult
Bouwend Nederland BAM  Infra Nederland, BAM  Bouw en Techniek, 
BAM  Wonen
CO2 Prestatieladder BAM  Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland
Dutch Green Building Council Royal BAM Group
Duurzaam Gebouwd BAM  Bouw en Techniek
Energy Valley BAM  Infra Nederland, BAM  Bouw en Techniek
Expertgroep ABC Meldpunt (Aanpak Bouwincidenten Constructieve Veiligheid) BAM  Bouw en Techniek
FSC BAM  Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland
Initiatiefgroep Ketenintegratie BAM  Bouw en Techniek
MVO Nederland Royal BAM Group
MVO Prestatieladder: Niveau 3 BAM  Bouw en Techniek
Nabu (Netherlands Association of International Contractors) Royal BAM Group
Nederlandse Klimaat Coalitie Royal BAM Group
NVVK (Nederlandse Vereniging voor Veiligheidskunde) BAM  Infra Nederland
Neprom AM, BAM  Bouw en Techniek
NVDO BAM  Bouw en Techniek
NWP (Netherlands Water Partnership) BAM  International
Platform Constructieve Veiligheid BAM  Bouw en Techniek
PSO (Prestatieladder Socialer Ondernemen) Pennings
Railforum BAM  Infra Rail
SKAO (Stichting Klimaatvriendelijk Aanbesteden en Ondernemen) BAM  Infra Nederland
Stichting Beoordeling Integriteit Bouwnijverheid Royal BAM Group
Stichting Klantgericht Bouwen BAM  Wonen, Pennings
SWK BAM  Bouw en Techniek, BAM  Wonen, AM, Pennings
UNETO-VNI BAM Infra Energie & Water
VCA BAM  Bouw en Techniek, Pennings, BAM  Infra 
Nederland
Veilig en Duurzaam op weg (keurmerk) Royal BAM Group
Vernieuwing Bouw Royal BAM Group
VNO-NCW Royal BAM Group
United Kingdom
BRE (Building Research Establishment) BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
BS11000 BAM Nuttall
Build UK BAM  Construct UK
CBI BAM Nuttall
CECA (Civil Engineering Contractors Association) BAM Nuttall
CEMARS: ISO 14064 BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
Considerate Constructors Scheme BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
Constructing Better Health BAM Nuttall
Construction Health and Safety Group (CHSG) BAM Nuttall
Green Construction Board BAM  Construct UK
ICE (Institution of Civil Engineers) BAM Nuttall, BAM PPP
Investors in People: Gold BAM Nuttall
London Waste and Recycling Board (LWARB) BAM  Construct UK
RoSPA (Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents) BAM Nuttall
Supply Chain Sustainability School BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
UK-GBC (UK Green Building Council) BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall 
Women in Science, Technology and Engineering (WISE) BAM Nuttall
Check the website www.bam.com for the full list of charters, memberships and certifications.
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 277 Integrated Report 20178.5 Key financial dates
18 April 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
3 May 2018 Trading update first quarter 2018
23 August 2018 Publication of half-year results 2018
8 November 2018 Trading update first nine months 2018
20 February 2019 Publication of annual results 2018
17 April 2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
9 May 2019 Trading update first quarter 2019
22 August 2019 Publication of half-year results 2019
7 November 2019 Trading update first nine months 2019
Message from
the CEOValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceFinancial 
statementsOther 
informationRoyal BAM  
Group nv shares Appendices
Royal BAM Group nv 278 Integrated Report 2017Follow us on
®
