Integrated Report 2019
BAM plants 150,000 trees
Royal BAM Group nv made the sustainable choice to celebrate  
its 150th anniversary by planting 150,000 trees in 2019,  
to help preserve the planet for future generations. BAM 
employees volunteered at various locations to plant the trees, 
with support from school children in Belgium and Denmark. 
 
CEO Rob van Wingerden: ‘Future generations matter to us. We 
need to help preserve the planet for them. Forests are key to 
restraining climate change and restoring biodiversity. Trees 
provide clean air to breathe and so much more. BAM sees these 
trees as a symbolic gesture that underlines our commitment to 
become a sustainable company, initially focussing on becoming 
CO2 neutral and circular. We still have a lot to do, but it is high on 
our agenda.’
 
In close collaboration with Trees for All (which supports tree 
planting projects around the world), sixteen projects were 
selected for BAM’s tree-planting initiative. 
Tree for Bunnik
Together with 
representatives of the 
municipality of Bunnik, 
BAM CEO Rob van 
Wingerden and CFO Frans 
den Houter planted a 
Japanese honey tree 
(Styphnolobium japonicum) 
on the occasion of BAM’s 
150th anniversary. The 
three-metre-high honey 
tree was planted at Bunnik 
rail station, opposite BAM’s 
head office.
2
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv2 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv3
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv3 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvBAM is subject to the structure regime as intended in Part 4, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
The Executive Board Report as intended in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code consists of chapters 1-5, 8.4, 9.1 and 9.7.Royal BAM Group nv , Runnenburg 9, 3981 AZ Bunnik, P.O. Box 20, 3980 CA Bunnik, the Netherlands, Telephone +31 (0)30 659 89 88, 
info@bam.com, www.bam.com, established at Bunnik, the Netherlands, Trade register number 30058019  Layout   Boulogne Jonkers 
Design, Zoetermeer, the Netherlands  Printing  Veenman+, Rotterdam, the Netherlands  Illustrations  AHR (89), De Beeldredaktie (34), 
Deon Prins (43), Marcel van Kerckhoven (27), Neil Warner (47), Lourdas Photography (29), Ossip van Duivenbode (79), 
Paul Tierney (10), Peter Morgan (61), Phenster/Mark Prins (68 t/m 71), Sasja van Vechgel (77), Sofico (28), Studio Lab (90), 
Trevor Palin (13, 65), Utku Pekli (51), Wolfgang Reiher (206).
20-02
4
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv4 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv1  Message from the CEO  9
2  Value creation  10  
 
 2.1  Business model 11
 2.2  Strategy 14
 2.3   Stakeholder engagement and material themes  19
3  Business performance  22
 3.1  Financial performance 23
 3.2  Social performance 30
 3.3  Environmental performance 42
 3.4  Outlook  50
4  Risk management  52
5  Governance  62  
 
 5.1  Corporate governance  63
 5.2  Decree on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive 66
 5.3   Supervisory Board and Executive Board 68
 5.4  Executive Committee 71
6  Supervisory Board  72
 
 6.1   Report of the Supervisory Board to shareholders 73
 6.2  Remuneration report  807  Financial statements  90
8  Other information  192  
 8.1           Combined independent auditor’s report on  
the 2019 financial statements and  
sustainability information   193
 8.2   Proposed appropriation of result  202
 8.3     Articles of Association provisions governing  
the distribution of profit  203
 8.4  Anti-takeover measures 204
 8.5   List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements  
and associates  205
9  Appendices  206 
 
 9.1  Royal BAM Group nv shares 207
 9.2  Five-year overview 210
 9.3   Non-financial information and diversity   
information reference table  211
 9.4  Key financial dates  212
 9.5  Glossary 213
 9.6   Non-financial reporting process and methods 214
 9.7   Material themes and management approach  217
2
1
3
4
5
6
7
8
9Contents
5
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv5 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvProfit 2019 2018
Continuing operations
Revenue 7,209 7,208
Adjusted result before tax 74.1 153.2
Result before tax 50.6 114.5
Net result attributable to the shareholders 
of the Company 11.8 23.8
Earnings per share (in €1) 0.04 0.09
Dividend per ordinary share (in €1) 0.02 0.14
Dividend payout (in %) 40 40
Number of shares as at 31 December (x 1,000) 273,296 273,296
Share closing price as at 31 December (in €1) 2.69 2.51
Equity attributable to the shareholders  
of the Company 628.4 729.0
Capital base 748.9 846.7
Total assets 4,540.2 4,578.0
Order book 12,659 12,692
Net investment in property, plant and equipment 67.7 72.2
Net additions right-of-use assets * 115.8 -
Depreciation charges property, plant and equipment 54.0 63.7
Depreciation charges  right-of-use assets * 99.7 -
Amortisation charges intangible assets 5.9 6.1
Impairment charges 18.5 23.8
Cash flow before dividend 189.9  117.4 
Ratios
Adjusted result before tax as % of revenue 1.0 2.1
Net result attributable to the shareholders of 
the Company as % of revenue 0.2 0.3
Net result attributable to the shareholders of 
the Company as % of average equity 1.7 3.3
ROCE (in %) 3.4   7.5
Capital ratios
Equity attributable to the shareholders of 
the Company as % of total assets 13.8 15.9
Capital base as % of total assets 16.5 18.5
Earnings per share Dividend per ordinary 
share 
2018 
0.092018 
0.140.02 0.04
ROCE  (in %)
2018 
7.53.4
Net result
2018 
23.811.8
Capital base (as %  
of total assets)
2018  
18.516.5
Adjusted result before 
tax
2018  
153.274.1
Adjusted result (before 
tax as % of revenue)
2018 
2.11.0
Order book
2018 
12,69212,659
Net result (attributable to 
the shareholders of the 
Company as % of revenue)
2018 
0.30.2
Revenue
2018 
7,2087,209
(in % of rolling revenue)
2018 
(8.8)(10.4)(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
*  Due to the implementation of IFRS 
16, leases are no longer classified 
as operational or financial lease, 
but are recognised as right-of-use 
assets.
See paragraph 9.5 Glossary for 
definitions.Shares Trade working capitalRatiosKey figures
6
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv6 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvPeople   2019 2018
Human resources
Number of employees as at 31 December 
(in FTE)      
19,517 20,194
Average number of employees (in FTE)      19,433 20,156
Training costs per employee (in €1)           819 703
Female/male employees (in %)       17/83 17/83
Safety
Incident frequency (IF BAM)          4.8 4.2
Safety behaviour audit (SBA) (in %)          73 72Incident frequency
(IF BAM)Safety behaviour 
audit (in %)
2018 - 4.2
2017 - 4.62018  - 72
2017  - 7273 4.8
Female/male employees  
(in %) 
2018 - 17/83
2017 -  16/8417/83
Number of employees 
(at 31 December, in FTE)
2018 -  20,194
2017 -  19,83719,517Training costs per 
employee (in €1)
2018 -  703
2017 -  614819
Certified sustainable  
timber (FSC and PEFC)  
(in %)
2018 - 94
2017 -  9899
Energy consumption 
(in terajoules)
2018 -  2,744
2017 -  2,6442,442
2018 -  26.8
2017 - 28.123.5CO2 emissions  
(in kilotonnes)
2018 - 193
2017 -  186170CO2 emissions intensity   
(in tonnes per € million revenue)
2018 -  129
2017 -  134128Construction and 
office waste 
(in kilotonnes)
Construction and office  
waste intensity (in tonnes  
per € million revenue)
2018 -  17.9
2017 -  20.317.7Human resourcesSafety
Climate positiveResource positivePlanet 2019 2018
Climate positive
CO2 emissions intensity  
(in tonnes per € million revenue) 23.5 26.8
CO2 emissions (in kilotonnes)  170 193
Energy consumption (in terajoules)  2,442 2,744
Resource positive
Construction and office waste intensity  
(in tonnes per € million revenue) 17.7 17.9
Construction and office waste 
(in kilotonnes) 128 129
 Construction and office waste reused
recycled (in %)75  73
Certified sustainable timber (in %)  99 94
7
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv7 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvTitel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Message from the CEO
Thousands of 
trees planted  
In 2019, BAM planted tens of 
thousands of trees in various 
locations in Europe, Bolivia 
and Uganda. Throughout 
this report you will find the 
stories of all these tree-
planting projects. 
Future generations matter to us. 
We need to help preserve the 
planet for them.’
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
8 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv 8Message from the CEO
In 2019, Royal BAM Group celebrated 150 years of enhancing 
people’s lives. To mark this occasion we planted 150,000 trees - 
giving back to the communities in which we work. 
Following the disappointing first half year result due to the project 
cost overruns announced in July, BAM’s performance recovered in 
the second half of 2019 and the company realised its revised full 
year outlook. Trade working capital efficiency improved further 
during the year. The cash position remains strong. Steps are being 
taken to accelerate the execution of the strategic agenda in order 
to improve the future performance and predictability.
BAM’s adjusted result before tax for the year 2019 was €74.1 
million (2018: €153.2 million). The adjusted pre-tax margin was 
1.0 per cent (2018: 2.1 per cent). The overall order book was 
€12,659 million at year-end 2019 (year-end 2018: €12,692 million). 
From an operational perspective, there were strong contributions 
from Dutch and Irish Construction and Property and our activities 
in the United Kingdom. BAM PPP had another excellent year. 
Although through the years our safety performance remains high, 
we continue to increase our efforts to make BAM, the industry and 
the environments we are working in safer. We strongly feel 
responsible for all people involved in or affected by the activities 
of the Group. 
During the year, the Dutch construction industry was impacted by 
legislation to limit the deposition of nitrogen, which caused a 
delay in pursuing permits for clients. In addition, production was 
impacted by rules regarding soil contaminated by PFAS (man-
made fluorochemicals). With regard to geopolitical 
developments, Brexit has been unfolding but with low impact 
until now, while further developments worldwide have been 
causing uncertainty in the world market. 
This integrated report also illustrates positive developments in 
areas such as digital construction, innovation and sustainability. 
BAM’s inclusion in CDP’s Climate A list (January 2020) is again a 
recognition of our efforts to reduce emissions and to achieve a net 
positive impact.
 
With our Executive Committee we have taken concrete steps to 
accelerate our strategic agenda to improve the predictability and 
performance of our business. These steps include measures to 
improve the operational performance in our German construction business and the decision to exit our activities in offshore wind 
foundations. Also our programme to roll out our uniform project 
approach, in support of our One BAM way of working, is showing 
good progress. This programme enables our employees to 
capitalise on state-of-the-art knowledge and resources, talent and 
training, thus creating a solid foundation for individual and 
collective growth and development.
We expect an improvement of the adjusted result before tax 
margin in 2020 compared to 2019. 
Also on behalf of the Executive Committee, I would like to thank 
all our stakeholders for their confidence in BAM. I would like to 
especially thank our employees for their hard work and 
commitment throughout the year. 
After almost six years as CEO and with the prospect of an updated 
strategy ahead, the upcoming Annual General Meeting is a logical 
moment to change leadership of the company. I am proud of what 
we have achieved with the One BAM programme as this enables 
us to leverage the scale of our company and the knowledge of our 
people. Being a frontrunner in digitisation and sustainability, BAM 
holds enormous potential, now and in the future. It has been a 
privilege to lead this great company.
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020
Rob van Wingerden, 
CEO Royal BAM Group nv 
9
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management
Titel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Value creation
Ready for runway 
operations  
Visual control tower,  
Dublin Airport
 
At 87.7 metres, Dublin 
Airport’s new visiual 
control tower is the tallest 
occupied building in 
Ireland. Its height was 
determined by its function: 
it houses the airport’s 
visual control room. After 
completion by BAM 
Contractors in March 2019, 
the tower is now 
undergoing installations 
and testing in preparation 
for single runway 
operations to commence in 
the first half of 2020. It will 
be ready for parallel 
runway operations by 
2021, 
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
10 Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv 10Organisation
BAM is a large European construction firm with ten operating 
companies active in two business lines, Construction and 
Property and Civil engineering, as well as in public-private 
partnerships. The Company employs 20,000 people. 
The Group’s activities are in five European home markets: the 
Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland and 
Germany. The Group also has a presence in Denmark, 
Luxembourg and Switzerland. In addition, BAM International 
provides services to clients outside Europe: Africa, the Americas, 
Asia Pacific, Australia, the Middle East and Antarctica. 
Construction and Property
BAM carries out non-residential construction activities in all its 
home markets, as well as in Switzerland and Denmark. In 
addition, BAM delivers residential construction projects, 
primarily in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Non-residential property development activities are carried out 
in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Belgium. 
Family homes are developed and built mainly in the Netherlands, 
where development and construction is provided as a fully 
integrated solution to clients. The business line Construction 
and Property employs approximately 9,100  professionals.
Civil engineering
The civil engineering activities cover all BAM’s home markets, as well as Denmark and Luxembourg. BAM International carries 
out civil engineering works in specific markets around the world.  
The business line Civil engineering employs approximately  
10,300 professionals.
Public-private partnerships
BAM is a well-respected player in the European market for 
public-private partnership (PPP) projects. BAM PPP delivers 
construction and recurring maintenance revenue for BAM’s 
business lines, and operates concessions for roads, rail, education, 
health care and government buildings. BAM PPP employs 
approximately 100 professionals.
As from 1 April 2019, BAM has changed the top structure of the 
Company by establishing an Executive Committee in addition to the 
two-person Executive Board. The Executive Committee consists of 
the Executive Board members, the Chief Operating Officer of both 
busineness lines, the Chief Business Excellence Officer and the Chief 
HR Officer. The Executive Committee will decide – with final 
responsibility lying with the Executive Board – on strategic issues and 
policies, based on input from the operating companies and staff 
departments. Each member has a clearly defined focus and 
responsibility. 
 
With this change, the Group is better able to leverage its economies 
of scale in line with the One BAM philosophy (  see also page 71).
The financial, social and environmental performance of  
BAM’s business lines are described in chapter 3.
Germany
Wayss &
Freytag
Ingenieurbau
United
Kingdom
BAM
Nuttall
Netherlands
BAM Infra
NederlandGermany
BAM
Deutschland
United
Kingdom
BAM
Construct UK
Netherlands
BAM Bouw en
Vastgoed
NederlandBelgium
BAM
Belgium
Ireland
BAM
Contractors
Worldwide
BAM
International
Public Private 
Partnerships
BAM PPPBusiness line
 Civil
engineeringBusiness line
 Construction
and Property2.1 Business model 
1 - Organisational structure
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
11
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDesign 
and
        Engineering
        Plan
    and Pre-
construction
ConstructionMaintain
    and
          OperateEnd of life/ 
Re-use   Develop/
Bid
Public Private Partnerships Civil engineering     Construction and Property              Input
Using valuable resouresOutput
Value for stakeholders and society
Materials, energy and
equipments
Employees
Intellectual capital
Financial capital
Suppliers of products 
and services
Digital technologiesPeople
Planet
Proﬁt
Mission
It is BAM’s mission to create sustainable environments that 
enhance people’s lives by enabling the right people to 
capitalise on state-of-the-art knowledge, resources and digital 
technologies, thereby providing solutions across the total 
construction lifecycle for the Group’s clients and generating 
maximum value for its stakeholders.Vision
It is BAM’s vision that the Group will be recognised as one of 
Europe’s leading sustainable and innovative construction 
businesses, with healthy profits and a strong balance sheet, 
active across the full construction lifecycle in its European 
home markets and in selected emerging economies 
worldwide.Building the present, creating the future BAM’s value creation model is based on the 
International Integrated Reporting Council’s 
Integrated Reporting <IR> framework and 
gives an overview of how BAM creates 
value. 
The cycle of integrated thinking and 
reporting supports financial and 
sustainability results. BAM discloses a 
combination of quantitative and qualitative 
information to describe how value is 
created.What we do and how we create value 
People
Creating social value
BAM’s approach to sustainability delivers 
benefits to clients and communities in 
which the Group works. BAM aims to create 
a safe and more sustainable built 
environment. Within communities the 
Company wants to positively enhance the 
lives of more than one million people by 
2020 by creating skills and learning 
opportunities and through voluntary and 
charitable work. BAM continues to target 
talent to maintain its position as one of the 
best companies to work for.
   For BAM’s social performance,  
see paragraph 3.2.Profit
Creating financial value
Shareholders and financial institutions 
provide funds that BAM invests in its 
business lines, as well as in PPP, with a 
divestment strategy for a part of BAM’s 
current land bank and property 
investments. BAM uses free working 
capital from the (non-)residential 
construction and civil engineering 
activities in selected property and PPP 
projects. These projects contribute to 
BAM’s target of a 2 to 4 per cent range 
margin.
   For BAM’s financial performance,  
see paragraph 3.1.Planet
Creating environmental value
BAM wants to mitigate the impact of its 
operations on climate change and 
resource consumption. The Company is 
working towards having a net positive 
impact by reducing carbon emissions and 
waste intensity, as well as by adopting 
circular business principles and 
implementing innovative solutions. 
BAM works in close collaboration with its 
supply chain in achieving common goals 
and addressing global environmental 
challenges.
    For BAM’s environmental performance, 
see paragraph 3.3.2 - Value creation model
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
12
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management9 February 2019 - Fermanagh, Northern Ireland
3,000 trees – a diverse mix of plots with native Irish trees and 
traditional, modern and wild varieties of fruit and nut trees. 
9 February 2019 - Ballymoney, Northern Ireland
3,000 trees – multifunctional forest with native species like oak, 
Scots pine, birch, hazel, and crab apple. 
13 March 2019 - Warwickshire and Worcestershire
3,000 trees – as part of a huge new woodland in the heart of 
England. The trees planted are all native broadleaf trees.
5 December 2019 - Dorsington/Stratford-upon-Avon 
2,500 trees – part of a huge new woodland in the Midlands of 
England, broadleaf native species have been planted. 
10 December 2019 - Manchester
2,000 trees – urban woodland with birch, rowan, alder, guelder 
rose, hazel, hawthorn, blackthorn and beech.Dave Ellis, Regional Director, BAM Construct speaking for BAM 
Construct and BAM Nuttall: ‘Planting trees is symbolic of 
sustainability. That is more important to this industry now than 
ever before. It says something about our culture that so many 
people have volunteered to help us do this.’
William Diver, Construction Director, BAM Contractors brought 
his family all the way up to Fermanagh. ‘BAM turned 150 last year 
and planted 150,000 trees all around the world to celebrate. We 
enjoyed to be part of the tree planting activities.’
22 November  - Zottegem
5,000 trees – a new mixed forest of deciduous trees was planted 
with indigenous species such as oak, birch, maple and beech.
Fifty Belgian BAM colleagues together with pupils from local 
primary schools planted trees in the Steenbergse Bossen. This 
joint initiative from BAM and volunteer movement Natuurpunt 
added 1.5 hectares of woodland to the nature reserve.
Vincent Colson, Sustainability Manager, BAM Belgium , was 
one of the volunteers: ‘We are planting trees to help save the 
planet for future generations. I think this is a wonderful 
initiative! It felt good today to be able to make my own small 
contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions together with 
the pupils of local schools.’
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
13
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBuilding the present, creating the future
BAM’s strategy ‘Building the present, creating the future’ is based 
on three pillars: focus the project portfolio, shape the business 
portfolio and create the future portfolio. These are supported by a 
strong foundation consisting of two layers: culture and 
capabilities.
Strategy 2016-2020
BAM’s unique cultureDifferentiating capabilitiesBuilding the present, creating the future
Focus
project
portfolioCreate
future
portfolioShape
business
portfolio
Strategic targets
BAM’s vision is translated into specific goals for profit, planet and 
people. The objectives of BAM for 2020 are:
•  A return on capital employed (ROCE) of more than 10 per cent;
•  An increase of the adjusted margin before taxes to between 
    2 and 4 per cent;
•  A reduction of the real estate portfolio to less than €500 million;
•  A reduction of working capital to less than -10 per cent;
• To be a sustainable company: have a net positive impact in 2050;
•     To always put safety first:  reach an incident frequency of less
 than 3.5.
Focus project portfolio
Doing things better
BAM is focussing the project portfolio. Using either scale
or differentiation to win projects will be the main driver of
performance improvement at the operating companies.
BAM keeps a focus on its project portfolio (‘doing things better’) by 
constantly analysing current projects. The main drivers for 
performance improvement are either scale or skills. In market 
segments where BAM is in price-led competition, the Company 
achieves cost leadership through project bundling, industrialisation 
and/or digitalisation. For complex projects, BAM achieves its product 
leadership by using its know-how, its position as a digital frontrunner 
and its quality assurance as key differentiating factors. This focus 
leads to scalable learning in relevant market segments with better 
propositions for the Group’s clients.Shape business portfolio
Doing better things
BAM is shaping the business portfolio by rationalising its
propositions in selected market segments and developing
new solutions for clients.
BAM is shaping the business portfolio by supporting the operating 
companies in developing new propositions in home markets as 
extensions of projects along the lifecycle, and by leveraging 
specialisms in international markets. These initiatives are driven by 
investments in people and systems and by the development of 
partnerships to further improve the performance. At the same time, 
BAM continues to critically assess its operational activities and exit 
those activities not offering sufficient opportunities to use scale or 
distinctiveness as critical success factors. BAM will continue to 
reduce its portfolio of property assets.  
Create future portfolio
Doing new things 
BAM will position itself as leader in the digitalisation of
the industry. BAM is creating its future portfolio by
integrating digital construction solutions in the 
construction process and by accelerating innovative 
solutions for its clients (both digital and non-digital).
BAM creates its future portfolio by supplying construction 
services using a digital construction platform and by accelerating 
innovative solutions generated within BAM. The Company 
facilitates this transition by investing in innovation to create an 
attractive environment for partnerships and rapid prototyping in 
order to shorten the time to market. 
By creating this future portfolio, BAM strives to: 
• Create a competitive advantage on the basis of innovation, with 
recurring superior financial returns for its shareholders; 
• Improve product and project quality for its clients; 
• Improve the attractiveness of the Company on the job market, 
and develop and retain talent; 
• Contribute to the innovative spirit of suppliers and 
subcontractors; 
• Build a sustainable environment for society in general.
Differentiating capabilities    
BAM’s differentiating capabilities and operating model are being 
sharpened, with a focus on leveraging the scale and skills of the 
Company and its employees, and b y striking the right balance 
between what can be done on a global level or by a more local 
approach. This is being done with the aim of knowledge sharing, 
promoting the usage of the same set of tools, systems and 2.2 Strategy
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
14
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementIn BAM’s ambition to become a leader in digital construction, it has 
made good progress in 2019 (  page 17). In daily practice, the 
Company’s digital construction approach focusses on six main areas. 
Below, a selection of concrete implementations in these areas. 
Scanning
•  3D point cloud scans used as a  
basis for 3D model designs.
Design
• Integrated 3D modelling, with BIM  
 software, combining the different 
  disciplines such as steel, concrete, 
installations, reinforcement in one 3D model; 
• Parametric design based on algorithmics, which offers engineers  
 many realistic design possibilities; 
•  Generative design to quickly generate design alternatives with a 
focus on specific constraints; 
• Certification to the international ISO 19650 standard (  page  49).
Simulations
•  Virtual reality: 3D visuals of the design for all stakeholders, and also 
used for safety training and safety walks;
•  Gaming engines to simulate actual excavation plant movements and 
verify construction methodology (Antarctic project:  page  202);
• 4D (project scheduling) and 5D simulation (costs); 
• Sustainability simulations to calculate the energy use of a building,  
 waste management, etc.
Production
•  Off-site (modular) development and construction, DfMAD (design 
for manufacturing assembly and dissasembly); 
•  3D concrete printing: modular building services skids for office 
buildings; 
• Robots to apply bricks to modular façade elements for housing. 
Assembly
•  Tablets/smartphone devices for quality and health & safety 
monitoring; 
•  Machine guidance & control technology to improve efficiency, 
safety and reduce CO2 emissions. 
Operations
•  Augmented reality, virtual reality, as-built BIM data to support 
service  engineers in operating and maintaining projects (schools, 
hospitals, roads); 
•  Artificial intelligence: BAM proactively scans roads with satellites  
and scanning vehicles. The collected data enables to identify road  
problems easy and efficiently. 
During all these phases, a lot of data is generated, which can be used for: 
•  Machine learning and artificial intelligence to learn and scale the 
business;
•  Autodesk BIM 360 Construction IQ, a tool to support project teams 
by predicting possible future risks in projects.
definitions and of coming to a common language across the whole 
Group. The introduction of these global support functions will 
eventually lead to a more cost-effective organisation. The operating 
companies are improving their systems, knowledge and expertise 
for data-driven project selection, tendering and execution. At the 
same time, synergies within the Group are being leveraged in 
areas such as business controls, human resources, information 
management, digital construction, IT, strategic sourcing and 
partnerships and enhancing local entrepreneurship to serve 
clients.  
BAM’s culture   
Reaching BAM’s strategic goals will be supported by its  
four values.
Proactive ownership
‘I take initiative to prevent,  
rather than fix’Open collaboration
‘I share, so we all gain’
Scalable learning
‘I ask, listen and support, 
so that we learn collectively’Predictable performance
‘I deliver what I promise’
Another fundamental part of BAM’s culture is its safety ambition 
of ‘zero accidents’, allowing everyone to return home safe and 
healthy every day, and receiving recognition as a leader in safety 
in the European construction sector. 
Sustainability
For BAM, the pursuit of these strategic targets goes hand in hand 
with aiming to have a net positive impact on climate change, 
material resources and people by 2050. The Group’s approach to 
sustainability delivers benefits to clients and the communities in 
which it works.  
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
15
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe AllRide platform uses data from smart bicycle lights and 
an app to capture safe and unsafe spots in cycling routes, such 
as busy crossings or dangerous roundabouts. Based on the 
accumulated data, AllRide gives personal advice on safer 
routes. 
In a pilot project at schools in Mechelen, Bruges and Antwerp, 
AllRide aims to encourage pupils to use their bikes more and 
find safer routes to school. Participation is encouraged via 
gamification: the children win points and prizes by giving input 
and cycling more safely. Developed together with engineering consultancy AE, AllRide is 
an integrated solution that fits BAM’s smart mobility vision. It 
generates relevant insights for smarter cities and communities. 
Ultimately, AllRide aims to offer safe and dynamic 
infrastructure solutions, which can be offered to cities in every 
home country. AllRide is a result of BAM Belgium’s innovation 
programme ‘Future Forward’, launched in 2018 in search of 
innovative solutions. Of the 100+ generated ideas, seven were 
developed into concepts that cover challenges in mobility, 
energy and living. Several external influences impacted the construction industry in 
2019. Firstly, economies across BAM’s home markets showed a 
flattening of growth. Trade wars, uncertainty about the outcome of 
the Brexit process, declining consumer and industry confidence, 
made them hesitant. In the Netherlands, environmental rulings such 
as the PFAS- and PAS (nitrogen)-case, led to further uncertainty 
within the industry. Secondly, (governmental) sustainability agendas 
and mega trends, such as urbanisation and energy efficiency, are 
creating new areas for increased growth. Thirdly, digitalisation 
continued to have a transformative effect on the construction 
industry and the built environment. Against this background, the 
main focus of BAM’s strategy in 2019 remained to improve 
profitability and capital efficiency. 
Doing things better  
Thanks to the further sharpening of its tender stage gate procedure, 
BAM was even more selective in pursuing projects where it could 
differentiate on scale or knowledge. The tender stage gate is now 
being used to assess all major tenders at BAM. In 2019 BAM pulled 
out of  34 per cent of large tenders (projects regarded as highly 
complex and/or with a contract value > €45 million) because the 
risk/reward balance was considered not right. For example, BAM 
stepped out of the ViA15 project in the Netherlands. Together with 
branche organisation Bouwend Nederland, BAM is in talks with 
public clients in the Netherlands on getting a better risk division 
between contractor and client.
Of the tenders BAM pulled out of, 68 per cent was stopped at the 
early stages of the tender to prevent tender costs. Two thirds of this 
68 per cent was stopped directly after assessing the tender 
documents and the other third after the assessment on a strategy to 
earn.  
By using the tender stage gate procedure BAM is focussing on 
projects which benefit from the value of the Group and have an acceptable risk profile, such as the Metro Brisbane project, a joint 
effort of BAM PPP, BAM Nuttall, BAM International and Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau, a multi-year framework rail contract by BAM 
Nuttall, highschool projects including maintenance in Denmark by 
BAM Denmark and the Tergooi Hospital in the Netherlands, a joint 
effort of BAM Infra and BAM Bouw en Techniek.
BAM has started the roll out of its uniform project approach (UPA). 
This programme is designed to use best practices from BAM’s 
projects from all around the globe, resulting in a uniform way of 
working on large projects for the entire Company. In 2019, eight 
best practices were defined with the help of experts from all 
operating companies. These best practices, finalised during 2019, 
were rolled out across all operating companies. As of 1 January 2020 
these best practices are mandatory on all new large projects. The 
goal of the UPA programme is to achieve better – more predictable 
and comparable – forecasts and results.
The tender stage gate process is being expanded into the execution 
of projects. With this extension, BAM builds on the existing stage 
gate procedure and aims to improve control and predictability. The 
various stage gates review if a tender or project is on track, and to 
check if projects are compliant with the uniform way of working and 
ready to move on to the next stage (  page 56). 
Doing better things  
BAM remains selective in its strategic investments. It acquired a 
minority stake in MHI Ireland, which specialises in the construction 
of prefab modular housing. This investment supports BAM’s 
strategy to be at the forefront of new developments in the housing 
sector and supports BAM in Ireland as a key player in the Irish 
market.
BAM and Heijmans have formally applied for a permit for an asphalt 
plants joint venture. The objective of the proposed joint venture is Strategy execution
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
16
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementto combine knowledge, expertise and investments in innovation in 
the area of asphalt production, to further increase the sustainability 
of the asphalt chain and to improve efficiency. The plan for the 
intended joint venture of asphalt plants was submitted for approval 
to the ACM (the Dutch Consumers and Markets Authority) in 2019. 
ACM has granted persmission on 13 February 2020. 
Doing new things 
Innovation
In 2019, 35 innovation initiatives were managed within the 
innovation funnel. This funnel consists of a stage gate review 
process of business innovations by BAM's innovation community, 
based on the lean startup methodology. 
In 2019, BAM continued the further development of 3D printing. 
Together with partner Saint Gobain (Weber Beamix), BAM opened a 
print facility in Eindhoven, the Netherlands. BAM uses this facility to 
accelerate the embracing of this technology and to bring viable 
projects and products to the market. This is done by digital 
construction: creating a fully digital 3D design which is uploaded to 
the printer. BAM has started the design and production of 
3D-printed bridges. In addition, the facility has printed concrete 
formwork for the Driebergen-Zeist rail station project (    page 56).
The potential for the 3D concrete printing facility is acknowledged 
by clients, which has resulted in visits and information requests 
from, amongst others, the United Kingdom and Ireland. 
BAM's innovation success has also been recognised in the extension 
of the collaboration with Dutch Analytics, a startup company 
focussing on AI (artificial intelligence) which BAM helped to start up 
in 2016. 
Together with Global Founders Capital, BAM invested €2 million to 
further develop its AI product Xenia; artificial intelligence 
algorithms which are put to use into operations, which they can help  
manage and monitor throughout their lifecycle. This helps to project upcoming maintenance tasks and to prolong the lifespan of 
assets, making them more efficient. This is done at both Dutch 
operating companies and was in 2019 also applied at BAM Nuttall in 
the United Kingdom. 
Digital construction embedded in business operations
Digital construction is now embedded in BAM’s standard business 
operations, including the stage gate process and the overall 
operating model. It is no longer perceived as an optional activity, it 
is the default approach to the business, making it the new normal. 
BAM continues to be acknowledged as a leader in digital 
construction. With the certification of BAM International in 
December 2019, all BAM operating companies are now BIM level 2 
certified. All of BAM projects are using the same standards and best 
practices on digital construction (    page 49).
2019 saw the successful introduction of the AI system Construction 
IQ, which uses machine learning algorithms to support site 
engineers on a day-to-day basis with proactive risk management. 
The system uses large volumes of data from current and historic 
projects to analyse and prioritise risks on a real-time basis for BAM’s 
site engineers. BAM achieved a 20 per cent reduction in quality and 
safety issues as a result of better decision-making by using 
Construction IQ.
BAM’s projects involve the creation, alteration, control and 
retention of millions of different files across project teams. In 2019, 
BAM agreed on a single approach to information management using 
a common data environment (CDE). This enables BAM to 
significantly reduce the usage of paper and local storage of files. 
Currently, CDEs are daily practice in each operating company, with 
measurable benefits in terms of team collaboration, version 
management and paper reduction.
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
17
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementXblocPlus is BAM’s further development of the successful 
Xbloc which has been applied on projects around the world 
over the past fifteen years. The new block makes breakwater 
construction even more reliable, faster and more efficient. 
Compared to other blocks in the market, XblocPlus requires 
significantly less concrete and fewer units to cover the same 
breakwater, which means a reduction in material quantities, 
time and effort, and in the carbon footprint of breakwater 
construction. A few months after its market introduction, 
XblocPlus was already selected for two high-profile projects.
Afsluitdijk: 75,000 units   
On the iconic Afsluitdijk dam project in the Netherlands, XblocPlus is 
applied under the name Levvel blocks, after the Levvel consortium 
(BAM, Van Oord and Rebel) that is strengthening the dam on behalf 
of Rijkswaterstaat (part of the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and 
Water Management). A total of 75,000 units, each weighing around 
6,500 kilograms, will be produced specially for the Afsluitdijk. In 
addition to being extremely strong and having a wave-retardant 
effect, XblocPlus is easy to install due to the similarity in shape to roof 
tiles. Last but not least, XblocPlus gives breakwaters and shore 
protections a very smooth and beautiful look.
Marina Porto Albania: combination of Xbloc and XblocPlus
In Albania, both the Xbloc and the XblocPlus are being used in the 
Marina Porto Albania project. XblocPlus is applied on the straight 
and mildly curved breakwater sections, where units can be placed 
fast and efficiently in a rooftile pattern. The flexibility of the 
original Xbloc is used on the breakwater heads, where it provides 
protection on the sharply curved surface area.
Pieter Bakker, Manager Xbloc:  ‘In both projects, clients have 
chosen a solution that provides an armour layer which is 
economical, stable and robust, while at the same time 
contributing to the aesthetic quality of the project through the 
beautiful placement pattern of the XblocPlus layer.’Differentiating capabilities
A new governance structure
In 2019 BAM introduced a new governance structure. With the new 
Executive Committee (since April 2019) and the business lines 
Construction and Property and Civil engineering - led by their 
respective COOs - there is more focus on projects and improving 
collaboration within the business lines (    page 71). 
Leveraging the One BAM scale and skills
To better leverage the scale and skills of BAM, the functional 
mandate of the supporting functions Finance, HR and IT is being 
reinforced. The transformation from different Finance, HR and IT 
organisations per operating company into One BAM Finance, One 
BAM HR and One BAM IT started in 2019. 
The preparations for the kick-off in 2020 of the transformation from 
different procurement organisations towards One BAM 
Procurement were completed in 2019.
BAM’s culture  
Safety  
With the safety campaign 'Your Safety is My Safety', BAM paid extra 
attention to conversations about safety, creating an open and 
honest environment to talk about feeling safe or unsafe (    page 33).New leadership programmes
In 2019, BAM introduced two new leadership programmes: the 
Future Leadership programme for young talent and the Enterprise 
Leadership programme for business leaders, both across the 
Group. Just like existing project management programmes 
Olympus (for the top project managers) and Everest (for 
upcoming project managers) the new leadership programmes are 
aimed to get colleagues better acquainted with eachother, share 
knowledge and become better educated about BAM and the 
uniform way of working within the Group. An Advanced 
Leadership programme was developed for BAM's top 
management in 2019 and will start in 2020. 
All these programmes reflect BAM’s values and accelerate learning 
and collaboration across all operating companies and functions to 
operate as One BAM (    page 36).
Science-based CO2 reduction target
To support the Paris Agreement and climate change science, BAM 
developed and published its science-based CO2 reduction target 
(SBT) in 2019, which focusses on reducing BAM’s own emissions 
and helping other parties in the value chain to reduce their 
emissions (    page 45). 
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
18
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.3 Stakeholder engagement and material themes 
Society
By their nature, the construction and civil engineering works of 
BAM have an impact on local communities. BAM builds facilities 
which society needs, such as housing, hospitals, schools, leisure and 
industrial facilities, utilities and infrastructure. Discussion points 
differ per governmental body, but health and safety as well as 
human rights are common. Paragraph 3.2 of this report describes 
BAM’s results and provides examples of its activities for social 
involvement in 2019 . BAM’s programme on enhancing lives shows 
its ambition to increase its positive impact on local communities.
Regulators
By delivering projects, BAM is in constant contact with (local) 
government authorities about issuing permits, compliance with 
regulations and monitoring of activities. BAM is involved in many 
governmental initiatives including several Green Deals throughout 
Europe. The Group aims to engage regulators in issues such as 
health and safety management, carbon-free buildings, carbon 
impact in the infrastructure lifecycle and other sustainability 
related issues within the built environment. An example is 
platform CB23, which BAM joined in 2019, whose goal it is to 
develop and implement circular building regulations for the entire 
Dutch construction industry by 2023. 
Cross-sectoral collaboration
For BAM, stakeholder engagement is about transparancy, a 
deeper understanding of requirements and expectations and, 
ideally, future-proof partnerships in the supply chain. During 2019, 
BAM engaged in several stakeholder dialogues to address 
cross-industry trends and movements throughout the entire 
construction value chain, for example during yearly supplier days 
at different business units. 
In 2019, BAM engaged in discussions around the following 
themes: smart cities and mobility, circular economy, healthy 
urban living, lifecycle values, energy transition and digital 
construction. These themes are all societal challenges that no 
single party in the value chain can solve on its own. Tackling these 
challenges requires cross-sectoral collaboration, which can only 
be achieved if organisations and people from different sectors are 
willing and able to think, learn, communicate and collaborate 
across the boundaries that used to divide them. 
Sustainable Development Goals
BAM values alignment of its strategy with regard to the 
UN-adopted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): seventeen 
goals that serve as a roadmap to address the world’s biggest 
sustainability challenges and achieve a better and more 
sustainable future for all by 2030. BAM recognises the importance 
of the SDGs as a global agenda and believes it has a moral 
obligation to support these goals. BAM’s business potentially 
impacts all SDGs, but given the nature of its business, some have a 
more direct influence within current markets.Stakeholder engag ement
BAM recognises that real business benefits can only be achieved 
by involving all stakeholders. BAM therefore continuously engages 
with its stakeholders in all home countries and throughout all 
operating companies to understand their priorities and concerns 
through benchmarking, sector meetings, client surveys and direct 
contacts. 
The Group has defined its stakeholders as those groups which 
significantly influence or are influenced by the economic, 
environmental and social performance of BAM. 
Clients
BAM is in daily conversation with its clients about project 
expectations and projections. In addition, BAM organises client 
meetings to share knowledge, best practices and innovation 
within its value chain. Maximum value for money is of utmost 
importance to the clients and this extends beyond simply 
delivering a project at the lowest price. On all its projects, BAM 
tries to exceed clients’ sustainability expectations or to suggest an 
enhanced approach where none exists or where no targets have 
been set. 
Providers of financial capital
Communication with investors, financial institutions and the 
financial community at large is actively pursued and usually  
takes place through meetings, project visits, road shows,  
seminars, presentations, investment meetings and press  
releases. The main recurring topics of discussion are financial 
performance, transparency and control.
Employees
As part of the performance management process, personal 
learning and development plans of employees are evaluated 
annually between manager and employee. Progress to meet 
annual targets together with personal growth and career 
development are discussed. BAM has active works councils within 
the operating companies to discuss organisational changes and 
other employee related matters. Employee engagement is 
facilitated through multiple platforms such as Young BAM events, 
open collaboration days, senior management meetings and online 
surveys through BAM Panel. In those events BAM aims to share 
learnings from projects, inspire employees with new ideas and 
collect feedback on what can be improved 
(  pages 34-36).
Suppliers and subcontractors
Supply chain partners are essential to BAM and therefore the 
Company engages with almost all of its suppliers. At the project 
level, BAM is in daily conversations with its suppliers about project 
expectations and the carbon footprint of supplied goods. In 2019, 
BAM increasingly engaged with suppliers to reduce the 
environmental impact of projects by implementing lifecycle 
assessments on product level.  
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
19
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTo that end BAM has identified seven goals that fit its strategy and 
impact best:
 3 –  Good health and well-being
 4 –  Quality education
 8  –  Decent work and economic growth
 9  –  Industry, innovation and infrastructure
11 –  Sustainable cities and communities
12 –  Responsible production and consumption
13 –  Climate action
The link between BAM’s performance indicators, material themes, 
risks and the SDGs is explained in figure 4. 
Case study 
In June 2019, BAM International organised a sustainable 
development goals kick-off event. Members of its senior 
management each championed a single SDG and during the 
event they got together with employees to come up with 
objectives and initiatives per goal. BAM International has since 
implemented a number of these initiatives, such as embedding a 
carbon and waste measuring tool into its tender process and 
additional vocational training sessions on its projects. The 
development and implementation of sustainable initiatives is 
ongoing. 
The Group is exploring to organise similar events in other BAM 
operating companies and business units to ensure a dialogue 
around the SDGs with different stakeholders. In this way, the 
SDGs can be integrated with BAM’s sustainability ambtion and 
its way of working. Currently, BAM does not explicitely monitor its impact on the SDGs. 
Suitable KPIs to monitor the Company’s contribution to these goals 
will be a discussion point in the process towards a strategic agenda 
for 2021-2025.
Material themes
As part of the development of the strategic agenda for 2016-2020, 
the Group carried out a materiality assessment in which twelve 
material themes were identified. Material themes significantly 
influence BAM’s ability to create value in the short, medium and long 
term. In order to be able to update the materiality matrix, BAM 
distributed an online survey to international stakeholders across all 
six stakeholder groups, selected with support from regional business 
development contacts to determine relevant stakeholders. 
A detailed description of the twelve material themes, their impact on 
BAM and the management approach can be found in  paragraph 9.7. 
The materiality matrix (figure 3) displays the prioritisation of the 
matters based on their relative importance to BAM, to its 
stakeholders and to society. 
New themes
Compared to the previous year, BAM sent out an extended 
stakeholder survey in 2019. The Group performed an analysis and 
looked at peers in the construction industry and leading 
companies in integrated reporting to further identify relevant 
market trends. Seven topics that were considered material themes 
in other companies were selected and added to the survey. The 
materiality matrix below shows the ratio and priorisation between 
the current twelve and the seven newly identified themes. Of 
these new themes, risk management and digitalisation appear 
important and have a high impact on BAM and its stakeholders. 
Climate adaptation, business disruption and diversion and 
3 - Materiality matrixImpact on stakeholders 
The dot size represents the impact of BAM’s performance 
on society. Large dots size reﬂects high impact.
Impact on BAM
1.     Project and product quality and control
2.     Risk management
3.     Digitalisation
4.     Innovation
5.     Financial performance
6.     Employee recruitment, development and retention
7.     Health and safety
8.     Business conduct and transparency
9.     Sustainable procurement
10.   Circular economy    
11.   Climate adaption
12.   Energy and emissions
13.   Business disruption
14.   Diversion and inclusion
15.   Human rights
16.   Local community engagement
17.   Biodiversity
18.   Geopolitical events
19.   Fair tax
   
Themes strategic agenda 2016 - 2020
New themes 1918
16
1715
1413
65712109
11843
21
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
20
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management4 - Link between performance indicators, material themes, risks and SDGs
Indicator Material themes RisksSustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs)Performance 
in paragraph
Innovations in innovation funnel Innovation Innovation, IT 2.2
ROCE Financial  performanceMarket, project, financial, 
property development3.1
ROCEProject and product 
quality and controlProject, financial 3.1
Diversity of staffEmployee recruitment, 
 development and retentionReputation, people 3.2
IF BAM
Safety behaviour auditsHealth and safety People,  health and safety 3.2
Trainings on  Code of ConductBusiness conduct  and 
transparencyReputation 3.2
Number of supplier  performance  
assessmentsProcurement strategyProject,  financial, supply 
chain3.2
Number of lives enhancedLocal community 
 engagementReputation, health and 
safety3.2
Number of social audits Human rights Reputation, project 3.2
Fair distribution  of tax Fair tax Reputation, financial 3.2
Number of circular products/services 
Construction and office waste intensityCircular economy Market, sustainability 3.3
CO2 emissions intensity Energy and emissions Market, sustainability 3.3inclusion have a limited impact. Biodiversity and geopolitical 
events appear less important for BAM and its stakeholders. 
Currently, BAM does not monitor its impact on the seven new 
themes with KPIs since these are not part of its current strategic 
agenda. The prevailing twelve remain material.    
The Executive Committee was involved in the engagement process 
and the discussion on the materiality of these themes. The discussed 
approach with the Executive Committee was to specifically report on 
risk management and digitalisation since these are important for 
BAM’s long-term value creation. A detailed description of BAM’s 
approach and 2019 strategic initiatives on risk management can be 
found in  chapter 4. The approach to digitalisation can be found in 
the paragraph strategy (  pages 15, 17). 
Another main conclusion of the process was to use the outcome of 
the 2019 stakeholder engagement (nineteen identified themes) as an 
inspiration for BAM’s upcoming strategic agenda 2021-2025 process 
and the product-market combination discussions to be held in 2020. Most material themes
Stakeholders identified and prioritised the potential impact of 
(material) themes on themselves and on society. The prioritisation of 
BAM’s material themes remained very similar compared to last year.  
The most relevant theme for the client group was project and product 
quality and control. The employee group specifically indicated 
financial performance and project and product quality and control as 
the most material themes. Providers of financial capital indicated that 
BAM’s financial performance is most relevant to their organisations, in 
addition to risk management. BAM’s subcontractors and suppliers as 
well as the group representing society in general (NGOs, government 
and knowledge institutes) specifically indicated innovation and 
sustainable procurement as material themes. Additionally, the 
stakeholders were requested to introduce and assess matters that 
they felt were missing in BAM’s original materiality assessment. Topics 
raised by stakeholders included supply chain integration and 
networking economy (  pages 38-39), building information modelling 
(BIM) (  page 49) and health and well-being (  pages 31-33).
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
21
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTitel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Business performance
Upgraded railway line 
cuts journey times
Railway Aberdeen-Inverness, 
Scotland  
As part of a larger project 
to improve the rail 
connection between 
Aberdeen and Inverness, 
BAM Nuttall doubled the 
tracks between Dyce and 
Inverurie and upgraded the 
signalling system between 
Aberdeen and Huntly. In a 
fifteen-week project, over 
ten miles of new rail was 
laid across more than 
41,000 sleepers, and 
nineteen bridges on the 
line were either 
refurbished or replaced. 
These upgrades will help to 
increase services and cut 
journey times.
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
223.1  Financial performance 
Targets Performance in 2019 Progress
Return on capital employed (ROCE)* >10 per cent ROCE in 2019 amounted to 3.4 per cent (2018: 7.5 per cent).   
Key performance indicators (KPIs):
•  Return: BAM aims to get its results on projects  
into a 2 to 4 per cent range.The margin on the adjusted result before tax for 2019 
deteriorated to 1.0 per cent, compared to 2.1 at year-end 
2018.  
•  Capital employed*: increase trade working capital  
efficiency below -/- 10 per cent of revenue.The trade working capital efficiency improved to -/- 10.4 per 
cent at year-end 2019 compared to -/- 8.8 per cent at year-end 
2018.  
•  Capital employed*: reduce investment in land bank  
and property development below €500 million by 2020.BAM achieved net divestments of land bank and property 
for a total of €2 million in 2019 (2018: €5 million). 
Balance sheet value for land bank and property down to 
€531 million (2018: €564 million), including €8 million  
impairments.  
• Improve capital ratio*towards 25 per cent by 2020. Capital ratio amounted to  16.5 per cent compared to
18.5 per cent at year-end 2018.  
* Refer to 9.5 Glossary for definitions.
Management summary
The 2019 result was impacted by cost overruns on projects in 
Germany and one project in the Middle East, as announced in the 
profit warning on 8 July 2019. BAM’s performance recovered in the 
second half of 2019 and the Company realised its revised full-year 
outlook. Trade working capital efficiency improved further during 
the year. The cash position strengthened further. Steps are being 
taken to accelerate the execution of the strategic agenda in order 
to improve the future performance and predictability.
The business line Construction and Property delivered a solid 
performance in the Netherlands and strong results in the United 
Kingdom and Ireland, driven by an enforced focus on project 
execution and selective tendering. In Belgium the improving 
results in the Wallonia region and property development were 
offset by disappointing results in the Flanders Construction and 
Property business. The German performance in Construction and 
Property was very disappointing due to deteriorated results on 
large projects. 
The business line Civil engineering showed a mixed picture. 
The performance was robust in the United Kingdom, due to a mix 
of selective tendering and improved project management. Mixed 
results were visible in Belgium and Germany. Disappointing 
outcomes were recorded by BAM International and in the 
Netherlands. The effects of legislation to limit the deposition of 
nitrogen and rules regarding soil contaminated by PFAS were 
visible in this business line.5 -  Key financial results
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018
Revenue 7,209 7,208
Adjusted result before tax 74.1 153.2
Margin (%) 1.0 2.1
Result before tax 50.6 114.5
Net result attributable to the  
shareholders of the Company 11.8 23.8
Order book 12,659 12,692
Earnings per share 4 cents 9 cents
Dividend proposal 2 cents 14 cents
23
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe restructuring charge of €5 million in 2019 related to BAM Infra 
Nederland, BAM Construct UK and BAM International. Impairments 
of €18.5 million included €10.3 million for intellectual property 
following BAM’s decision to withdraw from the market for offshore 
wind foundations, as announced in the first half of the year. The 
remaining €8.2 million represents impairments and value 
adjustments on several regional land positions and a commercial 
development.
Income tax in 2019 included a non-cash impairment of €24.6 million 
(2018: €72 million) on the balance sheet deferred tax assets, related 
to the underperformance of the Dutch and German fiscal entities.
Order book
The overall order book remains relatively stable at €12,659 million. In 
Civil engineering the order book increased with €592 million, of 
which €437 million in the United Kingdom and €285 million at 
Germany, offset by several other movements. The Construction and 
Property business line showed a decrease €544 million in all 
operating countries, except the Netherlands, where a growth of 
€352 million was reported.  
The margin on the new order intake continued to improve and was 
well within the strategic target margin bandwidth of 2 per cent to 
4 per cent. Of the current order book position, €5.7 billion (2018: 
€5.9 billion) is expected to be carried out in 2020 and €7.0 billion 
(2018: €6.8 billion) in the years after. Growth is particularly noticeable 
in Civil engineering.
Earnings per share
The number of outstanding ordinary shares of the Group 
amounted to 273.3 million in 2019, which was in line with 2018. 
Earnings per share amounted to 4 euro cents (2018: 9 euro cents).
Dividend proposal
BAM’s policy is to pay out 30 to 50 per cent of the net result for the 
year, subject to considering the balance sheet structure supporting 
the strategic agenda and the interests of the shareholders. BAM’s 
net result for 2019 amounts to €11.8 million. Therefore, BAM 
proposes a dividend of 2 euro cents per ordinary share for 2019 
(2018: 14 euro cents) which equates to a payout ratio of 40 per 
cent of the net result. Subject to approval by the Annual General 
Meeting on 15 April 2020, this will be paid in cash.
Cash and cash equivalents
In 2019, the Group generated a business cash flow of €141 million 
(2018: €99 million) driven by a positive net cash result and a strong 
trade working capital improvement.
The adoption of IFRS 16 has no impact on the cash flows of the 
Company. The positive effect of the implementation on the line 
item Group net cash result was €105 million; there was a negative 
impact on the line item Investments (in)tangible assets for 
€105 million.Revenue
Revenue remained stable at €7,209 million for 2019 
(2018: €7,208) despite the reduction due to the 
de-consolidation of German Argen. 
6 - Analysis by sector
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
       Revenues        Result
2019 2018 2019 2018
Construction and 
Property 4,226 4,043 46.3 114.7
Civil engineering 3,012 3,223 3.6 19.3
Public Private 
Partnerships  (PPP)  45 35 27.2 20.2
Eliminations and 
miscellaneous (74) (93) - -
Total  7,209 7,208 77.1 154.2
Result
The adjusted result before tax for the year 2019 was impacted by the 
€94 million loss on projects in Germany and a project in the Middle 
East as announced in July, and therefore declined from €153.2 million 
to €74.1 million. This equates to an adjusted profit before tax margin 
of 1 per cent (2018: 2.1 per cent), which is in line with the revised 
outlook issued in July.
7 -  Result before tax
(x € million, unless otherwise stated) 
2019 2018
Continuing operations
Adjusted result before tax, depreciation  
and amortisation charges 233.7 223.0
Depreciation and amortisation charges (159.6) (69.8)
Adjusted result before tax 74.1 153.2
Impairment charges (18.5) (23.8)
Restructuring and other exceptional costs (5.0) (3.8)
Pension one-off - (11.1)
Result before tax 50.6 114.5
Income tax (38.7) (90.1)
Result for the year 11.9 24.4
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.6
Net result attributable to shareholders  
of the Company 11.8 23.8
24
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCash from trade working capital improved significantly due to the 
improved balance between accounts payable and accounts 
receivable, the re-start of the funding of OpenIJ and the benefit of 
advanced payments on a few new contracts. On average, BAM’s 
payment performance to suppliers was stable. 
8 -  Business cash flow
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018
Group: net cash result 137 171
Investments (in)tangible fixed assets (170) (71)
Trade working capital 177 (60)
Net investment property (1) 6
Net investment PPP 14 6
Other changes in working capital (16) 47
Business cash flow 141 99
Dividend (19) (11)
Restructuring (5) (11)
Pensions (additional) (9) (12)
Other 2 (17)
Change in cash position 110 48
Borrowings
As at 31 December 2019, total borrowings amounted to 
€583 million (2018: €343 million), of which €101 million (2018: 
€127 million) concerned non-recourse debt. Non-recourse loans 
associated with PPP projects stayed stable at €43 million (2018: 
decrease €147 million). Non-recourse debt related to property 
development decreased with €25 million in 2019 (see table 10).
As at 31 December 2019 a net cash position was achieved of 
€271 million (2018: €401 million net cash position). This position 
comprised of cash and cash equivalents of €854 million minus 
borrowings of €583 million.
The Group had two credit facilities as at 31 December 2019: 
unsecured subordinated convertible bonds for €125 million and a 
committed syndicated credit facility of €400 million. The bonds 
will be convertible into ordinary shares of BAM with a nominal 
value of €0.10 each. The bonds are subordinated to BAM’s senior 
payment obligations. The bonds will carry an annual coupon of 
3.5 per cent payable semi-annually and a conversion price of 
€4.8334. The bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount 
on or around 13 June 2021.
BAM will have the option to call all but not some of the 
outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus interest from 
28 June 2019, if the value of a BAM share exceeds for a specified 
period of time a price which is 30 per cent higher than the 
conversion price.9 -  Financial position
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018
Cash position 854 744
Financial leases - (25)
Interest-bearing debt (271) (318)
Net cash position (excl. leases) 583 401
Lease liabilities (IFRS 16 impact) (312)  
Net cash (incl. leases) 271
Shareholders’ equity 628 729
Capital base 749 847
Balance sheet total 4,540 4,578
Capital ratio 16.5% 18.5%
Capital employed 1,537 1,389
Return on average capital employed 3.4% 7.5%
The committed syndicated credit facility has a duration until 31 
March 2023 and as at 31 December 2019 the committed 
syndicated credit facility was not used, just as in 2018.
The recourse net debt, part of the recourse leverage ratio in BAM’s 
financing arrangements, mainly comprising equity bridge loans 
for PPP projects and property loans on a recourse basis minus cash 
and cash equivalents, amounted to a net cash position of €372 
million as at 31 December 2019.
10 - Borrowings
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018
Non-recourse debt
PPP 43 43
Property 54 79
Other 4 5
101 127
Subordinated convertible bonds 120 118
Recourse debt
PPP - 14
Property 50 59
Financial lease
Lease liabilities (IFRS 16 impact)-
31225
-
362 98
Borrowings 583 343
25
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCapital employed
Non-current assets
On balance, non-current assets increased in the year with €243 million 
(2018: decrease €154 million).The net capital expenditures in the year 
were higher than the annual depreciation. The carrying amount of 
property, plant and equipment decreased with €13 million to €277 
million. The majority of the capital expenditures concerned the asset 
category plant and equipment in the Civil engineering business line .
Intangible assets predominantly contains goodwill with a carrying 
amount of €380 million, an increase of €7 million compared with 
2018 due to the development of the exchange rate of the British 
pound sterling. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and this 
did not result in an impairment. 
The total carrying amount of intangible assets decreased with €8 
million, mainly due to the impairment of the capitalised development 
costs for the patented Gravity Based Foundations for offshore wind 
power. PPP receivables decreased from €85 million to €74 million in 
2019, principally due to the divestment of one project to the BAM 
PPP/ PGGM joint venture.
The carrying amounts of investments (accounted for using the equity 
method) increased in the year with €25 million (from €110 million to 
€135 million). Furthermore, other financial assets increased in the 
year with €9 million (from €101 million to €110 million).
Net working capital
Net working capital (current assets excluding cash and cash 
equivalents minus current liabilities excluding current borrowings and 
current lease liabilities) as at 31 December 2019 amounted to minus 
€830 million (2018: minus €625 million). Gross investment in property 
development was reduced with €33 million in 2019 to €531 million 
(2018: €564 million), as a consequence of property sales, divestments 
and an impairment charge of €8.2 million (2018: €21.9 million). Net 
investment in property development, taking into account associated 
borrowings, amounted to €429 million (2018: €431 million).
Shareholders’ equity and capital base
BAM’s capital ratio declined to 16.5 per cent versus 18.5 per cent at 
year-end 2018. Without the impact of IFRS 16, the capital ratio at 
year-end 2019 would have been 17.6 per cent. Next to the reported 
net income of €11.8 million, BAM distributed €36 million dividend. 
The following non-cash elements explain the other movements in 
shareholders’ equity of the Group; 
• BAM took the opportunity to further de-risk its pension 
obligations, which reduced equity by €29 million; 
• Lower interest rates had a negative impact on the valuation of 
the remaining pension liabilities of €39 million; 
• Interest rate movements had a negative effect of €31 million on 
PPP-related interest rate hedges; 
• The appreciation of the British pound had a positive effect of  
€23 million.     
Capital base includes the subordinated convertible bonds of 
€120 million (2018: €118 million). The difference between the nominal value of the convertible bonds of €125 million and the 
reported value of €5 million consists of the valuation of the 
conversion right and transaction cost.
Solvency
As at 31 December 2019 solvency was 16.5 per cent (2018: 
18.5 per cent), determined by using the capital base. The solvency 
ratio was influenced by the implementation of the Standard IFRS 16 
Leases, lowering the solvency by 1.1 per cent point.
Recourse solvency, the ratio in accordance with the bank covenants, 
slightly increased to 28.5 per cent as at 31 December 2019 (2018: 
27.0 per cent). The recourse solvency is measured at frozen IFRS 
hence no impact of IFRS 16 is measured. The recourse solvency 
comfortably exceeds the required minimum of 15 per cent.
Other balance sheet items
Post-employment benefits
The net benefit liability amounted to €29 million as at 
31 December 2019, a change of -€49 million compared to 2018. 
Principally due to changes in the discount rate and the effect of 
de-risking a part of the UK pension scheme.
Provisions
Provisions, other than post-employment benefits, increased by 
€37 million to €275 million as at 31 December 2019, 
predominantly due to the net increase of the provision in 
associates and joint ventures of €53 million.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The Group has a net deferred tax asset of €118 million (2018: €126 
million). The decrease in the deferred tax asset was predominantly 
related due to the impairment of €17 million of the Dutch fiscal 
unit and an impairment of €8 million of the German Construction 
and Property unit. On the other hand the tax rate increase in the 
Netherlands for 2020 and 2021 led to an increase of €7 million.
Assets and liabilities held for sale
The assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2019 
amounted to €9 million (2018: €9 million) for the assets and 
€0 million (2018: €0 million) for the liabilities and were fully 
attributable to one remaining property position to be transferred 
in the northeastern part of the Netherlands.
Tax
In 2019, BAM recognised a tax expense of €38.7 million (2018: 
€90.1 million). Excluding the impairment of Dutch and German 
deferred tax assets of €25 million and the non-recognition of tax 
losses of the German Construction and Property unit of 
€14.4 million, the effective tax rate of the Group for 2019 is 
14.3 per cent (2018: 15.8 per cent), influenced predominantly by the 
use of previously unrecognised tax losses.
On corporate income tax, taxes on wages, social security contributions 
and VAT, the Group paid a total amount of €849 million in 2019 (2018: 
26
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management€819 million). Relative to the Group’s revenue, the share of taxes paid 
in the Netherlands deviated most from the share of revenue. Here, the 
Group’s share of taxes was relatively high compared to revenue.
11 - Total taxes paid in 2019
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
Taxes % Revenue %
Netherlands 434 51 2,895 40
United Kingdom 217 26 1,937 27
Belgium 42 5 739 10
Germany 117 14 603 9
Ireland 20 2 816 11
Rest of the world 19 2 219 3
Total 849 100 7,209 100
Construction and Property
12 - Analysis by geography
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018
Revenues Result Revenues Result
Netherlands 1,612 65.6 1,431 47.2
United Kingdon 1,061 35.7 1,070 31.8
Belgium 445 3.9 503 4.5
Ireland 508 20.0 419 19.6
Germany 476 (57.5) 467 5.2
International 124 (21.4) 153 6.4
Other - - - -
Total  4,226 46.3 4,043 114.7
2019 2018
Result margin 1.1% 2.8%
TWC (% 4-Q rolling) -14.9% -12.3%
Order book 6,268 6,812
Revenue in Construction and Property increased by €183 million 
(5 per cent) to €4,226 million, driven by residential development 
and in the Netherlands and construction in Ireland. Revenues in the 
UK and Germany were broadly in line with 2018. Revenues in 
Belgium and for BAM International were lower due to the phasing 
of large projects.
The adjusted result before tax for 2019 declined to €46.3 million 
(2018: €114.7 million), mainly due to the project losses in the first 
half year totaling €72 million in Germany and for BAM 
International. The sector result in the second half of the year was 
€59.6 million (2018: €62.7 million).
For the year as a whole, there were strong results from the 
Netherlands, the UK and Ireland, where market conditions remained supportive despite uncertainties regarding nitrogen 
deposition, PFAS and Brexit. In the Netherlands, although pressure 
on the supply chain still exists, BAM observes a trend towards 
stabilisation. As stated in the first half-year report, the result in 
Ireland included a €6 million share of the loss at a large project in 
the Middle East, which is being executed in combination with BAM 
International. The performance in Belgium was mixed but the 
overall result improved in the second half of 2019.
The disappointing performance in Germany resulted in a loss of 
€57.5 million. In the second half of the year there were additional 
costs on projects in execution, an impairment of older claims and 
under-recovery of overhead costs. 
For BAM International, the 2019 negative result of €21.4 million 
included the loss on a large project in the Middle East and under-
recovery of overheads. Discussions with the client in the Middle East 
are ongoing, however the timing and amount of any settlement 
remain uncertain. 
Dutch home sales were up by 5 per cent to 2,593. Impairments and 
value adjustments of property positions had an effect of €8.2 million. 
This related to several regional land positions and a commercial 
development. Including these impairments, BAM’s gross investment 
in property declined by €33 million, to €531 million at the end of 
2019. Trade working capital efficiency further improved to 
-14.9 per cent, mainly driven by the Dutch residential market. 
The order book in Construction and Property declined by 8 per cent 
to €6.3 billion. The order backlog in the Netherlands increased 
strongly (+16%) on the back of continuing strong demand for new 
homes. The order books in the UK and Ireland decreased by -21 per 
cent and -28 per cent respectively. Commercial clients in the UK 
seemed more cautious due to the uncertainty related to Brexit, 
which was mitigated by BAM’s continuing success in winning 
framework agreements for future public sector projects. Last 
month, BAM Construct UK was appointed for three additional lots 
of Crown Commercial Services (CCS) frameworks, and BAM has a 
total of nine general construction lots under CCS frameworks in all 
parts of the UK. The order backlog in Ireland came down due to 
good progress on large projects. As a result of selective tendering, 
the order intake in Germany and for BAM International declined.
Bergh & Boszicht, Hilversum, the Netherlands.
27
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCivil engineering
13 - Analysis by geography
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018
Revenues Result Revenues Result
Netherlands 1,283 (17.3) 1,332 (15.3)
United Kingdom 876 23.0 843 27.0
Belgium 294 5.3 279 (0.6)
Ireland 95 (4.3) 134 5.2
Germany 340 14.1 462 7.0
International 128 (17.2) 177 (4.0)
Other (4) - (4) -
Total  3,012 3.6 3,223 19.3
2019 2018
Result margin 0.1% 0.6%
TWC (% 4-Q rolling) (4.5%) (4.6%)
Order book 6,382 5,790
Revenue in Civil engineering declined by 3 per cent to €3,012 million, 
adjusted for the deconsolidation of the German Argen at the end of 
2018, which reduced Group revenue by €117 million.
The adjusted result before tax was €3.6 million (2018: €19.3 million). 
This includes additional costs of €22 million in the first half of 2019, 
relating to a large civil engineering project in Germany which is being 
executed in joint venture with BAM Infra Nederland. The sector result 
in the second half of the year was €22.7 million (second half of 2018: 
€27.1 million).
The performance of the Dutch civil engineering activities was, from a 
financial result point of view, disappointing. During 2019, the result 
on several larger and mid-sized projects deteriorated, and there was 
an under-recovery of overheads. BAM is involved in ongoing 
discussions with public sector clients aimed at achieving an 
improvement in the risk/reward balance of future projects. Until this 
is resolved, BAM will be cautious to tender for large projects where its 
share would be above €150 million. During the fourth quarter of 
2019, the loss provision on OpenIJ reduced by approximately 
€4.0 million to a total loss for the year of €4.1million (2018: loss of 
€31.8 million). The second caisson was immersed successfully in 
October 2019, which was an important step in de-risking this project, 
which is now 80 per cent complete. 
In the United Kingdom, BAM Nuttall delivered a good result including 
a stronger performance in the second half of the year as expected. 
During 2019, the contribution of Germany improved substantially. 
This was based on a satisfactory performance in the second half of 
the year in combination with a partial compensation for the extra 
costs of the loss-making project mentioned in July and a claim 
settlement. Belgium benefited from an improvement of results on some larger projects. In Ireland, the civil market remains competitive.
The loss in BAM International’s civil engineering activities of 
€17.2 million related predominantly to a substantial under-
recovery of overhead costs and a claim reversal on a completed 
project. BAM International is implementing measures to 
structurally lower the cost base and to focus on nearshore marine 
projects with a favourable risk/reward profile. 
Year-on-year, the trade working capital efficiency slightly 
deteriorated from -4.6 per cent to -4.5 per cent.
The order book in Civil engineering increased by 10 per cent to 
€6.4 billion. This was mainly due to the award of two tunnel 
projects, which are being executed collaboratively by several 
operating companies. The overall strong order intake in the UK led 
to an increase of 17 per cent and a total order backlog in the UK of 
almost €3 billion. The order book in Ireland also improved during 
the year. The order backlog of BAM Infra Nederland declined by 
€300 million (14%) as a consequence of more selective tendering. 
The order backlog in Belgium remained stable.  
New motorway bypass Couvin, Belgium.
28
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementWith construction completed in 2001, Crawley Schools is 
one of BAM’s earliest school schemes comprising the 
design, construction, operation, maintenance and 
financing of a series of schools. Accommodating a total of 
4,000 pupils, the scheme comprises three secondary 
school facilities in neighbouring communities in Crawley, 
United Kingdom.
In all three schools, BAM Facility Management is 
responsible for operating the schools on a 30-year 
contract. The head teachers of the schools are pleased 
with BAM’s services. 
Philip Stack, Head Teacher at Oriel High School: ‘I can 
state without any hesitation whatsoever that the PFI 
contract works exceptionally well and is not considered a 
‘drain’ on resources. Visitors often comment upon the high 
standard of our building and the manner in which it is 
maintained. Private finance initiatives have had a poor 
representation in the media, but as is often the case, the 
reality is somewhat different. We could not be happier 
with the service provided by BAM. To not have to be 
concerned with building and grounds maintenance is very 
refreshing and allows me and my team to focus on the 
quality of teaching and learning and the overall experience 
for our students and staff.’
‘We are very happy with having a lovely learning 
environment for students’, says  Rob Corbett, Head 
Teacher at Ifield Community. ‘The cost is largely met by 
the local authorities, who are the partners in the contract. 
There are clear expectations of the facilities management 
company and they maintain the building to a high 
standard. This means, essentially, I can concentrate on 
ensuring good teaching without the headaches that 
managing a school site can bring.’
Maintaining buildings to 
a high standardPPP
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018
PBT 27.2 20.2
Invested equity 80 75
Number of operational projects 40 38
Projects under construction 9 8
Preferred bidder stage 0 1
Total number of PPP projects 49 47
BAM PPP delivered a strong performance, with an adjusted result before 
tax of €27.2 million (2018: €20.2 million), coming mostly from the 
existing portfolio and including three project refinancing transactions. 
One project was transferred to the joint venture with PGGM. 
Two new projects were added to the portfolio in 2019, with the 
financial close of the Cross River Rail project in Australia and the 
Silvertown Tunnel project in the United Kingdom. The M11 Gorey 
Enniscorthy scheme in Ireland and the A94 Isen Valley motorway in 
Germany were completed ahead of schedule. At the end of 2019, 
BAM PPP had 40 operational projects and nine under construction. 
The portfolio also provides recurring operations and maintenance 
revenues of approximately €150 million per year for other BAM 
companies.
At year-end 2019, shareholders’ equity invested by BAM PPP totalled 
€80 million (2018: €75 million). BAM PPP invested €16 million of 
equity in the year and transferred €11 million to the BAM PPP/PGGM 
joint venture in 2019. 
BAM PPP discloses the unrealised value of the shareholder cash flows in 
different scenarios. This will be disclosed on an annual basis and 
replaces the directors’ valuation published in the past 
(2018: €75 million).
The portfolio value is based on the discounted expected shareholder 
equity cash flows. These cash flows include dividends, interest and 
principal repayments. A sensitivity analysis of BAM PPP’s shareholder 
cash flows at different discount rates is presented in the table below, 
adjusted for expected equity divestments to joint venture partners. 
BAM PPP’s business activities (bidding, operations and asset 
management) and gains on transfers are not included.   
14 - Sensitivity analysis
Unrealised value BAM PPP
Discount ratePortfolio 
valuation Book valueUnrealised 
value € million
11% 149 80 69
9% 172 80 92
7% 202 80 122
5% 242 80 162
29
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementManagement summary
BAM aims to prevent all accidents, however, the IF (incident 
frequency BAM employees at risk on projects) target was not 
achieved in 2019. BAM regrets the two fatalities in 2019 on its 
projects. The Company is also fully aware that safety does not 
stop at the gate of projects, as demonstrated by the shocking 
news of two colleagues (brothers) who died in a tragic traffic 
accident while travelling to work.
BAM is working hard to foster a genuine and strong safety 
leadership culture within senior management. ‘Your Safety is My 
Safety’, BAM’s ongoing safety campaign, aims at zero accidents, 
which can only be achieved through a joint approach and 
responsibility at all sites, at home, while travelling to work and in 
the offices. 
One of the areas of attention is to learn from accidents and 
near-miss situations that have occurred and to take corrective 
actions to prevent repetition. Learning from best practices and 
positive developments also helps people to react to similar 
situations in the future. Accident investigations are a crucial 
learning tool. Workplaces with positive pro-safety attitudes carry 
out similar investigation to near-miss cases  as they do for actual 
accidents. Furthermore, BAM expects to increase the focus on 
mental health related matters in the future.
BAM also targets social performance in other parts of the 
business, highlighted by its leadership programmes, the updated 
code of conduct and improved reporting on enhancing lives 
activities. BAM can improve its monitoring of human rights (via 
social audits) and other social aspects in its supply chain.Social value for BAM 
BAM’s activities have an impact on local communities, occupants 
and other users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a 
whole. BAM aims to create sustainable environments that 
enhance people’s lives. This chapter describes how all social 
subjects are interrelated and how BAM actively collaborates with 
all stakeholders to create long-term (social) value. Health and 
safety is the most important element of the Company’s social 
performance: every employee should be able to return home safe 
every day. This requires excellent performance from all employees 
and supply chain partners on thousands of construction sites 
every day. The construction supply chain is increasingly complex 
and fragmented and needs active collaboration to manage 
responsible supply chain management, human rights and ethical 
business conduct. The Group increases intellectual capital and 
human capital by investing in its employees and in the 
development of the supply chain. BAM recognises the importance 
of Groupwide development and implementation of its talent 
strategy, based on BAM’s organisational development and 
strategic objectives. The positive legacy to society is increasingly 
important and is reflected in the programme for enhancing lives: 
making a real and positive difference to the lives of people with 
whom BAM comes into contact through its work. Ambition: to offer added value to clients, employees, business partners and the community
Targets Performance in 2019 Progress
• Fully incorporate safety in daily activities to achieve a  
    BAM incident frequency (IF BAM) of ≤ 3.8 for 2019.IF BAM of 4.8 (2018: 4.2).   
• Leadership development programme for top business 
management in 2019.The Accelerated Leadership programme was developed in 
2019. The kick-off will be held early 2020.  
• Olympus: project management development programme 
for top project managers in 2019.Also in 2019 the Olympus leadership programme was 
organised for three new groups. Since the start of the 
programme in 2017, 161 project directors have participated in 
this leadership journey.  
• Enhance one million lives in local communities by 2020. In 2019, BAM started to report against a new set of ‘enhancing 
lives’ activities, focussing on quality over quantity. The Group 
has reported nearly 430,000 enhanced lives so far, but 
verifying and understanding this number remains a challenge.  3.2 Social performance
30
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementHealth and safety
Creating the right environment for knowledge-sharing and 
scalable learning throughout BAM’s supply chain is most 
important to reach the Group’s safety targets. 
This is done by: 
Developing leadership and behaviour by carrying out safety behaviour 
audits (SBAs) 
Every operating company has to organise at least one SBA per 
year. The number of safety-related activities per operating 
company is based on turnover (one per €350 million, rounded up) 
and performance. The worse the result on the lagging indicator 
(incident frequency: IF), the more control is needed and the more 
SBAs will be planned. Across the Group, fifteen SBAs took place 
in 2019. 
An SBA consists of the following steps:
• Assessment (audit);
• Interview, assessment of records and compliance analysis 
 on site;
• Close-out and final score;
• Report;
•  Improvement plan with actions and areas that require special 
attention;
• Benchmarking and sharing outcome.
Rewarding excellence
Safety behaviour audits (SBAs) will make excellence count and 
reward (safety) innovations. By disclosing the results through the 
safety portal, safety excellence becomes visible to other operating 
companies with an emphasis on continuous improvement within 
organisations and throughout the Group. 
SBA scores focus on three areas: safe environment, management 
system and site conditions. In 2019, overall SBA performance 
slightly improved to 73 per cent (2018: 72 per cent). 
Excellent performance in leading and lagging indicators (IF) in 
operating companies will result in less control by Royal BAM 
Group’s SBAs, but should increase commitment to share 
excellence performance by organising a safety exchange. 
Recognition of performance by carrying out safety exchanges (SEs) 
SEs or safety reviews are a peer reviews and focus on creating a 
debate aimed at challenging and learning (themes from the 
maturity model). It is a dialogue between two operating 
companies who have to develop best practices together. This will 
result in a customised knowledge exchange. Across the Group, six 
SEs took place in 2019. 
Strengthening BAM’s (safety) culture supported by uniform safety 
communication processes, methods and channels 
In 2019, BAM continued its global safety campaign ‘Your Safety is 
My Safety’ for all employees, which was launched in 2018.Safety exc hange 
proc ess
Determine
visitor and host
by CSOAppointme nt of
champion to
organise exchange 
Purpose, agenda
and out comes 
agreed b y par ticipants   Visitors should be 
operational but yet 
inﬂuential colleagues
Hosts should be
the ‘believers’
Follow-up
will be monitoredShort and simple 
report. Outcomes will 
be shared widely15 - Safety exchange process focusses on a debate for challenging     
        and learning.  
Improving the safety performance: IF < 3.5 in 2020 
BAM’s IF (incident frequency) is determined by the total number of 
industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million hours 
worked on construction sites (all BAM site employees on own work 
and joint ventures on risk). In 2019, IF increased to 4.8 (2018: 4.2), 
which is above the 2019 target of 3.8. 
This safety approach is established to keep safety on top of 
everyone’s mind and to meet strategic targets. 
31
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMaking safety 
more personal
In the follow-up to the global campaign ‘Your Safety is My 
Safety’, 2019 saw the launch of the safety conversation. All 
employees, from all project locations and offices 
worldwide, were invited to start conversations about 
safety with colleagues within their teams, but also with 
clients and subcontractors. 
To guide the conversations, a set of cards was developed 
to suggest statements and questions about a variety of 
safety themes, such as: What are your positive and 
negative experiences with safety? How do we keep each 
other safe each and every day? Good practices  
Sharing and learning across the Group  
BAM Nuttall supports Time to Talk Day, which was held in February 
2019. During this day everyone was encouraged to have a 
conversation about mental health. BAM Nuttall wants everyone who 
works there to feel they can be open about their mental health and 
ask for support if they need it. The operating company also has 
mental health and well-being champions and an employee assistance 
programme (EAP) which is available at any time. The EAP gives advice/
support by telephone and one-to-one sessions with a trained 
counsellor.
In 2019, BAM DLP, the business unit that supervises all soil 
decontamination work for BAM Infra Nederland, became the first 
organisation to be awarded the 5th step of the Dutch Safety Culture 
Ladder. Step 5 means that safety is fully integrated into all business 
processes and embedded in the thinking and actions of all employees; 
safety is second nature to them.
BAM International completes a global, safety related survey every 
year. Most organisations limit themselves to objective assessments, 
while BAM International realises that subjective indicators can provide 
valuable information that, when used effectively, can continuously 
improve the company. The key element of the survey (and its results) 
is to provide an insight into company perceptions and subsequently to 
target areas they can improve.
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (EU-OSHA) has 
commended BAM in Ireland for its innovative approach to successfully 
tackling the risks posed by dangerous substances as part of its 14th 
Good Practice Awards competition. These awards recognise 
organisations with an outstanding commitment to occupational 
health and safety and promote practices that protect workers and 
boost productivity.
Global safety campaign for all BAM employees
In June 2018, BAM launched the global safety campaign ‘Your Safety is 
My Safety’ for all employees. A year later, a follow-up of this campaign 
was launched with the following purposes: to increase awareness of 
safety in general, to further strengthen the shared responsibility that 
came from ‘Your Safety is My Safety’ and to start conversations on 
safety. These conversations are aimed at making people aware of 
safety and encouraging them to make their own workplace even 
safer.
The people waiting at home (family, friends, partners) played an 
important role in the introduction video, which mainly showed why 
safety is so important: getting back safely to the people that wait for 
us at home. To easily start conversations, a set of cards named ‘Safety 
Conversation Starters’ were distributed to all operating companies. 
These cards contain statements and questions about a variety of 
safety themes. 
BAM teams in offices and at project sites held safety conversations in 
their own teams to discuss a variety of safety themes and filling in 
action lists with improvement points. 
32
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementWorldwide BAM Safety Day  
On 8 October 2019, it was Worldwide BAM Safety Day, organised 
for the tenth time. The aim of this specific day in the year is to 
reflect together on the importance of a safe working environment 
to improve employees’ awareness. 
This year’s Safety Day focussed on ‘making safety more personal’ 
by conducting a safety conversation. It is important to talk with  
each other – with colleagues, but also with family – about safety, 
every day, year in, year out. Management, office workers, welders, 
construction workers, crane operators – everyone shares the 
same responsibility, and everyone can improve safety in the 
offices or on construction sites in their own way. That is why 
everyone was invited to start safety conversations on a regular 
basis. Worldwide Safety Day kicked off with a video in which the 
members of the Executive Committee had a safety conversation 
with each other.   
Serious accidents
BAM is highly committed to prevent all incidents and feels 
responsible for all people who are involved in or are influenced by 
the activities of the Group. This includes employees, clients, 
partners, suppliers, subcontractors and members of the public. 
BAM regrettably had to report two fatal occupational accidents 
on BAM sites. These were extensively evaluated with the Executive 
Committee. Furthermore, the number of serious accidents (BAM 
employees, hired, subcontractors’ employees, or other) is 143 in 
2019 (2018: 121). An accident is classified as serious when an 
employee is admitted to hospital for more than 24 hours or results 
in electrocution (with enter and exit mark on the body), 
amputation or a fracture. 
Setting minimum health management requirements
More insidious than the fatal and serious occupational accidents is 
the number of employees with a health damage or a long-term 
illness that has been caused or worsened at work. Many of these 
diseases manifest themselves only years after exposure and many 
are ultimately deadly. BAM believes that all injuries, deaths and 
illnesses should be prevented. BAM is in the process of setting 
minimum health management requirements. Within ENCORD 
(Europe’s forum for industry-led research, development and 
innovation in the construction industry) the Group has put 
research and development in the field of quartz dust and asbestos 
inhalation, diabetes and skin cancer on the agenda.16 - Incident frequency (IF BAM) by country
(x 1 million worked hours)
051015202530
2015 2017 2018 2019 2016
 Belgium  17.6 ( lost days: 1,603)
 Germany  9.3 (lost days: 1,623)
 Netherlands  6.5 (lost day s 3,749)
 United Kingdom  2.2 (lost days 1,954)
 Ireland  0.6 (lost days 811)
 Rest of the world 0.6  (lost days 202)
 Total, consolidated  4.8 (lost days 9,942)
Within BAM we still see a large spread in safety maturity. The safety 
performance in Belgium and Germany is relatively low but improving. 
Saftety conversations and safety exchanges aim to strengthen safety 
leadership (‘we really, honestly care’) and encourage people to make 
a personal visible difference on safety behauviour in our day-to-day 
business (‘Your Safety is My Safety’).
33
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management13 March 2019 - Hollandse Hout
10,000 trees – new mixed forest with deciduous trees, such as 
oak, birch, maple and beech. 
27 November 2019 - Houten
10,000 trees – a mix of deciduous trees to replace a large 
number of ash trees which got sick and died due to a fungus.  Arno Kampstra,  IT Process Manager , came with his 3.5-year 
old son Fintan. ‘I fully support this beautiful initiative to help 
preserve the planet. It felt good to do my bit in reducing CO2 by 
planting some of these trees with my son. However young he is, 
I want him to know about the importance of it and I always enjoy 
spending quality time with him.’ 
Organisational development and employee 
engagement 
 
From a human resources perspective, ‘Building the present, creating 
the future’ requires harmonised and modern ways of working, 
standardised and automated processes across all operating 
companies, leveraging self-service and a platform that provides 
(predictive) people analytics and reporting and also supports 
employees in development programmes. BAM wants to have a safe 
and engaging environment and a talented workforce, and aims to 
become the employer of choice in its key markets so that BAM can 
enhance the life of employees and everyone around BAM.  
BAM People
This is the new employee portal within BAM, which is now live in the 
Netherlands. In 2019 the project was redesigned to an agile approach 
with a Company-wide implementation scheduled in 2020 for all other 
operating companies. BAM People contributes to the achievement of 
BAM’s strategy through uniform processes, digital collaboration and 
unambiguous reports.
BAM Learning
This online learning tool went live in the Netherlands. Via BAM 
Learning, employees have access to all trainings available. They 
can select a training based on their needs, and after approval from 
their manager attend the training. The tool will be rolled out in 
the United Kingdom, Ireland, Belgium and Germany during 2020. 
BAM Panel
BAM is fully embracing digital ways of working, not just for its clients 
but also for its employees. Via a rotating panel approach a 
standardised set of questions is sent out periodically. Outcomes are available in real time in an online dashboard. With 
smart analytics and algorithms BAM aims to predict the future 
development of its employees and use these insights to improve the 
most important people-related KPIs. 
European Works Council
In 2019, BAM’s European Works Council (EWC) was fully involved in 
various transnational decision-making processes. Several EWC 
meetings took place on the One BAM governance decisions for staff 
functions HR, IT, Finance and Procurement (   page 18). The EWC 
recommendations contributed to sound decision-making.  
Recruitment
BAM strives to diversify its workforce and find potential talent with 
different capabilities, various degrees of experience and different 
genders, age, nationalities and cultural backgrounds. Together, they 
can help BAM to mirror its client base and execute its strategic 
agenda. 
Through the recruitment website www.bamcareers.com and 
recruitment campaigns, BAM continues to target talent and to 
maintain its position as the employer of choice in a scarce labour 
market. 
Diversity and inclusion
BAM is a purpose-driven business that enhances people’s lives 
through the work it does. This begins with its employees. BAM wants 
everyone to feel included, valued and respected and to have access 
to equal opportunities to succeed, regardless of social/cultural 
backgrounds or personal circumstances. BAM recognises that 
diversity and inclusion make a business stronger by driving 
innovation, performance and improving the engagement of their 
stakeholders by reflecting the communities in which they work.
34
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementOpen Collaboration Day
BAM held the fifth edition of Open Collaboration Day in 
May 2019. The theme for this edition was ‘diversity and 
inclusion’. 
How do you create a safe workplace for yourself and 
others? How do you ensure that everyone feels a sense of 
belonging? And how often do we allow ourselves to still be 
guided by prejudices? Finding answers to these questions, 
together with inspiring internal and external key speakers, 
was the aim of Open Collaboration Day. Around 125 
employees from all levels in the organisation participated 
actively in the discussions. The sixth edition took place in 
October. 
Open Collaboration Day is an initiative of Young BAM, 
conceived after a trip that Young BAM members took to 
investigate how BAM’s key values are viewed in different 
BAM countries. During this trip they experienced the 
importance of sharing and connecting. Now the twice-a-
year event focusses on thinking, discussing, and acting 
across borders, teams or any other kind of segmentation. 
It is about bringing people together and sharing views.  
BAM’s inclusive approach means that all stakeholders are treated 
with fairness, dignity and respect. The Company aims to avoid being 
adversely influenced or prejudiced in any way by an individual’s age, 
gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, race, colour, 
ethnic origin, sexual orientation, disability (physical or mental), 
religion or belief, working patters, caring responsibilities, pregnancy 
or trade union membership. 
2019 has seen significant strides to accelerate the depth of inclusion 
considered in the business. BAM has appointed a Director Diversity 
and Inclusion to implement consistent practices across the 
businesses that support equality and remove both personal and 
organisational bias. 
Mental health
BAM is committed to supporting, promoting and maintaining the 
mental and physical health and well-being of its employees through 
training and workplace practices, and encouraging individuals to 
take responsibility for their own mental health and wellbeing. An 
education programme has been introduced and will be rolled out in 
all operating companies. 
Mental health support for employees is provided through a number 
of ways including company doctors, employee assistance 
programmes, telephone, one-to-one and on-line counselling, mental 
health first aiders, line managers and HR. Levels of engagement and 
success are measured through surveys, absence rates, external 
awards and accreditations, resignations and employee turnover, 
ill-health/early retirements, insurance claims and data analytics. 
Critical incident supporting and counselling will be made available to 
all operating companies. Some operating companies additionally 
offer flexible working to support the work/life balance, two 
well-being days and a volunteering day.
Women in Construction Award
Jessica Rigley, Area Staff Manager at BAM International, won the 
coveted Women in Leadership category at the Women in 
Construction Awards. The judges commended her for over 20 
years of experience in leading more than 200 staff and her 
pioneering role as a woman in HSE, which involved the 
development of an online HSE monitoring system, among other 
achievements. 
35
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementLearning and development
Over the past year BAM delivered two business leadership 
programmes that were developed in 2018 to complement the 
existing project management programmes Olympus and Everest: 
the Enterprise Leaders programme for directors and managers 
and the Future Leaders programme for young professionals 
identified as talent with management potential. Both 
programmes were launched in 2018 and continued in 2019. Two 
groups of 20 participants each completed the Enterprise 
Leadership programme and a third group started its journey in 
October 2019. For the Future Leaders, programme the fourth 
cohort was launched. 
For the top leaders within BAM, 2019 saw the development of the 
Accelerated Leadership programme, which will be kicked off in 
early 2020. One of the fundaments of the programme is the 
Leadership Compass, a set of attitudes and behaviours to establish 
common leadership and culture, aligned with the One BAM 
values. The programme is developed to accelerate purpose-driven 
and collective leadership with the most senior leaders and to lead 
the business aligned to BAM’s strategy as well as to develop a 
mindset that stimulates personal growth and continuous 
improvement.
The Olympus programme has continued in 2019 and since the 
start in 2017 a total of 161 project managers and tender managers 
involved in large and complex projects have participated. In all 
business leaders programmes, blended personal coaching is an 
integrated part of the journey and beyond.
The Everest programme, a complementary programme for 
project managers of less complex projects, also continued in 
2019: the eighth cohort of 21 project managers started the 
programme in the Netherlands. In 2020, the Everest programme 
will be made available across the Group and will facilitate the 
development of all those involved in project management. 
Participants of the Enterprise Leaders programme for 
directors and managers.
17 - Female/male employees by region 
(in % of total employees) 
2019 2018
Netherlands 13/87 13/87
United Kingdom 26/74 26/74
Belgium 12/88 13/87
Germany 23/77 22/78
Ireland 22/78 21/79
Rest of the world 6/94 7/93
18 - Employees per gender by employment type 
(in %) 
  
 2019  2018  2019  2018
Full-time 93 94 57 58
Part-time 7 6 43 42
19 - Employees per employment contract by gender in 2019 
(in %) 
 Permanent contract Temporary contract
90 10
93 7
20 - Employees per employee category by gender in 2019 
(in %) 
Senior 
managementMiddle 
managementOperational 
staff
8 12 18
92 88 82
21 - Employees by age group 
(in %) 
Age group 2019 2018
<20 1 1
20-29 13 14
30-39 23 24
40-49 25 25
50-59 27 26
60-64 9 10
65> 2 -
36
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBAM supported International Women’s Day via social media. 
Many colleagues from all around the world participated in this 
campaign, underlining BAM’s belief that diverse teams at all levels 
make the Company stronger by the different perspectives that 
diversity brings. 
Adam Harding, member of BAM’s Diversity Steering Group:  
‘The theme for this year’s International Women’s Day was ‘a 
better balance, a better world’. A better balance also means a 
better construction industry and a better BAM. We want to 
improve the balance in our company, because we want to be 
better equipped to meet the challenges ahead in society and to 
design, build and manage sustainable buildings that will serve 
people’s needs in the future. Within the construction and 
Support for International Women’s Day
property services industry, the proportion of women – at about 
14 per cent – is far too low. We want to harness the creativity 
we can achieve with different ideas and views in our business.’
17 - Female/male employees by region 
(in % of total employees) 
2019 2018
Netherlands 13/87 13/87
United Kingdom 26/74 26/74
Belgium 12/88 13/87
Germany 23/77 22/78
Ireland 22/78 21/79
Rest of the world 6/94 7/93
18 - Employees per gender by employment type 
(in %) 
  
 2019  2018  2019  2018
Full-time 93 94 57 58
Part-time 7 6 43 42
19 - Employees per employment contract by gender in 2019 
(in %) 
 Permanent contract Temporary contract
90 10
93 7
20 - Employees per employee category by gender in 2019 
(in %) 
Senior 
managementMiddle 
managementOperational 
staff
8 12 18
92 88 82
21 - Employees by age group 
(in %) 
Age group 2019 2018
<20 1 1
20-29 13 14
30-39 23 24
40-49 25 25
50-59 27 26
60-64 9 10
65> 2 -22 - Average hours of training per employee  
(in hours)
2015 2014 2016 2017 2019 201816
16
10152025
Annual total compensation by country
In 2019, the annual total compensation ratios improved in most 
countries of operation. This indicates that the gap between the 
highest paid individual and the average annual total compensation 
for all employees decreased. The relatively high ratio for BAM’s 
international business can be explained by the fact that Dutch 
management members work together with local workforce. BAM 
International’s figures are relatively volatile due to the difference in 
salary standards at the project locations/areas.
23 - Annual total compensation by country  
2019 2018
Ratio of percentage
Increase ratio ratio
Netherlands  4% 13 12
United Kingdom 9% 7 6
Belgium  -3% 3 3
Germany 5% 5 5
Ireland 4% 7 6
Rest of the world -39% 16 27Business conduct and transparency  
Doing things right .Code of Conduct
BAM is committed to being an ethical company and to live up to 
the highest standards of honesty and integrity in the way it does 
business with clients, suppliers and within BAM. BAM’s Code of 
Conduct and underlying policies were updated in 2019 in close 
collaboration with all operating companies to make it more 
robust, more up-to-date with current global standards and better 
aligned with the One BAM culture initiative. ‘Doing things right’ is 
the central theme of the updated Code of Conduct. This means 
that the code gives guidelines to do the right thing and remain 
true to the BAM core values. Living the Code of Conduct 
contributes to a safe, ethical and sustainable culture and protects 
the future of BAM. New employees must sign a statement in 
which they acknowledge to comply with this code as part of their 
employment contract with BAM. 
The updated Code of Conduct was communicated with employees 
via local management. An e-learning tool is used to train 
employees on the code. The training, available in English, German, 
French and Dutch, is mandatory for new white-collar BAM 
employees. The e-learning tool was rolled out in November 2019 
and approximately 50 per cent of the approached employees had 
finalised the training at year-end. The aim is to achieve 95 per cent 
completeness of the e-learning in the first quarter of 2020. 
Progress is closely monitored and reported to management. 
BAM’s blue-collar employees are trained by so-called toolbox 
meetings. BAM strongly believes in a targeted approach for the 
different working groups to achieve optimum understanding and 
adaptation.
37
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFurthermore, BAM has a robust speak-up process, including an 
independent speak-up line to report suspicions of misconduct. 
All reported suspicions of misconduct have been assessed and 
where needed sanctions have been taken up to and including 
dismissal. Reported cases dealt with issues such as inappropriate 
use of company assets, equal treatment and privacy breaches (of 
which a number needed to be reported to the external local 
privacy authorities). 
BAM has set up an Ethics & Compliance Committee to support the 
Executive Committee and the operating companies with the 
compliance programme, actual compliance matters and remedial 
actions and to ensure consistency across the Group. Reported 
suspicions of misconduct are discussed on a quarterly base with 
the Executive Committee and every six months with the Audit 
Committee. Furthermore, on a yearly basis the effectiveness of 
the management approach is assessed and improvement 
activities are captured in the operating plan of the Governance, 
Risk and Compliance (GRC) function.
Corruption Perception Index
The Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is calculated annually by 
Transparency International, which focusses on the strict 
application of the UN Convention against Corruption. The CPI 
classifies countries according to their perceived level of corruption 
on a scale from 0 to 100.  BAM mainly operates in Europe, which 
explains the overall score. BAM obtains main turnover in countries 
with a very low or low risk of corruption.
24 - Revenue according to Corruption Perception Index  
(in %)
Very low risk
CPI >80Low risk
80≥ CPI >60Average risk
60≥ CPI >40High risk
40≥ CPI >20Very high risk
CPI ≤20154257
0 01
161718 15161718 15161718 15161718 1516171801020304050607080
19 19 19 19 19Human rights 
BAM has integrated its policy to protect human rights in the 
Code of Conduct. In addition, BAM underwrites the importance 
of the International Finance Corporation, in particularly with 
regard to labour and working conditions and the promotion of 
sound worker-management relationships. BAM believes that by 
treating its workers fairly and providing them with an extensive 
safety programme on site, avoiding discrimination in 
employment, not using child labour, paying fair wages, giving 
attention to education and training, creating healthy and decent 
working conditions, this creates tangible benefits, such as 
enhancement of efficiency and productivity of its business. 
In 2006, BAM and the international federation Building and 
Wood Worker’s International (BWI), signed a framework 
agreement to promote and protect employee rights. As part of 
‘doing things right’ and taking responsibility, BAM facilitates BWI 
in visiting projects to audit local working conditions on human 
right practices. The aim is to agree a new framework agreement 
with BWI in the first quarter of 2020. The process of reaching 
new agreements with BWI takes place as much as possible in 
collaboration with the Netherlands Association of International 
Contractors (NABU). 
As part of the agreement with BWI, BAM targets to perform one 
social audit on an international project every year. In 2019, no 
social audit was performed. However, at the invitation of BAM, 
BWI paid a visit to BAM’s head office to get further acquainted 
and discuss the terms of a new framework agreement. BAM is 
aware that it needs to enforce its commitment in organising 
these social audits to make sure the target is reached in 2020.
Combatting slavery
BAM is committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking 
throughout its operations and those associated with its business. 
Modern slavery is also a key issue for BAM and its supply chains. 
BAM is partner member of the Supply Chain Sustainability School 
(www.supplychainschool.co.uk) where help and advice is freely 
available to assist suppliers within the construction industry. 
Combatting slavery is not a stand-alone issue, but one that is 
part of BAM’s approach to ensure that people are met with 
dignity and respect, that goods and services are purchased 
responsibly, that transparency is promoted and that business is 
done with the highest professional and ethical standards. With 
its speak-up procedure, BAM has an adequate whistleblowing 
process, which encourages to report on all suspicions of 
misconduct.
Supply chain management
BAM is involved in many stages of the construction value chain, 
from development, engineering and construction to maintenance 
and operation. Suppliers are essential to BAM. Their knowledge, 
people and other resources provide more than 70 per cent of 
BAM’s turnover which BAM brings as value to its clients. 
38
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementLarense Veld – gasless future
BAM Wonen has completed 51 homes in the popular 1930s 
style in the first phase of the Larense Veld project in Almere 
Haven, the Netherlands. Fully ready for a gasless and 
energy-efficient future, all homes use a combination of a 
heat pump and solar panels to generate heat and electric 
power. Together with top-level insulation, smart ventilation 
and underfloor heating this makes the homes energy-
neutral, with a 0.0 energy performance coefficient. Further 
measures in some of the homes make them fully net zero. 
Prospective buyers were invited to visit BAM’s experience 
centre Homestudios to receive advice and inspiration for 
the finishing style of their new homes. Personal home 
advisors were available to assist them on their journey to 
creating the home of their dreams and if they so desired, 
ensure turnkey delivery. 
Amanda van Wijk, one of the 
new residents: ‘With only 
drawings to go on, we found it 
very difficult to envisage our new 
home. It was a big help therefore 
to be able to actually experience 
different options at 
Homestudios. Our personal 
advisor has been with us from 
the start of the process right through to the final details. 
Working with Homestudios has been very inspirational. We 
have even included some of the examples in the model 
homes into our new home. We are very happy with the end 
result. It’s been sheer luxury that as a family with two 
children, all we had to after receiving the key was move in 
our own furniture!’ Homestudios for advice 
and inspiration
Large supply categories for BAM include concrete works, steel 
construction, mechanical and electrical engineering and façades. 
All of these are typically sourced from preferred suppliers close to 
the sites. 
BAM’s supply chain management is primarily focussed on 
incentivisation and changing supplier behaviour. The Group aims 
to increase sustainability awareness and continiously looks for 
opportunities to jointly improve sustainability performance of 
both BAM and its suppliers. These processes primarily take place 
through procurement on Group and local project level, where 
BAM tries to reduce the environmental impact of products and 
the carbon footprint of supplied goods both in the supply chain 
and daily operations. In 2019, BAM increasingly engaged with 
suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of its projects by 
implementing life cycle assessments on product level – for 
example on several infrastructural tenders in the Netherlands. 
A 2019 example of supply chain engagement at Group level is the 
quarterly engagement with BAM’s preferred car leasing company 
in the Netherlands. BAM’s vehicle fleet accounts for 29 per cent of 
BAM’s direct CO2 emissions. In line with BAM’s science-based 
target, the company has the ambition to further increase the 
share of electric vehicles in the vehicle fleet. As a result of this 
engagement, the amount of electric vehicles within BAM 
quadrupled from 45 (January 2018) to 180 (January 2019).
Additionally, BAM completed the roll-out of a spend-and-contract 
tool (Bravo), which enables the Company to have a global 
overview of all suppliers and subcontractors. Within Bravo, 
supplier and subcontractor performance is measured based on 
questions that are grouped in themes such as safety, quality, 
commercial, sustainability and future business. Evaluators score 
on a predefined scale and are able to leave comments as well. The 
end result is a score per supplier or subcontractor per project. This 
score is an indicator to see if action towards the supplier or 
subcontractor is needed. A dashboard is in place to show the 
results of the performance evaluations. In 2019, a total of 1391 
supplier and subcontractor performance assessments were 
carried out (2018: 872). 
Enhancing lives
Playing a part in addressing social issues at local and global level is 
part of BAM’s sustainability strategy. To structure its efforts on 
community engagement, BAM launched its ‘Enhancing lives’ 
programme in 2016. 
Enhancing lives is about adding value to people’s lives. BAM aims 
to enhance the lives of people with whom the Company comes 
into contact through its activities and connections with local 
communities. This involves supporting people and communities 
by giving them an opportunity to achieve their personal 
aspirations, support broader social ambitions and meet their 
needs. As part of its strategy, BAM has set a target of enhancing 
1,000,000 lives by 2020. 
39
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementRehabilitation of gait-training space
At the close of their airport project, the Terminal 3 team in 
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, returned to the Centre for 
Comprehensive Community-Based Rehabilitation for an 
additional CSR project. 
The skills of the team were put to work to rehabilitate a 
gait-training space, where people with physical impairment 
learn to walk in challenging environments. 
Many colleagues gave their support to the completion of this 
rehabilitation.
insight in its journey towards understanding and measuring life 
enhancement or social value. The unverified reported number of 
enhanced lives are presented in table 25. In 2019, BAM sharpened 
the definitions of the categories and the reporting guidelines that 
will be used for consistent reporting and verification of enhancing 
lives reporting in 2020.
25 - Reported number of enhanced lives
Lives 2017 2018 2019
Connect 70,576 124,322 158,095
Improve 6,499 13,920 54,337
Transform 295 932 767
Total 77,370 139,174 213,199
Progress to date
The increase in reported numbers is a reflection of improved 
monitoring. The upward trend from 2017 onwards is a result of 
operating companies developing their reporting channels and 
gaining a more detailed understanding of measuring enhancing 
lives. On its journey to define what enhancing lives means, BAM 
recognises that delivering quality is more important than 
delivering quantity. This might imply that BAM will not achieve the 
goal of enhancing one million lives in 2020, but it does help BAM 
to understand how it really can enhance the lives of people in a 
meaningful way.  
Community engagement progress 
In 2019, local community engagement programmes that measure 
and manage the impact of building projects on the local 
environment were implemented in 35 per cent of BAM’s projects. 
These were initiatives as part of existing programmes, such as the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme (CCS) in the UK and its Dutch 
equivalent ‘Bewuste Bouwers’, as well as unique initiatives of 
engagement managers on projects and site-specific sponsoring or 
charity work.BAM distinguishes three categories of life-enhancing activities:
• Connect – this is an activity which produces a ‘light touch’ 
impact. It is often (although not always) a one-off activity aimed 
at a group of people which requires a short amount of time given 
to preparation and/or interaction. The impact may be through 
raised awareness or new basic knowledge.
• Improve – this is an activity which produces a more ‘in depth 
impact’, often taking place over more than one occasion or for a 
duration of several days. The beneficiaries are likely to be 
individuals and groups. The impact may be through gaining new 
skills, experience or deeper knowledge
• Transform – this is an activity where the impact on the 
beneficiary is ‘truly transformational’ or life-changing. The 
transformation may happen following several previous activities 
(but it could be a stand-alone activity). The impact is most likely 
to be through an unemployed person entering employment or a 
person whose health or living situation has been dramatically 
improved.
Challenges in verifying reported numbers
All operating companies began to monitor life-enhancing activities 
in 2017. The activities and the regularity of reporting varied from 
one operating company to another as some operating companies 
were more developed in this area than others. BAM decided to sort 
different activities into categories to improve consistency in 
reporting. Defining what activities contribute to life enhancement 
is an ongoing process. Based on the numbers reported in 2017 and 
2018, the Group decided to apply changes in the categories and 
definitions in 2019 to ensure the most life-enhancing activities are 
focus areas for the Company. BAM discarded the numbers in some 
categories, such as social media, as the Group felt these categories 
should not be part of the ‘Enhancing lives’ strategy.
Due to the changes in categories and definitions and the absence of 
reporting guidelines, verifying and understanding the reported 
numbers is still an ongoing challenge. Numbers that were reported 
in the past years have not been fully verified. Nevertheless, BAM 
has decided to start disclosing the reported figures, not to highlight 
the amount of lives BAM is enhancing but to aim to provide an 
40
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSuccessful completion of airport project in Tanzania 
Rehabilitation of gait-training space 
BAM completed the design and construction of the Terminal 
3 complex at the Julius Nyerere International Airport in Dar es 
Salaam for Tanzania Airports Authority in 2019. The new 
terminal is designed (together with NACO, Netherlands 
Airport Consultants) for the anticipated growth of 
international air traffic, leaving the existing international 
Terminal 2 to cater for domestic flights. In future, the terminal will have a capacity to facilitate six 
million annual passengers. The project was executed in joint 
venture by BAM International and BAM Nuttall, while BAM 
Advies & Engineering was involved as one of the design 
partners.
insight in its journey towards understanding and measuring life 
enhancement or social value. The unverified reported number of 
enhanced lives are presented in table 25. In 2019, BAM sharpened 
the definitions of the categories and the reporting guidelines that 
will be used for consistent reporting and verification of enhancing 
lives reporting in 2020.
25 - Reported number of enhanced lives
Lives 2017 2018 2019
Connect 70,576 124,322 158,095
Improve 6,499 13,920 54,337
Transform 295 932 767
Total 77,370 139,174 213,199
Progress to date
The increase in reported numbers is a reflection of improved 
monitoring. The upward trend from 2017 onwards is a result of 
operating companies developing their reporting channels and 
gaining a more detailed understanding of measuring enhancing 
lives. On its journey to define what enhancing lives means, BAM 
recognises that delivering quality is more important than 
delivering quantity. This might imply that BAM will not achieve the 
goal of enhancing one million lives in 2020, but it does help BAM 
to understand how it really can enhance the lives of people in a 
meaningful way.  
Community engagement progress 
In 2019, local community engagement programmes that measure 
and manage the impact of building projects on the local 
environment were implemented in 35 per cent of BAM’s projects. 
These were initiatives as part of existing programmes, such as the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme (CCS) in the UK and its Dutch 
equivalent ‘Bewuste Bouwers’, as well as unique initiatives of 
engagement managers on projects and site-specific sponsoring or 
charity work.CCS fosters good communication with the local community and 
promotes professionalism on building sites. BAM Construct UK and 
BAM Nuttall sites registered under the CCS scheme are monitored 
to ensure that they comply with the Code of Considerate Practice 
developed to promote good practice, going beyond legal 
requirements. Additionally BAM Construct UK is a partner of the 
CCS. In the UK 77 projects were registered in 2019 and nineteen awards were won, seven silver and twelve bronze.
Based on the success of the UK Considerate Constructors Scheme, 
BAM was one of the companies that introduced the scheme 
‘Bewuste Bouwers’ in the Netherlands in 2009. During 2019, 
60 sites were registered under the scheme in the Netherlands 
(2018: 74). The average audit score in 2019 was 7.7, well above 
the industry benchmark of 7.2.
41
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementManagement summary
BAM’s CO2 footprint strongly depends on its project portfolio. Due 
to fewer energy-intensive civil engineering projects and reduction 
measures across the Group, BAM achieved a large reduction in 
CO2 intensity. The achieved reduction is in line with the Company’s 
2020 reduction target. In order to meet this target in 2020 BAM 
will continuously accelerate CO2 reduction initiatives and 
measures.  
The amount of construction and office waste remains at the 2018 
level due to waste intensity increases in some parts of the business 
and compensational intensity decreases in other parts. Improving 
waste management and further pursuing reduction measures is 
needed to bring the Company closer to its goal of zero 
construction and office waste to landfill and incineration by 2025. 
Additionally, BAM provided more zero carbon and circular projects, 
initiated in different parts of the Company. The Group aspires to 
scale up these successful initiatives and roll out more products and 
projects throughout the business.
BAM increased the completeness of its sustainable timber analysis 
in 2019, yet there are still parts of the business where there is 
limited insight in sustainable timber use. BAM will continue to 
focus on improving the procurement of sustainable timber but 
expects it will not achieve its target to source 100 per cent 
sustainable timber by 2020. Insight in procurement of other key 
materials (concrete, steel and asphalt) remains challenging for BAM, where supply chain management across the business is key in 
achieving better sustainable procurement performance. 
Sustainability strategy
BAM’s ambition is to improve its impact on the environment and 
people (towards a positive impact in 2050), by collaborating with 
the supply chain, encouraging innovative and digital thinking 
through its products, and realising benefits of circular business 
models. This chapter describes BAM’s performance towards creating 
a sustainable built environment from an environmental perspective. 
The sustainability strategy emphasises both climate change (see 
‘Climate positive’) and resource constraints (see ‘Resource positive’). 
BAM is preparing for a low-carbon economy and needs to reduce 
its own emissions as well as supply chain emissions. BAM has a 
large impact on reductions in the lifecycle carbon impact of 
buildings and infrastructure (through material selection, design 
and/or asset management), deploying renewable energy systems 
or energy reduction measures for its clients or communities. 
The Company is working towards a circular economy and believes 
the industry will be able to leave a positive legacy to the 
environment if it is able to work from reversible designs that are 
regenerative. BAM aims to reduce construction waste by becoming 
more efficient, utilising off-site manufacturing and by working 
with its supply chain to eliminate waste throughout the lifecycle of 
its projects. 
 Ambition: to achieve a net positive impact on climate and natural resources
Targets Performance in 2019
•   Achieve 25 per cent relative emissions reduction in scopes 
1, 2 and 3 (employee travel) by 2020 (base year 2015).BAM reduced its CO2 intensity by 24 per cent compared to 
2015.  
•  Be included in the CDP Climate A List Leadership Index 
by achieving performance band A.BAM achieved leadership status on CDP’s climate change 
benchmark and performance was rated A.  
• Deliver at least one product or service contributing to wider 
emissions reduction (zero carbon product) per operating 
company by 2020.In total BAM has delivered four zero carbon projects. BAM 
delivered two projects in 2019: 567 zero energy homes in the 
Netherlands and a new energy neutral office in Sint-Truiden.  
• Recycle or re-use 100 per cent of construction and office 
waste by 2025.BAM reduced the amount of construction and office waste to 
landfill and incineration to 32 kilotonnes (2018: 35 kilotonnes).  
•  Deliver at least one BAM circular project, product or service 
per operating company by 2020.In total, BAM has delivered 14 circular projects. BAM delivered 
ten circular projects in the Construction and Property business 
line in the Netherlands, Belgium and the United Kingdom in 
2019.    
• Source 100 per cent sustainable timber by 2020. BAM increased the completeness of its timber analysis to  
80 per cent. Of the covered timber, 99 per cent is certified 
sustainable.  3.3 Environmental performance
42
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCultural heart of Groningen
Forum, Groningen, the Netherlands  
This fizzling new cultural meeting place is at the heart of 
Groningen municipality’s major city centre project. A 
multifunctional meeting place to debate, explore and learn,  
this expressive building stands out for its shape, volume and 
height. Both the location – limited space and an earthquake 
zone – and the design of the building made for a technically 
complex construction.  
BAM Bouw en Techniek handled this complexity by making the 
project one of its most advanced in the application in digital 
construction solutions. The many digital initiatives, the use of 
3D BIM modelling and other new developments made this 
project a signature project in the field of digital construction 
during all project phases. 
Climate positive
BAM focusses on reducing its own carbon emissions and helping 
others to reduce emissions more widely. This means BAM will: 
• Reduce the energy it uses by digitalising its business and by 
improving the efficiency of its operations;
• Use as much power, fuel and heat from renewable or non-
polluting sources as possible;
• Work with clients and supply chain partners to reduce carbon 
emissions in the value chain;
• Bring low or zero carbon products and services to the market to 
scale up its positive impact.
Scopes CO2 emissions
BAM monitors its carbon footprint by measuring its carbon 
emissions using the greenhouse gas (GHG) protocol. The GHG 
protocol defines three scopes for greenhouse gas accounting and 
reporting purposes:
• Greenhouse gas directly emitted from the Company’s own 
activities (scope 1)
• Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and 
cooling (scope 2) 
• Indirect emissions up and downstream in the value chain  
(scope 3).
BAM reports all material emissions (scopes 1 and 2) and employee 
transport emissions (scope 3).26 - CO2 emissions intensity  
(in tonnes per €1 million revenue)
23.2
CO2 reduction target: 25 per cent reduction in 2020 vs. 201513 14 15 16 17 18 1923.5
2005101520253035
27 - Total absolute CO2 emissions  
(in kilotonnes)
170
Scope 3 (employee transport) Scope 1 Scope 215 16 17 18 19050100150200
43
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTo reduce its direct impact on climate change, BAM has set a target 
to reduce CO2 emissions intensity by 25 per cent by 2020, compared 
to 2015 levels (scope 1, 2 and travel-related scope 3). The 
CO2 intensity decreased to 23.5 tonnes per € million revenue, a 12 
per cent reduction compared to 2018 and a 24 per cent reduction 
compared to 2015. The strong reduction in 2019 puts BAM in a 
excellent position to meet the Company’s 2020 target of 25 per cent 
reduction compared to 2015. Absolute CO2 emissions decreased by 
12 per cent to 170 kilotonnes (2018: 193 kilotonnes).
BAM’s energy intensity was 0.34 TJ per million revenue (2018: 0.38). 
The absolute energy consumption decreased to 2,442 TJ (2018: 
2,744). To reduce its carbon footprint, BAM continuously initiates 
energy reduction measures. This is driven by both its own policies 
and the European Energy Efficiency Directive (EED), a set of binding 
measures to help the European Union reach its 20 per cent energy 
efficiency target by 2020.
Emissions from construction sites
The largest source of carbon emissions lies in BAM’s construction 
sites, this is further sub-divided into ‘Construction and Property’ and 
‘Civil engineering’, of which the latter is by far the most energy and 
carbon intensive. In 2019, absolute emissions from construction sites 
decreased by 15 per cent due to carrying out less energy intensive 
civil engineering projects and ongoing CO2 reduction efforts. Key 
aspects of BAM’s CO2 reduction strategy are lowering the reliance on 
diesel and gasoil and to procuring renewable elecriticy. 
Emissions from vehicle fleet
The emissions from the vehicle fleet, which account for 32  per cent 
of BAM’s total CO2 emissions, decreased by 5 per cent compared to 
2018. BAM pursues a more efficient and sustainable vehicle fleet, by 
optimising travel distances of employees and deploying more 
energy-efficient vehicles. The Company stimulates the use of electric 
vehicles to reduce fuel consumptions, carbon emissions and improve 
air quality. Electric driving is promoted and employees are financially 
incentivised to choose smaller and more fuel-efficient cars (below 90 
grams per kilometre). More than 8.6 million kilometres were driven 
in 2019 by the Company’s fully electric cars and plug-in hybrid cars 
(4.6 million kilometres in 2018). 
28 - CO2 emissions per business activity  
(in kilotonnes)
PPP and 
otherCivil 
engineeringConstruction 
and Property15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 19 15 16 17 18 1929139
2 050100150Emissions from asphalt plants
The emissions from asphalt production account for 14 per cent of 
BAM’s total CO2 emissions. In 2019, CO2 emissions were 20 per 
cent lower than in 2018, predominately as a result of less asphalt 
production. Ongoing efforts to improve energy efficiency and the 
use of less carbon intenstive fuels also contribute to the reduction 
of CO2 emissions in asphalt plants.
Emissions from offices and air travel
In 2019, emissions from BAM’s offices slightly increased by 1 per cent 
compared to 2018, mainly due to an increase in revenue and office 
personnel.  BAM’s policy to reduce air travel by stimulating meeting 
digitally and minimising international business flights has led to a 15 
per cent reduction in air travel emissions compared to 2018. 
Green revenue
BAM supports its clients in the reduction of their footprint and 
environmental impact. In 2019, 20 per cent of BAM’s revenue, 
approximately €1.5 billion (€1.4 billion in 2018), came from 
projects that were registered with third-party green building or 
sustainable construction rating organisations, such as the US 
Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) standards, the UK’s Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), Germany’s 
Passivhaus standards and other objective and third-party 
standards or BAM’s green building products.
BAM’s climate action acknowledged
BAM was again commended for its climate action in 2019, as it 
achieved a place on CDP’s prestigious ‘A List’ for climate change. 
This global ranking evaluates corporate efforts to address and 
mitigate climate change. The index is produced by CDP, an 
international NGO that promotes sustainable economies at the 
request of over 525 investors. Information provided by more than 
8,400 companies was independently assessed on the basis of the 
CDP scoring methodology and ranked accordingly. BAM was 
recognised for its actions to reduce carbon emissions and assess 
the potential role of climate change on the business strategy and 
performance.
29 - CO2 emissions per source  
(in kilotonnes)
Vehicle 
ﬂeetAir
travelAsphalt
plantConstruction 
sitesOfﬁces1516171819151617181915161718191516171819151617181981
6 52454
0306090120150
 
44
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTivoli GreenCity is a unique example of a sustainable urban 
development. This new neighborhood includes a mixed-used 
programme of 397 passive housing apartments (35% 
zero-energy) in eleven buildings, two child day care centres 
and seven commercial spaces. Tivoli also includes three 
slow-traffic streets and sustainability mobility facilities, and 
five semi-public parks conceived as biodiversity laboratories. 
Besides innovative sustainable energy systems, there is also an 
experimental greenhouse.
Benjamin Cadranel, General Manager of citydev.brussels
‘Sustainability is at the core of citydev.brussels’s vision for the 
future of our region. Most of our projects aim to take into 
account every aspect of sustainable development – socially, 
economically, and environmentally. Our goal is to create new 
neighborhoods in line with the ideas of an inclusive, walkable, 
affordable city, open to economic activities and attractive 
amenities for all its inhabitants.
To achieve our ambitions, we require strong, trust-based 
partnerships with the private sector. This has been spectacularly the case with BAM, which has deservedly won several of our 
public contracts in the recent past. No project could better 
demonstrate the success of this mix of high ambition and 
efficiency. That is why it has won a great number of sustainability 
awards and is even in the process of being certified as 
‘outstanding’ by BREEAM and ‘the most sustainable 
development in the world’. We are definitely looking forward to 
even more collaboration with BAM in the near future as we 
continue our efforts to raise our quality standards for a better 
Brussels.’Sustainable urban development in Belgium
Emissions from asphalt plants
The emissions from asphalt production account for 14 per cent of 
BAM’s total CO2 emissions. In 2019, CO2 emissions were 20 per 
cent lower than in 2018, predominately as a result of less asphalt 
production. Ongoing efforts to improve energy efficiency and the 
use of less carbon intenstive fuels also contribute to the reduction 
of CO2 emissions in asphalt plants.
Emissions from offices and air travel
In 2019, emissions from BAM’s offices slightly increased by 1 per cent 
compared to 2018, mainly due to an increase in revenue and office 
personnel.  BAM’s policy to reduce air travel by stimulating meeting 
digitally and minimising international business flights has led to a 15 
per cent reduction in air travel emissions compared to 2018. 
Green revenue
BAM supports its clients in the reduction of their footprint and 
environmental impact. In 2019, 20 per cent of BAM’s revenue, 
approximately €1.5 billion (€1.4 billion in 2018), came from 
projects that were registered with third-party green building or 
sustainable construction rating organisations, such as the US 
Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) standards, the UK’s Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), Germany’s 
Passivhaus standards and other objective and third-party 
standards or BAM’s green building products.
BAM’s climate action acknowledged
BAM was again commended for its climate action in 2019, as it 
achieved a place on CDP’s prestigious ‘A List’ for climate change. 
This global ranking evaluates corporate efforts to address and 
mitigate climate change. The index is produced by CDP, an 
international NGO that promotes sustainable economies at the 
request of over 525 investors. Information provided by more than 
8,400 companies was independently assessed on the basis of the 
CDP scoring methodology and ranked accordingly. BAM was 
recognised for its actions to reduce carbon emissions and assess 
the potential role of climate change on the business strategy and 
performance.
29 - CO2 emissions per source  
(in kilotonnes)
Vehicle 
ﬂeetAir
travelAsphalt
plantConstruction 
sitesOfﬁces1516171819151617181915161718191516171819151617181981
6 52454
0306090120150
 Since 2012, BAM has been a leader in transparent reporting on 
impact on climate change issues. The Group supports the focus on 
more ambitious targets to drive longer-term progress towards a 
low-carbon future. Emissions in the value chain outside BAM’s 
activities are an important aspect of a low-carbon future. BAM 
discloses these so-called scope 3 emissions as part of its CDP 
submission every year. The scope 3 assessment underlines the 
importance of scope 3 emissions and improves the understanding 
of BAM’s wider climate change impacts. The areas ‘purchased 
goods and services’ and ‘use of sold products’ contribute most to 
BAM’s scope 3 emissions and the Company engages with suppliers 
in exploring reduction measurements that focus on these areas. In 
2019, BAM worked together with master students from Utrecht 
University to further mature its assessment. While this has led to 
an improved accuracy of BAM’s scope 3 assessment, further steps 
are still required to get the accuracy of the assessment to the 
desired level. BAM aims to continue its engagement with 
suppliers, partners and clients to develop a strategy and action 
plan aimed at enhancing its scope 3 carbon emissions 
measurements and reduction initiatives. 
Science-based CO2 reduction target
In 2019, BAM published its science-based target to ensure CO2 
reduction is in line with the latest climate change science. The 
target was accepted by the Science Based Target Initiative in April 
2019. The science-based target has been set for 2030 and provides 
a pathway towards BAM’s long-term climate positive ambition. 
In 2030, BAM aims to: 
• Reduce scope 1 and scope 2 CO2 intensity by 50 per cent 
compared to 2015;• Reduce scope 3 CO2 emissions by 20 per cent compared to 2017 
(the first year BAM assessed its entire scope 3 emissions).
The key measures that are specified in the science-based target 
and which the Group is actively pursuing in all its operating 
companies are:
• Procurement of 100 per cent renewable electricity in all offices, 
facilities and project sites;
• Reduction of diesel use in generators by establishing early-stage 
grid connections in all projects where that is possible.
Climate adaptation
Climate adaptation is gaining attention as an important aspect of 
corporate climate strategy. It relates to how companies deal with 
risks and opportunities associated with climate change. BAM 
addresses climate adaptation trough the assessment of climate 
change risks at project and business level and through its stage 
gate procedure. BAM discloses the full details of its climate change 
risk assessment in its CDP submission.
Identified key risks and opportunities in 2019 include:
•  Market-related risks and opportunities (e.g. changing client 
behaviour, changing prices construction materials, new markets).
•  Products- and services-related risks and opportunities (e.g. 
development of new products and services through R&D).
•  Physical weather conditions (e.g. extreme weather events, 
adaptation to sea level rise).
45
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementReducing nitrogen emissions
In 2019, BAM signed the Dutch ‘Malieveld’ agreement together 
with 25 other parties in the construction industry (architects, 
consultancy-firms, real estate developers, construction 
companies). By signing this statement, all parties indicated that 
reducing nitrogen emissions is an important focus area and that 
they aim to tackle nitrogen emissions in conjunction with other 
initiatives related to CO2 reduction. With this agreement, BAM 
commited to nitrogen emission-free property development, 
design and construction. 
Resource positive
BAM strives to achieve a net positive impact on resources by 2050, 
eliminating waste over the lifecycle of developments by the way it 
designs and builds projects. 
BAM aims to preserve raw materials and resources over the 
lifecycle of its built environment and deliver projects using safe, 
healthy and natural materials. BAM intends to: 
• Eliminate wasteful construction practices, and deliver projects 
that will produce less waste in operation; 
• Promote the circular economy by using products and materials 
that can easily be maintained, reused or repurposed in the 
future, avoiding low grade recycling wherever possible;
• Procure materials from certified responsible sources.
Waste 
BAM’s waste typically consists of excavation, demolition, 
construction and office waste. In 2019, BAM saw a large increase 
in excavation waste due to the start of some large groundwork 
activities in the United Kingdom and Ireland.  The Company 
considers excavation and demolition waste to be less relevant 
indicators of operational performance and sustainability as these 
types of waste are present at sites before the Company takes on a 
project. BAM has limited impact on the amounts of these waste 
types and it is merely a part of its business model to efficiently 
reuse or remove these materials.BAM focusses on construction and office waste as performance 
indicators. All construction and office materials are initially 
brought to BAM’s sites and offices on its behalf, in contrast to 
excavation and demolition waste. In 2019, BAM’s construction and 
office waste was on par with 2018, at 128 kilotonnes (2018: 
129 kilotonnes). The construction and office waste intensity 
was 17.7 tonnes per € million revenue (2018: 17.9).
Reductions in construction waste in the United Kingdom and the 
Netherlands were offset by an increase in Belgium and Germany. 
This increase resulted from several large construction projects 
being in their finalisation phase, when most waste is produced. 
Efforts to improve the efficiency of the production process by the 
use of prefabricated building elements are ongoing. Moreover, 
digital construction technologies are helping to reduce 
construction waste by integrating material use in the early 
design stage.
BAM has set an objective to completely recycle or reuse its 
construction and office waste by 2025. In 2019, 75 per cent of 
BAM’s construction and office waste was recycled or reused (2018: 
73 per cent). A total of 18 kilotonnes (2018: 18 kilotonnes) was 
landfilled or incinerated without energy recovery. By engaging 
with its waste contractors, BAM pursues to improve the waste 
treatment process and further increase recycling and reusage 
ratios. BAM also stimulates its projects and offices to improve 
waste separation and recycling/reusage. 
Circularity
Circularity is becoming an important topic in the construction 
sector and BAM is well placed in the industry to build on its past 
circular economic achievements. Within the Group, circularity is 
an upcoming theme with opportunities for new market potential, 
primarily in the Netherlands, Belgium and the United Kingdom. 
BAM is in the process of further defining its strategy towards 
circularity to demonstrate the opportunities and benefits through 
design, construction and operation of buildings and infrastructure 
assets using new circular economic business models. BAM’s main 
15162,665
526
1235
171819151617181915161718191516171819
Ofﬁce
wasteConstruction
wasteDemolition
wasteExcavation
waste05001000150020002500
15 16 17 18 19
Recycling / re-use
Incineration with energy recovery
Landﬁll and incineration without energy recovery128
05010015020030 - Total waste production per source
(in kilotonnes)31 -  Construction and office waste production per  
destination category 
(in kilotonnes)
46
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCircular initiatives
Circular product 
BAM continued the development of circular asphalt. BAM Infra 
applied 16,000 tonnes of ZOAB in paving the A32 highway in the 
Netherlands. This scale, and the 70 per cent recycling rate of this 
circular asphalt mixture in a project are unique in the 
Netherlands. At other smaller test sections, BAM already realised 
even higher recycling percentages up to 93 per cent, 
approaching the ambitious level of 100 per cent circular asphalt. 
Circular economy engagement programme
In cooperation with two other members of the Circular Economy 
100 Network (CE100), BAM piloted an e-learning engagement 
programme. It chaired three working groups with 20 employees, 
consisting of six webinars around key circular economy themes. 
BAM facilitated the conversations and shared learnings, 
challenges and opportunities for each of these topics to actively 
promote the dialogue and exchange knowledge relating to the 
circular economy within the Group. Product life extension and service systems
BAM completed the largest energy storage system powered by 
Nissan LEAF second-life batteries in the Johan Cruyff arena. In 
2019, the battery was extended with vehicle-to-grid-technology. 
Electric vehicles are used as an energy source and service system 
for the arena. 
Value recovery
Within its maintenance contract at Schiphol airport, BAM 
created a proposition for circular deconstruction of an office 
building. Simultaneously, BAM developed a building circularity 
index (BCI). With this concept tool, circular (de-)construction is 
made measurable, controllable and feasible by scoring on two 
key aspects of circularity: material use and detachability. In this 
way, explicit insights into the progression towards a sustainable 
and circular Schiphol Airport are provided. 
9 February 2019 - Mount John, Newcastle
2,000 trees – new agroforest with oak, scots pine, alder, birch, 
rowan, hazel, hawthorn, blackthorn, crab apple, heritage apple 
trees and other traditional fruit trees. 
9 February 2019 - Ballineen, Cork
1,000 trees – replanting trees due to storm damages in a 
multifunctional forest: oak, scots pine, alder, birch, rowan, cherry, 
hazel, hawthorn, blackthorn, and crab apple. 
Noel Buckley, Quantity Surveyor BAM Ireland , brought his son 
Jerry to Ballineen. ‘My son Jerry and I had a great day! We have 
worked together to plant trees that will flourish to enhance the 
environment again and benefit future generations.’ 
challenge is how to realise the transition from linear to circular 
patterns and increase the scale of circularity. In 2019, different 
circularity initiatives and products were rolled out. A few 
significant initiatives are described above.
An example of a circular initiative is the Taskforce Circular 
Development, which was started with the goal to investigate the 
circular challenge for the Dutch Construction and Property 
business. The taskforce researched circular trends and focus areas 
and created a benchmark to compare BAM’s current position with 
innovative disruptors in the industry. One of the main findings was 
that BAM has a unique advantage: BAM’s property developer AM 
31 -  Construction and office waste production per  
destination category 
(in kilotonnes)can bring innovators together to learn quickly, while BAM’s 
operating companies, together with progressive value chain 
partners, can further develop and build these circular products.
Construction materials 
BAM has identified the quantities of materials used in its 
construction projects in the Netherlands, its largest home market, 
since 2011. The Group has identified the main categories of 
procured materials as shown in table 32. The material quantities 
and recycled content are based on supplier data, industry 
averages and data from BAM’s asphalt plants.
47
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management32 - Material consumption in the Netherlands
Consumption 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Ready-mix concrete m³ 265,000 189,000 173,000 208,000 203,000
Timber m³ 32,000 23,500 19,000 19,500 34,500
Asphalt t 1,400,000 1,450,000 1,300,000 1,250,000 1,100,000
Steel t 73,000 54,000 61,000 72,500 76,000
Recycled content
Ready-mix concrete % 12 18 15 12 10
Timber % 1 3 1 0 0
Asphalt % 40 42 37 41 42
Steel % 63 71 72 66 70
circular milestone towards developing silent (sonic) and 
sustainable roads that optimise traffic flow. The positive 
environmental impact of applying LE2AP instead of conventional 
asphalt is shown in figure 33.
BAM’s efforts towards developing sustainable asphalt were 
recognised by the Dutch government, which awarded BAM two 
prizes for its innovative solutions for more sustainable asphalt 
production in 2019.
In 2019 BAM and Heijmans continued to investigate the transfer of 
their current asphalt plants in the Netherlands to a new joint asphalt 
company. By establishing this new asphalt company, the 
knowledge, expertise and investments in innovation of both 
companies can be combined. Increasing sustainability of the asphalt 
chain is an important objective, from lowering 
CO2 emissions to circularity and reuse of raw materials and 
semi-finished products. Collaboration offers opportunities to make 
better use of the available capacity and to improve the utilisation 
rate of the asphalt plants, aimed at efficiency and better returns. 
Notes:
-   Scope includes production, transport and end-of-life treatment. The paving process and the use phase are not taken into account.
-   Compared LE2AP ‘Fluisterfalt 8/16 PA-Stone’ to ‘Fluisterfalt 11/16 Bestone 30 per cent PR’.33 -  The positive environmental impact of the applied LE2AP in 2019 compared to conventional asphaltAsphalt production 
The production of asphalt is a process that typically requires large 
amounts of natural resources and energy. BAM has developed a 
low-energy asphalt concrete (LEAB, after the Dutch name: ‘laag 
energie asfalt beton’), an innovative type of asphalt that requires 
less energy and fewer natural resources, and results in lower 
CO2 emissions compared to conventional asphalt. In 2019, BAM 
applied 32,500 tonnes of LEAB in the Netherlands corresponding 
to 3 per cent of the total asphalt production (2018: 69,000 and 6 
per cent). Although the use of LEAB has (temporarily) decreased in 
2019 in the Netherlands, the application of LEAB has gained 
attention in 2019 in BAM’s other home markets, most noticeably 
in the United Kingdom: Highways England provided a subsidy to 
BAM to show that English asphalt mixtures can be produced using 
a lower temperature with the LEAB method.
Following the ambition to further reduce the environmental 
impact of asphalt production, BAM continued the development 
and testing of low energy and emission asphalt pavement (LE2AP) 
with support of the EU LIFE+ programme. LE2AP is the next 
34% Total: net positive environmental impact31% 42%
33% 4% Climate change mitigation  Health loss mitigation  
Materials savingEnergy saving
48
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAll BAM operating companies are BIM Level 2 certified. 
With BAM International’s certification to ISO 19650 in 
December 2019, BAM is one of the first fully certified 
international construction companies.  
ISO 19650 is the international standard for the production 
and management of information over the entire lifecycle of 
a building by using building information modelling (BIM). 
It contains the same principles and high requirements as 
BIM Level 2 and is closely aligned with the current PAS 1192 
standards. All operating companies are generating work 
with these standards.
Menno de Jonge, Director Digital Construction:  
‘The standards set out the recommended concepts and 
principles for business processes across the built 
environment sector, in support of the management and 
production of information during the lifecycle of built assets 
when using BIM. Many of BAM’s clients and government 
institutions are demanding compliance with the BIM level 2 
standard in order to work with them, and in order to 
produce the highest quality work. Achieving certification is 
a great result of hard work.’BIM Level 2 certification 
for digital construction
Sustainable timber 
BAM considers sustainable timber a valuable construction material 
to support the transition to a circular economy. Besides, using 
sustainable timber is key to support forest conservation and 
biodiversity and helps to combat climate change. The Group 
signed a new covenant with FSC Netherlands in 2019 restating its 
commitment to exclusively use certified sustainable timber for its 
projects. In cooperation with FSC Netherlands, BAM continues to 
engage with suppliers to encourage them to improve the 
identification and reporting of certified timber.
Over the past few years, BAM has improved the coverage of its 
timber use measurement to 80% of its operations (based on 
revenue) in 2019. All home countries are covered, except Germany 
and Ireland. The market conditions in these countries make it 
extremely challenging to gather (sustainable) timber use figures. Of 
the timber use that is measured, BAM has increased its certified 
sustainable timber use to 99 per cent in 2019 (94 per cent in 2018).
The major reason for the larger share of sustainable timber use in 
2019 is a substantional increase of timber consumption in the 
Netherlands, mainly for the construction of dwellings. Dutch timber 
use data is provided by BAM’s suppliers, covering 89 per cent of all 
timber use in construction works carried out by BAM in the 
Netherlands. Timber use by subcontractors and in subcontracted 
projects is not included. BAM estimates that in total 99.6 per cent of 
its timber use was certified. 
In the United Kingdom, the origin of certified sustainable timber 
from both FSC and PEFC sources is registered in BAM SMART, an 
online data monitoring system. In 2019, 98.5 per cent of timber 
used in the United Kingdom was from verified legal and sustainable 
sources, of which 91 per cent was delivered with full FSC or PEFC 
Chain of Custody certification. 
BAM Belgium and BAM International started measuring timber use 
in 2018. In 2019, both operating companies increased their share of 
sustainable timber use significantly, to an estimated 94 per cent 
(Belgium) and 92 per cent (International), driven by improved 
supplier engagement and data collection efforts.
In 2019, BAM obtained leadership status on the CDP forest timber 
benchmark (score A-). This global ranking evaluates corporate 
efforts to address and mitigate deforestation and forest 
degradation. The Company is recognised for its business strategy 
to only use certified sustainable timber, transparent reporting and 
progress towards achieving this target. 
34 - Certified sustainable timber use 
(in %)
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Organisational coverage 65 68 65 79 80
Sustainable timber 98 98 98 94 99
49
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMarkets
In the Netherlands, the continuing uncertainty regarding the 
legislation of the deposit of nitrogen might impact revenues in the 
Construction and Property and Civil engineering business lines. 
This while the underlying demand for newbuilt homes remains 
high. Growth is also constrained by the availability of permitted 
locations and the affordability of houses. The volumes in 
non-residential construction continue to improve. The supply 
chain remains under pressure, but this is expected to ease based 
on the impact of the nitrogen legislation. Longer-term demand in 
both markets will benefit from the transition to more energy 
efficient buildings. For Civil engineering, the underlying demand is 
robust while the risk profile of projects to be tendered remains 
challenging. 
In the United Kingdom, reduced uncertainty and pledges on 
investment in the built environment following the 2019 general 
elections will have a positive impact on the non-residential and 
civil engineering markets. The UK government has pledged an 
increase in infrastructure spending, with public sector funding 
likely to become available in roadworks. The education segment 
remains strong. The health sector will gain momentum as result of 
an increase in capital funding for the National Health Service.
In Germany, construction and civil engineering markets are stable 
but competitive. The German construction industry is currently 
facing levels of strained capacity amid unfilled vacancies and a 
strong recovery of the housing market. 
The Belgian civil engineering market is growing slowly, with some 
opportunities for larger projects. The market in the Walloon 
region remains at a low level. The construction and property 
markets are growing modestly on the back of higher demand 
from the public sector. 
In Ireland, residential and non-residential construction remains 
strong. Civil engineering is stable with a limited number of larger 
projects coming to the market. 
The global oil and gas market is not picking up and opportunities 
in onshore construction are limited. 
For the market of public-private partnerships, the pipeline of 
prospects and active bids remains healthy. 
Sustainability
Across operating companies in both business lines, sustainability 
is an increasingly important theme for BAM’s clients. Instead of a 
construction-only focus, the demand for sustainable products and 
services and a trend towards lifecyle focus are on the rise. 3.4 Outlook
The challenge for BAM is to improve its financial performance in 
the short term (2020), while simultaneously implement its 
sustainability strategy and achieve a net positive impact in the 
long term.
BAM is further focussing on bringing down its own emissions and 
helping other parties in the value chain to reduce their emissions. 
This is in line with BAM’s science-based CO2 reduction target (SBT) 
and the 2015 Paris Agreement. 
The concept of circularity is increasingly gaining attention in the 
construction sector. Linear consumption patterns (‘take-make-
dispose’) of products are beginning to cause constraints on the 
availability of resources. The construction sector needs to develop 
new opportunities and realise its circular economy ambitions 
faster, which requires a vigorous innovation of design and 
construction methods. 
Employees 
BAM continues to face a tight labour market, especially in the field 
of technology, where the Group finds it increasingly challenging 
to find skilled people. This will be addressed in BAM’s employer 
branding approach, in which specifically defined key target groups 
are made aware of relevant job opportunities and employee 
stories via recruitment marketing activities. Simultaneously, the 
Group will continue to stimulate employee development by 
offering learning and personal development programmes. To 
understand the needs and interests of BAM’s employees, regular 
engagement surveys are held, and actions are defined based on 
the outcome. BAM focusses on fostering an attractive company 
culture to offer talent a rewarding career. The workforce will 
develop in line with expected market developments.
Financing and investments 
BAM expects no material changes in the financing structure of the 
Company in 2020. BAM expects investments in strategic and 
project specific equipment in normal course of business. 
Outlook 2020 
BAM expects an improvement of the adjusted result before tax 
margin in 2020 compared to 2019. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020
Executive Board
50
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementZero-energy building for IBA
IBA (Ion Beam Applications) opened its new international logistics 
and manufacturing headquarters in Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium. It is 
part of IBA’s ‘scale-up’ programme to increase production capacity 
in response to the growing global demand for proton therapy solutions in the treatment of cancer. The zero-energy building, 
realised by BAM Galère, makes use of innovative elements including 
heat recovery from the particle accelerators’ testing process, green 
roofs, passive-type insulation and solar panels to reduce the impact 
on the environment.
51
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTitel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Risk management
Net-zero living in Delft
Schoemaker Plantage, Delft, 
the Netherlands
On a former business 
location, AM and BAM 
Wonen realised a 
sustainable residential 
estate in Delft, with net-
zero homes. The balance 
between incoming and 
outgoing energy streams, 
offers a healthy and 
comfortable living 
environment. Solar panels 
on the roof compensate for 
the average household’s 
energy consumption (2700 
kWh), while insulation, 
automated ventilation and 
floor heating with heat 
pumps ensure the net-zero 
target.
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
52Risk appetite statements are further underpinned by BAM’s strategic 
agenda, governance, core values, Code of Conduct and policies and 
procedures. 
Improvements to the risk management framework
The enterprise risk management is embedded in different levels of the 
organisation and has various areas of attention. The core of BAM’s risk 
management at project level covers the full lifecycle of the project, 
from opportunity to tendering, and from execution to handover. BAM 
has developed and implemented an unified project approach in 2019 
and this will be operational in operating companies and projects in 
2020. This approach covers stage gates, not only during tendering, 
but also in the execution of projects. The implementation of these 
new requirements is performed via a project team with the use of 
expert groups. BAM continues to improve its risk management 
capabilities in order to realise the strategic agenda and guarantee 
value creation in the long term.
BAM’s risk management framework
At Group level, the BAM strategy is the starting point. The Group’s 
strategy offers guidance on focussing the project portfolio (doing 
things better), shaping the business portfolio (doing better things) 
and the creation of the future portfolio (doing new things). These 
areas and underlying strategic objectives and initiatives form the basis 
for the focus on enterprise risk management, taking into account 
BAM’s risk appetite. The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the 
Executive Board, which has the overall responsibility for enterprise risk 
management within the Group.  
There is an annual risk assessment for the Group in relation to the 
strategic agenda and operating plans. The Group’s risk management 
framework, which is based on COSO (Committee of Sponsoring 
Organisations of the Treadway Commission), addresses strategic, 
operational, financial and compliance risks. Risks are assessed and 
prioritised on their impact and probability and on effectiveness of the 
controls. The cycle is concluded with a risk response and monitoring 
of effectiveness in the organisation. 
At executive level,  the Executive Committee receives progress 
updates on the status of the strategic objectives, initiatives and 
leading indicators through dashboards in periodic reports and in 
management meetings. These are periodically shared with the 
Supervisory Board.
At operational level,  there is attention to the management of 
processes, the portfolio and projects in various phases. The 
management of the operating companies closely monitors the 
progress of projects, the risks and opportunities and actions going 
forward in periodic reports and in project and management meetings. 
Furthermore, there is close attention to strengthening processes, 
systems and people’s capabilities.
At project level, the project team manages the contract and the 
expectations of clients in the most effective and efficient way, by 
forming the right team that can make this possible and by choosing Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which BAM is 
exposed is not unusual or different from what is considered normal in 
the industry. The Group’s risk management system is designed to 
identify and manage risks. Effective risk management enables BAM to 
capitalise on opportunities in a carefully controlled way.
Risk profile and appetite
The focus areas of BAM’s strategy ‘Building the present, creating the 
future’ have a positive impact on the risk profile of the Group. In the 
current project and business portfolio, BAM has a more disciplined 
focus on market segments and projects where the Company can use 
either scale or expertise as a critical success factor. For its future 
business portfolio, BAM is rationalising its propositions and developing 
new solutions for clients, and is investing in digitalisation to be an 
industry leader in how and what it builds. The new strategy also places 
a stronger emphasis on cultural values, to further support the brand 
and the strategy of the Group. Risk appetite is defined as the level at 
which BAM is willing to accept risk in the ordinary course of business in 
order to achieve its objectives. The general approach is to balance risk 
and reward and to limit uncertainties as much as possible, taking into 
account the sector in which managing risk is a necessary core 
competence to survive and to carry out sustainable business.
Key factors in explaining the risk appetite are described in accordance 
with the following risk categories:
Strategy – BAM takes a balanced approach on risk and reward to 
achieve its strategic objectives in terms of results and innovation and 
continues to invest in innovation through digital technologies and 
digital construction.
Tenders – Based on knowledge and experience in the home markets, 
BAM participates in tenders for complex multidisciplinary projects, in 
which the risks are distributed in a controlled manner between the 
clients and BAM. Outside its home markets BAM operates worldwide 
in niche areas, provided they are in line with the Group’s business 
principles. In PPP investments, BAM invests in design, build, finance, 
maintain and operate contracts (DBFMO), mainly in home markets, 
where payments are based on availability of the asset. 
Property – BAM invests selectively in property development projects 
under the condition that these are profitable and have a clear and 
predefined exit strategy.
Operational – BAM seeks to limit the risks that may jeopardise the 
execution of its business activities.
Finance – BAM strives to maintain a solid financial position (e.g. 
solvability and credit facilities) ensuring access to the financial 
markets and retaining its clients, supply chain and other partners. 
BAM wants to provide an insightfull, fair and accurate representation 
of its performance and economic results.
Compliance – Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations 
including BAM’s Code of Conduct is of fundamental importance to 
the Group.
53
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3 April 2019 - Bärenstein 
4,000 trees –  mixed new forest (deciduous trees), with species 
such as oak, birch, maple and beech.
5 November 2019 - Friedrichsruh, Germany
4,000 trees –  a mix of deciduous trees, such as birch, maple, white 
fir and beech. This project is aimed at forest restoration in a nature 
reserve where trees were damaged by storms and invading 
beetles.  
Helga Wahl, Manager Corporate Communications of BAM 
Deutschland,  handled the spades together with a number of her 
colleagues from all branches of BAM in Germany. ‘Collaboration 
on the job is already inspiring and value-adding; collaboration in 
tree-planting added a whole new dimension: paying forward to 
future generations.’
actions are implemented and monitored. 
Furthermore, internal audits challenge the results and provide 
recommendations to further improve the effectiveness of the internal 
control framework.
In control statement process
BAM has a structured ‘in control statement process’, resulting in an 
end-of-year ‘Executive Board statement’ (  page 55). The 
underlying assessments on operating company level form the basis 
for management’s accountability for the effectiveness of the 
internal control framework, together with the formal issuance of a 
statement and letter of representation to the Executive Board. Any 
deviations from the internal control framework are highlighted, 
including identified follow-up actions to resolve these deviations.
All operating companies have confirmed and signed the letter of 
representation which supports the Executive Board in its assessment of 
the effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal control 
and risk management systems. Reported deviations included an 
improvement plan to further strenghten the level of control. The most 
important improvement areas are IT, procurement and project 
execution. 
Core values supporting the right risk culture
BAM’s risk management and internal control systems are supported by 
BAM’s core values (  page 15). These elements are instrumental in 
steering the behaviour of BAM’s people and help to ensure that BAM’s 
risk profile remains in line with the risk appetite. The Group’s culture is 
further strengthened by scalable learning from tenders and projects, 
more predictable performance, working together in open collaboration 
and ownership of challenges and opportunities. the right tools and capabilities to support them. Digital construction 
is one of the means to minimise risk and cost. In addition, project 
teams manage risks and opportunities, both qualitatively and 
quantitatively. The periodic reporting includes a bandwidth for the 
outcome of the project. 
The risk management and control systems provide a platform for the 
structured sharing of knowledge and expertise in the business, so that 
risk management plays a key role in achieving the strategic objectives. 
Business functions and topics across the Group accelerate the process 
of acquiring and sharing knowledge and expertise through a 
consistent language and approach to risk management.
Operating model supporting internal control 
framework
The BAM strategy is supported by the BAM operating model, which 
creates clarity and uniformity in the way the Company operates. All 
key processes are identified around strategic enablers and are aligned 
with existing core processes in accordance with these enablers. BAM 
has derived its internal control framework from this operating model 
and underlying core processes and policies (for accounting, treasury, 
legal, compliance, information security, and so on). 
The internal control framework ensures insight into the effectiveness 
of internal risk management and control systems, as well as the 
reliability of the financial reporting and compliance with laws and 
regulations. 
Comfort on the effectiveness of the internal control framework is 
obtained by a semi-annual assessment of the requirements in the 
framework. All operating companies and the headquarters carry out 
self-assessments and the results are reported to the Group. The 
results of these self-assessments are challenged and improvement 
54
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementInnercity 
re-development
The construction of Zalmhaven project is now in full swing. 
Three residential towers will arise in the former harbour of 
Rotterdam, developed by The Zalmhaven CV joint venture. 
This urban development comprises a 215-metre tower 
which will house 256 apartments, two 70-metre towers 
which will house 196 apartments and 33 single-family 
homes, retail spaces and parking facilities. The first homes 
will be completed in 2022.
Zalmhaven CV is a joint venture between area and project 
developer AM (part of Royal BAM Group nv) and developer 
and investment manager Amvest. The project is being built 
by BAM Bouw en Techniek.
With this development Rotterdam will get a major 
eye-catcher at the foot of the well-known Erasmus Bridge. 
Michelle Corbeau, Project Developer for AM, and 
Edwin van Leeuwen, Project Developer for Amvest: 
‘Zalmhaven was developed in response to the high 
demand for new homes in Rotterdam. With this eye-
catching residential high-rise in the beautiful 
Scheepvaartkwartier neighbourhood, Zalmhaven CV is 
realising 485 rental and owner-occupied homes for the 
elderly, young couples and families who want to live in the 
city centre. As an extension to the city centre, Zalmhaven 
offers the whole package from a pleasant living 
environment to job opportunities and a place to unwind in 
local bars and restaurants. We are not just building new 
homes, we are creating a place where people want to live.’
Executive Board statement  
The Executive Board is responsible for the design and operation of 
the internal risk management and control systems. In discharging 
this responsibility and to provide a substantiation for the statement 
below, the Executive Board has made an assessment of the 
effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal control and 
risk management systems. In addition, the Executive Board has 
determined the outlook based on market developments, financing, 
orderbook and cash flow.
On the basis of this management report and in accordance with 
best practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch corporate governance code as 
adopted on 8 December 2016, and article 5:25c of the Financial 
Supervision Act (‘Wet op het financieel toezicht’), the Executive 
Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge:
• The management report provides sufficient insights into any 
failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and 
control systems of Royal BAM Group;
• The aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that 
the financial reporting does not contain any material 
inaccuracies;
• Based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the 
financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; 
• The management report states those material risks and 
uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of Royal BAM 
Group’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the 
preparation of the management report.
It should be noted that the above does not imply that these 
systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the 
realisation of operational and strategic business objectives, or that 
they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and 
non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. Nor can 
they provide certainty that we will achieve our objectives.
Furthermore, the Executive Board confirms that, to the best of its 
knowledge:
• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Royal BAM 
Group and of companies included in the consolidation;
• The management report provides a fair review of the position at 
the balance sheet date, the development and performance of 
the business during the financial year of Royal BAM Group; 
• The management report describes the principal risks and 
uncertainties that Royal BAM Group faces.
55
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementHealthy order intake and project control
Fundamental to managing a healthy order intake and a controlled 
project execution is BAM’s stage gate policy. BAM has extended 
the existing stage gate approach used in the tender phase into the 
execution phase. This extended approach was developed and 
implemented in 2019 and will be fully operational in operating 
companies and projects in 2020. 
Tenders and projects are guided through various stage gates, 
based on complexity, size and risk profile. The first two stage 
gates focus on ‘Are we doing the right tender/project?’, while the 
other stage gates address the question ‘Are we doing the tender 
or project right?’  
The stage gates are designed to establish a robust risk profile and 
ensure predictable performance across all BAM’s tenders and 
projects. Expert involvement is arranged to leverage the 
combined knowledge within the Group, supporting the tender 
and project in reaching its full potential. 
The stage gate policy follows a governance structure based on risk 
categorisation, to ensure each tender and project is reviewed and 
approved by the right level of management. Bids for major 
projects or project involving exceptional risk are submitted to the 
Executive Committee for ratification and – if necessary – to the 
Supervisory Board for approval.
Separate from the various stage gate assessments, the Internal 
Audit department performs independent project reviews on 
selected projects across BAM to review the effectiveness of the 
project control system and the overall project performance. Approval ﬁnal
contractValidation 
to tender
Decision
to bidDecision 
to tenderCategorisation
Start prepare 
construction
Start 
construction
Proceed 
construction
Close projectAre we doing the 
tender or project 
right? Are we doing the 
right project? Sales funnel
CRM
Tendering
Tender 
database
Execution
Project 
database35 - Stage gate procedure
Europe’s first 3D concrete printing facility 
Printing 3D concrete elements on an industrial scale is now 
available in Europe’s first commercial facility in the Netherlands. 
Set up by Weber Beamix and BAM Infra, the facility is scaling up 
3D printing for the construction industry in all areas: volume, 
size, speed, and efficiency. The fully digital process allows for 
greater freedom in design, while the 3D printing technology 
saves raw materials, reduces emissions and prevents waste. 
In the development of this facility, Saint-Gobain Weber Beamix 
and BAM Infra had the support of their long-time knowledge 
partners Bekaert, Witteveen + Bos and Eindhoven University of 
Technology. Several orders queued up even during 
development. BAM has started the production of the longest 3D 
printed concrete pedistrian bridge in Nijmegen and is in the 
design phase for the province of Noord-Holland for four cycling 
bridges. For the Driebergen-Zeist railway station project, 
3D printing of formwork saved many hours of labour and waste 
material. 
56
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSeveral risk areas and measures have been identified with respect to BAM’s strategic objectives. Follow-up and feedback are part  
of the regular management reporting cycle.
Risk description Possible impact Management measures
Market risk
Most of the Group’s home 
markets are subject to fierce 
competition. Fierce competition may lead to a 
buyer’s market, which influences 
margins, causes a shift in design 
and contract risks for the 
contractor and endangers the 
pre-financing of projects by clients.Based on the Group’s strategy, BAM applies a disciplined 
focus on market segments and projects where it can use 
either scale or expertise as a critical success factor. For 
its future business portfolio, BAM rationalises its 
propositions and develops new solutions for clients and 
invests in digitalisation to be a market leader in how and 
what BAM builds.
Transformation risk
The strategic agenda ‘Building 
the present, creating the future’ 
involves a transition to a new 
organisation, so that BAM can 
follow the developments in the 
sector and be a leader in the 
selected markets.BAM may not realise a successful 
and agile implementation of the 
One BAM transformation process, 
together with other strategic 
initiatives and targets.The Executive Committee is closely steering and 
monitoring the progress of the transformation activities 
as defined in the strategic agenda and translated in the 
yearly operating plans. Furthermore, BAM has 
implemented a programme management organisation 
to steer transition progress. 
Innovation risk
The construction industry is at 
the brink of major technological 
changes. Digital technology is 
beginning to change value 
creation within the industry, 
where traditional capabilities 
may become commoditised.Competitors or disruptive 
newcomers on the market can 
marginalise BAM’s distinctive 
capabilities and thus jeopardise the 
existing business model.BAM’s management measures with regard to innovation 
risk are described in  paragraph 9.7, ‘Material themes 
and management approach’.
Property development risk
BAM is involved in property 
development for its own 
account. The level and timing of 
both income (sale/rent) and 
costs (site acquisition and 
building costs) of these projects 
may deviate from the initial 
expectations as a result of 
divergent market and process 
(planning/permits) conditions.  Property development projects can 
be postponed or completed at 
higher costs than budgeted. 
Furthermore the realisable value of 
our land bank and property 
development positions may be 
lower than book value. This has 
consequences for the financial 
results (level and duration of the 
capital employed, profit).The Executive Committee takes a decision on the basis of 
project proposals from the relevant operating company 
and associated analyses carried out by the Group’s 
Property Investment function. The general rule is that 
construction does not start before a significant number 
of properties have been sold or, for non-residential 
buildings, a large part of the project has been rented out 
or sold. In the United Kingdom – where BAM only 
operates in the non-residential property sector – the 
inventory risk is mitigated by a system of phased project 
execution. 
 Main risk areas
Market
TransformationSafety
Property 
developmentInnovation Supply chainInformation
technology
PeopleFinancial
Sustainability ReputationStrategic Operational Finance
Compliance
Project
57
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementRisk description Possible impact Management measures
Safety
The nature of BAM’s business 
can pose safety risks to its 
people. The well-being and 
safety of the people of BAM are 
of vital importance to the 
Company.Safety incidents may lead to serious 
injuries, fatalities or project 
disturbance, loss of time or 
additional costs, and as a result 
impact BAM’s performance.BAM’s management measures with regard to health and 
safety are described in  paragraph 9.7, ‘Material themes 
and management approach’.
Project risk
BAM is constantly active in 
thousands of projects where the 
Company is exposed to a wide 
variety of risks, in a sector 
known for its asymmetrical risk 
profile. Selecting the right 
projects against balanced 
contractual conditions is crucial.Failure to achieve a healthy order 
intake and flawless project 
execution leads to fluctuations in 
the project results, possible claims 
and litigation and ultimately to the 
failure to achieve BAM’s strategic 
objectives.BAM has implemented several measures to manage the 
project risk. The starting point is selective tendering with 
a focus on portfolio management, a robust tender stage 
gate procedure, a uniform project approach (UPA) and 
peer reviews. During the execution phase, attention is 
paid to achieving operational excellence with, among 
other things, the right composition of the project team, 
design management, schedule management, contract 
management, working capital management and project 
monitoring.
Supply chain risk
On an annual basis, the Group 
purchases more than 70 per cent 
of its turnover from suppliers 
and subcontractors. These 
partners have a major impact on 
the projects, both financially and 
technically.Failure to manage the cost of the 
supply chain (subcontractors, 
materials and services) and 
insufficient access to qualified and 
cost-effective vendors has impact 
on successful and profitable 
execution of the projects.BAM’s management measures with regard to 
procurement and supply chain risk are described in
 paragraph 9.7, ‘Material themes and management 
approach’.
People risk
Attracting, training and 
retaining talented people is 
crucial for BAM, because it 
enables the Group to respond 
more effectively to changes in 
the market by exploiting its full 
potential. It is essential that BAM 
remains a preferred employer.The inability to attract and keep 
the right talent, expertise and 
human capital within BAM will have 
a negative effect on success.To attract top talent, BAM has a professional recruitment 
team that works together with external recruitment 
agencies. The Group invests in the development of 
employees through various training programmes, 
including a programme for management trainees, 
project directors and project managers, and prepares 
candidates for key positions to improve (inclusive) 
leadership.
58
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementRisk description Possible impact Management measures
Information technology risk
Digitalisation, data, 
communication and 
connectivity are essential for 
BAM. A global presence also 
leads to cyber security 
challenges, which require the 
Group to have the flexibility to 
continuously adapt.Information technology is crucial in 
supporting and protecting the core 
and supporting processes. BAM 
increasingly relies on digital 
communication, connectivity and 
the use of technology. The Group 
has to remain alert to prevent the 
use of compromised data and the 
unavailability, loss or theft of 
critical strategic, financial and 
operational data.BAM aims to improve the maturity of the IT function to 
keep up with external developments. In addition, BAM 
has increased its security efforts to remain resilient to 
growing cyber risks. This includes implementing and 
testing of an information security framework to ensure 
confidentiality, integrity and continuity of data. 
Sustainability risk
The construction industry relies 
heavily on natural resources, 
which will be depleted when 
consumption goes faster than 
the natural supplement. 
Climate-related risks such as 
global warming cause more 
acute frequent extreme weather 
conditions, such as storms, heat 
waves, droughts, heavy rainfall 
with flooding and heavy 
snowfall.Failure to deliver sustainable 
construction processes and (new) 
sustainable solutions could disrupt 
BAM’s position related to clients 
and supply chain partners and lead 
to reduced revenue and higher 
costs. BAM has a strong corporate team and sustainability 
teams in all operating companies to ensure continuous 
improvement. By driving and implementing 
sustainability measures, BAM makes considerable efforts 
to reduce its impact on the environment with the 
ambition to achieve a net positive result. To reduce the 
impact of BAM on resource use, the Company works with 
partners in the supply chain and clients to explore 
circular economic business models. 
Financial risk
The attractiveness of BAM as a 
trusted partner to collaborate 
with or to invest in is strongly 
influenced by its financial 
position and the ability to 
manage financial risks.Failure to achieve the status of 
trusted partner may prevent BAM 
from working with preferred 
parties and lead to restrictions on 
access to financial markets. BAM’s financing strategy is based on long-term 
relationships with reputable financial institutions and a 
well-spread debt maturity schedule. A strong centralised 
focus on cash and working capital, including financing by 
clients and suppliers, limits the need for extra capital. 
The Company enters ‘equity-light’ in property 
development projects and in PPP investments. It is the 
intention of the Company to sell these projects to 
investors. 
Specific financial risk management measures, including 
those in the area of interest rate risk, foreign exchange 
risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are disclosed 
in note 3 of the financial statements. 
Reputation risk
The trust of clients, shareholders, 
lenders, construction partners 
and employees in the Group is 
vital to ensure the continuity of 
the Company.BAM’s reputation may be damaged 
if it fails to successfully mitigate the 
main reputational risks, such as 
fraud, bribery and corruption.BAM’s management measures with regard to business 
conduct and transparancy are described in  paragraph 
9.7, ‘Material themes and management approach’.
59
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementWhat impacted BAM in 2019?
The following risks and uncertainties related to the nature and 
complexity of BAM’s business environment had an impact on BAM in 
2019. 
Risk/reward profile
BAM’s performance in 2019 was impacted by significant cost 
overruns on several large projects in Germany and in the Middle 
East. These cost overruns led to a profit warning on the 8th of July. 
BAM remains selective in tendering for large projects and continues 
to discuss ways to improve the risk and reward balance as well as 
contract conditions with its public sector clients.
Safety
Although the focus on safety remains high, the Company still faces 
incidents at project sites. Besides having the knowledge and tools 
to work safely, it is crucial that employees can always communicate 
openly about unsafe situations with each other and their managers.
PAS and PFAS
In the Netherlands, a national nitrogen approach programme (in 
Dutch ‘Programma aanpak stikstof’ or PAS) was introduced to limit 
nitrogen deposition and protect natural habitats. PAS has also led to 
a (temporarily) shut-down of large construction projects, which 
potentially affects BAM’s project portfolio. 
BAM established a PAS taskforce that performed a risk analysis for all 
BAM tenders and projects in the Netherlands, including potential impacts and a roadmap with steps to take anticipating on a lower 
order intak. 
A related issue that impacted BAM in the Netherlands is that of 
PFAS, a collective name for substances that can be found in soil and 
surface water. National PFAS legislation is being reviewed by the 
Dutch government to limit the impact for the construction sector. 
BAM and other industry participants are cooperating closely with 
the government on how to build more homes and improve 
infrastructure, balanced with PAS an PFAS requirements. 
Brexit
The United Kingdom is BAM’s second largest home market after 
the Netherlands. BAM’s activities in the United Kingdom are split 
between three operating companies: BAM Construct UK in 
non-residential construction and property development, BAM 
Nuttall in civil engineering and the UK operations of BAM PPP. 
Uncertainty about Brexit continued during the year. Brexit 
uncertainty persists although recent elections provide some more 
clarity, leading to potential delay in investments.
Events after balance sheet date 
Supervisory Board of Royal BAM Group nv has announced - with a 
press release of 17 February 2020 - that by mutual agreement it has 
been decided that Rob van Wingerden will not be nominated for a 
next term as CEO and member of the Executive Board. In 
accordance with its contractual obligations, BAM will pay a 
severance payment of one-year base salary.
60
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementStudley Castle historical landmark
Just south of Birmingham, Grade II* listed Studley Castle has been 
transformed into a hotel. Dating from 1834, the castle has been 
restored and refurbished and is now the fourteenth hotel of Bourne 
Holidays group. A new building, with hotel rooms and a restaurant 
with a banquet hall, connects the monumental building with the old 
stables located behind. More than two hundred rooms and 
extensive wellness facilities are housed in the modern hotel of historic character. The team of BAM Construction has worked closely 
with Bourne Leisure to develop the design and construction strategy 
to deliver the rejuvenation of this historical heritage. Jon Kitely, 
BAM’s Construction Manager on this project: ‘We had the 
opportunity to deliver a redevelopment which will see the 
rejuvenation of this important local landmark, allowing its story to 
continue towards, and beyond, it’s 200th anniversary.’
61
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTitel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Governance
New tunnel improves 
connection with European rail 
network
Bad Cannstatt tunnel, Stuttgart, 
Germany
This six-kilometre railway tunnel 
from Stuttgart's central railway 
station to Bad Cannstatt is part 
of the large-scale project 
Stuttgart 21’. The overall aim of 
the project is to improve the 
infrastructure in and around 
Stuttgart and to further 
integrate the area in the 
European rail network. 
Construction of the tunnel plus 
rescue tunnel and smoke 
extraction structure is realised 
with the drill-and-blast method 
and a tunnel excavator. 
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
62Encouraging more women into construction and engineering
In 2019, BAM Nuttall attracted a record number of women in 
its apprenticeship intake, with over a third making up the 40 
apprentices' starting roles, from September, across the 
business. In collaboration with Women In Science and 
Engineering (WISE), BAM Nuttall has been involved in 
launching revolutionary initiatives for increasing the number 
of girls choosing construction careers.
 
‘Engineering the Future for Girls’ – Together with the Faculty 
of Engineering at the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, BAM 
Nuttall and BP brings 100 schoolgirls into the university to 
take on engineering challenges. The partnership also runs a 
residential outward-bound course within the department of 
Civil and Environmental Engineering. 
‘People Like Me In Construction’ – A new career resource 
pack, which encourages girls to think about their personality 
and attributes, matches them to types of roles (e.g. explorer, 
regulator, developer) and shows how they fit construction 
careers. The pack introduces a variety of women they can 
relate to, including two women from BAM Nuttall, as case 
studies and role models.
Legislative and regulatory developments
The latest version of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code ('the 
Code') was published on 8 December 2016. By means of a decree 
dated 29 August 2017 the Dutch government has designated the 
Code as applicable to Dutch companies with a public listing. The 
Code is based on the comply-or-explain principle and applies as 
from the financial year 2017.
Decree with respect to the contents of 
the Executive Board report
This chapter reports on the application of the Code at Royal 
BAM Group. Together with the information about the corporate 
governance structure and the BAM corporate governance 
compliance overview (see www.bam.com/en/about-bam/
corporate-governance), this comprises the ‘Corporate 
governance statement’ as specified in section 3 sub 1 of the 
Decree with respect to the contents of the Executive Board 
report ('the Decree').
Information about BAM’s corporate governance structure and 
compliance with the Code (clause 3.1 of the Decree with respect 
to the contents of the Executive Board report), functioning of 
the General Meeting and the rights of shareholders (clause 3a 
sub b of the Decree with respect to the contents of the 
Executive Board report) can be found on the Company’s website 
under the corporate governance heading. The most important 
aspects of BAM’s risk and control systems (clause 3a sub a of the 
Decree with respect to the contents of the Executive Board 
report) are available in  chapter 4 of this integrated report. 
Information about the composition and functioning of the 
Executive Board and Supervisory Board (clause 3a sub c of the 
Decree with respect to the contents of the Executive Board 
report) is described in  paragraphs 5.3 and 6.1 and the diversity 
policy for both boards is explained in this chapter and 
 paragraph 6.1. A declaration with regard to the Decree on 
Article 10 of the EU Takeover Directive (clause 3d of the Decree 5.1 Corporate governance
with respect to the contents of the Executive Board report) can 
be found in  paragraph 5.2.
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
Compliance with the Code is described in the BAM corporate 
governance compliance overview, which is available on www.
bam.com. This is to be read in conjunction with this section and 
is deemed to be incorporated into this section. In case there is a 
difference between the content of BAM’s publication and this 
section, this section will prevail.
 
BAM fully complies with the principles and best practises of the 
Code. In accordance with the Code the Company will submit any 
substantial changes in the main features of the corporate 
governance structure to the General Meeting for discussion 
purposes. 
Corporate governance review 2019
The corporate governance structure was reviewed by the 
Executive Board and Supervisory Board, assisted by the company 
secretary. The implications of the establishment of an Executive 
Committee in April 2019, including the amendment of the rules  
of procedure for the Executive Board and Executive Committee as 
well as the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board were 
assessed and the BAM corporate governance compliance overview 
was updated. 
Diversity 
Best practice 2.1.5 of the Code stipulates that the diversity policy 
for the Executive Board and Supervisory Board should be 
explained in the Executive Board report as well as the way that it 
was implemented in practice, addressing (1) the policy objectives, 
(2) how the policy has been implemented and (3) the results of the 
policy in the past financial year.
63
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementVarious dates in 2019 - Sicirec
50,000 trees – the project area is located in the Bolivian lowlands 
at the edge of the Andes. The area is known as a gateway to the 
tropical rainforest and is one of 34 biological hotspots in the 
world that are threatened with destruction by unsustainable 
agricultural practices. It is here that 50 farmers and their families 
have been working towards a better future for their children and 
the environment in 2019, thanks to BAM. 
The farmers have planted cocoa, fruit and trees that provide 
shade and sustainable timber on their land, which will provide 
them with the essential commodities to improve and stabilise 
their economic situation. Their improved economic situation will 
prevent further destruction of the surrounding native forests. 
Notwithstanding the above, it should be noted that especially at 
the executive level, achieving the gender target is proving to be 
difficult due to the nature of the business and the lack of female 
candidates with sufficient management experience in the 
construction industry. It is therefore difficult to predict when this 
target is likely to be achieved.
Sustainability, responsibility and delegation
The Executive Board is responsible for defining the sustainability 
policy, in consultation with the directors for Strategy and 
Sustainability and the management of the operating companies.
Meetings with senior management are used to define 
sustainability issues and reach agreement on prioritising 
objectives, monitoring activities, and reporting results. Critical 
concerns are reported to the Executive Board at least in quarterly 
reports, or whenever more urgency is required. The Executive 
Board communicates to the Supervisory Board according planned 
reporting cycles, or whenever more urgency is required. The 
reduction of CO² emissions and waste, and enhancing lives, along 
with business integrity and safety, apply to all BAM operating 
companies. In addition, each operating company measures KPIs 
addressing issues of relevance to its own business.
Each operating company has a management team member who 
shares responsibility for BAM’s sustainability activities. The 
operating companies report progress quarterly to the Executive 
Board and the Strategy and Sustainability directors, together with 
details of actions taken to support the Group’s business 
objectives. They interpret BAM’s objectives based on their unique 
operating conditions. Sustainability is part of how managers and 
employees carry out their day-to-day roles. It is addressed, for 
example, at regular work discussions and performance reviews. In 
this way, implementing sustainability is shared across all levels of 
the Group, from BAM’s Executive Board to its local champions.Since the implementation of the new Code in 2017, the profile for 
the Supervisory Board holds diversity aspects, including a clear 
target for gender participation. This target of at least 30 per cent 
female and at least 30 per cent male members of the Supervisory 
Board does not differ from the target set in the previous profile. 
Since the general meeting in 2017 the composition of the 
Supervisory Board has been in line with this target, given that two 
out of five members are female. Besides gender, diversity in 
background, nationality, expertise and experience in the 
Supervisory Board is equally important in order to provide most 
value. The Supervisory Board meets these diversity requirements. 
The Supervisory Board has resolved that the diversity aspects set 
in the profile for the Supervisory Board will apply equally to the 
Executive Board and the Executive Committee. Regrettably, the 
composition of the Executive Committee is not (yet) in line with 
the target as far as gender participation is concerned. 
The Executive Committee now only consists of male members. 
In the search for suitable candidates for the Executive Committee, 
the Supervisory Board put a great deal of emphasis on identifying 
female candidates. This was expressed in the instructions to the 
external recruitment agency and in the subsequent review of the 
resumes and candidates. In the end however, it proved very 
difficult to identify and attract qualified female candidates. Given 
the above, it was concluded that even more emphasis should be 
put on this topic. In order to put this into effect, a director for 
diversity and inclusion has been appointed, with the CEO taking 
the lead as sponsor of diversity and inclusion. A Group-wide 
programme for diversity and inclusion will be developed and 
implemented. BAM will increase its attention to women in our 
management development programmes to assure that the rise of 
women to our senior management positions is warranted. In 
addition, external recruitment agencies are instructed to identify 
capable female candidates for senior management positions. 
Finally, the Company will give preference to women in case of 
equal suitability.
64
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management65
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementEngineering Innovation Centre, University of 
Central Lancashire, UK
The state-of-the-art Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC), built by 
BAM Construction, has 652 panes of specially design glass each 
weighing 250 kilogrammes and measuring four square metres. It was also constructed using 630 tonnes of steel which hold 
150 pre-cast concrete floor planks, the largest of which weighs 
11 tonnes. The EIC is set to be a real asset to the university and 
the region, bringing educational and economic benefits now and 
for generations to come.5.2 Decree on Article 10 of the EU Takeover Directive 
Limits on the transfer of shares
The Company has no limitation, under the Articles of Association 
or by contract, on the transfer of shares or depositary receipts 
issued with the Company’s cooperation, apart from the restriction 
on the transfer of preference shares B. Article 13 of the Company’s 
Articles of Association stipulates that approval is required from 
the Company’s Executive Board for the transfer of preference 
shares B. The scheme is included in order to offer the Company 
the facility – because of the specific purpose of issuing these 
shares, namely the acquisition of finance or achieving protection 
– of offering the holders of these shares an alternative in the event 
that they wish to dispose of their shares.
As regards the preference shares B, the Company and Stichting 
Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (Foundation Preference Shares BAM 
Group) have agreed that the Company will not proceed to issue 
these shares or to grant any rights to purchase them to anyone 
other without the foundation’s permission. The foundation will 
not dispose of or encumber any preference shares B, nor renounce 
the voting rights relating to them, without permission from the 
Company. See page 204 onward with regard to the reasons 
behind protecting the Company and the manner in which this is 
done.
Substantial interests
The Company is aware of the following interests in its equity, 
which are now reported under the provisions concerning the 
reporting of controlling interests under the Disclosure of the 
Financial Supervision Act. See   table 52 on page 208.
Special control rights
The shares into which the Company’s equity is divided are not 
subject to any special control rights.
Employee share or employee option plan
The Company does not have any employee share or employee 
option plans. Since 2015 a long-term incentive plan based on 
performance shares has been introduced for the members of the 
Executive Board. This long-term incentive plan is cascaded down 
to a maximum number of fifteen senior executive positions below 
the Executive Board.
Voting rights
Each share in the Company provides entitlement to the casting of 
one vote at shareholders’ meetings. There are no restrictions on 
the exercising of voting rights. The Company’s Articles of 
Association contain the usual provisions in relation to intimation 
for the purpose of being acknowledged as a proxy at shareholders’ 
meetings. Where the Articles of Association mention holders of 
depositary receipts or depositary receipt holders, whether named 
or bearer, this is understood to mean holders of depositary 
receipts issued with the Company’s cooperation and also 
individuals who, under the terms of Articles 88 or 89, Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code, have the rights accorded to holders of 
depositary receipts for shares issued with the Company’s 
cooperation.This chapter relates to the provisions of the decree of 5 April 2006 
implementing article 10 of Directive number 2004/25/EC of the 
European Parliament and the Council of the European Union dated 
21 April 2004 and lastly revised on 13 October 2015 (‘the Decree 
of Article 10 of the EU Takeover Directive’).
Capital structure
The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, 
preference shares B and series of preference shares F. BAM shares 
are traded on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. Note 16 
of the financial statements may be used as a reference for the 
Company’s capital structure. At the balance sheet date only 
ordinary shares were issued. The following rights attached to the 
shares into which the Company’s capital is divided follow from the 
Articles of Association and the Dutch Civil Code. There is no 
difference in the voting rights attached to a preference share B, a 
preference share F or an ordinary share. As all ordinary shares and 
preference shares B and F have the same nominal value (EUR 0.10), 
every issued and outstanding share of a class gives the right to 
cast one vote in the general meeting and to cast one vote in the 
meeting of holders of that specific class. Ordinary shares and 
preference shares F may only be issued against payment in full. 
Preference shares B may be issued against partial payment. 
Holders of ordinary shares have a pre-emptive right in respect of 
new ordinary shares to be issued, unless restricted or excluded 
pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting. Holders of 
ordinary shares do not have a pre-emptive right in respect of new 
preference shares to be issued. Holders of preference shares B and 
F do not have a pre-emptive right in respect of shares to be issued. 
The transfer of ordinary shares and preference shares F is not 
restricted by the Articles of Association. The transfer of preference 
shares B requires the approval of the Executive Board. 
The relevant financial right attached to the shares which follows 
from Article 31 of the Articles of Association concerns the 
application of the profit in relation to preference shares B and F. 
A brief summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association
From the profit realised in any financial year, an amount will first 
be distributed, where possible, on the Class B cumulative 
preference shares, calculated by applying the percentage stated 
below to the amount that must be paid up on those shares as at 
the start of the financial year for which the distribution is made. 
The percentage referred to above will be equal to the average of 
the Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of 
twelve months – weighted according to the number of days for 
which these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which 
the distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor refers 
to the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and published 
by the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of Article 31(6) of the Articles of 
Association. See  paragraph 8.3 for Articles of Association 
provisions governing the distribution of profit.
66
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementChange of control provisions in important agreements
BAM differentiates the following categories of agreements as 
referred to in the Decree on Article 10 of the EU Takeover 
Directive:
• The Group has entered into syndicate revolving credit facilities 
(RCF). See for further details note 19 of the financial 
statements. The RCF agreements stipulate that in the event of a 
change of control, the loans/amounts outstanding under these 
arrangements are immediately due;
• In June 2016, Royal BAM Group issued €125 million in 
subordinated unsecured convertible bonds (see note 19 of the 
financial statements). This agreement also contains a change of 
control which gives the holder of each bond the right to require 
BAM to redeem that bond;
• Royal BAM Group and its subsidiaries have entered into various 
important agreements that contain clauses that in the event of 
a change of control the other party has the right to terminate 
the agreement. These agreements are in itself not considered 
key agreements within the meaning of the Decree on Article 10 
of the EU Takeover Directive, but jointly they are considered 
significant;
• The terms and conditions of the conditional performance share 
plan stipulate that, upon the occurrence of a change of control, 
the Supervisory Board may decide to vest the conditional 
Performance Shares accelerated on a prorated basis, both in 
terms of time and performance. The Supervisory Board is 
however also authorised to withdraw conditional and 
unconditional performance shares in exchange for a cash 
payment at market value.Shareholders’ agreements
The Company is not aware of any agreements involving one of the 
Company’s shareholders and which might provide reasons for:
• Restricting the transfer of shares or of depositary receipts   
issued with the Company’s cooperation, or
• Restricting the voting rights.
Appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board and 
members of the Executive Board and amendment of the Articles of 
Association
The Company is obliged by law to operate a mitigated two-tier 
structure. The General Meeting appoints the members of the 
Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation from the 
Supervisory Board. The General Meeting also appoints the 
members of the Executive Board, with the Supervisory Board 
having the right of recommendation. A more detailed explanation 
of the appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory 
Board and members of the Executive Board can be found in the 
Articles of Association of the Company. Resolutions to amend the 
Articles of Association or to dissolve the Company may only be 
adopted by the General Meeting pursuant to a proposal of the 
Executive Board and subject to the approval of the Supervisory 
Board.
Powers of the Executive Board 
The Executive Board’s powers are those arising from legislation 
and regulations. A more detailed description of the Executive 
Board’s duties can be found in the rules of the Executive Board and 
the Executive Committee. The Executive Board was authorised by 
the General Meeting held on 17 April 2019 to issue ordinary shares 
and Class F preference shares and/or to grant options to purchase 
these shares, subject to approval from the Supervisory Board. This 
authorisation is limited in duration to eighteen months. It is also 
limited in scope to 10 per cent of the issued capital. 
The General Meeting held on 17 April 2019 granted authority to 
the Executive Board for a period of eighteen months to repurchase 
shares in the Company, within the limitations imposed by the law 
and the Articles of Association and subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. In principle, the General Meeting is asked to 
grant these authorisations every year. Resolutions to amend the 
Articles of Association, or to dissolve the Company may only be 
passed by the General Meeting on the basis of a proposal put 
forward by the Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory 
Board.
67
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementH. (Helle) Valentin (1967)
Mrs Valentin started her career with IBM in 
1992 after obtaining a master’s degree in 
engineering at the Technical University of 
Denmark and has held many international 
executive positions within IBM. She holds the 
position of General Manager of Global 
Business Services, Nordic, at IBM. Since 2018, 
Mrs Valentin served as Managing Director 
within IBM and in that capacity held overall responsibility for one of 
IBM’s global accounts. Prior to this, Mrs Valentin served as Global 
COO of IBM’s Watson Internet of Things, with responsibility for 
founding the business and designing and building the business 
structure and product portfolio of this new IBM division. Before that, 
she was the COO of IBM’s Germany/Austria/Switzerland region in the 
period of 2013-2016, also responsible for strategy and business 
transformation. Mrs Valentin is a Danish national and did not own any 
shares in the Company’s capital per 31 December 2019.
Other offices: Member of the Supervisory Board of IBM Denmark 
Aps, Member of the Board of Directors of PFA Holding and PFA 
Pension.
Mrs Valentin was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.
C.M.C. (Carla) Mahieu  (1959)
Mrs Mahieu studied economics at the 
University of Amsterdam, where she 
graduated in 1984. She began her career at 
Royal Dutch Shell, where she held various 
management positions dealing with human 
resources, communication and corporate 
strategy. After several years in consultancy, 
Mrs Mahieu joined Royal Philips Electronics 
as Senior Vice-President of Corporate Human Resources in 2003. 
She took up her current position as Executive Vice-President and 
Global Head of Human Resources at Aegon in September 2010. 
She became a member of Aegon’s Management Board in 2016. 
Mrs Mahieu is a Dutch national and did not own any shares in the 
Company’s capital per 31 December 2019.
Other offices:  Member of the Supervisory Board of VodafoneZiggo.
Mrs Mahieu was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
reappointed in 2015 and 2019.Biographies of the Supervisory Board members
H.L.J (Harrie) Noy  (1951), Chairman
Mr Noy completed his studies at Eindhoven 
University of Technology in 1974. Mr Noy 
worked for Arcadis throughout his entire 
career. He joined that company, which at 
the time still operated under the name 
Heidemij, in 1975 and has since occupied 
various positions. From 1989 to 1994 he 
was a member of the Management Board 
of Arcadis’ consultancy division in the Netherlands, and served as 
Chairman of that board from 1992 to 1994. In 1994, Mr Noy was 
appointed as a member of the Executive Board. From 2000 to May 
2012, he served as CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board of 
Arcadis. Mr Noy is a Dutch national and did not own any shares in 
the Company’s capital per 31 December 2019.
Other offices: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Fugro, 
Chairman of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor TKH 
Group.
Mr Noy was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2012 and 
reappointed in 2016. He was appointed as Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board in 2017.
G. (Gosse) Boon (1959), Vice-Chairman
Mr Boon studied both quantitative business 
economics and Dutch law at Erasmus 
University Rotterdam. He also completed 
his RA (Chartered Accountant) studies at 
this same university. Mr Boon started his 
career at Unilever. From 1983 to 2000, he 
fulfilled various senior positions within the 
company, lastly as the CFO of Unilever 
Brazil. In 2000, Mr Boon was appointed CEO of DiverseyLever 
Netherlands, a position he fulfilled until 2004. Subsequently, Mr 
Boon held the position of CFO and Member of the Executive Board 
of Rijnmond Waste Processing and Van Gansewinkel Group 
respectively. In 2010, he transferred to Nutreco, where he was 
appointed CFO and Member of the Executive Board in 2011. In 
2015, following the delisting of Nutreco, he decided to leave the 
company. He is a Dutch national and did not own any shares in the 
Company’s capital per 31 December 2019.
Other offices:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Albron, 
Member of the Supervisory Board of KPMG, lay judge (expert 
member) at the Companies and Business Court (Enterprise 
Chamber), which is part of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal.
Mr Boon was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.5.3 Supervisory Board and Executive Board  
68
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementof the Kier Group with responsibility for all construction activities 
and he was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in 2010. In 2014 
Mr Sheffield left the Kier Group for Laing O’Rourke, one of the 
largest private construction companies of the United Kingdom, 
where he was a member of the Executive Committee until 2017, 
responsible for their activities in Europe and the Middle East. Mr 
Sheffield is a British national and did not own any shares in the 
Company’s capital per 31 December 2019.
Other offices:  Non-executive Director at Southern Water Services 
Ltd, Industry Advisor to the Board of Manchester Airport Group 
and President of the Institution of Civil Engineers. 
Mr Sheffield was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.M.P. (Paul) Sheffield  (1961)
Mr Sheffield studied civil engineering at 
the University of Surrey (United Kingdom). 
He is a Chartered Engineer and Fellow at 
the British Institution of Civil Engineers. 
From 1983 to 2014 he was employed by 
the Kier Group, a large British construction 
and property development group, listed on 
the London stock exchange, where he held 
a number of management positions. During the first years of his 
career, Mr Sheffield worked as an engineer on various projects in 
New Guinea, Turkey and the United Kingdom. After that he was 
responsible for the management of projects in the United 
Kingdom, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong. In 1998 he became 
Director of Operations and in 1999 was appointed Managing 
Director of Kier Group’s civil division. In 2005 he joined the Board 
36 - Retirement schedule for the Supervisory Board
Member CommitteesDate of initial 
appointmentYear of 
reappointmentEnd of  
current termEnd of  
second term
H.L.J. Noy* RC, NC 25- 04-2012 2016 2020 2020
G. Boon AC 19- 04-2017 - 2021 2025
C.M.C. Mahieu* RC, NC 20-04-2011 2015 2021 2019
M.P. Sheffield AC 24- 08-2017 - 2021 2025
H. Valentin RC, NC 19- 04-2017 - 2021 2025
* Right of recommendation of Central Works Council.
69
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management37 - Retirement schedule for the Executive Board
Member Date of birthDate of initial 
appointmentYear of 
reappointmentEnd of  
current term
R.P. van Wingerden, Chairman 21-07-1961 07-05-2008 2012, 2016 2020
L.F. den Houter 20-05-1974 01-08-2018 - 2022Biographies of the Executive Board members
R.P. (Rob) van Wingerden (1961), CEO 
Mr Van Wingerden graduated as a civil 
engineer from Delft University of 
Technology in 1988. He joined the Group 
as Project Surveyor in 1988 and 
subsequently worked in a variety of 
project management and other roles for 
operating companies in the Netherlands 
and elsewhere (including Taiwan and 
Hong Kong). He completed his MBA cum laude at Twente 
School of Management in 1994. During this period he attended 
the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business 
School, Boston, USA. He was appointed Director of HBG Bouw 
en Vastgoed in 2000, became Director at BAM Utiliteitsbouw in 
2002 and was appointed Chairman of the Board of BAM 
Woningbouw in 2005. Mr Van Wingerden has been a member of 
the Executive Board of Royal BAM Group since 2008. In October 
2014 he was promoted to the position of CEO and Chairman of 
the Executive Board. He is a Dutch national. Information about 
Mr Van Wingerden’s shareholding position is on pages 87-89.
Other offices: Member of the Supervisory Board of Royal Saan, 
Member of the Board of Governors of the Dutch Construction 
and Infrastructure Federation (Bouwend Nederland), Member of 
the Taskforce Bouw, Member of the Advisory Board of DIMI 
(Delft Deltas, Infratructures & Mobility Initiative).
Supervisory Board of Royal BAM Group nv has announced - with a 
press release of 17 February 2020 - that by mutual agreement it 
has been decided that Rob van Wingerden will not be nominated 
for a next term as CEO and member of the Executive Board.L.F. (Frans) den Houter (1974), CFO 
Mr Den Houter was trained as a 
hydrographic surveyor at the 
Amsterdam University of Applied 
Sciences. He earned a degree in business 
economics at the University of 
Amsterdam and an international 
master’s degree in finance and control. 
He started his career at Exxon Mobil in 
2000, where he worked as Financial Analyst and Controller for 
the Benelux retail operating company. In 2005 he moved to 
Shell, where he held consecutive positions as Controller at Shell 
Global Real Estate, Project Manager at Shell Energy Europe and 
Financial Manager of Joint Ventures at Shell Upstream 
International. He joined Heerema Marine Contractors (HMC) in 
2010 as its Finance and Control Manager and then held the 
position of Senior Vice-President of Finance before being 
appointed as CFO in 2012. Mr Den Houter has been a member 
of the Executive Board of Royal BAM Group since August 2018. 
He is a Dutch national. Information about Mr Den Houter’s 
shareholding position is on pages 87-89.
70
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementIn December 2018 it was announced that BAM would change its 
top structure in 2019 and that the size of the Executive Board 
would be reduced to two members, being the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. After a mid-term review of 
the implementation of the 2016-2020 strategic agenda, it had 
been decided to establish an Executive Committee to reinforce the 
implementation of the strategy. 
The Executive Committee was subsequently established in April 
2019. Besides the members of the Executive Board, R.P. (Rob) van 
Wingerden and L.F. (Frans) den Houter, it consists of:
• J.G. (Joost) Nelis, Chief Operating Officer (COO) for the business 
line Construction and Property;
• R. (Roel) Vollebregt, Chief Operating Officer (COO) for the 
business line Civil engineering;
• S. (Simon) Finnie, Chief Business Excellence Officer (CBEO);
• S.J.J. (Sven) Van de Wynkele, Chief Human Resource Officer (CHRO).
Information about the role and responsibilities of the Executive 
Committee is included in the Executive Board and Executive 
Committee rules of procedure, which were updated per 17 April 
2019. The relationship and contact with the Supervisory Board is 
explained in the Supervisory Board rules of procedure, pursuant to 
which Supervisory Board meetings shall generally be attended by 
all members of the Executive Committee.5.4 Executive Committee
J.G. (Joost) Nelis (1967), COO Construction and Property  
Mr Nelis was appointed COO for the business line Construction 
and Property, effective 1 April 2019. Previously, he held the 
position of Director at BAM Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland, BAM’s 
Dutch operating company for property development, non-
residential and residential construction and M&E services. He 
joined BAM in 1996 and has held various management positions, 
including Managing Director of BAM Wonen (residential) from 
2008 to 2016. He graduated as a civil engineer from Delft 
University of Technology.R. (Roel) Vollebregt (1961), COO Civil engineering
Mr Vollebregt was appointed COO for the business line Civil 
engineering, effective 1 April 2019. Since 2016, he had been 
Chairman of the Board of BAM Bouw en Vastgoed, BAM’s 
Dutch operating company for property development, 
non-residential and residential construction and M&E services. 
He joined the Group in 1999 and has held positions as 
Chairman of the Board of BAM Vastgoed and AM respectively 
since 2005. He obtained a master degree in business 
administration at Erasmus university Rotterdam, and was also 
trained as a civil engineer.
S.J.J. (Sven) Van de Wynkele (1969), CHRO  
Mr Van de Wynkele was appointed CHRO, effective August 
2018. He has extensive international expertise in human 
resources and in business transformation. He has held global HR 
leadership roles with General Electric, Philips and TP Vision. 
Prior to BAM, Mr Van de Wynkele was group HR Vice-President 
and Transformation Programme Co-leader at the international 
design and engineering company Khatib & Alami, based in 
Beirut, Lebanon. He holds a master’s degree in military and 
naval sciences from the Royal Military Academy in Brussels.S. (Simon) Finnie (1974), CBEO 
Mr Finnie was appointed CBEO, effective 15 April 2019. He has 
over 20 years of experience in designing and delivering 
sustainable operational transformation and cost efficiency 
across a wide range of sectors. He joined BAM in 2019. 
Previously he was Executive Director at both Laing O’Rourke 
and Kier Group, both large construction companies in the 
United Kingdom, where he was responsible for driving strategic 
improvements. He holds a master’s degree in business 
administration (MBA) from Warwick Business School and a 
bachelor in psychology & philosophy. 
From the left: Joost Nelis, Sven Van de Wynkele, Frans den Houter, Rob van Wingerden, Simon Finnie, Roel Vollebregt
71
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTitel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Supervisory Board
Award-winning flyover of  
110 metres 
Schuttebusbrug, Zwolle,  
the Netherlands   
A fine example of form and 
functionality, the flyover to 
access the new bus station 
at Zwolle’s railway station 
carries traffic high above 
the station’s six railway 
tracks. Suspended 
between two concrete 
bridges, the S-shaped, one-
piece steel bridge spans a 
length of 110 metres. 
In September 2019, the 
bridge was awarded the 
Thüringer engineering 
award, a bi-annual German 
prize for engineers and 
architects who have made 
an important contribution 
to complex building 
projects.
BAM Infra is responsible for 
the maintenance of the 
bridge during the coming  
15 years.
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
726.1 Report of the Supervisory Board to shareholders 
BAM’s 2019 financial results were disappointing. In July, the Company 
unfortunately had to issue a profit warning due to higher costs on 
several projects in Germany and a project of BAM International. As a 
consequence, the outlook for the full year was lowered to an adjusted 
result before tax margin of around 1 per cent, considerably below the 
current strategic target range of 2 to 4 per cent. With an adjusted 
result before tax of €74.1 million and a corresponding margin of 
1.0 per cent, the lower outlook has been met.
The profit warning constitutes a serious setback in achieving 
predictable performance in line with the strategic targets, which is an 
important goal of BAM’s strategy for 2016–2020. We asked 
management to make an in-depth root cause analysis for the projects 
involved, including action plans to remediate shortcomings, and 
discussed this extensively with management. Special attention was 
paid to BAM Deutschland which was responsible for the biggest part 
of the profit warning. We agreed with the measures taken by 
management to de-risk this operating company and replace 
management.  
An important step to accelerate the implementation of BAM’s 
strategy for 2016–2020 was the strengthening of the top structure in 
April 2019 by the establishment of an Executive Committee and the 
split of the Company’s activities in two clear business lines: 
construction and property and civil engineering. In addition, the 
mandate of the functions (Finance, IT and HR) has been 
strengthened. These changes should lead to more focus on the 
strategic priorities and effective implementation of the measures 
aimed at preventing the situation as occurred in 2019.
In the year under review, the economies in BAM’s European home 
markets continued to do well with healthy investment levels in both 
construction and property and in infrastructure. BAM International 
still felt the effect of a soft oil and gas market. In the Netherlands, the 
Company was suddenly confronted with restrictions coming from 
new regulations regarding soil contamination and nitrogen 
emissions. Although the impact in 2019 was limited, it will likely 
influence Dutch construction and infrastructure markets in 2020 and 
beyond. A more cautious approach is also warranted as Brexit, the 
trade war between the USA and China and political instability in 
general may have a negative impact on the global economy. On the 
other hand, the energy transition that is needed in view of climate 
change will require major investments in the built environment with 
a lot of opportunities for BAM.
In our discussions with management, we also paid attention to the 
financial resilience of the company. Although profitability in 2019 was 
well below the desired level, business cash flow was positive, 
particularly due to strong working capital management. At the end 
of the year, the Company had (again) a healthy net cash position, 
while during the year the Company did not need to use its revolving 
credit facilities and stayed well within the covenants agreed with 
banks. Nevertheless, the capital ratio of 16.5 per cent is below the 
desired level. Improving this ratio, especially through increased net 
profits, is an important priority for BAM.We announced - with a press release of 17 February 2020 - that by 
mutual agreement it has been decided that Rob van Wingerden will 
not be nominated for a next term as CEO and member of the 
Executive Board. The end of the current strategic cycle provides a 
natural moment for Van Wingerden to transfer the helm. The 
Supervisory Board has initiated the search for a successor, who will be 
leading the next stage of BAM’s development, including the 
preparation of a strategic update. Mr Van Wingerden has steered 
BAM in turbulent times with a clear vision of what is needed to deal 
with the challenges of the future. By introducing the One BAM 
concept he provided the basis for the transformation process that the 
Company is going through. With over thirty years of loyal service to 
BAM, the Supervisory Board can only be grateful for Rob van 
Wingerden’s contribution, vision and leadership.
2019 Financial statements and dividend
This annual report, which is based on the International Integrated 
Reporting Framework, includes the 2019 financial statements, 
duly prepared by the Executive Board. The financial statements 
have been audited by the external auditor, Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP; the unqualified independent auditor’s report is 
included on page 193 of this Integrated Report.
The Audit Committee discussed the draft financial statements 
with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and 
the external auditor. The Audit Committee also discussed the 
auditor’s report, the management letter and the quality of 
internal risk management and control systems and had a 
discussion with the external auditor without BAM’s management 
being present. Subsequently, our full Board discussed this 
integrated report, including the financial statements with the 
Executive Board in the presence of the external auditor. We took 
note of the reporting from the Audit Committee and reviewed the 
auditor’s report and the quality of internal risk management and 
control systems. We concluded that we agree with the 2019 
financial statements. 
In establishing the dividend, both BAM’s dividend policy which is 
based on net profit and the capital ratio have to be considered. 
The Supervisory Board agrees with the proposal of the Executive 
Board to distribute a dividend of €0.02 per share.
We recommend the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
15 April 2020, to adopt the 2019 financial statements. We are of 
the opinion that the financial statements, the report by the 
Executive Board and the report by the Supervisory Board provide 
a solid basis on which to hold the Executive Board accountable for 
the management policies pursued and the Supervisory Board 
accountable for its supervision on these policies. The members of 
the Supervisory Board have signed the financial statements in 
accordance with their statutory obligations under Article 2:101, 
paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
73
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementStrategy and operational plan
BAM’s strategy for the period 2016–2020, Building the present, 
creating the future, aims to prepare the Company for the future 
while improving performance and increasing predictability of 
results. The goal is to transform BAM from a fairly traditional, highly 
decentralised construction company to a much more cohesive 
company that uses internal synergies and scale to improve its 
competitiveness and that applies digital innovation and 
industrialisation as key elements in the construction process. 
When we evaluated the profit warning, we also extensively 
discussed the status of the implementation of the 2016–2020 
strategy. We supported managements’ conclusion that the strategy 
is still largely valid and that most root causes for the profit warning 
are covered by existing improvement programs. We agreed that 
further priority setting was needed and that focus should be on 
more selective tendering, strengthening of project management 
processes and capabilities via the Uniform Project Approach for 
larger projects, strengthening of project controlling across all 
business units and reinforcement of performance management to 
enhance a performance culture across the Company. Regarding the 
business portfolio we agreed with management’s intention to bring 
more focus in the activities of BAM International and to continue 
focusing BAM Deutschland on five urban regions.
An important element in BAM’s strategy is the One BAM concept, 
introduced to improve management control and to reap the 
benefits of scale by sharing knowledge, resources, systems, 
processes and innovations across the Company. Since BAM comes 
from a highly decentralised organisation with strong local 
autonomy, this involves a major transformation. The establishment 
of the Executive Committee and strengthening of the mandate of 
the corporate functions is aimed at managing this process properly. 
We agreed with the Executive Committee that priority should be 
given to those items that contribute to improved and predictable 
performance in the short term.
 
As most of the losses in the past years come from large projects, 
these projects represent a strategic issue for BAM. Most of these 
projects are in the civil sector for public sector clients and often not 
only involve the construction, but also the design, financing and 
maintenance. This type of unique and complex projects should 
enable BAM to win work through its engineering expertise, thus 
giving access to higher margin work. These projects are also 
important to retain high level expertise, attract talented 
professionals and maintain an internationally competitive 
construction industry. However, these projects require a better 
balance between risks and rewards. Management informed us on 
the ongoing discussions with clients on different approaches to the 
tendering of such projects. In the meantime, we support 
management’s position that BAM will no longer tender for projects 
where the rewards are not in line with the risks it is willing to 
assume.
  
Based on the BAM strategy, the operating companies and corporate 
functions prepared operating plans for 2020, which were consolidated into the operating plan for the Group. We discussed 
the outlines and 2020 priorities in our meeting in November and 
approved the 2020 operating plan in our January 2020 meeting. We 
also discussed the framework and process for developing the 
strategic agenda for the period 2021–2025.
Risk management
As proper risk management is the key to predictable performance 
and therefore shareholder value, this continued to be high on our 
agenda. The tender stage gate process plays a pivotal role in the 
early identification of potential risks and taking appropriate 
measures to mitigate these. We closely monitored the continuous 
development and improvement of this process. We fully 
supported management’s actions to become more critical and 
selective in the early phase of tendering processes. It must be 
noted that the tender stage gate process alone cannot prevent all 
risks from occurring. It does however help to focus on projects 
where BAM can achieve appropriate margins without running 
unacceptable risks.
In order to further strengthen operational risk management, the 
Company has embarked on bringing together and rolling out best 
practices in tendering for and execution of projects. Management 
kept us informed about the first eight modules of this Uniform 
Project Approach or UPA, developed in 2019, which will be 
mandatory for all large projects as per 1 January 2020. Further 
modules are being developed and rolled-out gradually once 
available.    
Next to its customary activities and reviews of internal processes, 
the internal audit team continued with auditing a number of high 
exposure projects, resulting in recommendations to improve 
project control. Several large projects in the tender phase were 
presented to our Board in regular and extra meetings. We 
reviewed these projects with a main focus on risks, how these 
were managed and how these impacted the pricing of the 
projects.
As part of our annual risk management review, we discussed in 
our November meeting the outcome of the 2019 Enterprise Risk 
Management assessment in the presence of the Governance, Risk 
and Compliance officer. This annual assessment provides an 
overview of the biggest risks the Company is facing in relation to 
achieving its objectives, both strategic and operational. The top 
10 risks and related mitigation measures were discussed. In the 
2020 operating plans of the operating companies and corporate 
functions specific attention is being given to these risks. The 
Governance, Risk and Compliance officer also informed us about 
the status of the adherence to the Minimum Requirements 
Framework, which provides minimum standards regarding (risk) 
controls throughout the Group. 
We concluded that the Group has in place internal risk 
management and control systems, financial reporting manuals 
and procedures for drawing up financial reports, as well as an 
established monitoring and reporting system. We expect that the 
74
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementnew top structure will further strengthen the Company’s ability to 
manage risks properly. 
Safety and sustainability
We agree with the Executive Board that safety is a very high 
priority for BAM and its people. We regret that after no fatalities 
in 2018 and the first three quarters of 2019, the Group had to 
report two fatalities in the last quarter of 2019, both in Belgium. 
We discussed both tragic accidents with management and 
appreciated how these were handled.
These fatalities, but also the (serious) accidents that occurred, 
show that safety needs permanent attention. BAM’s safety 
performance as measured by the frequency of incidents, was 
more or less stable compared to 2018 (IF BAM 2019 of 4.8 
compared to 4.2 in 2018). We fully support management in its 
continuous efforts to further increase safety, not only through 
guidelines and instructions but especially by giving it consistent 
management attention and emphasizing the behavioural aspects. 
We took note of the positive feedback on the worldwide BAM 
Safety Day which is meant to increase awareness of the 
importance of safety.
With respect to sustainability, we believe that BAM is a leader in 
the construction industry. BAM’s corporate Sustainability director 
gave a presentation on progress regarding the relevant key 
performance indicators included in BAM’s strategy. Management 
informed us on the stakeholder survey performed under clients, 
partners and suppliers in which important themes in society were 
addressed, such as the energy transition, digitalisation, the 
circular economy and smart cities and the impact these will have 
on BAM and its stakeholders.
Shareholders and investor relations
We are of the opinion that an open and regular dialogue with 
shareholders and investors is important to explain the Company’s 
strategy and performance and to receive their feedback. We 
regularly reviewed the Group’s investor relations activities and 
shareholder base and were informed on the feedback given by 
shareholders, investors and analysts. We also took note of analyst 
reports regarding the Company.
Together with the Executive Board, we prepared the Annual 
General Meeting and evaluated it afterwards. We were pleased to 
note that all proposals were adopted by the General Meeting. 
Corporate governance
Following the introduction of the Executive Committee in April 
2019, an updated corporate governance compliance overview 
was published on BAM’s website, providing transparency on how 
BAM complies with the code. We approved the rules of 
procedure for the Executive Board/Executive Committee and for 
the Supervisory Board which were updated because of the 
introduction of the Executive Committee. The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are of the 
opinion that Royal BAM Group’s corporate governance is up to 
standard. Please refer to the corporate governance statement in 
the Integrated Report.
Discussions with external auditor
In early 2019, we assessed the performance of and relationship 
with the external auditor, based upon feedback from the 
Executive Board and the evaluation and recommendation of the 
Audit Committee. Based on this assessment, our experience with 
the external auditor and the external auditor’s expertise with 
regard to the construction industry in general and Royal BAM 
Group in particular, we recommended the General Meeting to 
re-appoint Ernst & Young Accountants LLP as external auditor 
responsible for auditing the 2020 financial statements of Royal 
BAM Group, which the General Meeting subsequently approved. 
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP attended the Annual General 
Meeting of 17 April 2019, reported on their 2018 audit and 
answered questions.
The audit plan for 2019 was presented to and discussed with the 
Audit Committee and our full Board and subsequently approved. 
During our review of the 2018 full year results and the 2019 half 
year results, we met with Ernst & Young Accountants LLP to 
discuss their reports. We established that the external auditor had 
received the financial information on which the financial reports 
were based and noted that the external auditor had discussed the 
information provided with BAM officers and the Executive Board. 
We took note of the reports and management letters as prepared 
by the external auditor. 
In our February 2019 meeting, we discussed with the external 
auditor and the Executive Board the areas of emphasis related to 
the 2018 annual reporting as identified by the auditor, being: 
valuation of projects and revenue recognition (including variation 
orders and claims), valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of 
goodwill, capitalisation of development costs, the application of 
IFRS 16, 9 and 15, accounting and reporting of German joint 
arrangements and reporting on non-financial information. Several 
of these topics were also discussed with the external auditor 
during our meeting in August. In that meeting also the 
impairment of capitalised development costs, the impact of the 
de-risking of a UK pension scheme and the implementation 
process for IFRS 16 (leases) were discussed. 
Other activities and meetings
In addition to the items mentioned before, in each of our regular 
meetings, we discussed with the Executive Committee the state 
of affairs, the financial performance of the Group and the 
operating companies, development of critical projects, market 
developments and order intake, working capital and cash flow, 
the financial condition of the Group as reflected by the balance 
sheet, investments and divestments and the quarterly press 
releases. We also discussed and agreed with the proposal to join 
forces with Heijmans on asphalt plants. If applicable, our 
75
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementmeetings featured a report on what had been discussed in 
meetings of the committees of our Board.
Other matters discussed included the integrated report and 
financial statements for 2018, the 2019 half-year report and interim 
statements, the reserve and dividend policy and the dividend 
proposal for 2018, the various effects of changes in the 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on the Group’s 
financial reports, as well as compliance reports and material legal 
proceedings in which the Group is engaged.
The Executive Committee regularly updated us on the situation 
regarding a number of critical projects and tenders. In a number of 
instances, management of operating companies and key staff 
involved were invited to provide further information. Discussions 
focused mainly on the risks in these projects and how these are 
managed.
The new Group Controller presented his initial experiences in BAM 
and explained his views on the further development of the group 
control function. With the Governance, Risk and Compliance officer 
we had a discussion on integrity in the Group and the compliance 
program to safeguard this. We welcomed the establishment of the 
Ethics and Compliance Committee, under the leadership of the 
CFO, which will strengthen the robustness of monitoring and (when 
necessary) investigation. We also discussed and agreed with the 
(revised) code of conduct and supported the training program to 
increase the awareness of (dealing with) dilemmas. We paid 
attention to the overview of compliance reports and the 
possibilities for employees to report irregularities (speak-up 
culture). 
 
In September 2019, we went to Berlin for our annual work visit. 
During this multiple day event considerable time was spent to 
evaluate where the Company stands from a strategic and 
operational perspective, as a starting point for the strategy for the 
period 2021–2025. The Executive Committee presented for each 
operating company a ‘snapshot’, representing an assessment of the 
condition of that company, including improvements for both the 
short and the longer term. After this ‘inside–out’ view, an external 
consultant gave an ‘outside–in’ view of important developments in 
the construction market. He also highlighted the competitive 
environment. We also received presentations on progress regarding 
operational excellence and HR. In the discussions, we emphasised 
the need for prioritisation and focus on performance improvement. 
This was discussed further in our November meeting.
The second part of our Berlin visit was focused on the German 
market. We met with management and key staff of BAM 
Deutschland, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau and BAM PPP and got 
presentations on market developments, business performance and 
major projects. We visited a number of projects in Berlin and were 
impressed with the quality of the work and relationships with 
clients.
A delegation of our Board met with the Central Works Council on 
several occasions. In addition, our full Board together with the Executive Committee met with the Central Works Council in May to 
discuss developments in BAM.
Our Board actively engages with the Executive Board as well as 
other senior management in order to ensure we receive the right 
information. The chairman of our Board had regular contact with 
the Chief Executive Officer and the chairman of the audit 
committee with the Chief Financial Officer. The chairman and 
other members met with senior managers in order to be briefed 
on specific topics such as HR, finance, corporate governance and 
internal audit.
We approved the remuneration report prepared by the 
Remuneration Committee. The remuneration report is included 
in  paragraph 6.2 of the integrated report. The remuneration 
policy was not amended in 2019.
In 2019, we met on seven occasions in the presence of the 
Executive Board/Executive Committee. In addition, two 
telephone conference calls took place in relation to the profit 
warning early July. The attendance rate of the individual 
members at the meetings was as follows:
38 -  The attendance rate of the individual mem bers at the meeting
SB AC RC NC
Mr H.L.J. Noy 100% 100% 100%
Mr K.S. Wester* 66.6% 100%
Mr G. Boon 100% 100%
Mrs C.M.C. Mahieu 100% 100% 100%
Mr M.P. Sheffield 100% 100%
Mrs H. Valentin 100% 100% 100%
*Mr Wester stepped down at the annual shareholder meeting in April 2019
We also met without management being present, to prepare 
for and evaluate board meetings. In addition, we met without 
management to evaluate the functioning of the Executive 
Board, to perform our self-assessment, to discuss a number of 
strategic and organisational matters and to discuss the 
remuneration of the Executive Board, including the 
determination of the variable portion of their remuneration for 
2018 and the targets for 2019.
The Supervisory Board’s committees
The Supervisory Board has three permanent committees: an 
Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a 
Nomination Committee. It is the task of these committees to 
support and advise the Supervisory Board concerning items 
under the committees’ responsibility and to prepare the 
Supervisory Board’s decisions regarding those items. The 
Supervisory Board as a whole remains responsible for the way 
in which it performs its tasks and for the preparatory work 
carried out by the committees. The committees submitted 
reports on their meetings to the Supervisory Board.
76
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMay 2019 - Copenhagen area
56 fruit trees in small ‘fruit tree plantations’ at four day care 
centres. Pear, apple and cherry trees and various berry plants are 
part of an educational package for the children. With books, 
posters and planting guides they will learn how to plant and 
maintain the ‘fruit tree plantation’. 
Bo Svendsen, Managing Director of BAM in Denmark attended 
the tree planting festivities at SFO Lundtofte in Kgs. Lyngby and 
said: ‘The enthusiasm of the children underpins our choice to 
celebrate our 150th anniversary by planting trees.’
The Audit Committee
During 2019 the Audit Committee was composed of Mr Boon 
(chairman), Mr Wester (until April 2019) and Mr Sheffield. The 
composition is in line with the relevant provisions of the Code.
The committee met four times. The external auditor was present 
at all of these meetings. The chairman of the Executive Board, the 
Chief Financial Officer, Group Controller and the Internal Audit 
director also attended all Audit Committee meetings.
In addition to its regular tasks and responsibilities, the Audit 
Committee addressed the following specific matters in 2019: 
assurance plan 2019 of the external auditor EY, internal audit plan 
for 2020, impact of new reporting standard IFRS 16, material legal 
proceedings, development of working capital and cash flow, ROCE 
and valuation of key projects. In addition, developments relating 
to tax, IT (including IT general controls), insurance, treasury, 
compliance, risk management and pensions as well as the 
progress on the transformation of the IT and finance functions 
were monitored and reviewed. 
The Audit Committee was briefed by the external auditor on 
relevant developments in the audit profession, especially those 
related to new IFRS reporting standards. The Committee met with 
the external auditor without the Executive Board being present 
and reported to the Supervisory Board on the performance of and 
the relationship with the external auditor. Furthermore, the 
chairman of the Committee regularly communicated on a one to 
one basis with the external auditor and the CFO. The Audit 
Committee considers the relationship with the external auditor to 
be effective.Remuneration Committee
During 2019 the Remuneration Committee was composed of Mrs 
Mahieu (Chairwoman), Mrs Valentin and Mr Noy. The composition is 
in line with the relevant provisions of the Code.
One of the tasks of the Remuneration Committee is to make 
proposals to the Supervisory Board with regard to the 
remuneration policy, the terms of employment of the members of 
the Executive Board and the remuneration of the members of the 
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. The remuneration of 
members of the Executive Committee, not being member of the 
Executive Board, shall also be subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board.
In February 2020, the Remuneration Committee submitted a 
proposal to the Supervisory Board regarding the short-term 
incentive for members of the Executive Board, based on the 2019 
performance and the applicable criteria. The committee also 
prepared a proposal for the vesting of the long-term incentive plan 
2017-2019. In addition, the committee submitted a proposal for the 
objective setting for the 2020 short-term incentive and the 
2019-2021 long-term incentive. 
The Committee evaluated the revised Shareholder Rights Directive 
and took the required actions to comply with it. This included 
proposals for the remuneration policies for the Executive Board and 
Supervisory Board that were subsequently approved by the 
Supervisory Board and will be submitted for shareholder approval 
to the AGM of 2020. As part of the preparation of these policies, the 
Remuneration Committee consulted several major shareholders, 
organizations representing shareholders and proxy advisors.
77
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementor a position as chairman of such supervisory body. This is in line 
with the Management and Supervision (Public and Private 
Companies) Act and the Code. No conflicts of interest between 
the Company and members of the Executive Board and/or 
Executive Committee were reported.
Information about the individual members of the Executive 
Board is available in  paragraph  5.3 of the Integrated Report.
Supervisory Board
At the end of the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2019, the 
second four-year term of Mrs Mahieu and Mr Wester as members 
of the Supervisory Board ended. Mrs Mahieu was reappointed for 
a further period of two years. We considered her reappointment 
desirable because of her expertise and from a continuity 
perspective as three of our members were appointed only 
relatively recently. Mr Wester, who retired, was succeeded as vice 
chairman of our Board by Mr Boon.
To fill the vacancy that arose due to the retirement of Mr Wester, 
at an Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders on 
6 November 2019, Mr R Provoost was appointed as member of the 
Supervisory Board. Unfortunately, Mr Provoost stepped down 
from the Supervisory Board in December due to personal 
circumstances. The process to fill the vacancy is ongoing.
Information about the individual members of the Supervisory 
Board is available in paragraph 5.3 of the Integrated Report.
The Supervisory Board meets the requirements of the Code with 
regard to independence. In 2019 the Supervisory Board members 
did not have any other relationships of a business nature with the 
Company. None of the Supervisory Board members had more 
than five memberships of Supervisory Boards at Dutch listed 
companies or other large institutions. The Supervisory Board is 
not aware of any conflicts of interest between the Company and 
members of the Supervisory Board.
In February 2020, we performed our annual self-assessment with 
the support of an external consultant. The assessment consisted 
of interviews by the consultant with the individual members of 
our Board and the Executive Board as well as the Company 
Secretary. The outcome of these interviews was presented by the 
consultant in an internal session of our board and we discussed 
the conclusions and suggestions for further improvement. Topics 
that were discussed included amongst others the financial 
performance of the Company, long term value creation, the 
succession for both the Supervisory Board and the Executive 
Board roles, the Executive Board evaluation process, balancing the 
agenda with short term and longer term topics and creating more 
time for reflective dialogue. 
Diversity
Both the Supervisory Board as well as the Executive Board and 
Executive Committee recognise the benefits and importance of 
diversity in their composition. Diversity is not limited to gender, 
but also includes (among others) skill, background, experience The Remuneration Committee prepared the remuneration report 
which also explains how the remuneration policy has been 
implemented in practice. The committee met six times. The 
Chairman of the Executive Board was present during parts of these 
meetings as was the Chief HR Officer and the Compensation and 
Benefits officer. The committee members consulted each other a 
number of times outside the context of a formal meeting. 
Nomination Committee
During 2019 the Nomination Committee was composed of Mr Noy 
(Chairman), Mrs Mahieu and Mrs Valentin. Key task of the 
Nomination Committee is to make proposals to the Supervisory 
Board regarding the size and composition of the Supervisory Board 
and the Executive Board, regarding selection criteria, selection 
procedures, appointments and reappointments to both Boards as 
well as regarding assessment of their performance. The committee 
also monitors the Executive Board’s policy on selection criteria and 
appointment procedures for senior management and holds annual 
appraisals with the individual members of the Executive Board. 
Appointments with regard to the Executive Committee, not being 
Executive Board members, shall also be subject to the approval of 
the Supervisory Board.
The Nomination Committee met four times and members 
consulted each other a number of times outside the context of a 
formal meeting. Items discussed were the composition of the 
Executive Committee, reappointment of Mrs Mahieu and the 
vacancies in the Supervisory Board as well as potential candidates 
to fill these vacancies. The Committee discussed with the Chief 
Executive Officer and with the Chief HR Officer succession planning 
for senior management roles and the talent development program.
Composition and functioning of the Executive Board, 
Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board
Executive Board and Executive Committee
As of April 2019, an Executive Committee was established while 
the size of the Executive Board was reduced to two members, 
being the CEO and the CFO. In that context, Mr Bax, who had been 
re-appointed at the General Meeting of 18 April 2018 as member 
of the Executive Board for a period of one year, stepped down, 
effective 1 March 2019. The following persons were appointed to 
the Executive Committee: Mr J. Nelis as COO Construction and 
Property, Mr R. Vollebregt as COO Civil engineering, , Mr S. Finnie 
as Chief Business Excellence Officer and Mr van de Wynkele as 
Chief HR Officer. The CEO and CFO are also members of the 
Executive Committee.
We reviewed the performance of the Executive Board and 
Executive Committee and interviewed the individual Executive 
Committee members. We also consulted some major 
shareholders and other stakeholders on their views on BAM. Based 
on our own observations and information received, we gave 
feedback to the members of the Executive Board. 
We established that none of the Executive Board members holds 
more than two supervisory board positions at large organisations 
78
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementwomen in its management development programs to assure that 
the rise of women to senior management positions is warranted. 
In addition, external recruitment agencies are specifically 
instructed to identify and submit diverse candidates for senior 
management positions. Finally, the Company will take positive 
action in occurrences of equal suitability. It will however take time 
before these measures lead to achieving the target on gender 
diversity at the executive level.
Final comments
We are aware that tendering for work and execution of projects is 
often hard work. Unfortunately, that hard work was not fully 
reflected in BAM’s 2019 financial results. A better and more 
predictable performance is critical to strengthen credibility. The One 
BAM approach will help to increase BAM’s competitiveness by sharing 
knowledge, experience, resources and innovations. The capabilities 
of BAM’s people and their dedication to BAM and its clients, are key 
to the success of our company. We want to thank management and 
all employees for their efforts and dedication to BAM.
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020
On behalf of the Supervisory Board,
Harrie Noy, Chairmanand nationality. The profile for our board includes a minimum 
30 per cent target for female and male board members. This 
target applies mutatis mutandis to the Executive Board and the 
Executive Committee.
Our present composition is in line with the profile for our Board. 
We meet the specific target on gender diversity and comply with 
the upcoming legal quota for female representation in supervisory 
boards of Dutch listed companies.
Neither the Executive Board nor the Executive Committee meet 
the target regarding gender diversity. In filling the recent 
vacancies in the Executive Committee, gender diversity got a high 
priority, without compromising on the other criteria for these 
roles. However, it appeared difficult to find female candidates 
with the right profile and those who were on the shortlist had 
other opportunities and did not choose for BAM. This is probably 
associated with the traditional overrepresentation of males in the 
construction sector. However, this is changing and we are 
confident that in the future this will be reflected in the Executive 
Committee.
Gender diversity at the top should also come from a more 
balanced composition in terms of gender at other layers in the 
organisation. Therefore, the Company pays specific attention to 
Rotterdam’s new art icon 
The first art storage facility in the world to offer access to a 
museum’s complete collection − 151,000 artworks available for 
browsing by the public − completed its top levels in September 
2019. 
This mirror-clad art icon − for which 1,664 mirrored façade panels 
were used − will also accommodate four professional restoration 
studios, two film booths, an educational space and a cinema. BAM 
Bouw en Techniek is set to complete the project in 2020, after 
which Depot Boijmans van Beuningen will open its doors to the 
public in 2021. 
 
Sjarel Ex, Director of Museum Boijmans van Beuningen: 
‘There is nothing in the world that will look like our future depot. 
Standing in front of it, as it is currently being built, the façade 
reflects the whole environment. In other word, our new depot will 
uphold a mirror to Rotterdam. I really like this insight and view. 
The construction is progressing well and I am already looking 
forward to the moment that BAM will complete it.’ 
79
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThis remuneration report was prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee of the Supervisory Board and has been adopted by the 
Supervisory Board in its meeting of 20 February 2020. It contains:
• An overview of the remuneration policy and remuneration 
elements for the Executive Board;
• The remuneration of the Executive Board in 2019, based on 
application of the remuneration policy in 2019;
• The internal pay ratio in 2019;
• The terms of appointment of the Executive Board members;
• The share ownership of the Executive Board members;
• The remuneration policy for the Executive Board per 2020;
• The remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board per 2020; 
• The remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2019.
This report takes into account the revised Shareholders’ Rights 
Directive published in May 2017 as implemented into Dutch law 
per 1 December 2019. Any reporting requirements arising from 
the new Guidelines for Standardised Presentation of the 
Remuneration Report, which are expected to be released by the 
European Commission in 2020, will be incorporated after they 
have been released.
Remuneration policy
The Supervisory Board draws up the remuneration policy for the 
Executive Board based on advice from its Remuneration Committee. 
The General Meeting adopts the remuneration policy. Once the 
remuneration policy has been adopted, the Supervisory Board 
determines the remuneration for the individual members of the 
Executive Board, again on the basis of recommendations of its 
Remuneration Committee. 
The Supervisory Board will regularly review the remuneration 
package to ensure that it complies with the assumptions underlying 
the remuneration policy. The policy will also be evaluated regularly 
and – in line with the new Shareholders’ Rights Directive – be put 
forward for adoption at the General Meeting at least every four 
years. The current remuneration policy was adopted by the General 
Meeting on 22 April 2015 and is applicable as of 2015. 
The remuneration policy, which is unchanged compared to the 
current policy, will be put forward for adoption by the General 
Meeting on 15 April 2020.
Design principles
The remuneration policy is geared to attract and retain highly 
qualified executives, including those from other industries, and 
motivate them to achieve Royal BAM Group’s objectives. Particular 
emphasis is placed on experience with the Group’s (international) 
activities and the necessary management qualities. The policy also 
aims to stimulate profitable growth and long-term value creation. It 
is transparently communicated and safeguards fairness and 
consistency within BAM and externally. Variable remuneration is an 
important part of the total package. The policy supports both short 
and long-term objectives, whereas the emphasis is on long-term 
value creation for Royal BAM Group and its stakeholders. It 
contributes to this long-term value creation by not only focussing 
on financial targets but also on non-financial targets such as 
sustainability. In designing the policy and to determine the remuneration of the 
Executive Board, the Remuneration Committee uses external 
benchmark information to assess market comparability. 
Remuneration levels are aimed at the median of a labour market 
reference group. In addition, the internal pay differentials are 
taken into account, as well as scenario analyses which are used to 
determine possible outcomes of the variable remuneration 
elements, including the maximum value of the long-term 
incentive. The remuneration structure and elements take into 
account that risk-taking beyond the risk profile of the Company 
should not be encouraged. The Remuneration Committee has 
taken note of the Executive Board members’ view on their 
remuneration. 
Labour market reference group
The labour market reference group that originally was used as 
benchmark for designing the remuneration policy, consisted of 
sixteen companies. C orporate events (delisting of TNT Express and 
liquidation of Carillion) in the past years have led to a decrease of the 
number of companies in the reference group. Therefore, the 
reference group was reviewed and expanded beginning of 2019, 
based on industry, ownership structure, geographical business 
scope and size parameters. Table 39 shows the twenty companies of 
which the labour market reference group consists after the review. 
39 - Labour market reference group
Arcadis Kier Group¹
Balfour Beatty NCC
Bauer PostNL
Besix SBM Offshore¹
Boskalis Signify¹
Eiffage Skanska
Fugro
Galliford Try¹
Heijmans
HochtiefStrabag
TKH¹
VolkerWessels
Vopak¹
¹ Added to labour market reference group as of 2019.
Fixed remuneration
The Supervisory Board determines the fixed remuneration of the 
individual members of the Executive Board based on advice of the 
Remuneration Committee. Once a year, the Supervisory Board 
evaluates whether and if so, to what extent the base salaries will be 
adjusted. This annual evaluation generally takes place per 
1 January of each year and takes into account personal performance, 
the results of the past year, the extent to which the current fixed 
remuneration deviates from the benchmark and general changes in 
the market.
Short-term incentive (STI)
The STI depends on the realisation of predetermined measurable 
objectives. 70 per cent of the STI is based on financial objectives and 
30 per cent is linked to non-financial objectives which are relevant 
for the Group’s (long-term) success. Within this framework, each of 6.2 Remuneration report 
80
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management40 -  The remuneration of the Executive Board consists of four elements 
Remuneration elements Description Strategic role
Fixed remuneration Fixed cash compensation Provide base compensation
Short-term incentive (STI) Cash incentive expressed as a 
percentage of fixed remuneration
Value at
• Threshold performance: 35%
• Target performance: 55%
• Excellent performance: 75%
Objective setting
• Financial objectives: 70%
• Non-financial objectives: 30%Reward annual performance
Incentivise achievement of agreed objectives
Align Executive Board and shareholder 
interests
Long-term incentive (LTI) Share-based incentive
Award value expressed as a percentage of fixed remuneration
• CEO: 70%
• CFO: 60%
Three-year vesting period
Vesting of awarded shares: 
• Threshold performance: 50% 
• Target performance: 100% 
• Excellent performance: 150%
Value at vesting is capped at 2.5 x award value
Two-year lock-up period after vesting plus minimum share 
ownership requirement:
• CEO: 100% annual fixed remuneration
• CFO: 75% annual fixed remunerationReward long-term value creation
Retention
Align Executive Board and shareholder 
interests
Pensions In line with sector regulations Provide for retirement
the financial objectives is given a certain weight and for each of 
these objectives performance incentive zones are defined. 
The non-financial objectives are evaluated together and do not have 
individual weights or performance incentive zones. Payout gradually 
increases with performance, starting with a payout of 35 per cent of 
the fixed annual remuneration at threshold performance, 
55 per cent at target performance and potentially going up to 
75 per cent when performance is excellent. Below threshold there 
will be zero payout.
To ensure continued alignment of the STI with BAM’s strategy and to 
enable adequate responses to the challenges the Group is facing, 
flexibility with respect to the STI objectives is important. Therefore, 
at the beginning of each financial year, based upon a proposal from 
the Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory Board determines the financial and non-financial STI objectives as well as the relative 
weighting and the performance incentive zones (threshold, at target 
and excellent performance levels) for the financial objectives. 
After the end of the financial year, the Remuneration Committee 
determines to what extent the STI targets for the selected 
objectives have been met. The Supervisory Board, following a 
proposal from the Remuneration Committee, will decide upon the 
STI to be awarded over the past financial year. Specific attention is 
given to the non-financial objectives to evaluate in detail what has 
concretely and measurably been delivered.
Per 2020 the financial objectives and weighting are disclosed at the 
beginning of the financial year. Due to this additional disclosure, the 
existing list of seven possible financial objectives has been rendered 
81
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementto the other two performance objectives: in case BAM ranks at the 
bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the other two objectives 
will not result in vesting regardless of the performance.The value of 
the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of 
performance shares that will vest and the share price at the moment 
of vesting – that will become unconditional to a participant will at 
vesting never exceed two and a half times the award value in order to 
avoid inappropriate payouts.
In accordance with the Code the three-year vesting period will be 
followed by a two-year lock-up period. In addition, there is a 
minimum share ownership requirement, which amounts to 100 per 
cent of fixed remuneration for the CEO and to 75 per cent of fixed 
remuneration for other members of the Executive Board. The 
members are not allowed to divest any shareholding until the 
two-year lock-up period has lapsed and the minimum share 
ownership requirements are met, with the exception of any sale of 
shares during the lock-up period required to meet any tax obligations 
and social security premiums (including any other duties and levies) 
as a consequence of the vesting.
The authority to implement the long-term incentive plan for the 
Executive Board lies with the Supervisory Board, who has the right to 
change or terminate the scheme at any time. If the Supervisory Board 
decides to terminate or make material changes to the long-term 
incentive plan for Executive Board members, the General Meeting 
will be asked to adopt a resolution to that effect. 
Upon a decision of the Supervisory Board, following a proposal from 
the Remuneration Committee, the Company has the discretionary 
power to fully or partially reclaim from the participant who is 
member of the Executive Board the conditionally awarded 
performance shares as well as vested shares (or any benefit resulting 
therefrom) where those have been awarded on the basis of incorrect 
information concerning:
• The achievement of the performance objectives concerned; or
• Events or conditions on which the shares were conditionally 
awarded.
At the discretionary request of the Supervisory Board, the Company’s 
independent auditor will check the calculations carried out and 
conclusions reached in connection with the long-term incentive plan, 
in which case the independent auditor’s assessment will be binding. 
In drafting the remuneration policy, the Supervisory Board has taken 
into consideration the mix between fixed remuneration and variable 
remuneration in various scenarios. See tables 42 and 43. The 
maximum relative value of the variable remuneration elements, 
taking into account an unchanging share price, is between 62% and 
64% of the total, with the higher value being awarded through the 
long-term incentive plan. This incentivises achievement and 
(long-term) value creation while at the same time guarding against 
inappropriate outcomes.superfluous. After the end of the financial year the Supervisory 
Board will disclose the performance on each of the objectives as a 
percentage of target performance. The performance incentive 
zones (threshold, at target and excellent performance levels) qualify 
as sensitive information and will not be disclosed.
In cases in which the variable remuneration is awarded on the basis 
of inaccurate (financial) data, the Supervisory Board has the right to 
adjust the STI accordingly, and BAM is entitled to reclaim (any part 
of) the STI paid to a member of the Executive Board on the basis of 
incorrect (financial) information.
Long-term incentive (LTI)
Executive Board members participate in a performance share plan. 
Each year, performance shares are conditionally awarded. These 
shares vest after a vesting period of three years subject to the 
relevant performance over this period. The number of annually 
awarded performance shares is calculated by dividing the award 
value by the average closing price of the BAM share on Euronext 
Amsterdam on the five days after the General Meeting in the year of 
award. The award value is 70 per cent of fixed remuneration for the 
CEO and 60 per cent of fixed remuneration for the CFO.
Performance is based on two financial objectives, being relative 
total shareholder return (TSR) and return on capital employed 
(ROCE) and one non-financial objective, being sustainability. 
TSR is defined as the share price increase, including dividends and 
measured over a three year period based on the three month average 
share price before the start and the end of the three year 
performance period. The relative position within the peer group 
determines the vesting percentage. The TSR peer group comprises of 
Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, Eiffage, Heijmans, Hochtief, PORR, NCC, 
Skanska, Strabag, Vinci (and BAM). The composition of the TSR peer 
group is evaluated on a periodic basis, among other things, in light of 
corporate events. Due to expected delisting, the Supervisory Board 
decided on 20 February 2020 to replace VolkerWessels by PORR, 
retrospectively as of the 2018-2020 LTI plan.
At the beginning of each financial year, based upon a proposal from 
the Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory Board determines the 
performance incentive zones (threshold, at target and excellent 
performance levels) for ROCE and sustainability.
After the three year performance period, the Supervisory Board, 
based on a proposal by the Remuneration Committee, will assess the 
extent to which the performance objectives have been achieved. This 
results in a vesting percentage for each of the three performance 
objectives, each determining one third of the vesting of the 
conditionally awarded performance shares. For excellent 
performance, the number of performance shares that vests may 
amount to a maximum of 150 per cent of the ‘at target’ number of 
performance shares. This percentage may be reduced to 50 per cent 
(on a sliding scale) for threshold performance and to zero below that. 
The performance incentive zones are presented in table 41. The TSR 
objective will also operate as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting linked 
82
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementRemuneration Executive Board in 2019
The members of the Executive Board received remuneration in the 
past financial year in line with the remuneration policy adopted by 
the General Meeting on 22 April 2015.
Fixed remuneration
At the beginning of 2019, the Remuneration Committee 
benchmarked the remuneration of the Executive Board against the 
median of the labour market reference group. Based on this 
benchmark, the fixed remuneration of Mr Van Wingerden was 
increased by 2 per cent to €700,000 per year as of 1 January 2019.
Short-term incentive
Based on input from the Remuneration Committee, the 
Supervisory Board evaluated the performance of the Executive 
Board in 2019 in relation to the objectives that had been set for 
the year. The financial objectives that had been selected were: 
adjusted result before tax (weight 40 per cent), trade working 
capital (weight 20 per cent) and business cash flow (weight 10 per 
cent). The non-financial objectives (weight 30 per cent) were 
related to the implementation of the One BAM strategy, the 
uniform project approach (UPA) and the minimum requirements 
framework as well as to the roll-out of a leadership development 
programme. These criteria have all been made concrete and 
measurable for this purpose. The evaluation of the performance of 
the Executive Board in relation to these objectives resulted in an 
incentive of 32.8 per cent of the 2019 fixed remuneration. More 
details can be found in table 46. Mr Bax was not entitled to a 
short-term incentive over 2019, since he stepped down from the 
Executive Board per 1 March 2019 at his own request.Post-employment benefits and fringe benefits
With respect to pensions, as of 2016 new Executive Board members 
receive an annual gross allowance equal to the employer’s 
contribution for the Dutch pension scheme according to sector 
regulations calculated over a maximum fixed remuneration of 
€450,000 gross per annum. 
Mr Van Wingerden has remained participant in the Company’s Dutch 
pension schemes for regular employees: the pension scheme for the 
construction industry, a supplementary defined contribution pension 
scheme and an uncapped annual gross compensation which can be 
used to participate in a net pension scheme or to make own 
retirement savings. The pension schemes include a surviving 
dependent’s pension.
As for employees, the Group has a competitive package of fringe 
benefits for the members of the Executive Board. This package 
includes such matters as healthcare and disability insurance, personal 
accident insurance, a car scheme and reimbursement of business 
expenses. The Group does not offer loans, warrants and the like to 
members of the Executive Board or to employees, except for the 
following indemnities and insurances.
Current and former members of the Supervisory Board and Executive 
Board are covered by the indemnity, under the Articles of 
Association, against claims made against them in respect of actions 
or omissions in the performance of the duties of their position, unless 
said actions or omissions constituted willful, deliberately reckless or 
seriously culpable misconduct and/or consisted of traffic offences. 
This facility also applies to all employees and former employees of 
BAM. The Company has taken out directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance under standard market terms and conditions for the 
members of the Supervisory Board, Executive Board and Executive 
Committee, as well as for the management team members of 
operating company and all other directors and officers within BAM. 41 -  Performance incentive zones
(in %)
Relative TSR ROCE Sustainability
TSR ranking ¹ Vesting1 2Score Vesting1 2Score Vesting1 2
1 150 Excellent and above 150 Excellent and above 150
2 125 Target 100 Target 100
3 100 Threshold 50 Threshold 50
4 75 Below threshold 0 Below threshold 0
5 50
6 25
 ¹  Vesting is expressed as a percentage of the conditionally awarded number of shares.
 ²  If TSR would be at position 10 or 11, no vesting can occur for the other parts.7 0
8 0
9 0
10 0
11 0
83
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementLong-term incentive
Before 2015, the Company had a phantom share plan in place for 
the members of the Executive Board. Under that plan Executive 
Board members received each year so-called phantom shares 
which – depending on the TSR performance – became 
unconditional after three years and resulted in a payout of the 
unconditional phantom shares two years later against the share 
price at that moment. In 2019, the lock-up period for the vested 
phantom shares awarded under the 2014-2016 plan ended, 
resulting in a payout that is shown in table 47. 
As of 2015, the remuneration policy for Executive Board members 
has been adjusted. This policy now includes a long-term incentive 
plan under which Executive Board members receive an annual 
award of conditional performance shares vesting after three 
years, depending on Company performance as defined in the 
remuneration policy. The conditionally awarded and vested 
performance shares are stated in table 50. 
The conditional performance shares that were granted under the 
performance share plan 2016-2018 vested on 28 April 2019. The 
vesting percentage of the shares was determined at zero per 
cent. Reason for this was that Royal BAM Group ranked 10th in 
the TSR peer group, which functions as a circuit breaker nullifying 
the performance on the other objectives (ROCE and 
sustainability). More details can be found in table 50.42 -  Target pay mix¹ CEO
Fixed remunerationBelow threshold 
performanceAt threshold 
performanceAt target
performanceAt / beyond exc 
performance
Below threshold 
performanceAt threshold 
performanceAt target
performanceAt / beyond exc 
performanceSTI LTI
Fixed remuneration STI LTI100%21%
59%44%37%
27% 25%20%31%36%
100%18%
61%46%34%
28% 26%21%28%38%43 -  Target pay mix¹ CFOFixed remunerationBelow threshold 
performanceAt threshold 
performanceAt target
performanceAt / beyond exc 
performance
Below threshold 
performanceAt threshold 
performanceAt target
performanceAt / beyond exc 
performanceSTI LTI
Fixed remuneration STI LTI100%21%
59%44%37%
27% 25%20%31%36%
100%18%
61%46%34%
28% 26%21%28%38%Mr Bax stepped down from the Executive Board per 1 March 2019 
and without severance payment. The lock-up period and 
minimum share ownership requirements for the vested 
performance shares ended per 1 March 2019. In line with the 
Company’s insider dealing policy, Mr Bax was not allowed to sell 
the vested performance shares during closed periods up until 
1 September 2019. By Supervisory Board discretion, the 
performance share awards of Mr Bax for the periods 2017-2019 
and 2018-2020 have been decreased pro rata the number of 
months not providing management services during the relevant 
performance periods. The remaining shares will vest against the 
vesting percentage determined by the Supervisory Board at the 
applicable vesting dates.
Remuneration overview
A summary of the remuneration of the individual members of the 
Executive Board can be found in table 45.
BAM has not awarded any options to members of the Executive 
Board, members of management teams of operating company or 
employees. The remuneration of the Executive Board members is 
not affected by a change of control at the Company. No loans 
were issued to them.  
The Supervisory Board did not see any reason during the financial 
year to use its extraordinary powers to adjust or reclaim variable 
or long-term remuneration that was awarded previously.
BAM has no other remuneration provisions, beyond the 
remuneration package mentioned in the remuneration report, nor 
are there any other rights to one-time payments.
Internal pay ratio
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code (2016) states that the 
remuneration policy should take into account the internal pay ratio 
within the organisation and that this pay ratio should be reported in 
the remuneration report. Additionally, the revised Shareholders’ 
Rights Directive, as implemented into Dutch Law, requires the 
Company to perform a five-year analysis of Board remuneration 
versus average employee remuneration and Company 
performance.
For these purposes BAM applies a methodology based on the 
employee benefits according to the financial statements and the 
Executive Board remuneration according to table 45 of this report . 
BAM’s internal pay ratio is calculated as the total annual CEO 
remuneration divided by the average employee remuneration 
(employee benefit expenses excluding restructuring costs and 
termination benefits divided by the average number of FTE). 
Consequently, BAM’s calculated internal pay ratio in 2019 is 17 
(2018: 23), implying that the CEO pay is 17 times the average pay 
within the organisation. The decrease of the ratio is explained 
through the fact that the LTI award for 2016-2018 has not vested 
and through an increase of the average employee remuneration.
The required five-year analysis of Board remuneration versus 
average employee remuneration and Company performance can ¹  LTI is based on the assumption of an unchanged share price and presented 
at face value.
84
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementbe found in table 49. It reflects the same definitions for Executive 
Board and average employee remuneration. Additionally it 
contains the performance measure adjusted result before tax 
which we believe is a crucial reflection of the success of the 
Company.
Term of appointment and management services 
agreements
Members of the Executive Board are appointed for a term of four 
years and deliver their services under a management services 
agreement. The notice period for these members can be found in 
table 48. If the Company terminates the management services 
agreement of a member of the Executive Board, the maximum 
severance payment will be one year’s fixed remuneration. 
Securities rules
The Company has rules relating to the possession of and trading in 
BAM securities. These rules are published on the Company’s 
website. BAM also has regulations for members of the Executive 
Board and the Supervisory Board relating to the trading in 
securities other than those issued by the Company.
Share ownership members of the Executive Board   
Per 31 December 2019 Mr Van Wingerden held 64,787 BAM shares 
and Mr Den Houter held 25,000 BAM shares. This includes both 
shares that have vested under the LTI plan and shares that were 
acquired privately.
Remuneration policy for the Executive Board 
per 2020
The Remuneration Committee has evaluated the remuneration 
policy for the Executive Board. Based on that evaluation and 
taking into account the condition of the Company as well as the 
feedback from major stakeholders, the Supervisory Board has 
agreed with the advice of the Remuneration Committee not to 
change the remuneration policy. In line with the revised 
Shareholders’ Rights Directive published in May 2017 as 
implemented into Dutch law per 1 December 2019, the existing 
unchanged remuneration policy for the Executive Board as 
adopted in 2015 is subject to shareholder approval and is now 
re-submitted to the General Meeting on 15 April 2020. 
The following derogation clause is however added to the policy to 
safeguard that the Supervisory Board can use its discretion to 
ensure that the short-term and long-term incentive plans continue 
to support the interests of the Company even in exceptional 
circumstances and retains the option to intervene when required: 
‘In exceptional circumstances the Supervisory Board may decide 
to temporarily deviate from the remuneration policy of the 
Executive Board based on a proposal of its Remuneration 
Committee, when this is necessary to serve the long-term 
interests and sustainability of the Company as a whole or to assure 
its viability. The derogations can concern the objective setting 
and payout of the short-term and long-term incentive plans.’In evaluating the remuneration policy, the Remuneration 
Committee concluded that the policy still strongly supports BAM’s 
business strategy and Company objectives as described in the 
design principles underlying the policy. It is also considered to be 
well aligned with the external environment in which the Company 
operates as well as with all applicable rules, regulations and best 
practices. To reconfirm this, the Remuneration Committee has 
conducted a series of discussions with major shareholders, proxy 
advisors and representatives of Dutch institutional and retail 
investors. In addition, the Central Works Council in the 
Netherlands was invited to offer its opinion.
During these discussions it became clear that there is strong 
support for the policy. It is considered to be straightforward, 
aligned with shareholder interests, aligned with market practice 
and prudently applied. There is however a call to disclose more 
information on the objectives of the incentive plans and on the 
achievements per objective. Additionally it is also clear that 
shareholders consider it very important that the CEO and CFO 
build up share ownership to align their interests with those of 
shareholders. They appreciate the measures that are in place to 
support this. Specifically the Central Works Council supports the 
remuneration policy including the added derogation clause. 
As follow-up to its discussions with stakeholders, the Supervisory 
Board has decided to start disclosing the specific financial objectives 
and relevant weighting for the short-term incentive plan at the 
beginning of the financial year. For 2020 these are: adjusted result 
before tax (weight 45 per cent), trade working capital (weight 15 per 
cent) and business cash flow (weight 10 per cent). After the end of 
the financial year the Supervisory Board will disclose the performance 
on each of the objectives as a percentage of target performance. For 
2019, this can be found in table 46.
Additionally, the Supervisory Board has decided to start disclosing 
the specific criteria that underly the sustainability objective of the 
long-term incentive plan at the start of the performance period. As 
mentioned before the sustainability objective determines one third 
of the vesting of the conditionally awarded performance shares. From 
the 2018-2020 LTI plan onwards the sustainability objective 
comprises of three criteria of equal weight, being: BAM’s ranking on 
CDP’s climate change A list, carbon intensity reduction and 
construction and office waste intensity reduction. Each year the 
Remuneration Committee proposes the criteria to measure the 
sustainability objective to the Supervisory Board. After the end of the 
performance period, it is determined to what extent the criteria have 
been met. This is reviewed by the Company’s independent auditor. 
Remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board 
per 2020
On the basis of the revised Shareholders’ Rights Directive published 
in May 2017 as implemented into Dutch law per 1 December 2019, 
the remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board as stated below
is subject to shareholder approval and will therefore be submitted 
to the General Meeting on 15  April 2020.
85
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementlimitations regarding the number of board positions for chairpersons 
and the bigger difference in pay between chairpersons and members 
as noted in external benchmarks.  
44 - Remuneration
Fixed remuneration Chairman €90,000 per annum
Vice-chairman €55,000 per annum
Member €50,000 
Committee fee Chairman €10,000 per annum
Member €7,000 per annum
Attendance fee for 
non-Dutch residents€1,500 per meeting
Expenses Reimbursement of actual 
incurred costs
No additional remuneration, such as sign-on bonuses, is paid upon 
recruiting new Supervisory Board members. The Supervisory Board 
members are not eligible to any severance, claw-back or change of 
control provisions. 
When the Remuneration Committee consulted stakeholders 
regarding the remuneration policy for the Executive Board, the 
remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board was discussed as well. 
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2019
The members of the Supervisory Board received remuneration in the 
past financial year in line with the remuneration as adopted by the 
General Meeting on 19 April 2017: an annual fixed remuneration of 
€70,000 for the chairman, €55,000 for the vice-chairman and €50,000 
for the other members of the Supervisory Board, with an additional 
annual fixed remuneration of €10,000 (chairman) or €7,000 (member) 
for membership of one or more Supervisory Board committees. 
Non-Dutch members received an attendance fee of €1,500 per 
meeting. Actual costs in the performance of the duties for BAM were 
reimbursed. 
No options or shares were awarded to members of the Supervisory 
Board and no loans were issued to them.
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020 
Supervisory BoardThe Supervisory Board draws up the Supervisory Board 
remuneration policy based on advice from its Remuneration 
Committee. The remuneration policy will be evaluated regularly 
and will be put forward for adoption at the General Meeting at least 
every four years. 
In exceptional circumstances, when a significant increase in time 
investment by its members is necessary to serve the long-term 
interests and sustainability of the Company as a whole or to assure its 
viability the Supervisory Board may decide to temporarily deviate 
from the remuneration policy of the Supervisory Board based on a 
proposal of its Remuneration Committee. In such circumstances the 
Supervisory Board may decide to award members an additional 
remuneration of €1,500 per half-day. This can, for example, occur 
when a Supervisory Board member is temporarily delegated to 
support the Executive Committee in an advisory role.
The Supervisory Board remuneration policy is geared to attract and 
retain members that contribute to the desired composition with 
regard to expertise, experience, diversity and independence, as set 
out in the profile of the Supervisory Board. The policy aims to 
reward Supervisory Board members for time spent and the 
responsibilities of their role, including but not limited to the 
responsibilities imposed by the Civil Code, Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code and the Articles of Association. On this basis, the 
remuneration for Supervisory Board members consists of the 
following elements: 
• A fixed remuneration and a committee fee, which varies for the 
Chairman, Vice-Chairman and members, to reflect the time 
spent and the responsibilities of the role;
• An attendance fee per meeting for non-Dutch members to 
compensate these members for additional time spent to attend 
meetings;
• A reimbursement of actual costs in the performance of the  
duties for BAM.
Committee impact and responsibility is deemed to be comparable. 
Hence BAM does not differentiate in committee fees. The amounts 
can be found in table 44.
The Supervisory Board uses external benchmark information to 
assess market comparability of the remuneration. Remuneration 
levels are aimed at the median of Dutch listed companies with a 
two-tier board structure comparable in size and scope. 
Given the nature of the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board the
remuneration is not tied to the Group’s results, nor impacted by any 
change of control at the Group. As a policy BAM does not award any 
options or shares to members of the Supervisory Board. If and in so 
far as a Supervisory Board member holds shares in the Group, these 
should be long-term investments. No loans are issued to members 
of the Supervisory Board nor are they eligible to participate in any 
benefits programme offered by BAM to its employees.
The proposed remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board reflects 
the standing remuneration levels since April 2017 with the exception 
of the remuneration for the chairman which is proposed to be 
increased from €70,000 to €90,000 based on the time spent, the 45 -  Executive Board remuneration
Fixed remuneration, short-term incentive, post-employment benefits and long-term incentive  
(x €1,000)
Fixed  
remuneration Short-term  
incentivePost-employment 
benefitsLong-term  
incentive1
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
R.P. van Wingerden 700 686 230 343 154 151 125 361
L.F. den Houter² 486 203 159 101 30 10 - -
E.J. Bax³ 81 486 - 243 17 101 125 151
¹ The amount shown under Long-term incentive consists of the phantom share plans and performance share plans that form taxable income for the Executive  
 Board member in the respective financial year. The value for the phantom share plan is the amount paid out at the payout date. The value for the performance  
 share plan is the value of the vested shares at the vesting date. 
² Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 August 2018.
³ Mr Bax has stepped down from the Executive Board with effect from 1 March 2019. 
46 -  Performance on incentive plan objectives
(in %)
Objective WeightAchievement  
(% of target)STI as % of fixed 
remuneration
STI 2019 Adjusted result before tax 40 - -
Trade working capital 20 115 12.6
Business cash flow 10 89 4.9
Non-financial 30 93 15.3
Overall achievement 60 32.8
Achievement 
(% of award)
LTI 2016-2018 Relative TSR 33.3 -
ROCE 33.3 nr1
Sustainability 33.3 nr1
Overall achievement -
¹ Not relevant since relative TSR acts as circuit breaker and nullifies the achievement on the other LTI plan objectives.
47 -  Phantom share plan 2014-2016¹
(value in €)
At the award date At the payout date
Number Value Number VestingVested 
shares Value2
R.P. van Wingerden 60,072 235,000 64,900 45% 29,205 125,096
E.J. Bax 60,072 235,000 64,900 45% 29,205 125,096
¹ Award became unconditional on 1 May 2017; the lock-up period ended as per 1 May 2019, leading to the payout of the award.
²  The value is based on the average share price of BAM on the five trading days before the end of the lock-up period as per 1 May 2019 (€4.2834) and on   
the number of vested shares three years after the award. The number of (vested) shares at the payout date include dividend up until the payout date.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.
86
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementlimitations regarding the number of board positions for chairpersons 
and the bigger difference in pay between chairpersons and members 
as noted in external benchmarks.  
44 - Remuneration
Fixed remuneration Chairman €90,000 per annum
Vice-chairman €55,000 per annum
Member €50,000 
Committee fee Chairman €10,000 per annum
Member €7,000 per annum
Attendance fee for 
non-Dutch residents€1,500 per meeting
Expenses Reimbursement of actual 
incurred costs
No additional remuneration, such as sign-on bonuses, is paid upon 
recruiting new Supervisory Board members. The Supervisory Board 
members are not eligible to any severance, claw-back or change of 
control provisions. 
When the Remuneration Committee consulted stakeholders 
regarding the remuneration policy for the Executive Board, the 
remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board was discussed as well. 
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board in 2019
The members of the Supervisory Board received remuneration in the 
past financial year in line with the remuneration as adopted by the 
General Meeting on 19 April 2017: an annual fixed remuneration of 
€70,000 for the chairman, €55,000 for the vice-chairman and €50,000 
for the other members of the Supervisory Board, with an additional 
annual fixed remuneration of €10,000 (chairman) or €7,000 (member) 
for membership of one or more Supervisory Board committees. 
Non-Dutch members received an attendance fee of €1,500 per 
meeting. Actual costs in the performance of the duties for BAM were 
reimbursed. 
No options or shares were awarded to members of the Supervisory 
Board and no loans were issued to them.
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020 
Supervisory Board45 -  Executive Board remuneration
Fixed remuneration, short-term incentive, post-employment benefits and long-term incentive  
(x €1,000)
Fixed  
remuneration Short-term  
incentivePost-employment 
benefitsLong-term  
incentive1
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
R.P. van Wingerden 700 686 230 343 154 151 125 361
L.F. den Houter² 486 203 159 101 30 10 - -
E.J. Bax³ 81 486 - 243 17 101 125 151
¹ The amount shown under Long-term incentive consists of the phantom share plans and performance share plans that form taxable income for the Executive  
 Board member in the respective financial year. The value for the phantom share plan is the amount paid out at the payout date. The value for the performance  
 share plan is the value of the vested shares at the vesting date. 
² Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 August 2018.
³ Mr Bax has stepped down from the Executive Board with effect from 1 March 2019. 
46 -  Performance on incentive plan objectives
(in %)
Objective WeightAchievement  
(% of target)STI as % of fixed 
remuneration
STI 2019 Adjusted result before tax 40 - -
Trade working capital 20 115 12.6
Business cash flow 10 89 4.9
Non-financial 30 93 15.3
Overall achievement 60 32.8
Achievement 
(% of award)
LTI 2016-2018 Relative TSR 33.3 -
ROCE 33.3 nr1
Sustainability 33.3 nr1
Overall achievement -
¹ Not relevant since relative TSR acts as circuit breaker and nullifies the achievement on the other LTI plan objectives.
47 -  Phantom share plan 2014-2016¹
(value in €)
At the award date At the payout date
Number Value Number VestingVested 
shares Value2
R.P. van Wingerden 60,072 235,000 64,900 45% 29,205 125,096
E.J. Bax 60,072 235,000 64,900 45% 29,205 125,096
¹ Award became unconditional on 1 May 2017; the lock-up period ended as per 1 May 2019, leading to the payout of the award.
²  The value is based on the average share price of BAM on the five trading days before the end of the lock-up period as per 1 May 2019 (€4.2834) and on   
the number of vested shares three years after the award. The number of (vested) shares at the payout date include dividend up until the payout date.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.
87
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management48 -  Appointment and contractual arrangements
Date of
first
 appointmentStart date
current
appointmentPeriod of
appointmentNotice period 
for the 
CompanyNotice period 
for Executive
Board member Severance
R.P. van Wingerden 7 May 2008 20 April 2016 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed remuneration
L.F. den Houter 1 August 2018 1 August 2018  4 years ¹ 3 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed remuneration
1  Appointed until the General Meeting in 2022.
49 -  Five- year analysis Board remuneration and Company performance
(x €1,000, unless otherwise stated)
2014
20152015
20162016
20172017
20182018
2019Actual
2019
Executive Board remuneration1
CEO actual change 692 (54) (95) 295 (332) 1,209
relative change (%) 98.4 (3.9) (7.1) 23.7 (21.5)
CFO actual change 539 (137) (222) 66 (79) 675
relative change (%) 106.1 (13.1) (24.4) 9.5 (10.4)
Company performance
Adjusted result before tax² actual change 26,000 14,500 (39,400) 89,900 (79,100) 74,100
relative change (%) 41.8 16.4 (38.4) 142.0 (51.6)
Average employee actual change (0.8) 0.3 3.3 1.6 5.3 71.4
remuneration relative change (%) (1.3) 0.4 5.4 2.5 8.1
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Supervisory Board remuneration3
H.L.J. Noy, Chairman 45 45 69 80 80
G. Boon, Vice-Chairman - - 42 60 63
C.M.C. Mahieu 45 45 55 60 60
M.P. Sheffield - - 23 69 68
H. Valentin - - 44 68 68
K.S. Wester, former Vice-Chairman 45 45 57 62 18
R. Provoost, former member - - - - 8
P.A.F.W. Elverding, former Chairman 55 55 17 - - 
H. Scheffers, former Vice-Chairman 50 50 17 - -
J.P. Hansen, former member 45 45 14 - -
Total 285 285 336 399 365
¹  The Board remuneration is based on the total Executive Board remuneration as reported in table 45. For 2014, the crisis levy has been excluded. The actual 
remuneration for the CEO in 2014 has been annualised since Mr Van Wingerden was appointed per October 2014. No STI and LTI was included, since there was 
no payout or vesting that year also for the previous incumbent. The actual remuneration for the CFO in 2018 has been annualised since Mr Den Houter was 
appointed per August 2018. No LTI was included, since nothing vested that year. 
²  As from 2018 the adjusted result before tax has been impacted by the implementation of IFRS15.
3 All amounts excluding (fixed) expense allowance.50 - Performance share plan 
(value in €)
Award dateNumber of 
conditionally 
awarded shares¹Value of 
conditionally 
awarded shares 
at award date Vesting dateNumber 
of shares 
at vesting 
date² End of 
lock-up 
period³Value at 
year-end 
20194
R.P. van Wingerden 29/04/2019 114,926 490,000 29/04/2022 na 29/04/2024 308,691
26/04/2018 122,469 480,200 26/04/2021 na 26/04/2023 328,952
27/04/2017 94,651 476,000 27/04/2020 na527/04/2022 254,233
28/04/2016 112,711 476,000 28/04/2019 - 28/04/2021 -
30/04/2015 114,319 434,000 30/04/2018 59,939 30/04/2020 160,996
L.F. den Houter 29/04/2019 68,393 291,600 29/04/2022 na 29/04/2024 183,704
E.J. Bax 26/04/2018 28,921 113,400 26/04/2021 na na 77,682
27/04/2017 41,360 208,000 27/04/2020 na5na 111,093
28/04/2016 68,195 288,000 28/04/2019 - na -
30/04/2015 74,281 282,000 30/04/2018 38,947 na 151,504
¹  This is the ’at target’ number of conditionally awarded performance shares. For Mr Bax, the awarded shares in 2017 and 2018 have been decreased pro rata the 
number of months not providing management services during the relevant performance periods. The number of performance shares that vests may vary between 0 
(in case of performance below threshold) and 150 per cent (in case of performance at or above excellent) of the ‘at target’ number of performance shares.
² The number of vested shares at vesting date before tax and including dividend up until vesting date.
³  No lock-up period applies for Mr Bax since he has left the Company per 1 March 2019.
4  The value for the awards in 2015 and 2016 is based on the actual number of vested shares on the vesting date before tax. The value for the awards in 2017, 2018 
and 2019 is based on the ‘Number of conditionally awarded shares’ in this table (since the vesting percentage is not yet known at year-end 2019) multiplied by the 
closing share price of BAM at year-end 2019 (€2.686). For Mr Bax the value of the award for 2015 is based on the opening share price of BAM at the day of vesting.
5   Since BAM ranks 10th of the TSR peer group for this performance share plan the circuit breaker is applicable. Therefore the Supervisory Board has decided on 
20 February 2020 that the conditional shares will be forfeited at the vesting date of this plan (27 April 2020).
88
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management50 - Performance share plan 
(value in €)
Award dateNumber of 
conditionally 
awarded shares¹Value of 
conditionally 
awarded shares 
at award date Vesting dateNumber 
of shares 
at vesting 
date² End of 
lock-up 
period³Value at 
year-end 
20194
R.P. van Wingerden 29/04/2019 114,926 490,000 29/04/2022 na 29/04/2024 308,691
26/04/2018 122,469 480,200 26/04/2021 na 26/04/2023 328,952
27/04/2017 94,651 476,000 27/04/2020 na527/04/2022 254,233
28/04/2016 112,711 476,000 28/04/2019 - 28/04/2021 -
30/04/2015 114,319 434,000 30/04/2018 59,939 30/04/2020 160,996
L.F. den Houter 29/04/2019 68,393 291,600 29/04/2022 na 29/04/2024 183,704
E.J. Bax 26/04/2018 28,921 113,400 26/04/2021 na na 77,682
27/04/2017 41,360 208,000 27/04/2020 na5na 111,093
28/04/2016 68,195 288,000 28/04/2019 - na -
30/04/2015 74,281 282,000 30/04/2018 38,947 na 151,504
¹  This is the ’at target’ number of conditionally awarded performance shares. For Mr Bax, the awarded shares in 2017 and 2018 have been decreased pro rata the 
number of months not providing management services during the relevant performance periods. The number of performance shares that vests may vary between 0 
(in case of performance below threshold) and 150 per cent (in case of performance at or above excellent) of the ‘at target’ number of performance shares.
² The number of vested shares at vesting date before tax and including dividend up until vesting date.
³  No lock-up period applies for Mr Bax since he has left the Company per 1 March 2019.
4  The value for the awards in 2015 and 2016 is based on the actual number of vested shares on the vesting date before tax. The value for the awards in 2017, 2018 
and 2019 is based on the ‘Number of conditionally awarded shares’ in this table (since the vesting percentage is not yet known at year-end 2019) multiplied by the 
closing share price of BAM at year-end 2019 (€2.686). For Mr Bax the value of the award for 2015 is based on the opening share price of BAM at the day of vesting.
5   Since BAM ranks 10th of the TSR peer group for this performance share plan the circuit breaker is applicable. Therefore the Supervisory Board has decided on 
20 February 2020 that the conditional shares will be forfeited at the vesting date of this plan (27 April 2020).
Office building with minimal energy usage
A unique and inspiring office building for the UK Hydrographic 
Office (UKHO) represents a cultural shift within UKHO’s way of 
working, prioritising collaborative and agile workspaces for the 
850 staff. The new office building of 11,000 square metres takes 
a robust approach to sustainability adopting natural ventilation 
wherever possible. Outstanding levels of natural daylight are 
owed to the glazed atrium and generous 3.5-metre floor-to-
ceiling heights, helping to reduce the need for artificial lighting. 
The building is on course to achieve BREEAM Excellent. The 
whole project was modelled to BIM Level 2 with detailed inputs 
from the BAM supply chain. A simple palette of materials 
(brickwork and larch cladding) along with early input of the 
supply chain has resulted in a well-detailed building that delivers 
exceptional quality throughout.
Johanna Funnell, UKHO New Build Project Manager: ‘The UK 
Hydrographic Office recognised the need for a new office to 
allow itself to develop and grow as a leading hydrographic and 
marine geospatial agency. The alignment of values around 
digitalisation, innovation and sustainability was key in the 
selection of BAM as part of the team to provide UKHO with a 
high-quality finished building that it is flexible and adaptable to 
its future needs for years to come. From the outset BAM operated in 
an open and collaborative fashion, bringing a depth of experience of 
similar projects from around the world. BAM engaged with all key 
stakeholders to identify and solve the challenges and delivered the 
project on time and on budget. 
The project has been an outstanding success with the UKHO 
benefiting from a building that does exactly what is required with 
minimal energy usage, a digital model and high user satisfaction 
bringing the cultural and operational changes required to grow the 
business.’
89
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFinancial statements
Reductions in travel times 
M11 Gorey to Enniscorthy 
Motorway, Ireland  
Three new sections of road 
combine to create the M11 
Gorey to Enniscorthy Public 
Private Partnership Scheme,  
the M11/N11 mainline  
(27 kilometres), the N30  
dual carriageway (4 kilometres) 
and the N30 mainline  
(8 kilometres). The scheme will 
result in reductions in travel 
times on the Dublin to Wexford 
route of approximately  
15 minutes during off-peak 
times and 30 minutes during 
peak times.
The PPP contract was awarded 
to BAM PPP PGGM Iridium in 
October 2015. The design and 
construction activities were 
delivered by a joint venture 
between BAM Civil Ltd and 
Dragados Ireland Ltd. The 
combined 39 kilometres of the 
M11 motorway and associated 
roads have been with 
1,850,000 person-hours 
completed on-site during the 
construction period.
90
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv Integrated Report 201992 Consolidated income statement
93 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
94 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
95 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
96 Consolidated statement of cash flows
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
97   1. General information
97   2. Summary of significant accounting policies
116   3. Financial risk management
122   4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties
125   5. Segment information
128   6. Projects
131   7. Property, plant and equipment
132   8. Right-of-use assets 
133   9. Intangible assets
134 10. PPP receivables
135 11. Investments in associates and joint ventures
139 12. Other financial assets
140 13. Inventories
141 14. Trade and other receivables
143 15. Cash and cash equivalents
144 16. Share capital and premium
145 17. Reserves
146 18. Capital base
146 19. Borrowings
151 20. Lease liabilities
153 21. Derivative financial instruments
154 22. Employee benefits
160 23. Provisions
161 24. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
164 25. Trade and other payables
164 26. Employee benefit expenses
165 27. Impairment charges
165 28. Exceptional items
165 29. Audit fees
166 30. Finance income and expense
167 31. Income tax
168 32. Earnings per share  
169 33. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
169 34. Contingencies
170 35. Commitments
170 36. Business combinations
170 37. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
171 38. Related parties
173 39. Share-based payments
176 40. Joint operations
178 41. Service concession arrangements
179 42. Government grants
179 43. Research and development
179 44. Events after the reporting period
180 Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
181 Company income statement
182 Notes to the company financial statementsContents 
91
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe notes on pages 97 to 179 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated income statement
(x €1,000)
Notes 2019 2018
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 7,209,089 7,207,751
Raw materials and consumables used (1,549,000) (1,683,145)
Subcontracted work and other external charges (3,786,475) (3,746,381)
Employee benefit expenses 26 (1,391,905) (1,338,319)
Depreciation and amortisation charges* 7,8,9 (159,561) (69,776)
Impairment charges 27 (21,178) (20,628)
Other operating expenses (271,020) (281,530)
Exchange rate differences 5,087 1,417
(7,174,052) (7,138,362)
Share of result of investments in associates and joint ventures 11 14,639 38,947
Share of impairment charges in investments in associates and joint ventures 11,27 2,655 (3,122)
17,294 35,825
  
Operating result 52,331 105,214
Finance income 30 17,465 21,221
Finance expense* 30 (19,178) (11,894)
(1,713) 9,327
  
Result before tax 50,618 114,541
Income tax 31 (38,651) (90,125)
Result for the year from continuing operations 11,967 24,416
Discontinued operations
Result for the year from discontinued operations 37 - -
  
Net result 11,967 24,416
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company 11,846 23,773
Non-controlling interests
121 643
11,967 24,416
Earnings per share (x €1)
Basic 32
Continuing operations 0.04 0.09
Discontinued operations - -
Total 0.04 0.09
Diluted 32
Continuing operations 0.04 0.09
Discontinued operations - -
Total 0.04 0.09
* As from 2019 the Group has recognized depreciation and interest costs, instead of operating lease expense, due to the implementation of IFRS 16. 
See paragraph 2.1.1.Notes 2019 2018
Net result 11,967 24,416
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to the income statement
Fair value movement of cash flow hedges (710) (1,123)
Tax on fair value of cashflow hedge 120 (108)
Cash flow hedges 21 (590) (1,231)
Fair value movement of cash flow hedges in joint ventures (38,854) (3,876)
Tax on fair value movement cash flow hedges in joint ventures 8,668 687
Share of fair value movement cash flow hedges of investment in joint ventures 21 (30,186) (3,189)
Exchange rate differences 22,946 (6,421)
Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to the income statement, net of tax
Movement in remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations (78,601) 25,862
Tax on movement in remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 10,476 (3,889)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 22 (68,125) 21,973
  
Other comprehensive income (75,955) 11,132
   
Total comprehensive income (63,988) 35,548
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company (64,160) 34,795
Non-controlling interests 172 753
(63,988) 35,548
Total comprehensive income attributable to the shareholders of the Company arises from:
Continuing operations (64,160) 34,795
Discontinued operations - -
(64,160) 34,795
92
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe notes on pages 97 to 179 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2019 2018
Net result 11,967 24,416
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to the income statement
Fair value movement of cash flow hedges (710) (1,123)
Tax on fair value of cashflow hedge 120 (108)
Cash flow hedges 21 (590) (1,231)
Fair value movement of cash flow hedges in joint ventures (38,854) (3,876)
Tax on fair value movement cash flow hedges in joint ventures 8,668 687
Share of fair value movement cash flow hedges of investment in joint ventures 21 (30,186) (3,189)
Exchange rate differences 22,946 (6,421)
Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to the income statement, net of tax
Movement in remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations (78,601) 25,862
Tax on movement in remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 10,476 (3,889)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 22 (68,125) 21,973
  
Other comprehensive income (75,955) 11,132
   
Total comprehensive income (63,988) 35,548
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company (64,160) 34,795
Non-controlling interests 172 753
(63,988) 35,548
Total comprehensive income attributable to the shareholders of the Company arises from:
Continuing operations (64,160) 34,795
Discontinued operations - -
(64,160) 34,795Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(x €1,000)
93
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementConsolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
(x €1,000)
 Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
NotesShare capital 
and premium ReservesRetained
earnings TotalNon-
controlling 
interests Total equity
As at 1 January 2018 839,311 (152,815) 34,760 721,256 5,556 726,812
Cash flow hedges 21 - (4,541) - (4,541) 121 (4,420)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 22 - - 21,973 21,973 - 21,973
Exchange rate differences - (6,410) - (6,410) (11) (6,421) 
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - (10,951) 21,973 11,022 110 11,132
Net result - - 23,773 23,773  643  24,416
Total comprehensive income - (10,951) 45,746 34,795 753 35,548
Dividends 33 - - (11,429) (11,429) (451) (11,880)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 16 - - (15,492) (15,492) - (15,492)
Share based payments - - (95) (95) - (95)
Development cost - (1,200) 1,200 - - -
Other movements -  - (4) (4) (1)  (5)
- (1,200) (25,820) (27,020) (452) (27,472)
      
As at 31 December 2018 839,311 (164,966) 54,686 729,031 5,857 734,888 
Cash flow hedges 21 - (30,745) - (30,745) (31) (30,776)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 22 - - (68,125) (68,125) - (68,125)
Exchange rate differences - 22,864 - 22,864 82 22,946
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - (7,881) (68,125) (76,006) 51 (75,955)
Net result - - 11,846 11,846 121 11,967
Total comprehensive income - (7,881) (56,279) (64,160) 172 (63,988)
Dividends 33 - - (19,456) (19,456) (559) (20,015)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 16 - - (16,889) (16,889) - (16,889)
Share based payments - - (46) (46) - (46)
Development cost - (10,800) 10,800 - - -
Other movements - - (36) (36) - (36)
- (10,800) (25,627) (36,427) (559) (36,986)
      
As at 31 December 2019 839,311 (183,647) (27,220) 628,444 5,470 633,914Notes  31 December 
2019 31 December 
2018
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment * 7 277,144 289,607
Right-of-use assets * 8 312,191 -
Intangible assets 9 400,081 407,988
PPP receivables 10 73,653 85,298
Investments in associates and joint ventures 11 135,063 109,555
Other financial assets 12 109,653 101,332
Derivative financial instruments 21 - 1
Employee benefits 22 68,929 111,219
Deferred tax assets 24 136,468 165,557
1,513,182 1,270,557
Current assets
Inventories 13 545,909 577,991
Trade and other receivables 14 1,612,049 1,972,040
Income tax receivable 5,791 4,564
Derivative financial instruments 21 704 641
Cash and cash equivalents 15 854,023 743,674
3,018,476 3,298,910
Assets held for sale 37 8,516 8,516
3,026,992 3,307,426
Total assets 4,540,174 4,577,983
Equity attributable to the shareholders of Company
Share capital and premium 16 839,311 839,311
Reserves 17 (183,647) (164,966)
Retained earnings (27,220) 54,686
628,444 729,031
Non-controlling interests 5,470 5,857
Total Equity 633,914 734,888
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings *19 193,779 280,019
Lease liabilities *20 221,365 -
Derivative financial instruments 21 9,741 9,691
Employee benefits 22 128,220 119,950
Provisions 23 163,363 141,803
Deferred tax liabilities 24 18,495 39,722
734,963 591,185
Current liabilities
Borrowings *19 77,747 62,758
Lease liabilities *20 90,226 -
Trade and other payables 25 2,882,469 3,081,135
Derivative financial instruments 21 772 272
Provisions 23 111,654 95,837
Income tax payable 31 8,429 11,908
3,171,297 3,251,910
Liabilities directly associated with the assets held for sale 37 - -
3,171,297 3,251,910
Total equity and liabilities 4,540,174 4,577,983
Capital base 18 748,895 846,668
* As from 2019 lease contracts have been capitalised (former operational and finance leases) as right-of use assets, due to the implementation of IFRS 16. 
Accordingly, lease liabilities have been separately included under non-current and current liabilities. In 2018 the lease liabilities were included in 
borrowings and only related to finance leases. See paragraph 2.1.1.
The notes on pages 97 to 179 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
94
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
NotesShare capital 
and premium ReservesRetained
earnings TotalNon-
controlling 
interests Total equity
As at 1 January 2018 839,311 (152,815) 34,760 721,256 5,556 726,812
Cash flow hedges 21 - (4,541) - (4,541) 121 (4,420)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 22 - - 21,973 21,973 - 21,973
Exchange rate differences - (6,410) - (6,410) (11) (6,421) 
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - (10,951) 21,973 11,022 110 11,132
Net result - - 23,773 23,773  643  24,416
Total comprehensive income - (10,951) 45,746 34,795 753 35,548
Dividends 33 - - (11,429) (11,429) (451) (11,880)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 16 - - (15,492) (15,492) - (15,492)
Share based payments - - (95) (95) - (95)
Development cost - (1,200) 1,200 - - -
Other movements -  - (4) (4) (1)  (5)
- (1,200) (25,820) (27,020) (452) (27,472)
      
As at 31 December 2018 839,311 (164,966) 54,686 729,031 5,857 734,888 
Cash flow hedges 21 - (30,745) - (30,745) (31) (30,776)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 22 - - (68,125) (68,125) - (68,125)
Exchange rate differences - 22,864 - 22,864 82 22,946
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - (7,881) (68,125) (76,006) 51 (75,955)
Net result - - 11,846 11,846 121 11,967
Total comprehensive income - (7,881) (56,279) (64,160) 172 (63,988)
Dividends 33 - - (19,456) (19,456) (559) (20,015)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 16 - - (16,889) (16,889) - (16,889)
Share based payments - - (46) (46) - (46)
Development cost - (10,800) 10,800 - - -
Other movements - - (36) (36) - (36)
- (10,800) (25,627) (36,427) (559) (36,986)
      
As at 31 December 2019 839,311 (183,647) (27,220) 628,444 5,470 633,914
The notes on pages 97 to 179 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated statement of changes in equity
(x €1,000)
95
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementConsolidated statement of cash flows
(x €1,000)
The notes on pages 97 to 179 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2019 2018
Net result 11,967 24,416
Adjustments for:
 - Income tax 31 38,651 90,125
 - Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7 54,017 63,772
 - Depreciation of right-of-use assets * 8 99,656 -
 - Amortisation of intangible assets 9 5,888 6,004
 - Impairment of other financial assets 12,27 - (1,292)
 - Impairment of intangible assets 9,27 10,337 -
 - Impairment of inventories 13,27 10,841 21,920
 - Share of impairment charges in investments 11,27 (2,655) 3,122
 - Result on sale of PPP projects (1,100) (4,400)
 - Result on sale of property, plant and equipment (2,788) (2,045)
 - Share based payments 39 (46) (95)
 - Share of result of investments in associates and joint ventures 11,12 (14,639) (38,947)
 - Finance income 30 (17,465) (21,221)
 - Finance expense 30 19,178 11,894
Interest received 11,975 15,817
Dividends received from investments 11,12 26,836 34,851
Changes in provisions and pensions 22,23 (23,044) 5,701
Changes in working capital (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 169,505 19,606
Cash flow from operations 397,114 229,228
Interest paid (21,622) (16,426)
Income tax paid (16,364) (13,335)
Net cash flow from ordinary operations 359,128 199,467
Investments in PPP receivables 10 (21,362) (16,774)
Repayments of PPP receivables 10 27,611 26,047
Net cash flow from operating activities 365,377 208,740
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 7,19 (82,349) (66,503)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7 17,414 12,959
Purchases of intangible assets 9 (4,774) (13,705)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 9 - 402
Investments in non-current receivables (loans) 12 (30,250) (25,433)
Repayments of non-current receivables (loans) 12 14,684 13,657
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other financial assets 11,12 (34,790) (15,799)
Proceeds from disposal of associates, joint ventures and other financial assets 11,12 2,752 1,563
Proceeds from sale of PPP projects 13,077 18,700
Net cash flow from investing activities (104,236) (74,159)
Proceeds from borrowings 19 56,165 41,146
Repayments of borrowings 19 (93,475) (80,752)
Repayments of principal portion of lease liabilities * 20 (98,403) -
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 33 (19,456) (11,429)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (559) (451)
Repurchase of ordinary shares (16,889) (15,492)
Net cash flow from financing activities (172,617) (66,978)
Change in cash and cash equivalents 88,524 67,603
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 15 743,674 695,779
Changes in cash and cash equivalents as a result of change in accounting policy (890) (16,289)
Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 22,715 (3,419)
Net cash position at end of year 15 854,023 743,674
* See note 2.30 and paragraph 2.1.1.
96
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management1. General information
Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’), its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) and the Group’s participations in joint operations 
and investments in associates and joint ventures offers its clients a substantial package of products and services in the sectors 
Construction and property, Civil engineering and Public Private Partnerships (‘PPP’). The Group is mainly active in the Netherlands, 
Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. The Group is also involved in specialist construction and civil engineering projects in 
niche markets worldwide.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on Euronext Amsterdam, with its registered seat and head office in Bunnik, 
the Netherlands.
On 20 February 2020 the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board authorised the financial statements for issue. The financial 
statements as presented in this report are subject to the adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 15 April 2020.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.  
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code, as far as applicable.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in note 4.
2.1.1  Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a) Application of new and revised standards
IFRS 9, ‘Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation’
Under IFRS 9, a debt instrument can be measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income, provided that 
the contractual cash flows are ‘solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding’ (the SPPI criterion) and the 
instrument is held within the appropriate business model for that classification. The amendment to IFRS 9 clarify that a financial asset 
passes the SPPI criterion regardless of the event or circumstance that causes the early termination of the contract and irrespective of 
which party pays or receives reasonable compensation for the early termination of the contract. These amendments do not have a 
material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’
IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases-Incentives and 
SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. The standard sets out the principles for the 
recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account for most leases under a single 
on-balance sheet model.Notes to the consolidated financial statements
97
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementNew accounting principles
The new accounting principles regarding the recognition of a right-of-use asset have been included in paragraph 2.6 Right-of-use assets 
and the accounting principles regarding the lease liabilities in 2.21 Lease liabilities.
IFRS 16 leases
For leases previously classified as finance leases the entity recognised the carrying amount of the lease asset and lease liability 
immediately before transition as the carrying amount of the right of use asset and the lease liability at the date of initial application.  
The subsequent measurement principles of IFRS 16 are only applied after that date.  
The lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019 can be reconciled to the operating lease commitments as of 31 December 2018 as follows:
(x € million) 2019
Operating lease commitments disclosed as at 31 December 2018 236
Discounted using the incremental borrowing rate of at the date of initial application (19)
Add: Additional lease contracts identified 46
Add: finance lease liabilities recognised as at 31 December 2018 25
(Less): short-term lease commitments recognised on a straight-line basis as expense (2)
Add/(Less): non-lease components 3
Add/(Less): adjustments as a result of different treatment of extension and termination options 7
Lease liability recognised as per 1 January 2019 296
The effect of the adoption of IFRS 16 is as follows on the statement of financial position as at 1 January 2019: 
• right-of-use assets of €295 million were recognised and presented separately in the statement of financial position. This includes
    lease assets recognised previously under finance leases of €30 million that were reclassified from property, plant and equipment;
• lease liabilities of €296 were recognised of which €25 million were previously finance lease liabilities that were reclassified from 
    interest bearing loans and borrowings;
• amounts related to onerous leases and leasehold improvement incentive of €6 million were derecognised.
In relation to the leases under IFRS 16, the Group in 2019 has recognized depreciation (€100 million) and interest costs (€7 million), 
instead of operating lease expense. Therefore also performance measures like EBIDTA are affected. In the statement of cash flows the 
interest paid related to these leases is presented as part of the cash flow from operating activities (€7 million), while the repayments are 
presented as part of the cash flows from financing activities (€98 million). 
There is no net impact on retained earnings on 1 January 2019, since the Group applied the modified retrospective approach, option B 
(IFRS16.C8(b)(ii).
‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs - 2015-2017 Cycle’
The Group has applied the amendments for the first time for their annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2019 in connection 
with the ‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle’. The adoption of these amendments did not have a material impact on the 
current period or any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods.
IFRIC 23, ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment’
Furthermore, the IFRIC 23 interpretation on ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment’ was issued. The Group determined, based on its 
tax compliance and transfer pricing policy study, that it is probable that its tax treatments (including those for its subsidiaries) will be 
accepted by the taxation authorities. The interpretation did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC amendments effective as per 1 January 2019 that have a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 
2020 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant 
effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except for the following set out below:
IFRS 3, ‘Business combinations – Definition of a business’
The narrow-scope amendments clarify how to determine whether an acquired set of activities and assets is a business or not.  The Group has lease contracts for various items of land and buildings, equipment and installations, IT equipment, cars and other. Before 
the adoption of IFRS 16, the Group classified each of its leases (as lessee) at the inception date as either a finance lease or an operating 
lease. A lease was classified as a finance lease if it transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the 
leased asset to the Group; otherwise it was classified as an operating lease. 
Finance leases were capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments were apportioned between interest (recognised as finance costs) and 
reduction of the lease liability. In an operating lease, the leased property was not capitalised and the lease payments were recognised as rent 
expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any prepaid rent and accrued rent were recognised under 
Prepayments and Trade and other payables, respectively. 
Adoption IFRS 16
Upon adoption of IFRS 16, the Group applied a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases for which the Group is the 
lessee, except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The standard provides specific transition requirements and practical 
expedients, which have been applied by the Group.
For leases previously recorded as financial lease, the Group did not change the carrying amounts of recognised assets and liabilities as of 
initial application date. The Group used the transition method IFRS 16.C11 to reclass the previous reported finance lease liabilities and 
property, plant and equipment to the lease liabilities and right-of-use assets respectively. The requirements of IFRS 16 are applied to 
these leases as of 1 January 2019.
At transition, for leases classified as operating leases under IAS 17, lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining 
lease payments, discounted at the Group’s incremental borrowing rates as at 1 January 2019 (weighted average 2.1 per cent). The 
right-of-use asset is measured at an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments 
and provisions for onerous contracts related to such leases.   
Transition method
The group decided to implement IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach in accordance with IFRS 16 C5(b) and IFRS 16 C8(b)
(ii). This means that all leases previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17 shall have a right-of-use asset equal to the lease 
liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to that lease recognised in the statement of financial 
position immediately before the date of initial application.
Practical expedients at initial application (transition options) elected by the Group as included in the standard.
The Group:
• applied the standard only to contracts that were previously identified as leases applying IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 at initial application date 
(‘grandfathering’);
• opted on a lease-by-lease basis the practical expedient of IFRS 16.C10(c) for leases for which the lease term ends within  
12 months of the date of initial application; this practical expedient is mostly applied for some non-recurring leases;
• relied on its assessment of whether leases are onerous immediately before the date of initial application;
• used hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease;
• excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application.
Practical expedients and recognition exemptions elected by the Group as included in the standard.
The Group:
• used the recognition exemptions for lease contracts that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less and do 
not contain a purchase option (‘short- term leases’), and lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value (‘low-value 
assets’);
• has not separated non-lease components from lease components and instead each lease component and any associated non-lease 
components are accounted for as a single lease component. Variable lease payments such as petrol for cars or variable maintenance 
fees for buildings are excluded from the measurement of the lease liability;
• used a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics. The Group determined incremental 
borrowing rates that are currency specific and vary with the length of the contract. The Group has used a more high-level method to 
determine the incremental borrowing rate. The Group has assessed the impact of the incremental borrowing rate determined using 
this method on the value of the lease liabities using a sensitivity analysis. Based upon this analysis, the Group concludes that the 
impact of using this method to determine the incremental borrowing rate has no material impact on the value of the lease liabilities.
98
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementNew accounting principles
The new accounting principles regarding the recognition of a right-of-use asset have been included in paragraph 2.6 Right-of-use assets 
and the accounting principles regarding the lease liabilities in 2.21 Lease liabilities.
IFRS 16 leases
For leases previously classified as finance leases the entity recognised the carrying amount of the lease asset and lease liability 
immediately before transition as the carrying amount of the right of use asset and the lease liability at the date of initial application.  
The subsequent measurement principles of IFRS 16 are only applied after that date.  
The lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019 can be reconciled to the operating lease commitments as of 31 December 2018 as follows:
(x € million) 2019
Operating lease commitments disclosed as at 31 December 2018 236
Discounted using the incremental borrowing rate of at the date of initial application (19)
Add: Additional lease contracts identified 46
Add: finance lease liabilities recognised as at 31 December 2018 25
(Less): short-term lease commitments recognised on a straight-line basis as expense (2)
Add/(Less): non-lease components 3
Add/(Less): adjustments as a result of different treatment of extension and termination options 7
Lease liability recognised as per 1 January 2019 296
The effect of the adoption of IFRS 16 is as follows on the statement of financial position as at 1 January 2019: 
• right-of-use assets of €295 million were recognised and presented separately in the statement of financial position. This includes
    lease assets recognised previously under finance leases of €30 million that were reclassified from property, plant and equipment;
• lease liabilities of €296 were recognised of which €25 million were previously finance lease liabilities that were reclassified from 
    interest bearing loans and borrowings;
• amounts related to onerous leases and leasehold improvement incentive of €6 million were derecognised.
In relation to the leases under IFRS 16, the Group in 2019 has recognized depreciation (€100 million) and interest costs (€7 million), 
instead of operating lease expense. Therefore also performance measures like EBIDTA are affected. In the statement of cash flows the 
interest paid related to these leases is presented as part of the cash flow from operating activities (€7 million), while the repayments are 
presented as part of the cash flows from financing activities (€98 million). 
There is no net impact on retained earnings on 1 January 2019, since the Group applied the modified retrospective approach, option B 
(IFRS16.C8(b)(ii).
‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs - 2015-2017 Cycle’
The Group has applied the amendments for the first time for their annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2019 in connection 
with the ‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle’. The adoption of these amendments did not have a material impact on the 
current period or any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods.
IFRIC 23, ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment’
Furthermore, the IFRIC 23 interpretation on ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment’ was issued. The Group determined, based on its 
tax compliance and transfer pricing policy study, that it is probable that its tax treatments (including those for its subsidiaries) will be 
accepted by the taxation authorities. The interpretation did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC amendments effective as per 1 January 2019 that have a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 
2020 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant 
effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except for the following set out below:
IFRS 3, ‘Business combinations – Definition of a business’
The narrow-scope amendments clarify how to determine whether an acquired set of activities and assets is a business or not.  
99
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe amendments clarify the minimum requirements for a business; remove the assessment of whether market participants are  
capable of replacing any missing elements; add guidance to help entities assess whether an acquired process is substantive; narrow  
the definitions of a business and of outputs; and introduce an optional fair value concentration test.
The Group is required to apply the amended definition of a business to acquisitions that occur on or after 1 January 2020. Earlier 
application is permitted. These amendments will apply only to any future business combinations of the Group.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
2.2 Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in 
the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to 
the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IFRS 9 either in 
the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value 
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the 
total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of 
the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated. When necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the Group’s accounting 
policies.
(b) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as 
transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant 
share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. 
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
(c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, 
with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income statement. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of 
subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related 
assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the profit or loss.
100
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management(d) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, accompanying a shareholding of between 
20 and 50 per cent of the voting rights or based on the representation on the board of directors. Investments in associates are accounted 
for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying 
amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The 
Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement, where appropriate.
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in 
other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of 
the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other 
unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. 
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate 
and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Group’s financial statements 
only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. When necessary amounts reported by associates have been adjusted to conform 
with the Group’s accounting policies.
(e) Joint arrangements
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint operations depending on the contractual rights and 
obligations. Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement have 
rights to the net assets of the joint venture. The parties to the arrangement have agreed contractually that control is shared and 
decisions regarding relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties which have joint control of the joint venture.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially 
recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in 
other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures 
(which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the joint ventures), the Group does 
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint 
ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to 
the assets and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the joint operation. The Group recognises its share in the joint operations’ 
individual revenues and expenses, assets and liabilities and includes it on a line-by-line basis with corresponding items in the Group’s 
financial statements.
2.3 Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Board. The Executive Board 
considers the business from a sector perspective and identifies Construction and Property, Civil engineering and PPP as operating segments.
101
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.4 Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in ‘euro’ (€), 
which is the Group’s presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions 
or valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income 
statement within ‘exchange rate differences’, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
• all resulting exchange rate differences are recognised separately in equity in ‘other comprehensive income’.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. Exchange rate differences arising are recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’.
(d) Exchange rates
The following exchange rates of the euro against the pound sterling (£) have been used in the preparation of these financial statements:
2019 2018
Closing exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.85332 0.90025
Average exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.87758 0.88692
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Other 
costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual 
values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Land improvements 10%-25%
Buildings 2%-10%
Equipment and installations 10%-25%
IT equipment 10%-25%
Furniture and fixtures 10%-25%
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount (note 2.7).
102
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementGains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within ‘other 
operating expenses’ in the income statement.
2.6 Right-of-use assets
The Group recognizes right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is available for use). 
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses and adjusted for any remeasurement 
of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease 
payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received. Unless the Group is reasonably certain to 
obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, the recognised right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line 
basis over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease term. Right-of-use assets are subject to impairment testing. The estimated 
useful life of the leased assets are as follows:
Land and buildings 1 to 99 years
Cars 1 to 10 years
Equipment 1 to 8 years
IT equipment 1 to 10 years
Other 1 to 11 years
The majority of the lease contracts in land and builings has a useful life up to 40 years. 
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases (i.e., those leases that have a lease term of 
12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets 
recognition exemption that are considered of low value (i.e., below €5,000). Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease, together with any periods covered by an option to extend 
the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, if it is reasonably certain 
not to be exercised. 
For several leases, the Group has renewal/extension options. The Group applies judgement in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain 
to exercise the option to renew. That is, it considers all relevant factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise the renewal. 
After the commencement date, the Group reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that is 
within its control and affects its ability to exercise (or not to exercise) the option to renew (e.g., a change in business strategy). 
The assessment of whether the Group is reasonably certain to exercise such options impacts the lease term, which significantly affects 
the amount of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets recognised. See note 4.
For further details regarding the transition method applied, see paragraph 2.1.1.
2.7 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in 
net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the amount of the non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash- 
generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. Each unit to which the goodwill is 
allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment. The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in 
use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
(b) Non-integrated software
Non-integrated software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
103
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAmortisation on non-integrated software is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over 
their estimated useful lives (between four and ten years). The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if 
appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
(c) Other
Other intangible assets relate to market positions ( including brand names) and development cost and are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Research cost are expensed as incurred. Development cost on an individual project are recognised as an intangible asset when the 
following can be demonstrated:
• technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale;
• its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset;
• how the asset will generate future economic benefits;
• the availability of resources to complete the asset;
• the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use. 
Additional recognition of cost of development may apply when development continues. It is amortised over the period of expected 
future benefit. Amortisation is recorded in depreciation and amortisation charges. During the period of development, the asset is tested 
for impairment annually.
Amortisation on other intangible assets is calculated over their estimated useful lives (generally between two and ten years). The assets’ 
useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely 
independent cash inflows (CGUs). Prior impairments of non-financial assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at 
each reporting date.
2.9 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its 
present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at 
the lower of the asset’s carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation or amortisation of an asset ceases when it is 
classified as held for sale. Equity accounting ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, and represents a 
separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major 
line of business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the 
component disposed of and that will not be recognised subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the 
income statement. Results and cash flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial 
statements so that the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the 
balance sheet date for the latest period presented.
104
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.10 Financial assets
2.10.1  Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The classification depends on the purpose for 
which the financial assets were acquired or issued. In principle, the financial assets are held in a business model whose objective is to 
collect contractual cash flows over the lifetime of the instrument. The Group’s financial assets comprise ‘PPP receivables’, ‘other financial 
assets’, ‘derivate financial instruments’, ‘(trade) receivables – net’, ‘contract assets’, ‘contract receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ 
in the balance sheet.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the classes ‘debt instruments at amortized costs’, ‘financial assets at fair value through profit 
and loss’ and ‘derivative financial instruments’ (note 2.13). debt instruments at amortised costs are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities 
greater than twelve months after the end of the reporting period which are classified as non-current assets. Debt instruments that do 
not meet Solely Payments of Principal and Interest (SPPI) criterion (for which the test is performed at instrument level) are classified at 
other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
2.10.2  Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or 
loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in 
the income statement, which also applicable for net changes in fair value after initial recognition. Trade receivables that do not contain a 
significant financing component are initially measured at the transaction price determined under IFRS 15. (See note 2.26 for revenue 
recognition).
Debt instruments, other than those initially measured in accordance with IFRS 15, are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method and are subject to impairment. The Group measures debt instruments at amortised cost if both of the 
following conditions are met: 
• the debt instruments is held with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; 
• the contractual terms of the debt instruments give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
Interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and 
the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset 
is derecognised, modified or impaired.
2.11 Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in 
the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
2.12 Impairment of financial assets
If the credit risk on a financial asset, not held at fair value through profit or loss, has not increased significantly since initial recognition, 
the loss allowance for that financial instrument is the 12-month expected credit losses (ECL). If the credit risk on a financial asset has 
significantly changed since initial recognition the loss allowance equals the lifetime expected credit losses. A financial asset is written off 
when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
Indications of increase in credit risk for financial assets are if a debtor or a group of debtors:
• experience significant financial difficulty;
• are in default or delinquency in interest or principal payments;
• have increased probability of default;
• other observable data resulting in increased credit risk.
105
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFor all financial assets, not held at fair value through profit or loss, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest 
rate, taking into account the value of collateral, if any. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement. If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the 
current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month 
ECL). For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is 
required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
For trade receivables, contract assets and contract receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, 
the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. 
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors 
specific to the debtors and the economic environment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the income 
statement.
2.13 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising 
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being 
hedged. The Group designates the derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly 
probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk of the unrecognised Group’s commitment.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its 
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both 
at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in 
offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if it meets all of the following effectiveness requirements:
• there is ‘an economic relationship’ between the hedged item and the hedging instrument;
• the effect of credit risk does not ‘dominate the value changes’ that result from that economic relationship;
• the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually 
hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 21. Movements on the hedging 
reserve in other comprehensive income are shown in note 17. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset 
or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity 
of the hedged item is less than twelve months.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss 
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income 
statement within ‘finance income/expense’. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward foreign exchange contracts is 
recognised in profit or loss within ‘operating result’.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain 
or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the 
income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is 
immediately transferred to the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
106
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.14 Inventories
Land, building rights and property developments are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group capitalises 
interest on finance raised to facilitate the development of specific projects once development commences and until practical 
completion, based on the total actual finance cost incurred on the borrowings during the period. When properties are acquired for 
future redevelopment, interest on borrowings is recognised in the income statement until redevelopment commences. Raw materials 
and finished goods are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the ‘first-in, first-out (FIFO) method’. 
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
2.15 Construction contracts
The Group defines a construction contract as a contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset. On the balance sheet, the 
Group reports the net contract position for each (construction) contract as either an contract asset or a contract liability. A contract asset is 
recognised when the Group has a right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a customer when 
that right is conditioned on something other than the passage of time. A contract receivable is an amount to be billed for which payment is 
only a matter of passage of time. A contract liability is recognised when the Group has an obligation to transfer goods or services to a 
customer for which the entity has received consideration (or the amount is due) from the customer. A provision for onerous contracts is 
recognised when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received 
under it.
For further guidelines regarding construction contracts see paragraph 2.26 revenue recognition under (a).
2.16 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in 
one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade and other receivables, other than those measured in accordance to IFRS 15, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any expected credit loss.
2.17 Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other 
short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. In the consolidated balance 
sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within ‘borrowings’ in current liabilities.
2.18 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds. When share capital is repurchased in order to prevent dilution as a result of the share-based compensation plan, the 
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of tax, is deducted from equity. Repurchased shares (treasury shares) are 
presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or re-issued subsequently, any amount received is recognised 
as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to/from retained earnings.
2.19 Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts 
payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method.
107
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.20  Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement 
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method (in case not attributable to property development projects).
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that 
some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. To the extent there is no 
evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity 
services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
The subordinated convertible bonds are separated into liability and equity components based on the terms of the contract. On 
issuance of the subordinated convertible bonds, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an 
equivalent
non-convertible instrument. This amount is classified as a financial liability measured at amortised cost (net of transaction costs) until 
it is extinguished on conversion or redemption. The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised 
and included in equity (after tax). The carrying amount of the conversion option is not remeasured in subsequent years.
Transaction costs are deducted from equity, net of associated income tax. Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability 
and equity components of the subordinated convertible bonds, based on the allocation of proceeds to the liability and equity 
components when the instruments are initially recognised.
2.21  Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments to be made 
over the lease term. Lease payments include fixed payments (including in- substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, 
non-lease components related to the leased asset, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be 
paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be 
exercised by the Group and payments of penalties for terminating a lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising the option to 
terminate. The variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement date,  
if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is 
increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease 
liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a 
change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset. 
The Group has applied judgement to determine the lease term, which significantly affects the amount of right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities recognised. See note 4 and note 20 Lease liabilities.
For further details regarding the transition method applied, see paragraph 2.1.1. 
2.22 Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income respectively directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the 
countries where the Group operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the 
basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred 
108
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementincome tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow 
the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint arrangements, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by 
the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is sufficient taxable 
profit available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on 
either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.23 Employee benefits
(a) Pension obligations
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal 
or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating 
to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on 
one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. 
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Current service costs of defined benefit plans are recognised immediately in the income statement, as part of ‘employee benefit 
expenses’, and reflect the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, 
curtailments and settlements.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. Interest expenses are included in the ‘employee benefit expenses’.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or 
voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised 
as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a 
reduction in the future payments is available.
(b) Other employment obligations
Other employment obligations comprise jubilee benefits, retirement gifts, temporary leaves and similar arrangements and have a 
non-current nature. These obligations are stated at present value.
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee 
109
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementaccepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: 
(a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognises costs for a restructuring and involves 
the payment of termination benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured 
based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting 
period are discounted to their present value.
2.24 Share-based payments
(a) Performance Share Plan
The Group operates an equity-settled share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a corresponding credit 
entry of equity. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting 
conditions are to be satisfied. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted:
• including a market performance condition based on the Company’s share price;
• excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions; and
• including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market vesting conditions and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income 
statement within ‘personnel expenses’, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value 
is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the performance shares and are re-invested.
(b) Phantom Share Plan
The Group used to operate a cash-settled share-based compensation plan, for which the last payment occurred in May 2019.
2.25  Provisions
Provisions for warranties, restructuring costs, rental guarantees, associates and joint ventures and onerous contracts are recognised 
when: (a) the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; (b) it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation; and (c) the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision 
due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan has been approved, and the restructuring has either commenced or 
has been announced publicly. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Future operating losses are not recognised.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment (including separately presented goodwill and other 
uninsured receivables), further losses will not be recognised, unless the Group has provided securities to the associate or joint venture, 
committed to liabilities or payment on behalf of the associate and joint venture. In that case, the excess will be provided for.
2.26  Revenue recognition
(a) Construction contracts
IFRS 15 follows a 5-step approach to recognise for revenue, which is set out below. Certain specific topics have been included or referred 
to the applicable note. 
The core principle of IFRS 15 is a 5-step model to distinguish each distinct performance obligation within a contract that the Group has 
with its customer and to recognise revenue on the level of the performance obligations, reflecting the consideration that the Group 
expects to be entitled for, in exchange for those goods or services. 
110
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe following five steps are identified within IFRS 15:
• step 1 ‘Identify the contract with the client’: Agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations 
(not necessarily written);
• step 2 ‘Identify the performance obligations’: A promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a good or service to the customer;
• step 3 ‘Determine the transaction price’: The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled 
for in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a client;
• step 4 ‘Allocate the transaction price’: The objective of allocating the transaction price is for the Group to allocate the transaction 
price to each performance obligation;
• step 5 ‘Recognise revenue’: the Group recognises revenue when (or as) the Group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a 
promised good or service (that is an asset) to a client.
Step 1 ‘Identify the contract with the client’
IFRS 15.9 requires that five criteria must be met before an entity accounts for a contract with a client. Once an arrangement has met the 
criteria, the Group does not assess the criteria again unless there are indicators of significant changes in the facts or circumstances. 
The achievement of the preferred bid status is not considered as a contract. As from the achievement of the preferred bid status, costs 
will be capitalised as an asset if enforceability of right to payment exists. This mainly concerns costs to fulfil the contract. See note 14 for 
further details.
Multiple contracts are combined and accounted for as a single contract when the economics of the individual contracts cannot be 
understood without reference to the arrangement as a whole. Indicators that such a combination is required are:
(a) the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective;
(b) the amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or the performance of the other contract;
(c) the goods or services promised in the contracts (or some goods or services promised in each of the contracts) are a single 
performance obligation.
A change to an existing contract for a project of the Group is a modification. A contract modification could change the scope of the 
contract, the price of the contract, or both. A contract modification exists when the Group and the customer approve the modification 
either in writing, orally, or implied by customary business practices, making the modification enforceable. In accordance with IFRS 15 the 
Group uses three methods to account for a contract modification:
(a) as a separate contract when the modification promises distinct goods (according to IFRS 15.27) or services and the price reflects the 
stand alone selling price;
(b) as a cumulative catch-up adjustment when the modification does not add distinct goods or services and is part of the same 
performance obligation. For the Group, as common within the construction sector, modifications mainly relate to variation orders 
which do not result in additional distinct goods and services and have to be accounted for as cumulative catch-up adjustment. This is 
the most common method within the Group given the nature of the modifications; or
(c) as a prospective adjustment when the considerations from the distinct goods or services do not reflect their standalone selling 
prices.
Step 2 ‘Identify the performance obligations’
The purpose of this step is to identify all promised goods or services that are included in the contract. Examples of performance 
obligations are the construction of a building, the delivery of an apartment, the maintenance of a road and so on.
At contract inception, the Group assesses the goods or services promised to a customer, and identifies each promise as either:
(a) a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct; or
(b) a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. 
Promises in a contract can be explicit, or implicit if they create a valid expectation that the Group will provide a good or service based on 
the Group’s customary business practices, published policies or specific statements.
111
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBuilding and maintenance contracts are usually considered as separate performance obligations because these promises are 
separately identifiable and the customer can benefit from these promises on their own. Design and build contracts are usually 
accounted for as one performance obligation because of not meeting criterion IFRS 15.27 (b) The entity’s promise to transfer the 
good or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. These promises usually represent a 
combined output for the customer (the construction) for which the design is the input. However if the purpose of the contract is to 
deliver a separate design after which the client is also able to contract another construction company, the design is considered to be 
separately identifiable.
When assets are built at clearly different (unconnected) locations these are generally considered to qualify as separate performance 
obligations. 
Performance obligations with the same characteristics can be bundled into portfolios if the entity reasonably expects that the 
effects on the financial statements of applying IFRS 15 to the portfolio would not differ materially from applying the standard to all 
performance obligations individually (for example: apartments).
Onerous contracts:
IFRS 15 does not include specific guidance about the accounting for project losses. For the accounting of provisions for onerous 
contracts, IFRS 15 refers to the guidance relating to provisions in IAS 37. Based on IAS 37, a provision for an onerous contract has to 
be accounted for on the level of the contract as a whole. This is not necessarily the same as if evaluated on project level, because a 
contract may include more performance obligations. 
The provision for onerous construction contracts only relates to the future loss on the performance to be delivered under the 
contract. In determining a provision for an onerous contract, the inclusion of variable considerations in the expected economic 
benefits is based on the same principles as included in step 3 hereafter, including the application of the highly probable constraint 
for the expected revenue. The provision for onerous contracts is presented separately in the balance sheet.
Step 3 ‘Determine the transaction price’
The purpose of this step is to determine the transaction price of the performance obligations promised in the contract. The 
transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised 
goods or services to a customer. The transaction price can be a fixed amount, a variable consideration or a combination of both.
If the consideration promised includes a variable amount such as an unpriced variation order, a claim, an incentive or a penalty, the 
Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services 
to a customer. IFRS 15 provides two methods for estimating variable considerations: the sum of probability-weighted amounts in a 
range of possible consideration amounts or the most likely amount a range of possible consideration amounts. On the level of each 
performance obligation has to be decided which approach best predicts the amount of the consideration to which the Group will be 
entitled.
The Group includes a variable consideration estimated only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the 
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is 
subsequently resolved (called the ‘constraint’).
The Group is often exposed to uncertainties related to variable considerations such as variation orders and contract claims to 
customers. The measurement of variation orders and claims requires knowledge and judgement by the Group. Based on IFRS 15, 
the Group interprets variation orders and contract claims as contract modifications for which the consideration is variable. 
For the accounting of unpriced variation orders and claims the following elements are assessed:
(a) determine whether the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract that are created or changed by the variation order or 
contract claim are enforceable; 
(b) estimate the change to the transaction price for the variation order or contract claim; 
(c) apply the guidance relating the constraint of the estimate of variable considerations (meaning that it is highly probable that no 
significant reversal of revenue will occur);
(d) determine whether the variation order or contract claim should be accounted for on a prospective basis or a cumulative  
catch-up basis.
112
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFor considering the effects of constraining estimates of variable considerations, the Group makes a distinction between claims and 
variation orders. Variation orders are changes that are clearly instructed by the client creating enforceable rights to payment but for 
which the price change is not yet determined. Claims however relate to events for which the Group considers to have enforceable 
rights to a compensation from the client but these are not yet approved by the client. The uncertainty relating to claims is usually 
higher, because of the absence of an instruction of the client for a change. As a result the risk of a significant reversal of revenue 
relating to claims is considered to be higher and it might be more difficult to prove that a claim amount meets the IFRS 15 ‘highly 
probable’ criterion.See note 4 b) for the related criteria.
Other variable considerations might include bonuses and penalties, for which penalties are considered to be negative variable 
considerations. The same method as described above needs to be applied, including assessing the constraint.
When determining the transaction price, the Group adjusts the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the time value 
of money if the timing of payments agreed to by the parties to the contract (either explicitly or implicitly) provides the customer or 
the entity with a significant benefit of financing the transfer of goods or services to the customer. In those circumstances, the 
contract contains a significant financing component. A significant financing component may exist regardless of whether the promise 
of financing is explicitly stated in the contract or implied by the payment terms agreed to by the parties to the contract. As a 
practical expedient the Group does not account for a financing component if the entity expects at contract inception that the period 
between the delivery of goods or services and the payment is one year or less. 
Step 4 ‘Allocate the transaction price’
The objective when allocating the transaction price is to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in an amount 
that depicts the amount of consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods 
or services to the customer.
To meet the allocation objective, the Group allocates the total transaction price agreed in the contract (or combination of contracts) 
as determined in step 3 to the performance obligations identified in step 2. This allocation is based on the relative stand-alone selling 
price (SSP) of the individual performance obligations.
To allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, the Group determines 
the stand-alone selling price at contract inception of the distinct good or service underlying each performance obligation in the 
contract and allocate the transaction price in proportion to those stand-alone selling prices.
The estimation method of IFRS 15 that best reflects the stand-alone selling price for design, construction and maintenance projects 
is the expected cost plus margin approach. This approach requires to forecast its expected costs of satisfying the performance 
obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that type of project or service. Costs included in the estimation should be 
consistent with those costs the Group would usually consider in setting standalone selling prices. Both direct and indirect costs are 
considered. The Group substantiates for example the average margin on bids for similar projects/services on a stand-alone basis 
(not in combination with other performance obligations).
Step 5 ‘Recognise revenue’
The purpose of this step is to determine the amount of revenue to be recognised in a certain period.
The Group recognises revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service 
(i.e. an asset) to a customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that asset. For each performance 
obligation identified in the contract, the Group determines at contract inception whether it satisfies the performance obligation 
over time or satisfies the performance obligation at a point in time. 
Control refers to the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from the asset. Control includes 
the ability to prevent other entities from directing the use of, and obtaining the benefits from, an asset. The Group needs to 
determine, at contract inception, whether control of a good or service transfers to a customer over time or at a point in time. 
Revenue is recognised over time if any of the following three criteria are met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the entity’s performance as the entity performs;
(b) the entity’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced;
(c) the entity’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity and the entity has an enforceable right to 
payment for performance completed to date.
113
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementIn general, the Group is building on the land of the customer or improving an asset of the customer, which results in creating an asset 
that the customer controls as the asset is created. This leads to recognising revenue over time. The Group uses the ‘percentage-of-
completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period for a performance obligation. 
The stage of completion is measured by reference to the contract costs of fulfilling the performance obligation incurred up to the end of 
the reporting period as a percentage of total expected fulfilment costs under the contract, which is an input measure according to 
IFRS 15.  
Costs incurred in connection with future activity on a contract are excluded from contract costs in determining the stage of completion. 
Payment terms might differ from client to client and country to country, however the Group’s standard payment term states 60 days. 
When applying a method for measuring progress, the Group excludes the measure of progress of any goods or services for which the 
entity has not transferred control to a customer. Examples of costs which have to be excluded from the progress measurement, include 
uninstalled materials, capitalised cost and costs of inefficiencies. 
Uninstalled materials:
If a customer contributes goods or services (for example, materials, equipment or labour) to facilitate the Groups’ fulfilment of the 
contract, the Group assesses whether it obtains control of those contributed goods or services. If so, the Group accounts for the 
contributed goods or services as non-cash consideration received from the customer. This is however rare, since control usually is not 
transferred to the Group and stays with the customer.
Capitalised cost:
The capitalised contract cost include cost to obtain the contract, cost to fulfil the contract and set-up cost. The Group recognises 
capitalised contract cost from the costs incurred to fulfil a contract (for example set-up or mobilisation costs) only if those costs meet all 
of the following criteria:
• the costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the entity can specifically identify (for example, costs relating 
to services to be provided under renewal of an existing contract or costs of designing an asset to be transferred under a specific 
contract that has not yet been approved);
• the costs generate or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance 
obligations in the future; and;
• the costs are expected to be recovered (project result should be sufficient to cover the capitalised contract costs).
Capitalised contract costs shall be amortized over the lifetime of the contract.
Costs of inefficiencies:
The Group does not recognise revenue for costs incurred that are attributable to significant inefficiencies in the Group’s performance 
that were not reflected in the price of the contract since these costs do not contribute to any benefits for the customer. This includes 
costs of unexpected amounts of wasted materials, labour or other resources that were incurred to satisfy the performance obligation.
Not all cost overruns compared to the project budget relate to inefficiencies. Cost overruns that for example relate to price increases, 
design changes (regardless whether compensated by the client), inaccuracies in the project budget are not inefficiencies. These expenses 
still contribute to value to the customer and making progress in the delivery of the project. Inefficiency costs relate to wasted items or 
work performed, which do not reflect any progress in the satisfaction of the performance obligation nor value to the customer. The costs 
incurred related to significant inefficiencies are directly charged to the income statement. Consequently, significant inefficiency costs 
are excluded from the measurement of the stage of completion.
(b) Property development
Sale of property development are recognised in respect of contracts exchanged during the year, provided that no material conditions 
remain outstanding on the balance sheet date and all conditions are fully satisfied by the date on which the contract is signed.
Further the accounting policies for property development are the same as mentioned under (a).
(c) Service concession arrangements and other
Under the terms of IFRIC 12 ‘Service concession arrangements’ comprise construction and/or upgrade activities, as well as operating and 
maintenance activities. Both activities recognise revenue in conformity with IFRS 15. The consideration (concession payments) received 
is allocated between construction/upgrade activities and operating/maintenance services according to the relative Stand-alone selling 
prices of the individual performance obligations.
The financial assets relating to service concession arrangements (‘PPP receivables’) are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
114
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementInterest is calculated using the effective interest method and is recognised in the income statement as ‘finance income’.
Sales of services are recognised when a performance obligations is satisfied. Usually, revenues from services are recognised over time by 
reference to the stage of completion on the basis of the actual service costs realised respective to the total expected service costs under 
the contract.
Other revenue includes, among other items, rental income and (sub)lease of property, plant and/or equipment. When assets are leased 
out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet based on the nature of the asset. Lease income on operating 
leases is recognised over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis.
2.27 Finance income and expenses
Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method. When a loan and receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the 
carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the 
instrument and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Finance income on impaired loan and receivables is recognised 
using the original effective interest rate.
Finance expenses comprise interest expenses on borrowings, deposits, cash positions, lease liabilities, finance lease expenses, gains and 
losses relating to hedging instruments and other financial expenses. Interest expenses on borrowings and lease liabilities are recognised 
in the income statement using the effective interest method.
2.28  Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to 
them and that the grants will be reviewed.
Government grants that are receivable as a compensation for expenses or losses already incurred are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which they become receivable.
2.29  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of 
the financial performance of the Group. These are material items of income and expense that have been shown separately due to the 
significance of their nature or amount.
2.30 Statement of cash flows
The statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method. The net cash position in the statement of cash flows consists of cash 
and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts.
Cash flows in foreign exchange currencies are converted using the average exchange rate. Exchange rate differences on the net cash 
position are separately presented in the statement of cash flows. Payments in connection with interest and income tax are included in 
the cash flow from operations. Cash flows in connection with PPP receivables are included in the cash flow from operating activities. Paid 
dividend is included in cash flows from financing activities. The purchase price of acquisitions of subsidiaries are included in the cash flow 
from investing activities as far as payments have taken place. Cash and cash equivalents in the subsidiaries are deducted from the 
purchase price.
Cash flows from PPP’s (private partnership projects) are presented under operating activities since these projects are part of regular 
construction and recurring maintenance revenue for BAM’s business lines and include concessions for roads, rail, education,
health care and government buildings.
As from 2019 lease contracts have been capitalised (former operational and finance leases) as right-of use assets, due to the 
implementation of IFRS 16. Accordingly, lease liabilities have been separately included under non-current and current liabilities. In 2018 
the lease liabilities were included in property, plant and equipment and borrowings and only related to finance leases. See paragraph 
2.1.1. In the statement of cash flows the interest paid related to leases is presented as part of the cash flow from operating activities, 
while the repayments are presented as part of the cash flows from financing activities.
Non-cash transactions are not included in the statement of cash flows.
115
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3. Financial risk management
3.1 Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk), 
credit risk and liquidity risk. Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the Group is exposed is not unusual or different 
from what is considered acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk management system is designed to identify and manage threats and 
opportunities. Effective risk management enables BAM to capitalise on opportunities in a carefully controlled environment. The Group’s 
overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to limit potential adverse effects on 
the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Financial risk management is carried out by Group treasury under policies approved by the Executive Board, which has the overall 
responsibility for risk management in the Group and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Group treasury identifies, evaluates 
and hedges financial risks in close collaboration with the group companies. The Executive Board provides written principles for overall 
risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
A substantial part of the Group’s activities takes place in the United Kingdom and, to a limited extent, in other non-euro countries. 
The Group’s results and shareholders’ equity are therefore affected by foreign exchange rates. Generally, the Group is active in these 
non-euro countries through local subsidiaries. The exchange risk is therefore limited, because transactions are denominated largely in 
the functional currencies of the subsidiaries. The associated translation risk is not hedged. Due to the translation effect the increase of 
exchange rate of the pound sterling in 2019 has on Group level increased the reported revenue, results, equity and closing order book 
for the UK companies. Based on the value per end of 2019 of the Group’s UK subsidiaries, an increase or decrease of 10 per cent of the 
exchange rate of the pound sterling, will have an effect on the Group’s equity of approximately €40 million.
A limited number of group companies are active in markets where contracts are denominated in a different currency than their 
functional currency. Group policy is that costs and revenues from these projects are mainly expressed in the same currency, thus limiting 
foreign exchange risks. The Group hedges the residual exchange risk on a project-by-project basis, using forward exchange contracts.
This involves hedging of unconditional project related exchange risks in excess of €1 million as soon as these occur. The Group reports 
these hedges by means of cash flow hedge accounting. Additional exchange risks in the tender stage and arising from contractual 
amendments are assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Procedures have been established for proper recording of hedge transactions. Systems are in place to ensure the regular performance 
and analysis of the requisite hedge effectiveness measurements for hedge accounting.
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk is associated with interest-bearing receivables and cash and cash equivalents, on the one hand and 
interest-bearing borrowings, on the other. If the interest is variable, it presents the Group with a cash flow interest rate risk. If the interest 
rate is fixed, there is a fair value interest rate risk.
The Group mitigates the cash flow interest rate risk to the extent possible through the use of interest rate swaps, under which interest 
liabilities based on a variable rate are converted into fixed rates. The Group does not use interest rate swaps under which fixed-rate 
interest liabilities are converted into variable rates in order to hedge the fair value interest rate risk.
The analysis of the cash flow interest rate risk takes into account cash and cash equivalents, the debt position and the usual fluctuations 
in the Group’s working capital requirements. In addition, alternatives are being studied, hedges are being considered and lease liabilities 
are excluded. Under Group policy, cash flow interest rate risks with regard to long-term borrowings (mainly PPP loans) are largely hedged 
by interest swaps. As a result of the small non-hedge component of these borrowings in combination with negative interest on part of 
the Groups credit positions, the Group is not entirely insensitive to movements in interest rates. At year-end 2019, 63 per cent (2018: 
71 per cent) of the interest on the Group’s debt position was fixed. The part not covered consists almost entirely of property financing.
If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been an average of 100 basis points higher or lower during 2019, the Group’s net result after 
tax (assuming that all other variables remained equal) would have been approximately €0.4 million higher or approximately €0.7 million 
116
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementlower (2018: approximately €0.1 million higher or approximately €0.8 million higher). If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been 
100 basis points higher or lower during 2019, the Group’s cash flow hedge reserves in Group equity (assuming that all other variables 
remained equal) would have been approximately €2.1 million higher or approximately €2.1 million lower (2018: approximately 
€2.4 million higher or approximately €2.4 million lower). 
(iii) Price risk
The price risk run by the Group relates to the procurement of land and materials and subcontracting of work and consists of the difference 
between the market price at the point of tendering or offering on a contract and the market price at the time of actual performance.
The Group’s policy is to agree a price indexation reimbursement clause with the client at the point of tendering or offering on major 
projects. The Group also endeavours to manage the price risk by using framework contracts, suppliers’ quotations and high-value 
sources of information. If the Group is awarded a project and no price indexation reimbursement clause is agreed with the client, the 
costs of land and materials, as well as the costs for subcontractors, are fixed at an early stage by establishing prices and conditions in 
advance with the main suppliers and subcontractors.
While it is impossible to exclude the impact of price fluctuations altogether, the Group takes the view that its current policy reflects the 
optimum economic balance between decisiveness and predictability. The Group occasionally uses financial instruments to hedge the 
(residual) price risks.
(b) Credit risk
The Group has credit risks with regard to financial assets including ‘PPP receivables’, ‘non-current receivables’, ‘derivative financial 
instruments’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘contract assets’, ‘contract receivables’, ’other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’.
Regarding the above mentioned financial assets, the Group assessed the credit risk and concluded that no ECL provision is deemed 
necessary.
‘PPP receivables’ and a substantial part of the ‘trade receivables – net’ consist of contracts with governments or government bodies. 
Therefore, credit risk inherent in these contracts is limited. Furthermore, a significant part of ‘trade receivables – net’ is based on 
contracts involving prepayments or payments proportionate to progress of the work, which limits the credit risks, in principle, to the 
balances outstanding.
The credit risk arising from ‘PPP receivables’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘contract assets’ and ‘contract receivables’ is monitored by the 
relevant subsidiaries. Clients’ creditworthiness is analysed in advance and then monitored during the performance of the project. This 
involves taking account of the client’s financial position, previous collaborations and other factors. Group policy is designed to mitigate 
these credit risks through the use of various instruments, including retaining ownership until payment has been received, prepayments and 
the use of bank guarantees. The credit risk of the portfolio is further mitigated by broad spectrum of clients.
The Group’s ‘cash and cash equivalents’ are held in various banks. The Group limits the associated credit risk as a result of the Group’s 
policy to work only with respectable banks and financial institutions. This involves ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in excess of €10 million 
being held at banks and financial institutions with a minimum rating of ‘A’. The Group’s policy aims to limit any concentration of credit 
risks involving ‘cash and cash equivalents’.
117
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe composition of the expected contractual cash flows is as follows:
 Carrying  
 amount  Contractual  
 cash flows < 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years
2019
Subordinated convertible bonds  120,451  131,563  4,375  127,188  -
Non-recourse PPP loans  42,620  47,009  4,674  20,107  22,228 
Non-recourse property financing  53,807  55,597  40,367  12,031  3,199 
Other non-recourse financing  4,442  4,935  1,334  2,801  800 
Recourse PPP loans  -    -  -  -  - 
Recourse property financing  48,361  49,860  33,099  14,892  1,869 
Other recourse financing  1,845  1,910  1,910  -  - 
Lease liabilities* 311,591 326,675 90,400 180,474 55,801
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts)  242  711  797  (79)  (7)
Derivatives (interest rate swaps)  9,567  11,102  1,910  6,553  2,639 
Other current liabilities  836,758  836,758  836,758  -  -
1,429,684 1,466,120 1,015,624 363,967 86,529
2018
Subordinated convertible bonds 117,637 135,938 4,375 131,563 -
Non-recourse PPP loans 43,467 48,661 5,843 18,278 24,540
Non-recourse property financing 79,227 82,032 23,892 58,140 -
Other non-recourse financing 4,469 4,865 2,460 1,325 1,080
Recourse PPP loans 13,984 15,176 973 14,203 -
Recourse property financing 53,447 55,448 24,316 31,132 -
Other recourse financing 5,550 5,758 3,849 1,909 -
Finance lease liabilities * 24,995 26,571 7,428 18,402 741
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts) (370) (2,728) (2,728) - -
Derivatives (interest rate swaps) 9,691 10,305 1,975 5,100 3,230
Other current liabilities 981,671 981,671 981,671 - -
1,333,768 1,363,697 1,054,054 280,052 29,591
*  As from 2019 lease liabilities have been separately presented in the consolidated statement of financial position (former operational and finance leases), 
due to the implementation of IFRS 16. In 2018 the lease liabilities were included in borrowings and were only related to finance leases. See note 20. Lease 
liabilities and paragraph 2.1.1.
The expected cash outflows are offset by the cash inflows from operations and (re-)financing. In addition, the Group has committed 
syndicated and bilateral credit facilities of €400 million (2018: €400 million) respectively €138 million in bilateral credit facilities and 
€25 million intraday facilities (2018: €163 million) available.
3.2 Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s aim is for a financing structure that ensures continuing operations and minimises cost of equity. For this, flexibility and 
access to the financial markets are important conditions. As usual within the industry, the Group monitors its financing structure using a 
capital ratio, among other factors.
Capital ratio is calculated as the capital base divided by total assets. The Group’s capital base consists of equity attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company and the subordinated instruments (notes 18 and 19). At year-end 2019, the capital ratio was 16.5 per cent 
(2018: 18.5 per cent). The impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 had a downward effect of 1 per cent, due to the increased total 
assets. For the strategic objectives regarding the capital ratio, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance of the Executive Board Report.The carrying amounts of the financial assets exposed to a credit risk are as follows:
Notes 2019 2018
Non-current assets
PPP receivables 10 73,653 85,298
Non-current receivables 12 108,176 99,858
Derivative financial instruments 21 - 1
Current assets
Trade receivables – net 14 683,979 858,946
Contract assets 14 503,694 595,684
Contract receivables 14 217,521 284,135
Other receivables 14 82,887 82,212
PPP receivables 10,14 4,938 4,348
Other financial assets 12 596 621
Derivative financial instruments 21 704 641
Cash and cash equivalents 15 854,023 743,674
2,530,171 2,755,418
Non-current receivables predominantly concern loans granted to property and PPP associates and joint ventures. These loans are in 
general not past due at the balance sheet date. Triggering events for impairments are identified based on the financial position of these 
associates and joint ventures, which also include the value of the underlying property development positions. For a part of these loans 
property developments positions are held as securities generally subordinated to the providers of the external financing.
Impairments, if applicable, are included in ‘non-current receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ (notes 12 and 14). None of the other 
assets were overdue at year-end 2019 or subject to impairment. The maximum credit risk relating to financial instruments equals the 
carrying amount of the financial instrument.
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risks may occur if the procurement and performance of new projects stagnate and less payments (and prepayments) are 
received, or if investments in land or property development would have a significant effect on the available financing resources and/or 
operational cash flows.
The size of individual transactions can cause relatively large short-term fluctuations in the liquidity position. The Group has sufficient 
credit and current account facilities to manage these fluctuations.
Partly to manage liquidity risks, subsidiaries prepare monthly detailed cash flow projections for the ensuing twelve months. The analysis 
of the liquidity risk takes into account the amount of cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities and the usual fluctuations in the Group’s 
working capital requirements. This provides the Group with sufficient opportunities to use its available liquidities and credit facilities as 
flexible as possible and to indicate any shortfalls in a timely manner.
The first possible expected contractual cash outflows from financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments as at the end of the 
year and settled on a net basis, consist of (contractual) repayments and (estimated) interest payments.
118
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe composition of the expected contractual cash flows is as follows:
 Carrying  
 amount  Contractual  
 cash flows < 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years
2019
Subordinated convertible bonds  120,451  131,563  4,375  127,188  -
Non-recourse PPP loans  42,620  47,009  4,674  20,107  22,228 
Non-recourse property financing  53,807  55,597  40,367  12,031  3,199 
Other non-recourse financing  4,442  4,935  1,334  2,801  800 
Recourse PPP loans  -    -  -  -  - 
Recourse property financing  48,361  49,860  33,099  14,892  1,869 
Other recourse financing  1,845  1,910  1,910  -  - 
Lease liabilities* 311,591 326,675 90,400 180,474 55,801
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts)  242  711  797  (79)  (7)
Derivatives (interest rate swaps)  9,567  11,102  1,910  6,553  2,639 
Other current liabilities  836,758  836,758  836,758  -  -
1,429,684 1,466,120 1,015,624 363,967 86,529
2018
Subordinated convertible bonds 117,637 135,938 4,375 131,563 -
Non-recourse PPP loans 43,467 48,661 5,843 18,278 24,540
Non-recourse property financing 79,227 82,032 23,892 58,140 -
Other non-recourse financing 4,469 4,865 2,460 1,325 1,080
Recourse PPP loans 13,984 15,176 973 14,203 -
Recourse property financing 53,447 55,448 24,316 31,132 -
Other recourse financing 5,550 5,758 3,849 1,909 -
Finance lease liabilities * 24,995 26,571 7,428 18,402 741
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts) (370) (2,728) (2,728) - -
Derivatives (interest rate swaps) 9,691 10,305 1,975 5,100 3,230
Other current liabilities 981,671 981,671 981,671 - -
1,333,768 1,363,697 1,054,054 280,052 29,591
*  As from 2019 lease liabilities have been separately presented in the consolidated statement of financial position (former operational and finance leases), 
due to the implementation of IFRS 16. In 2018 the lease liabilities were included in borrowings and were only related to finance leases. See note 20. Lease 
liabilities and paragraph 2.1.1.
The expected cash outflows are offset by the cash inflows from operations and (re-)financing. In addition, the Group has committed 
syndicated and bilateral credit facilities of €400 million (2018: €400 million) respectively €138 million in bilateral credit facilities and 
€25 million intraday facilities (2018: €163 million) available.
3.2 Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s aim is for a financing structure that ensures continuing operations and minimises cost of equity. For this, flexibility and 
access to the financial markets are important conditions. As usual within the industry, the Group monitors its financing structure using a 
capital ratio, among other factors.
Capital ratio is calculated as the capital base divided by total assets. The Group’s capital base consists of equity attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company and the subordinated instruments (notes 18 and 19). At year-end 2019, the capital ratio was 16.5 per cent 
(2018: 18.5 per cent). The impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 had a downward effect of 1 per cent, due to the increased total 
assets. For the strategic objectives regarding the capital ratio, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance of the Executive Board Report.
119
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementUnder the terms of our borrowings facilities the group is required to comply with financial covenants. For information on these financial 
covenants see note 19.
3.3 Financial instruments by categories
The Group has three categories of financial instruments. A significant number of these are inherent to the Group’s business activities  
and are presented in various other balance sheet items. The following summary indicates the values for which financial instruments  
are included for each relevant balance sheet item:
Financial instruments
Notes  Receivables Financial 
liabilitiesHedging Non-financial
instrumentsTotal
2019
PPP receivables 10  73,653 - - - 73,653
Other financial assets 112  109,653 - - - 109,653
Derivative financial instruments 21 - -  704 - 704
Trade and other receivables 14  813,024 - -  799,025 1,612,049
Cash and cash equivalents 15  854,023 - - - 854,023
Borrowings 19 -  271,526 - - 271,526
Lease liabilities 220 -  311,591 - - 311,591
Derivative financial instruments 21 - -  10,513 - 10,513
Trade and other payables 25 -  836,759 -  2,045,710 2,882,469
 1,850,353  1,419,876  11,217  2,844,735  6,126,181 
2018
PPP receivables 10 85,298 - - - 85,298
Other financial assets 112 101,332 - - - 101,332
Derivative financial instruments 21 - - 642 - 642
Trade and other receivables 14 980,011 - - 992,029 1,972,040
Cash and cash equivalents 15 743,674 - - - 743,674
Borrowings 219 - 342,777 - - 342,777
Derivative financial instruments 21 - - 9,963 - 9,963
Trade and other payables 25 - 981,671 - 2,099,464 3,081,135
1,910,315 1,324,448 10,605 3,091,493 6,336,861
1  The other financial assets consist of several types of financial assets. See note 12 for the specification of receivables based on fair value through profit or 
loss, receivables based on amortised cost and other.
2  As from 2019 lease liabilities have been included (former operational and finance leases leases), due to the implementation of IFRS 16. In 2018 the lease 
liabilities were included in borrowings and only related to finance leases. See note 20. Lease liabilities and paragraph 2.1.1.
All financial instruments are valued at amortised cost, with the exception of a part of the other financial assets (note 12) and the 
derivative financial instruments (note 21), not designated in hedge accounting relationship, which are valued at fair value through profit 
or loss. 
120
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3.4 Fair value estimation 
The fair value of financial instruments not quoted in an active market is measured using valuation techniques. The Group uses various 
techniques and makes assumptions based on market conditions on balance sheet date. The valuation also includes (changes in) the 
credit risk of the counter party and the credit risk of the Group in conformity with IFRS 13.
One of these techniques is the calculation of the net present value of the expected cash flows (discounted cash flow projections). The fair 
value of the interest rate swaps is calculated as the net present value of the expected future cash flows. The fair value of the forward 
exchange contracts is measured based on the ‘forward’ currency exchange rates on balance sheet date. In addition, valuations from 
banks are requested for interest rate swaps.
Financial instruments valued at fair value consist of interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and a portion of the other financial 
assets. In line with the current accounting policies the derivatives are classified as level 2. 
It is assumed that the nominal value (less estimated adjustments) of ‘borrowings’ (current part), ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘trade 
and other payables’ approximate to their fair value.
3.5 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise 
the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
A master netting agreement is applic able to a part of ‘cash and cash equivalents’. At 31 December 2019 a positive balance of €446 million 
has been offset against a negative balance of €0.1 million (2018 : positive balance of €404 million offset against a negative balance of nil).
121
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management4.  Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainties
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The critical judgements including those involving estimations assumptions concerning the future, that the Group has made in the 
process of applying the accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements are addressed below.
(a) Contract revenue and costs
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, the contract revenue is highly probable and the contract will be 
profitable, contract revenue and costs are recognised over the period of the contract, usually by reference to the stage of completion 
using the ‘percentage-of- completion method’, to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period. When it is probable 
that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the realised loss based on the ‘percentage-of-completion method’ is 
recognised as an expense immediately, while the future expected loss is included in a provision for onerous contracts. When the 
outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, for instance in the early stages of a contract, but it is expected that the 
cost incurred in satisfying the performance obligation under the contract will be recovered, then revenue will be recognised to the 
extent of the cost incurred, until the outcome of a contract can be reliably measured.
In determining the stage of completion the Group has efficient, coordinated systems for cost estimating, forecasting and revenue and 
costs reporting. The system also requires a consistent judgment (forecast) of the final outcome of the project, including variance 
analyses of divergences compared with earlier assessment dates. Estimates are an inherent part of this assessment and actual future 
outcome may deviate from the estimated outcome, specifically for major and complex construction contracts. However, historical 
experience has also shown that estimates are, on the whole, sufficiently reliable. See paragraph 2.26 for further explanation regarding 
the recognition of revenue for construction contracts. 
(b) Claims receivable
In the normal course of business the Group recognises contract assets in connection with claims for (partly) satisfied performance 
obligations due from the principal and/or insurance claims as reimbursement for certain loss events on projects. Claims for satisfied 
performance obligations are part of the variable considerations under IFRS 15. Project related claims on principals are recognised when it 
is highly probable that no significant reversal in the cumulative revenue recognised regarding to the claim, will occur. The Group 
considers both the likelihood and the magnitude of a possible revenue reversal. Factors that could increase the likelihood or the 
magnitude of a revenue reversal include, but are not limited to, any of the following: 
• the amount of consideration is highly susceptible to factors outside the entity’s influence. Those factors may include the judgement or 
actions of third parties like the court or an arbitration committee or weather conditions;
• the uncertainty about the amount of consideration is not expected to be resolved for a long period of time; 
• the entity’s experience (or other evidence) with similar types of contracts is limited, or that experience (or other evidence) has limited 
predictive value;
• the entity has a practice of either offering a broad range of price concessions or changing the payment terms and conditions of similar 
contracts in similar circumstances; 
• the contract has a large number and broad range of possible consideration amounts.
Insurance claims can be recognised only if it is virtually certain that the amount recognised will be reimbursed. See paragraph 2.26 for 
further explanation regarding the recognition of variable considerations.
(c) Income tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for 
income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises 
liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of 
these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carry-forwards, temporary differences and tax credits to the extent that the realisation 
of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Estimates are an inherent part of this process and they may differ 
from the actual future outcome. Additional information is disclosed in note 24.
122
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management(d) Pension obligations
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of 
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these 
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to determine 
the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining the 
appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds (AA) that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed in note 22.
(e) Impairment of land and building rights and property development
The valuation of land and building rights and property development is based on the outcome of the related calculations of the land’s net 
realisable value. These calculations are based on assumptions relating to the future market developments, decisions of governmental 
bodies, interest rates and future cost and price increases. In most cases the Group uses external valuations (by rotation) to benchmark 
the net realisable value. Partly because estimates relate to projects with a duration varying from one year to more than thirty years, 
significant changes in these assumptions might result in an impairment.
(f) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on 
value-in-use calculations. These calculations are determined using discounted cash flow projections and require estimates in connection 
with the future development of revenues, profit before tax margins and the determination of appropriate discount rates. An impairment 
loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset of CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
(g) Determining the lease term
The Group determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease, together with any periods covered by an option to extend 
the lease if it is reasonably certain to be exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, if it is reasonably certain 
not to be exercised.
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. The Group applies judgement in evaluating 
whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. That is, it considers all relevant 
factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise either the renewal or termination. After the commencement date, the Group 
reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that is within its control and affects its ability to 
exercise or not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate (e.g. changes in business strategy).
The Group included the renewal period as part of the lease term for leases when the renewal is reasonably certain to be exercised. 
Furthermore, the periods covered by termination options are included as part of the lease term only when they are reasonably certain 
not to be exercised. 
123
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementLeases regarding land and buildings mainly include office spaces and are leased for longer periods of time (10-25 years). Lease terms are 
negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The length of the period when certainty 
can be achieved, differs and is dependent on the contract negotiations with the lessor and the required office space. Usually, the Group 
is able to be reasonably certain if an option is exercised around two years before the lease term ends. 
The renewal options for leases of cars are not included as part of the lease term because the Group typically leases cars for not more than 
six years and, hence, is not exercising any renewal options. These cars are used both by office as project management employees.
Lease terms for equipment and installation may vary and are generally connected to the execution of projects or to housing in the offices 
buildings. The other leases are insignificant to the total leased asset portfolio.
See note 20. Lease liabilities for information on potential future rental payments relating to periods following the exercise date of 
extension and termination options that are not included in the lease term.5. Segment information
The segment information reported to the Executive Board is measured in a manner consistent with the financial statements. 
Revenue and resultsConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2019
Construction contracts 3,410,001 2,947,509 - - 6,357,510
Property development 644,721 - - - 644,721
Service concession arrangements and other 138,293 23,061 45,136 368 206,858
Revenue from external customers 4,193,015 2,970,570 45,136 368 7,209,089
Sector revenue 32,876 41,648 - (74,524) -
Revenue 4,225,891 3,012,218 45,136 (74,156) 7,209,089
Operating result 336,396 (7,620) 17,715 5,840 52,331
Finance result 3(26) (2,344) 9,513 (8,856) (1,713)
Result before tax 36,370 (9,964) 27,228 (3,016) 50,618
Exceptional items 2(9,916) (13,564) - - (23,480)
Adjusted result before tax 46,286 3,600 27,228 (3,016) 74,098
 
2018
Construction contracts 3,336,044 3,134,424 - - 6,470,468
Property development 541,326 - - - 541,326
Service concession arrangements and other 132,989 27,608 34,676 684 195,957
Revenue from external customers 4,010,359 3,162,032 34,676 684 7,207,751
Sector revenue 32,967 60,594 - (93,561) -
Revenue 4,043,326 3,222,626 34,676 (92,877) 7,207,751
Operating result 77,133 14,753 11,323 2,005 105,214
Finance result 3,163 269 8,907 (3,012) 9,327
Result before tax 80,296 15,022 20,230 (1,007) 114,541
Exceptional items 2(34,391) (4,288) - - (38,679)
Adjusted result before tax 114,687 19,310 20,230 (1,007) 153,220
1 Including non-operating segments.
2 For further explanation see note 28.
3 As from 2019 the Group has recognized interest costs (part of finance result), instead of operating lease expense (part of operating result), due to the 
implementation of IFRS 16. The total interest expenses amount to €7 million which relate to Construction and Property (€2 million), Civil engineering (€3 
million), and non-operating (€2 million). See paragraph 2.1.1.
124
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management5. Segment information
The segment information reported to the Executive Board is measured in a manner consistent with the financial statements. 
Revenue and resultsConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2019
Construction contracts 3,410,001 2,947,509 - - 6,357,510
Property development 644,721 - - - 644,721
Service concession arrangements and other 138,293 23,061 45,136 368 206,858
Revenue from external customers 4,193,015 2,970,570 45,136 368 7,209,089
Sector revenue 32,876 41,648 - (74,524) -
Revenue 4,225,891 3,012,218 45,136 (74,156) 7,209,089
Operating result 336,396 (7,620) 17,715 5,840 52,331
Finance result 3(26) (2,344) 9,513 (8,856) (1,713)
Result before tax 36,370 (9,964) 27,228 (3,016) 50,618
Exceptional items 2(9,916) (13,564) - - (23,480)
Adjusted result before tax 46,286 3,600 27,228 (3,016) 74,098
 
2018
Construction contracts 3,336,044 3,134,424 - - 6,470,468
Property development 541,326 - - - 541,326
Service concession arrangements and other 132,989 27,608 34,676 684 195,957
Revenue from external customers 4,010,359 3,162,032 34,676 684 7,207,751
Sector revenue 32,967 60,594 - (93,561) -
Revenue 4,043,326 3,222,626 34,676 (92,877) 7,207,751
Operating result 77,133 14,753 11,323 2,005 105,214
Finance result 3,163 269 8,907 (3,012) 9,327
Result before tax 80,296 15,022 20,230 (1,007) 114,541
Exceptional items 2(34,391) (4,288) - - (38,679)
Adjusted result before tax 114,687 19,310 20,230 (1,007) 153,220
1 Including non-operating segments.
2 For further explanation see note 28.
3 As from 2019 the Group has recognized interest costs (part of finance result), instead of operating lease expense (part of operating result), due to the 
implementation of IFRS 16. The total interest expenses amount to €7 million which relate to Construction and Property (€2 million), Civil engineering (€3 
million), and non-operating (€2 million). See paragraph 2.1.1.
125
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBalance sheet disclosures Construction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2019
Assets 2,427,912 2,030,700 197,372 (250,873)  4,405,111
Investments 113,774 61,857 13,975 (54,543) 135,063
Total assets 2,541,686 2,092,557 211,347 (305,416)  4,540,174
Liabilities 2,227,201 1,596,854 127.022 (44,817)  3,906,260 
Group equity  314.485  495.703 84.325 (260,599)  633,914 
Total equity and liabilities 2,541,686 2,092,557 211,347 (305,416)  4,540,174 
2018
Assets 2,591,504 1,976,254 211,642 (310,972) 4,468,428
Investments 90,966 65,994 10,523 (57,928) 109,555
Total assets 2,682,470 2,042,248 222,165 (368,900 4,577,983
Liabilities 2,400,521 1,519,757 116,580 (193,763) 3,843,095
Group equity 281,949 522,491 105,584 (175,136) 734,888
Total equity and liabilities 2,682,470 2,042,248 222,164 (368,899) 4,577,983
¹ Including non-operating segments.
Other disclosuresConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2019
Additions to property, plant and equipment, right-of-use 
assets and intangible assets  55,277  129,521  466  19,918  205,182 
Depreciation and amortisation charges 3 46,827  90,873  336  21,525  159,561
Share of result of investments in operating result  (13,461)  21,877  8,880 -  17,296
Average number of FTE 2 8,053  10,981  97  304  19,433
Number of FTE at year-end  8,237  10,861  98  321  19,517
2018
Additions to property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets 24,625 54,766 19 17,432 96,843
Depreciation and amortisation charges 315,476 43,801 21 10,478 69,776
Share of result of investments in operating result 24,219 2,644 8,962 - 35,825
Average number of FTE 29,262 10,535 95 264 20,156
Number of FTE at year-end 9,300 10,510 99 285 20,194
1 Including non-operating segments.
² Fulltime equivalent. 
³  From 2019, depreciation also includes depreciation of right-of-use assets due to the implementation of IFRS 16.  
The comparative numbers have not been adjusted.Revenues from external customers by country,  
based on the location of the projectsConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2019
Netherlands  1,590,449  1,296,391  7,154  (39,436)  2,854,558
United Kingdom  1,060,485  945,640  19,588 (9,245)  2,016,468
Belgium  445,018  222,737  9,813 (22,663)  654,905
Germany  406,903  291,448  5,524 (2,811)  701,064
Ireland  543,425   24,750  3,057 -  571,232
Other countries  179,611  231,252 -  (1)  410,862
 4,225,891  3,012,218  45,136  (74,156)  7,209,089
2018
Netherlands 1,391,385 1,340,840 11,543 (31,870) 2,711,898
United Kingdom 1,070,272 921,136 16,638 (9,809) 1,998,237
Belgium 503,115 240,442 969 (41,841) 702,685
Germany 414,644 401,451 5,170 (1,547) 819,718
Ireland 434,337 46,937 356 (7,689) 473,941
Other countries 229,573 271,820  - (122) 501,272
4,043,326 3,222,626 34,676 (92,878) 7,207,751
1 Including non-operating segments.
Revenues from the individual countries included in ‘other countries’ are not material. 
Total assets and capital expenditures in connection with property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by country are stated below:
Total assets ¹ 2019 2018
Netherlands  1,544,596 1,605,223
United Kingdom  1,078,964 1,011,640
Belgium  697,428 681,282
Germany  614,493 622,804
Ireland  310,127 323,809
Other countries  450,788 502,709
Other including eliminations  (156,222)  (169,484)
Total assets  4,540,174 4,577,983
Additions² 2019 2018
Netherlands  109,518 51,508
United Kingdom  29,171 8,170
Belgium  23,793 16,019
Germany  23,144 9,598
Ireland  8,208 7,475
Other countries  11,348 4,073
Total assets  205,182 96,843
¹ Geographical allocations based on the location of the assets.
²   Gross investments in tangible and intangible assets based on geographical location. As from 2019 lease contracts have been capitalised (former 
operational and finance leases) as right-of use assets, due to the implementation of IFRS 16. See paragraph 2.1.1.
126
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementRevenues from external customers by country,  
based on the location of the projectsConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2019
Netherlands  1,590,449  1,296,391  7,154  (39,436)  2,854,558
United Kingdom  1,060,485  945,640  19,588 (9,245)  2,016,468
Belgium  445,018  222,737  9,813 (22,663)  654,905
Germany  406,903  291,448  5,524 (2,811)  701,064
Ireland  543,425   24,750  3,057 -  571,232
Other countries  179,611  231,252 -  (1)  410,862
 4,225,891  3,012,218  45,136  (74,156)  7,209,089
2018
Netherlands 1,391,385 1,340,840 11,543 (31,870) 2,711,898
United Kingdom 1,070,272 921,136 16,638 (9,809) 1,998,237
Belgium 503,115 240,442 969 (41,841) 702,685
Germany 414,644 401,451 5,170 (1,547) 819,718
Ireland 434,337 46,937 356 (7,689) 473,941
Other countries 229,573 271,820  - (122) 501,272
4,043,326 3,222,626 34,676 (92,878) 7,207,751
1 Including non-operating segments.
Revenues from the individual countries included in ‘other countries’ are not material. 
Total assets and capital expenditures in connection with property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by country are stated below:
Total assets ¹ 2019 2018
Netherlands  1,544,596 1,605,223
United Kingdom  1,078,964 1,011,640
Belgium  697,428 681,282
Germany  614,493 622,804
Ireland  310,127 323,809
Other countries  450,788 502,709
Other including eliminations  (156,222)  (169,484)
Total assets  4,540,174 4,577,983
Additions² 2019 2018
Netherlands  109,518 51,508
United Kingdom  29,171 8,170
Belgium  23,793 16,019
Germany  23,144 9,598
Ireland  8,208 7,475
Other countries  11,348 4,073
Total assets  205,182 96,843
¹ Geographical allocations based on the location of the assets.
²   Gross investments in tangible and intangible assets based on geographical location. As from 2019 lease contracts have been capitalised (former 
operational and finance leases) as right-of use assets, due to the implementation of IFRS 16. See paragraph 2.1.1.
127
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management6. Projects
Construction contracts and property development
A major part of the Group’s activities concerns construction contracts and property development which are reflected in various balance 
sheet items. An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to construction contracts and property development is stated below:
Construction 
contractsProperty 
development Total
2019
Land and building rights  -  319,434  319,434 
Property development  -  211,644  211,644 
Capitalised contract cost  744  -  744 
Amounts due from customers  368,829  15,901  384,730 
Project assets  369,573  546,979  916,552 
Non-recourse property financing  -  (53,807)  (53,807)
Recourse property financing  -  (48,361)  (48,361)
Amounts due to customers  (518,536)  (107,761)  (626,297)
Provision for onerous contracts  (118,837)  -  (118,837)
Project liabilities  (637,373)  (209,929)  (847,302)
   
As at 31 December  (267,800)  337,050  69,250 
2018
Land and building rights - 353,586 353,586
Property development - 210,029 210,029
Capitalised contract cost 159 - 159
Amounts due from customers 464,607 14,521  479,128
Project assets  464,766 578,136 1,042,902 
Non-recourse property financing - (79,227) (79,227)
Recourse property financing - (53,447) (53,447)
Amounts due to customers (559,194) (95,018) (654,212)
Provision for onerous contracts (135,899) - (135,899) 
Project liabilities (695,093) (227,692) (922,785) 
   
As at 31 December (230,327) 350,444 120,117 
128
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe breakdown of the balance sheet items ‘amounts due from customers’ and ‘amounts due to customers’ is as follows:
Construction 
contractsProperty 
development Total
2019
Revenue  14,258,045  106,543  14,364,588 
Progress billings  (13,889,216)  (90,642)  (13,979,858)
Amounts due from customers  368,829  15,901  384,730 
Revenue  10,616,494  1,125,814  11,742,308 
Progress billings  (11,135,030)  (1,233,575)  (12,368,605)
Amounts due to customers  (518,536)  (107,761)  (626,297)
2018
Revenue 13,079,542 159,510 13,239,052
Progress billings (12,614,935) (144,989) (12,759,924) 
Amounts due from customers 464,607 14,521 479,128 
Revenue 10,610,165 681,030 11,291,195
Progress billings (11,169,359) (776,048) (11,945,408) 
Amounts due to customers (559,194) (95,018) (654,212) 
As at 31 December 2019 advance payments (as included in amounts due to customers) in connection with construction contracts and 
property development amount to €193 million (2018: €172 million) respectively nil (2018: nil).
PPP
The joint venture BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (‘joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM’) invests in PPP markets for social and 
transport infrastructure in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland. BAM PPP continues to be 
fully responsible for issuing new project tenders, rendering services with regard to asset management for the joint venture and 
representing the joint venture in transactions. PGGM provides the majority of capital required for existing projects.
An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to PPP projects (excluding joint ventures) is stated below:
Non-current Current Total
2019
PPP receivables  73,653  4,938  78,591 
(Non-)recourse PPP loans  (38,772)  (3,849)  (42,621)
 34,881  1,089  35,972 
Net assets and liabilities  (5,852)  8,217  2,365 
As at 31 December  29,029  9,306  38,335 
2018
PPP receivables 85,298 4,348 89,647
(Non-)recourse PPP loans (52,437) (5,014) (57,451)
32,861 (666) 32,196
Net assets and liabilities (5,817) 8,176 2,359
As at 31 December 27,044 7,510 34,555 
129
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementOther revenue disclosures
The consideration received that was included in the project contract liability balance at the beginning of the period, has been fully 
recognised as revenue in the current year. Within the construction business, regular installments will take place but within the Group 
never leading to significant pre-financing longer than a year. Except for PPP projects, however these are disclosed in the finance assets.
The revenue recognised from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods amounts to €54 million (2018: €75 million). 
Performance obligations could be satisfied once the technical completion is final and control has been fully transferred to the client. It is 
common however to finalise the last pricing discussions regarding variable considerations, of which claims, after the control has been 
transferred. Due to the higher threshold to value variable considerations, claims that are settled for a higher amount than valued, might 
lead to revenue from previously satisfied performance obligations. 
Projects within the construction business might run for a period longer than one year, or might transfer from one calendar year to the 
other. The revenue expected related to unsatisfied performance obligations (running or won projects) are as follows:
(x € million) 
  
2019 2018
Up to 1 year 5,733 5,850
2 to 5 years 6,926 6,842
12,659 12,692
Over 5 years 1,583 1,924
Total 14,242 14,616
The Group has not used the practical expedient to exclude performance obligations in contracts with an original expected duration of 
one year or less. These are included in the above mentioned time buckets. 7. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildingsPlant and 
equipmentConstruction 
in progress Other assets Total
As at 1 January 2018
Cost 193 ,821 574,191 10,731 126,021 904,764
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (97,231) (426,429) (442) (98,788) (622,280)
96,590 147,762 10,289 27,233 281,874
Additions  13,501 42,720 8,068 18,849 83,138
Disposals  (3,836) (6,936)  (18) (124)  (10,914)
Reclassifications  3,111  1,533  (9,164)  3,996  (524)
Depreciation charges  (6,984)  (40,994) -  (15,794) (63,772)
Exchange rate differences 401  (150) (5)  (441)  (195)
102,783 143,935 9,170 33,719 289,607
As at 31 December 2018
Cost  185,744  575,275  9,172  141,733  911,924 
 Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (82,961)  (431,340)  (2)  (108,014)  (622,317)
 102,783  143,935  9,170  33,719  289,607 
Finance leases reclassified to right-of-use assets *
Cost - (54,289) - (3,857) (58,146)
Accumulated depreciation and impairments - 28,160 - 223 28,383
As at 1 January 2019 (after adjustment) 102,783 117,806 9,170 30,085 259,844
Additions 6,540 42,412 5,958 27,439 82,349
Disposals (8,150) (4,191) (1,161) (1,124) (14,626)
Reclassifications 1,339 3,042 (4,528) 2,757 2,610
Depreciation charges (7,501) (28,056) - (18,460) (54,017)
Exchange rate differences 236 557 14 177 984
95,247 131,570 9,453 40,874 277,144
As at 31 December 2019
Cost 180,147 526,955 9,453 159,034 875,589
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (84,900) (395,385) - (118,160) (598,445)
95,247 131,570 9,453 40,874 277,144
*  Finance leases have been included in the right-of-use assets as per 1 January 2019 due to the implementation of IFRS 16. No adjustments to the 
comparative figures have been made. See paragraph 2.1.1.
Asset construction in progress mainly comprises plant and equipment. Land and buildings and plant and equipment are not pledged as a 
security for borrowings.
130
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management7. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildingsPlant and 
equipmentConstruction 
in progress Other assets Total
As at 1 January 2018
Cost 193 ,821 574,191 10,731 126,021 904,764
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (97,231) (426,429) (442) (98,788) (622,280)
96,590 147,762 10,289 27,233 281,874
Additions  13,501 42,720 8,068 18,849 83,138
Disposals  (3,836) (6,936)  (18) (124)  (10,914)
Reclassifications  3,111  1,533  (9,164)  3,996  (524)
Depreciation charges  (6,984)  (40,994) -  (15,794) (63,772)
Exchange rate differences 401  (150) (5)  (441)  (195)
102,783 143,935 9,170 33,719 289,607
As at 31 December 2018
Cost  185,744  575,275  9,172  141,733  911,924 
 Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (82,961)  (431,340)  (2)  (108,014)  (622,317)
 102,783  143,935  9,170  33,719  289,607 
Finance leases reclassified to right-of-use assets *
Cost - (54,289) - (3,857) (58,146)
Accumulated depreciation and impairments - 28,160 - 223 28,383
As at 1 January 2019 (after adjustment) 102,783 117,806 9,170 30,085 259,844
Additions 6,540 42,412 5,958 27,439 82,349
Disposals (8,150) (4,191) (1,161) (1,124) (14,626)
Reclassifications 1,339 3,042 (4,528) 2,757 2,610
Depreciation charges (7,501) (28,056) - (18,460) (54,017)
Exchange rate differences 236 557 14 177 984
95,247 131,570 9,453 40,874 277,144
As at 31 December 2019
Cost 180,147 526,955 9,453 159,034 875,589
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (84,900) (395,385) - (118,160) (598,445)
95,247 131,570 9,453 40,874 277,144
*  Finance leases have been included in the right-of-use assets as per 1 January 2019 due to the implementation of IFRS 16. No adjustments to the 
comparative figures have been made. See paragraph 2.1.1.
Asset construction in progress mainly comprises plant and equipment. Land and buildings and plant and equipment are not pledged as a 
security for borrowings.
131
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management8. Right-of-use assets
Land and  
buildingsEquipment 
and 
installation IT equipment Cars Other Total
As at 1 January 2019 * 114,207 45,306 1,516 133,175 451 294,655
Additions 44,573 19,495 67 53,605 319 118,059
Disposals (215) (230) - (1,787) - (2,232)
Depreciation charges (28,261) (19,680) (588) (50,895) (232) (99,656)
Exchange rate differences 763 381 20 192 9 1,365
16,860 (34) (501) 1,115 96 17,536
As at 31 December 2019 131,067 45,272 1,015 134,290 547 312,191
*  Finance leases for a total of €29.8 million were previously included in the property, plant and equipment and have been reclassified to right-of-use assets 
as per 1 January 2019 due to the implementation of IFRS 16. No adjustments to the comparative figures have been made. Other amount included as per  
1 January 2019 concern the former operational leases. See paragraph 2.1.1.
See note 20. Lease liabilities for the corresponding lease liabilities.9. Intangible assets
 GoodwillNon-
integrated 
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2018
Cost 672,414 32,656 20,342 725,412
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (297,783) (18,399) (5,512) (321,694)
374,631 14,257 14,830 403,718
Additions - 10,687 3,018 13,705
Disposals - (401) (1) (402)
Reclassifications - 92 (1,183) (1,091)
Impairment charges - - - -
Amortisation charges - (4,135) (1,869) (6,004)
Exchange rate differences (1,862) - (76) (1,938)
372,769 20,500 14,719 407,988
As at 31 December 2018
Cost 670,451 40,514 22,092 733,057
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (297,682) (20,014) (7,373) (325,069) 
372,769 20,500 14,719 407,988 
Additions - 4,714 60 4,774
Disposals - - 1 1
Reclassifications - (1,054) (2,772) (3,826)
Impairment charges - - (10,337) (10,337)
Amortisation charges - (5,089) (799) (5,888)
Exchange rate differences 7,229 - 140 7,369
379,998 19,071 1,012 400,081
As at 31 December 2019
Cost 678,069 39,799 16,017 733,885
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (298,071) (20,728) (15,005) (333,804)
379,998 19,071 1,012 400,081
The impairment charges within the category others relate to the impairment of the capitalised development cost for the patented 
Gravity Based Foundations for offshore wind power. Due to the lack of backlog, risk profile of the projects (cost price uncertainty), size of 
the projects (number of GBFs per wind park) and market potential (prospects), significant (positive) cash flows were no longer expected 
regarding the GBFs, leading to a value in use of nihil. Therefore, the Group strategically decided not to further pursue the offshore wind 
market. Consequently, the Group has reassessed the valuation of the capitalised development costs for GBFs, and fully impaired the 
remaining amount of €10.3 million, recognised as per 30 June 2019 within the Civil engineering business line.
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs 
expected to benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of total goodwill is €380 million (2018: €373 million).
The increase of goodwill fully relates to the exchange rate effect. The change in exchange rate of the pound sterling compared to the 
prior year had a upward effect of €7.2 million.
132
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management9. Intangible assets
 GoodwillNon-
integrated 
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2018
Cost 672,414 32,656 20,342 725,412
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (297,783) (18,399) (5,512) (321,694)
374,631 14,257 14,830 403,718
Additions - 10,687 3,018 13,705
Disposals - (401) (1) (402)
Reclassifications - 92 (1,183) (1,091)
Impairment charges - - - -
Amortisation charges - (4,135) (1,869) (6,004)
Exchange rate differences (1,862) - (76) (1,938)
372,769 20,500 14,719 407,988
As at 31 December 2018
Cost 670,451 40,514 22,092 733,057
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (297,682) (20,014) (7,373) (325,069) 
372,769 20,500 14,719 407,988 
Additions - 4,714 60 4,774
Disposals - - 1 1
Reclassifications - (1,054) (2,772) (3,826)
Impairment charges - - (10,337) (10,337)
Amortisation charges - (5,089) (799) (5,888)
Exchange rate differences 7,229 - 140 7,369
379,998 19,071 1,012 400,081
As at 31 December 2019
Cost 678,069 39,799 16,017 733,885
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (298,071) (20,728) (15,005) (333,804)
379,998 19,071 1,012 400,081
The impairment charges within the category others relate to the impairment of the capitalised development cost for the patented 
Gravity Based Foundations for offshore wind power. Due to the lack of backlog, risk profile of the projects (cost price uncertainty), size of 
the projects (number of GBFs per wind park) and market potential (prospects), significant (positive) cash flows were no longer expected 
regarding the GBFs, leading to a value in use of nihil. Therefore, the Group strategically decided not to further pursue the offshore wind 
market. Consequently, the Group has reassessed the valuation of the capitalised development costs for GBFs, and fully impaired the 
remaining amount of €10.3 million, recognised as per 30 June 2019 within the Civil engineering business line.
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs 
expected to benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of total goodwill is €380 million (2018: €373 million).
The increase of goodwill fully relates to the exchange rate effect. The change in exchange rate of the pound sterling compared to the 
prior year had a upward effect of €7.2 million.
133
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that a 
particular CGU might be impaired. The recoverable amount of each CGU was determined based on value-in-use calculations. Value-in-use 
was determined using discounted cash flow projections that cover a period of five years and are based on the financial plans approved by 
management. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding discount rate, revenue growth rate and profit 
before tax margin. The discount rate has been determined excluding the effects of IFRS 16, consistent with the other parameters of the 
impairment test, as this provided the most reliable manner of determining an appropriate discount rate using available market data.
Goodwill relates to 15 CGUs, of which BAM Construct UK €63 million (2018: €61 million) and BAM Nuttall €76 million (2018: €73 million 
are deemed significant in comparison with the Group’s total carrying amount of goodwill. For each of these CGUs the key assumptions 
used in the value-in-use calculations are as follows: 
         BAM Construct UK          BAM Nuttall
2019 2018 2019 2018
Discount rate (post-tax) 7.9% 8.3% 7.9% 8.3%
Growth rate:
- In forecast period (average) 0.5% 2.5% 1.8% 1.6%
- Beyond forecast period 0.0% 1.1% 0.0% 1.1%
Profit before tax margin:
- In forecast period (average) 2.2% 2.9% 2.3% 3.3%
- Beyond forecast period 2.4% 3.0% 2.4% 3.5%
Growth rate used to estimate future performance in the forecast period is the average annual growth rate based on past performance 
and management’s expectations of BAM’s market development referenced to external sources of information. The profit before tax 
margin in the forecast period is the average margin as a percentage of revenue based on past performance and the expected recovery to 
a normalised margin deemed achievable by management in the concerning market segment.
The recoverable amounts for BAM Construct UK and BAM Nuttall exceed the carrying amounts of these CGUs with significant headroom.
The sensitivity analysis indicated that if the growth rate is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis 
points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in isolation, the recoverable amounts of 
the other CGUs would still be in excess of the carrying amounts with sufficient and reasonable headroom, except for BAM’s CGUs BAM 
International, Kairos and BAM Contractors nv representing a goodwill amount of €55 million, with a limited headroom. 
The WACC forms a crucial underlying assumption for calculating the recoverable amount of each CGU. If and when this underlying 
assumption would change in future, this could have significant impact on the CGU’s recoverable amount (based on value in use), which 
might give rise that the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount of the CGU.
10. PPP receivables
2019 2018
As at 1 January 89,647 249,098
Receivables issued 21,770 16,774
Finance income 5,490 5,446
Disposals (14,252) (154,683)
Progress billings (27,611) (26,047)
Exchange rate differences 3,547 (941)
As 31 December 78,591 89,647Note 2019 2018
Non-current 73,653 85,298
Current 14 4,938 4,349
78,591 89,647
The decrease in receivables is mainly related to the divestment of one project to BAM PPP PGGM joint venture.
The average duration of PPP receivables is 12 years (2018: 15 years). Approximately €47 million of the non-current part has a duration of 
more than five years (2018: €65 million).
The interest rates on PPP receivables are virtually the same as the interest rates (after hedging) of the related non-recourse PPP loans. 
The contractual interest percentages are fixed for the entire duration. The average interest rate on PPP receivables is 7 per cent  
(2018: 7.4 per cent). At year-end 2019, the fair value of the non-current part is approximately €83 million (2018: approximately  
€95 million). The fair value of the non-current part is based on the value of the hedge of the corresponding loan.
There are no renewal and/or termination options, the assets will flow to the Grantor at the end of the concession period. PPP receivables 
are pledged as a security for the corresponding (non-)recourse PPP loans included under ‘borrowings’.
11. Investments in associates and joint ventures
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2019 2018
Associates 26,343  26,661 
Joint ventures 108,720  82,894 
As at 31 December 135,063  109,555 
11.1 Investment in associates
Set out below is the associate of the Group as at 31 December 2019 that is individually material to the Group. 
Nature of investment in associate in 2019 and 2018:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation          % Interest
2019 2018
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv Exploitation of rail infrastructure Netherlands 10.54% 10.54%
134
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementNote 2019 2018
Non-current 73,653 85,298
Current 14 4,938 4,349
78,591 89,647
The decrease in receivables is mainly related to the divestment of one project to BAM PPP PGGM joint venture.
The average duration of PPP receivables is 12 years (2018: 15 years). Approximately €47 million of the non-current part has a duration of 
more than five years (2018: €65 million).
The interest rates on PPP receivables are virtually the same as the interest rates (after hedging) of the related non-recourse PPP loans. 
The contractual interest percentages are fixed for the entire duration. The average interest rate on PPP receivables is 7 per cent  
(2018: 7.4 per cent). At year-end 2019, the fair value of the non-current part is approximately €83 million (2018: approximately  
€95 million). The fair value of the non-current part is based on the value of the hedge of the corresponding loan.
There are no renewal and/or termination options, the assets will flow to the Grantor at the end of the concession period. PPP receivables 
are pledged as a security for the corresponding (non-)recourse PPP loans included under ‘borrowings’.
11. Investments in associates and joint ventures
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2019 2018
Associates 26,343  26,661 
Joint ventures 108,720  82,894 
As at 31 December 135,063  109,555 
11.1 Investment in associates
Set out below is the associate of the Group as at 31 December 2019 that is individually material to the Group. 
Nature of investment in associate in 2019 and 2018:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation          % Interest
2019 2018
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv Exploitation of rail infrastructure Netherlands 10.54% 10.54%
135
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSet out below is the summarised financial information for the associate that is material to the Group, including reconciliation to the 
carrying amount of the Group’s share in the associate, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements. This information reflects 
the amounts presented in the financial statements of this associate adjusted for differences in the Group’s accounting policies and the 
associate.
         Infraspeed (Holdings) bv
2019 2018
Current assets 61,902  66,249 
Non-current assets 721,507  759,193 
Current liabilities (20,175)  (22,909)
Non-current liabilities (728,405)  (775,949)
Net assets 34,829  26,584 
Revenue 32,965  25,109 
Net result 9,706  9,317 
Share in result 10.54% 10.54%
Share in result 1,023  982 
Net assets 34,829  26,584 
Share in equity 10.54% 10.54%
Carrying amount 3,671  2,802 
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv is classified as an associate based on significant influence by the Group through board membership.
Reconciliation with net result of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements,  
is as follows:
2019 2018
Share in net result associate that is material to the Group 1,023  982 
Share in net result associates that are not individually material to the Group 1,898  7,986 
2,921  8,968 
In 2019 the Group’s share in the net result of associates included an impairment charge amounting to €0.0 million (2018: €0.0 million).
Reconciliation with the carrying amount of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements,  
is as follows:
2019 2018
Share in equity associate that is material to the Group 3,671  2,802 
Share in equity associates that are not individually material to the Group 22,655  22,847 
26,326  25,649 
Recognised as provision for associates 17  105 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables 0  907 
26,343  26,661 
Dividend received from associates amounts to €1.9 million in 2019 (2018: €11.6 million). Cash and cash equivalents of a number of 
associates are subject to restrictions. These restrictions mainly concern the priority of loan repayments over dividend distribution.11.2 Investment in joint ventures
Set out below is the joint venture of the Group as at 31 December 2019 that is individually material to the Group. 
Nature of investment in the joint venture in 2019 and 2018:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation        
      % Share
2019 2018
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. Asset management Netherlands 50.00% 50.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the joint venture that is individually material to the Group, including 
reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the joint venture, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture. adjusted for differences in the Group’s 
accounting policies and the joint venture.
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. 2019 2018
Current assets 152,329  151,132 
Non-current assets 2,002,158  1,580,874 
Current liabilities (367,836)  (356,311)
Non-current liabilities (2,131,628)  (1,653,549)
Net assets (344,977)  (277,854)
Of which:
Cash and cash equivalents 109,772  104,377 
Current financial liabilities (51,277)  (53,079)
Non-current financial liabilities (1,711,680)  (1,666,297)
Revenue 75,677  59,016 
Net result (10,100)  13,032 
Other comprehensive income (58,875)  3,179 
Of which:
Finance income 124,060  125,205 
Finance expense (108,889)  (114,410)
Income tax 6,387  (3,700)
Net result (10,100)  13,032 
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Share in net result 1,376  2,618 
Net assets (344,977)  (277,854)
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Carrying amount (45,161)  (38,478)
Negative cash flow hedge reserve not recognised 25,805  17,532 
(19,356)  (20,946)
The Group’s share in BAM PPP PGGM joint venture is based on its share in the members’ capital. Contractually, the Group predominantly 
has a 20 per cent share in profit rights. The Group has a 10 per cent share in profit rights within two joint ventures, resulting in a carrying 
amount of €24 million negative. In addition, the Group bears the risks in the operational phase until completion of the projects which are 
acquired by the joint venture.
136
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management11.2 Investment in joint ventures
Set out below is the joint venture of the Group as at 31 December 2019 that is individually material to the Group. 
Nature of investment in the joint venture in 2019 and 2018:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation        
      % Share
2019 2018
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. Asset management Netherlands 50.00% 50.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the joint venture that is individually material to the Group, including 
reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the joint venture, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture. adjusted for differences in the Group’s 
accounting policies and the joint venture.
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. 2019 2018
Current assets 152,329  151,132 
Non-current assets 2,002,158  1,580,874 
Current liabilities (367,836)  (356,311)
Non-current liabilities (2,131,628)  (1,653,549)
Net assets (344,977)  (277,854)
Of which:
Cash and cash equivalents 109,772  104,377 
Current financial liabilities (51,277)  (53,079)
Non-current financial liabilities (1,711,680)  (1,666,297)
Revenue 75,677  59,016 
Net result (10,100)  13,032 
Other comprehensive income (58,875)  3,179 
Of which:
Finance income 124,060  125,205 
Finance expense (108,889)  (114,410)
Income tax 6,387  (3,700)
Net result (10,100)  13,032 
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Share in net result 1,376  2,618 
Net assets (344,977)  (277,854)
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Carrying amount (45,161)  (38,478)
Negative cash flow hedge reserve not recognised 25,805  17,532 
(19,356)  (20,946)
The Group’s share in BAM PPP PGGM joint venture is based on its share in the members’ capital. Contractually, the Group predominantly 
has a 20 per cent share in profit rights. The Group has a 10 per cent share in profit rights within two joint ventures, resulting in a carrying 
amount of €24 million negative. In addition, the Group bears the risks in the operational phase until completion of the projects which are 
acquired by the joint venture.
137
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementIf the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the joint venture, further losses will not be recognised, unless the Group 
has a legal or constructive obligation. In 2019 €8 million (2018: €1 million reversal) was not recognised. At year-end 2019 unrecognised 
losses amounted to €26 million (2018: €18 million).
Set out below are the aggregate information of joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group. 
2019 2018
Share in net result BAM PPP PGGM joint venture 1,376  2,618 
Share in net result property development joint ventures that are not material to the Group 17,989  18,584 
Share in net result other joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group (4,992)  5,655 
14,373  26,857 
In 2019 the Group’s share in the net result of joint ventures included an impairment reversal amounting 
to €2.7 million (2018: charge €3.1 million).
Share in equity BAM PPP PGGM joint venture (19,356)  (20,946)
Share in equity property development joint ventures that are not material to the Group 71,920  45,336 
Share in equity other joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group (103,519)  (51,746)
(50,955)  (27,356)
Recognised as provision for joint ventures 77,449  23,962 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables 82,227  86,288 
108,721  82,894 
Revenue of property development joint ventures amounts to €101 million (2018: €101 million) and property development recognised in 
the balance sheet amounts to €204 million (2018: €130 million) of which an amount of €91 million (2018: €45 million) externally financed 
(share of the Group).
Dividend received from joint ventures amounts to €24.9 million in 2019 (2018: €23.3 million).
The financial years of many joint ventures run from 1 December up to and including 30 November to ensure timely inclusion of the 
financial information in the Group’s financial statements. 
Classification of German Argen and presentation of share in result of investments:
Until 31 December 2018, the Argen were classified as Joint Operations. As from 31 December 2018, on a prospective basis, the Group has 
classified the Argen as Joint Ventures to fully align with interpretations from German Audit Profession. This regarded a change in 
accounting policy. In the consolidated statement of cash flows, the change in Cash and cash equivalents with respect to this presentation 
change is separately presented.
Based on the limited impact, no changes have been made in the consolidated income statement for 2018. This means that the revenue 
and costs from these Argen are included in the consolidated income statement for 2018 on a gross basis (2018: €117 million revenue). As 
from 1 January 2019, the revenue and costs from the German Argen have been included on a net basis in the result from joint ventures. 12. Other financial assets
NoteReceivables 
valued on fair 
value through 
profit or lossReceivables 
valued at 
amortised 
cost Other Total
As at 1 January 2018 - 91,708 1,921 93,629 
Reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 48,452 (48,452) - -
Additions - - 82                     82
Loans granted 11,496 13,937 - 25,433
Loan repayments (11,448) (2,209) - (13,657)
Disposals - - (457) (457)
Fair value changes 1,292 - - 1,292
Net result for the year - - (42) (42)
Dividend received - - (30) (30)
Reclassifications (3,867) (351) - (4,218)
Exchange rate differences - (79) - (79) 
45,925 54,554 1,474 101,953
Of which current: (300) (321) - (621) 
As at 31 December 2018 45,625 54,233 1,474 101,332 
Additions - - 18 18 
Loans granted 11,901 23,318 - 35,219 
Loan repayments (13,670) (1,014) - (14,684)
Disposals - - (15) (15)
Reclassifications - (12,645) - (12,645)
Exchange rate differences - 403 - 403 
44,156 64,616 1,477 110,249
Of which current: (300) (296) - (596)
As at 31 December 2019 43,856 64,320 1,477 109,653
The fair value of non-current receivables at year-end 2019 amounts to €130 million (2018: €128 million). The effective interest rate is  
5.5 per cent (2018: 5.0 per cent).
Category ‘Other’ mainly comprises shares in (unlisted) investments over which the Group has no significant influence.
138
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management12. Other financial assets
NoteReceivables 
valued on fair 
value through 
profit or lossReceivables 
valued at 
amortised 
cost Other Total
As at 1 January 2018 - 91,708 1,921 93,629 
Reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 48,452 (48,452) - -
Additions - - 82                     82
Loans granted 11,496 13,937 - 25,433
Loan repayments (11,448) (2,209) - (13,657)
Disposals - - (457) (457)
Fair value changes 1,292 - - 1,292
Net result for the year - - (42) (42)
Dividend received - - (30) (30)
Reclassifications (3,867) (351) - (4,218)
Exchange rate differences - (79) - (79) 
45,925 54,554 1,474 101,953
Of which current: (300) (321) - (621) 
As at 31 December 2018 45,625 54,233 1,474 101,332 
Additions - - 18 18 
Loans granted 11,901 23,318 - 35,219 
Loan repayments (13,670) (1,014) - (14,684)
Disposals - - (15) (15)
Reclassifications - (12,645) - (12,645)
Exchange rate differences - 403 - 403 
44,156 64,616 1,477 110,249
Of which current: (300) (296) - (596)
As at 31 December 2019 43,856 64,320 1,477 109,653
The fair value of non-current receivables at year-end 2019 amounts to €130 million (2018: €128 million). The effective interest rate is  
5.5 per cent (2018: 5.0 per cent).
Category ‘Other’ mainly comprises shares in (unlisted) investments over which the Group has no significant influence.
139
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management13. Inventories
2019 2018
Land and building rights 319,434 353,586
Property development 211,644 210,029
531,078 563,615
Raw materials 14,275 13,306
Finished products 556 1,070
545,909 577,991
Land and building rights are to be presented as current on the balance sheet within the ordinary course of business, however by its 
nature, the realisation will be non-current. The majority of the investments in property development is considered to be current by 
nature.
The impairments during 2019 relating to the property portfolio are as follows:
Note 2019 2018
Impairment charges 20,816 22,341
Reversal of impairment charges (9,975) (421)
27 10,841 21,920
The impairment and reversals for the net amount of €10.8 million relates to several property developments in the Netherlands which 
have been reported at their net realisable value.
Property development includes the following completed and unsold property:
2019 2018
Unsold and finished property Number/m² Carrying 
amountNumber/m² Carrying 
amount
Commercial property - rented 17,494 26,060 8,873 10,242
Commercial property - unrented 24,859 36,868 11,031 8,302
62,928 18,544
The increase in carrying amount in 2019 mainly relates to the completion unsold commercial property in progress.  
Other inventories were not subject to write-down in 2019 nor 2018.14. Trade and other receivables
Notes 2019 2018
Trade receivables 694,716  869,743
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (10,737)  (10,797)
Trade receivables - net 683,979  858,946
Amounts due from customers 6 384,730  479,128
Capitalised contract cost 6 744  159
Retentions 118,220  116,397 
Contract assets 503,694 595,684
Amounts to be invoiced work completed 43,647  81,915 
Amounts to be invoiced work in progress 173,874  202,220 
Contract receivables 217,521 284,135
Amounts due from related parties 38 21,396 30,699
PPP receivables 10 4,938  4,348 
Other financial assets 606  619 
Other receivables 82,887  82,212 
Prepayments 97,028  115,397 
1,612,049  1,972,040 
Trade and other receivables are due within one year, except for approximately €10 million (2018: €25 million). The fair value of this 
non-current part is approximately €10 million (2018: approximately €25 million) using an effective interest rate of 0.4 per cent negative 
(2018: 0.1 per cent negative).
The concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited, as the Group’s customer base is large and geographically 
spread. As at 31 December 2019 a part of the trade receivables amounting to €100 million (2018: €123 million) is past due over one year 
but partly impaired. These overdue receivables relate to a number of customers, predominantly in the public sector outside the 
Netherlands where a limited default risk exists. The duration to reach final agreement, including legal proceedings, on invoiced variation 
orders and claims with these customers remains long. Trade receivables are shown net of impairment losses which amount to €11 million 
(2018: €11 million) arising mainly from identified doubtful receivables from customers. Trade receivables were impaired taking into 
account the historical credit loss experience, adjusted forward looking factors of the debtors and the economic environment.  See 
paragraph 2.12 regarding expected credit losses.
The significant change in contract assets is due to normal activity in the construction business. Other changes as mentioned in IFRS 15 
(paragraph 118) are not relevant. 
With regard to the capitalised contract cost, as at 31 December 2019, no cost to obtain the contract or set-up cost are applicable. This is 
caused due to the timing of financial close compared to the moment a project has reached preferred bidder stage. This timing difference 
is insignificant and, together with The Group’s applied threshold, no cost to obtain the contract or set-up cost had to be capitalised. The 
amount shown as capitalised contract cost relates fully to cost to fulfil the contract. No impairments have taken place. The total 
amortisation for the year 2019 amounts to nil (2018: nil). 
Retentions relate to amounts retained by customers on progress billings. In the United Kingdom and Ireland in particular, it is common 
practice to retain a previously agreed percentage until completion of the project.
Amounts to be invoiced work completed and in progress represent the gross amounts expected to be collected for contract work 
performed to date but awaiting confirmation from customer before actual billing.
140
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management14. Trade and other receivables
Notes 2019 2018
Trade receivables 694,716  869,743
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (10,737)  (10,797)
Trade receivables - net 683,979  858,946
Amounts due from customers 6 384,730  479,128
Capitalised contract cost 6 744  159
Retentions 118,220  116,397 
Contract assets 503,694 595,684
Amounts to be invoiced work completed 43,647  81,915 
Amounts to be invoiced work in progress 173,874  202,220 
Contract receivables 217,521 284,135
Amounts due from related parties 38 21,396 30,699
PPP receivables 10 4,938  4,348 
Other financial assets 606  619 
Other receivables 82,887  82,212 
Prepayments 97,028  115,397 
1,612,049  1,972,040 
Trade and other receivables are due within one year, except for approximately €10 million (2018: €25 million). The fair value of this 
non-current part is approximately €10 million (2018: approximately €25 million) using an effective interest rate of 0.4 per cent negative 
(2018: 0.1 per cent negative).
The concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited, as the Group’s customer base is large and geographically 
spread. As at 31 December 2019 a part of the trade receivables amounting to €100 million (2018: €123 million) is past due over one year 
but partly impaired. These overdue receivables relate to a number of customers, predominantly in the public sector outside the 
Netherlands where a limited default risk exists. The duration to reach final agreement, including legal proceedings, on invoiced variation 
orders and claims with these customers remains long. Trade receivables are shown net of impairment losses which amount to €11 million 
(2018: €11 million) arising mainly from identified doubtful receivables from customers. Trade receivables were impaired taking into 
account the historical credit loss experience, adjusted forward looking factors of the debtors and the economic environment.  See 
paragraph 2.12 regarding expected credit losses.
The significant change in contract assets is due to normal activity in the construction business. Other changes as mentioned in IFRS 15 
(paragraph 118) are not relevant. 
With regard to the capitalised contract cost, as at 31 December 2019, no cost to obtain the contract or set-up cost are applicable. This is 
caused due to the timing of financial close compared to the moment a project has reached preferred bidder stage. This timing difference 
is insignificant and, together with The Group’s applied threshold, no cost to obtain the contract or set-up cost had to be capitalised. The 
amount shown as capitalised contract cost relates fully to cost to fulfil the contract. No impairments have taken place. The total 
amortisation for the year 2019 amounts to nil (2018: nil). 
Retentions relate to amounts retained by customers on progress billings. In the United Kingdom and Ireland in particular, it is common 
practice to retain a previously agreed percentage until completion of the project.
Amounts to be invoiced work completed and in progress represent the gross amounts expected to be collected for contract work 
performed to date but awaiting confirmation from customer before actual billing.
141
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management15. Cash and cash equivalents
2019 2018
Cash at bank and in hand 842,426 738,232
Short-term bank deposits 11,597 5,442
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 854,023 743,674
Cash and cash equivalents include the Group’s share in cash of joint operations and in PPP entities as part of the conditions in project 
specific funding agreements and amount to €226 million (2018: €173 million) respectively €9 million (2018: €7 million). Other cash and 
cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Group.
The average effective interest on short-term bank deposits is 5.4 per cent (2018: 4.5 per cent). The deposits have an average remaining 
term to maturity of approximately 21 days (2018: approximately 10 days). 
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term 
bank deposits, net of bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as reported in the consolidated 
statement of cash flows is reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows:
2019 2018
Cash and cash equivalents 854,023 743,674
Bank overdrafts - -
Net cash position 854,023 743,674The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2019 2018
Trade 
receivablesProvision for 
impairmentTrade 
receivablesProvision for 
impairment
Not past due 455,526 (1,330)  544,871  (327)
Up to 3 months 101,847 (1,063)  137,656  (2,684)
3 to 6 months 19,841 (4,387)  26,574  (320)
6 to 12 months 17,026 (221)  37,826  (1,729)
1 to 2 years 10,110 (794)  35,414  (1,513)
Over 2 years 90,366 (2,942)  87,402  (4,224)
694,716 (10,737)  869,743  (10,797)
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (10,737)  (10,797)
Trade receivables - net 683,979  858,946 
Apart from trade receivables none of the other assets were subject to impairment.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2019 2018
As at 1 January 10,797  11,984 
Provision for impairment 8,916  5,028
Release (2.245)  (2,473)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (6,799)  (3,030)
Disposals - -
Reclassifications 8  (697)
Exchange rate differences 60  (15)
As at 31 December 10,737  10,797
As of 31 December 2019, trade receivables of €11 million (31 December 2018: €11 million) were impaired and provided for. The 
individually impaired trade receivables mainly relate to customers where limited default risk is in place. It was assessed that a portion of 
the receivables is expected to be recovered. The provision in respect of trade receivables is used to record impairment losses unless the 
Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off 
directly against the provision. The changes in the aforementioned balances contributed to changes in the provision.
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘Other operating expenses’ in the income 
statement.
142
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management15. Cash and cash equivalents
2019 2018
Cash at bank and in hand 842,426 738,232
Short-term bank deposits 11,597 5,442
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 854,023 743,674
Cash and cash equivalents include the Group’s share in cash of joint operations and in PPP entities as part of the conditions in project 
specific funding agreements and amount to €226 million (2018: €173 million) respectively €9 million (2018: €7 million). Other cash and 
cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Group.
The average effective interest on short-term bank deposits is 5.4 per cent (2018: 4.5 per cent). The deposits have an average remaining 
term to maturity of approximately 21 days (2018: approximately 10 days). 
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term 
bank deposits, net of bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as reported in the consolidated 
statement of cash flows is reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows:
2019 2018
Cash and cash equivalents 854,023 743,674
Bank overdrafts - -
Net cash position 854,023 743,674
143
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management16. Share capital and premium
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of 
treasury 
sharesNumber of 
ordinary 
shares 
in issueOrdinary 
sharesShare 
premiumTotal
As at 1 January 2018 274,925,419 1,712,085 273,213,334 27,493 811,818 839,311
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 3,940,956 (3,940,956) - - -
Awarded LTI shares - (170,039) 170,039 - - -
Dividends 3,853,600 - 3,853,600 386 (386) -
As at 31 December 2018 278,779,019 5,483,002 273,296,017 27,879 811,432 839,311
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 4,482,030 (4,482,030) - - -
Awarded LTI shares - - - - - -
Dividends 628,430 (3,853,600) 4,482,030 62 (62) -
As at 31 December 2019 279,407,449 6,111,432 273,296,017 27,941 811,370 839,311
16.1 General
At year-end 2019, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2018: 400 million) and 600 million preference 
shares (2018: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2018: €0.10 per share). All issued shares have been paid in full (only 
ordinary shares).
The Company granted Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (‘the Foundation’) a call option to acquire class B cumulative preference 
shares in the Company’s share capital on 17 May 1993. This option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation might require, 
subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that would result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative preference shares in 
issue and not held by the Company equalling no more than ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9 per cent) of the nominal amount of the 
issued share capital in the form of shares other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by the Company at the time of 
exercising of the right referred to above. The Executive Committee of the Foundation has the exclusive right to determine whether or 
not to exercise this right to acquire class B cumulative preference shares. Additional information has been disclosed in section Other 
information.
16.2 Ordinary shares
To prevent dilution as a result of the (equity-settled) share-based compensation plan introduced in 2015, the Company’s own shares 
were repurchased as follows:
Note Repurchased 
sharesPrice 
(in €)Total 
consideration
(x €1,000)
4 December 2015 302,488 5,10 1,543
5 December 2015 302,487 5,11 1,546
28 April 2016 588,170 4,27 2,512
28 April 2017 16.1 345,000 5,17 1,784
2 May 2017 16.1 173,940 5,23 909
26 April 2018 16.1 87,356 3,88 339
In 2019 no shares have been bought back for the share-based compensation plan. 
In 2019 the number of issued ordinary shares increased by 628,430 due to dividend payment in shares. To prevent dilution all these 
shares were then repurchased.17. Reserves
Hedging Translation Development
costTotal
As at 1 January 2018 (59,648) (105,167) 12,000 (152,815) 
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment 
- Fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts - - - -
- Fair value of interest rate swaps 2,279 - - 2,279
- Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge (285) - - (285)
Cash flow hedges 
- Fair value movement of forward foreign exchange contracts (1,876) - - (1,876)
- Fair value movement of interest rate swaps (5,548) - - (5,548)
- Tax on fair value movement 889 - - 889
Legal reserve for development cost 
-Reclassification - - (1,200) (1,200)
Exchange rate differences - (6,410) - (6,410) 
(4,541) (6,410) (1,200) (12,151)
    
As at 31 December 2018 (64,189) (111,577) 10,800 (164,966) 
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment 
- Fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts - - - -
- Fair value of interest rate swaps - - - -
- Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge - - - -
Cash flow hedges 
- Fair value movement of forward foreign exchange contracts (814) - - (814)
- Fair value movement of interest rate swaps (38,719) - - (38,719)
- Tax on fair value movement 8,788 - - 8,788
Legal reserve for development cost 
- Reclassification - - (10,800) (10,800)
Exchange rate differences - 22,864 - 22,864
(30,745) 22,864 (10,800) (18,681)
    
As at 31 December 2019 (94,934) (88,713) - (183,647)
The legal reserves consist of hedging reserves and translation reserve. 
The negative movement in the hedge reserve in 2019 of €30.7 million was predominantly caused by the fact that the long-term interest 
in 2019 was lower than in 2018.
The hedging reserve will in due course be subsequently reclassified to the income statement. Based on the remaining duration of the 
derivative financial instruments, reclassification will take place between 1 and 30 years. A negative amount of €79 million (2018: €52 
million negative) in the hedging reserve relates to joint ventures.
The reclassification of the legal reserve amounts to €10.8 million and relates to amortisation and impairment of the patented Gravity 
Based Foundations for the offshore wind power sector. See note 9.
144
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management17. Reserves
Hedging Translation Development
costTotal
As at 1 January 2018 (59,648) (105,167) 12,000 (152,815) 
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment 
- Fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts - - - -
- Fair value of interest rate swaps 2,279 - - 2,279
- Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge (285) - - (285)
Cash flow hedges 
- Fair value movement of forward foreign exchange contracts (1,876) - - (1,876)
- Fair value movement of interest rate swaps (5,548) - - (5,548)
- Tax on fair value movement 889 - - 889
Legal reserve for development cost 
-Reclassification - - (1,200) (1,200)
Exchange rate differences - (6,410) - (6,410) 
(4,541) (6,410) (1,200) (12,151)
    
As at 31 December 2018 (64,189) (111,577) 10,800 (164,966) 
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment 
- Fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts - - - -
- Fair value of interest rate swaps - - - -
- Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge - - - -
Cash flow hedges 
- Fair value movement of forward foreign exchange contracts (814) - - (814)
- Fair value movement of interest rate swaps (38,719) - - (38,719)
- Tax on fair value movement 8,788 - - 8,788
Legal reserve for development cost 
- Reclassification - - (10,800) (10,800)
Exchange rate differences - 22,864 - 22,864
(30,745) 22,864 (10,800) (18,681)
    
As at 31 December 2019 (94,934) (88,713) - (183,647)
The legal reserves consist of hedging reserves and translation reserve. 
The negative movement in the hedge reserve in 2019 of €30.7 million was predominantly caused by the fact that the long-term interest 
in 2019 was lower than in 2018.
The hedging reserve will in due course be subsequently reclassified to the income statement. Based on the remaining duration of the 
derivative financial instruments, reclassification will take place between 1 and 30 years. A negative amount of €79 million (2018: €52 
million negative) in the hedging reserve relates to joint ventures.
The reclassification of the legal reserve amounts to €10.8 million and relates to amortisation and impairment of the patented Gravity 
Based Foundations for the offshore wind power sector. See note 9.
145
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe positive movement in the translation reserve in 2019 is linked to the increase in the value of the pound sterling. 
The negative movement in the translation reserve in 2018 is linked to the decrease in the value of the pound sterling. 
18. Capital base
2019 2018
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company 628,444 729,031
Subordinated convertible bonds 120,451 117,637
748,895 846,668
19. Borrowings
 Changes from financing  
cash flows  Other changes 
As at 
1 January 
2019Proceeds 
from
 borrowings Repayments
of
borrowingsEffective
 interest
 methodTransfers to/
from joint 
venturesOther
 movementsExchange
rate
differencesAs at
31 December
2019
Non-recourse PPP loans  43,468  2,395  (5,467) - - -  2,224  42,620 
Non-recourse property 
financing  79,227  32,419  (57,839) - - - -  53,807 
Recourse PPP loans  13,984 - - -  (13,984) - -  -   
Recourse property 
financing  53,447  18,545  (23,631) - - - -  48,361 
Subordinated convertible 
bonds  117,637 - -  2,814 - - -  120,451 
Other non-recourse 
financing  4,469  2,806  (2,833) - - - -  4,442 
Other recourse financing  5,550 -  (3,705) - - - -  1,845 
Bank overdrafts  -   - - - - - -  -   
 317,782  56,165  (93,475)  2,814    (13,984)  -  2,224  271,526  Changes from financing  
cash flows  Other changes 
As at 
1 January 
2018Proceeds 
from
 borrowings Repayments
of
borrowingsEffective
 interest
 methodNew 
leasesTransfers to/
from joint 
venturesOther
 movementsExchange 
rate 
differencesAs at 
31 December 
2018
Non-recourse PPP loans 189,965 1,409 (4,370) - - (142,928) - (608) 43,468
Non-recourse property 
financing 68,942 27,179 (18,891) - - 1,997 - - 79,227
Recourse PPP loans 29,454 - (16,064) 594 - - - - 13,984
Recourse property 
financing 75,288 12,558 (35,399) - - 1,000 - - 53,447
Subordinated convertible 
bonds 114,987 - - 2,650 - - - - 117,637
Finance lease liabilities *12,988 - (4,581) - 16,635 - - (47) 24,995
Other non-recourse 
financing 5,916 - (1,447) - - - - - 4,469
Other recourse financing 5,550 - - - - - - - 5,550
Bank overdrafts - - - - - - - - -
503,090 41,146 (80,752) 3,244 16,635 (139,931) - (655) 342,777
*  As from 2019 lease liabilities have been separately stated (former operational and finance leases), due to the implementation of IFRS 16. The opening 
balance as per 1 January 2019 has been reclassified to lease liabilities. See note 20. Lease liabilities and paragraph 2.1.1. In 2018 the lease liabilities were 
included in borrowings and only related to finance leases.
19.1 Non-recourse PPP loans
These relate to PPP projects in the United Kingdom. Of the non-current part, €21 million has a term to maturity of more than five years 
(2018: €23 million). The average term to maturity of the PPP loans is 8.8 years (2018: 9.9 years). 
The interest rate risk on the non-recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps. The average interest rate on PPP loans is 6.4 per 
cent (2018: 4.2 per cent). Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during the term of these loans.
The related PPP receivables amount to €66 million in total (2018: €67 million) and represent a security for lenders. These loans will be 
payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions regarding interest coverage, solvency, among other things, are 
not met.
19.2 Non-recourse property financing
These loans are contracted to finance land for property development and ongoing property development projects. The average term of 
non-recourse property financing is approximately 1.7 years (2018: approximately 1.4 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor/EONIA plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations 
during the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The balance of these financing loans 
is €0.8 million (2018: €34 million).
The carrying amount of the related assets is approximately €155 million at year-end 2019 (2018: approximately €164 million). The assets 
are pledged as a security for lenders. These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions relating 
to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
146
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management Changes from financing  
cash flows  Other changes 
As at 
1 January 
2018Proceeds 
from
 borrowings Repayments
of
borrowingsEffective
 interest
 methodNew 
leasesTransfers to/
from joint 
venturesOther
 movementsExchange 
rate 
differencesAs at 
31 December 
2018
Non-recourse PPP loans 189,965 1,409 (4,370) - - (142,928) - (608) 43,468
Non-recourse property 
financing 68,942 27,179 (18,891) - - 1,997 - - 79,227
Recourse PPP loans 29,454 - (16,064) 594 - - - - 13,984
Recourse property 
financing 75,288 12,558 (35,399) - - 1,000 - - 53,447
Subordinated convertible 
bonds 114,987 - - 2,650 - - - - 117,637
Finance lease liabilities *12,988 - (4,581) - 16,635 - - (47) 24,995
Other non-recourse 
financing 5,916 - (1,447) - - - - - 4,469
Other recourse financing 5,550 - - - - - - - 5,550
Bank overdrafts - - - - - - - - -
503,090 41,146 (80,752) 3,244 16,635 (139,931) - (655) 342,777
*  As from 2019 lease liabilities have been separately stated (former operational and finance leases), due to the implementation of IFRS 16. The opening 
balance as per 1 January 2019 has been reclassified to lease liabilities. See note 20. Lease liabilities and paragraph 2.1.1. In 2018 the lease liabilities were 
included in borrowings and only related to finance leases.
19.1 Non-recourse PPP loans
These relate to PPP projects in the United Kingdom. Of the non-current part, €21 million has a term to maturity of more than five years 
(2018: €23 million). The average term to maturity of the PPP loans is 8.8 years (2018: 9.9 years). 
The interest rate risk on the non-recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps. The average interest rate on PPP loans is 6.4 per 
cent (2018: 4.2 per cent). Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during the term of these loans.
The related PPP receivables amount to €66 million in total (2018: €67 million) and represent a security for lenders. These loans will be 
payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions regarding interest coverage, solvency, among other things, are 
not met.
19.2 Non-recourse property financing
These loans are contracted to finance land for property development and ongoing property development projects. The average term of 
non-recourse property financing is approximately 1.7 years (2018: approximately 1.4 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor/EONIA plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations 
during the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The balance of these financing loans 
is €0.8 million (2018: €34 million).
The carrying amount of the related assets is approximately €155 million at year-end 2019 (2018: approximately €164 million). The assets 
are pledged as a security for lenders. These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions relating 
to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
147
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management19.3 Recourse PPP loans
Equity bridge loans relating to PPP contracts are recognised under recourse PPP loans. The interest rate risk on the recourse PPP loans is 
hedged by interest rate swaps.
Recourse PPP loans relate directly to the accompanying assets, but also have an additional security in the form of a guarantee provided 
by the Group, in several cases supplemented by a bank guarantee. During 2019 the existing recourse PPP loan was transferred to a Joint 
Venture.
19.4 Recourse property financing
Recourse property financing is contracted to finance land and building rights and property development. The average term of recourse 
property financing is approximately 1.7 years (2018: approximately 1.2 years). Interest on these loans is based on Euribor/EONIA plus a 
margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during the term of these loans. For several property 
financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The balance of these financing loans is €2 million (2018: €6 million).
Recourse property financing relates directly to the accompanying assets, that constitute a security for lenders. The carrying amount of 
the accompanying assets amounts to approximately €135 million at year-end 2019 (2018: approximately €105 million). Additional 
securities exist in the form of a guarantee provided by the Group, in some cases supplemented by a bank guarantee. These loans will be 
repayable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions relating to interest and capital repayments, among other 
things, are not met.
19.5  Subordinated convertible bonds
In June 2016, the Group placed €125 million subordinated unsecured convertible bonds. The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.50 per 
cent, an initial conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible into ordinary shares of Royal BAM Group nv with a nominal value 
of €0.10 each. The coupon is payable semi-annually in arrear in equal instalments on 13 June and 13 December. The Bonds were issued at 
100 per cent of their principal amount and, unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be 
redeemed at their principal amount on or around 13 June 2021. Upon exercise of their conversion rights, holders will receive shares at  
the then prevailing conversion price. At 31 December 2019 the conversion price is €4.8334 (31 December 2018: €4.9997). The Group  
has the option to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest since  
28 June 2019, if the value of the shares underlying a bond exceeds €130,000 for a specified period of time. The bonds are trading on  
the Open Market (Freiverkehr) segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
All payment obligations to the bondholders are subordinated to the payment obligations towards our senior debt holders.
At 31 December 2019 the fair value of the liability component of the subordinated convertible bonds amounts to €124 million  
(31 December 2018: €115 million). The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using a market rate for an equivalent 
non-convertible instrument.
More details of the subordinated convertible bonds are published on the website.The reconciliation of the subordinated convertible bonds to the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity is as follows:
         Allocated to:
Face valueLiability 
componentEquity 
component
Gross proceeds  125,000  114,253  10,747 
Transaction costs 1  (3,233)  (2,955)  (278)
Net proceeds  121,767  111,298  10,469 
Tax effect equity component -  (2,617)
Effective interest method  1,193 - 
As at 31 December 2016  112,491  7,852 
Effective interest method  2,496 - 
As at 31 December 2017  114,987  7,852 
Effective interest method  2,650  - 
As at 31 December 2018  117,637  7,852 
Effective interest method 2,814  - 
As at 31 December 2019 120,451  7,852  
¹ Transaction costs include fees and commissions paid to advisors, bankers and lawyers.
19.6  Committed syndicated credit facility
In November 2016 the Group renewed its committed revolving credit facility agreement for an amount of €400 million. The facility 
agreement was extended with one year in 2018 and has a remaining term to maturity of 3.3 years and runs until 31 March 2023.
The facility can be used for general corporate purposes, including the usual working capital financing. As a result of this flexible use, the 
level of draw-downs fluctuates throughout the year. At year-end 2019, the Group did not use the facility (year-end 2018: not used).
As at 30 June 2019 the Group did not use the facility (30 June 2018: not used). Variable interest rates apply to the draw-downs on this 
facility with a margin between 150 and 275 basis points. As at 31 December 2019 the m argin was 150 basi s points (2018: 150 basis points).
19.7 Finance lease liabilities
See note 20. Lease liabilities.
19.8 Other financing
Other loans relate to financing of property, plant and equipment.
19.9 Bank overdrafts
In addition to the non-current committed syndicated credit facility (note 19.6), the Group holds €138 million in bilateral credit facilities 
and €25 million intraday facilities (2018: €163 million). At year-end 2019 as well as 2018 these facilities were not utilised.
19.10  Covenants
With regard to the various finance arrangements, the Group is bound by terms and conditions, both qualitative and quantitative and 
including financial ratios, in line with the industry’s practice. 
Following the finance arrangement of the €400 million Revolving Credit Facility (RCF), the financial covenant calculation should be based 
on financial figures which are in line with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as applicable on the closing date 
(i.e. 29 November 2016). Under the documentation it is also agreed that changes in the IFRS standards after the closing date, can be 
reversed for covenant calculation purposes, often referred to as ‘frozen GAAP’.
148
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe reconciliation of the subordinated convertible bonds to the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity is as follows:
         Allocated to:
Face valueLiability 
componentEquity 
component
Gross proceeds  125,000  114,253  10,747 
Transaction costs 1  (3,233)  (2,955)  (278)
Net proceeds  121,767  111,298  10,469 
Tax effect equity component -  (2,617)
Effective interest method  1,193 - 
As at 31 December 2016  112,491  7,852 
Effective interest method  2,496 - 
As at 31 December 2017  114,987  7,852 
Effective interest method  2,650  - 
As at 31 December 2018  117,637  7,852 
Effective interest method 2,814  - 
As at 31 December 2019 120,451  7,852  
¹ Transaction costs include fees and commissions paid to advisors, bankers and lawyers.
19.6  Committed syndicated credit facility
In November 2016 the Group renewed its committed revolving credit facility agreement for an amount of €400 million. The facility 
agreement was extended with one year in 2018 and has a remaining term to maturity of 3.3 years and runs until 31 March 2023.
The facility can be used for general corporate purposes, including the usual working capital financing. As a result of this flexible use, the 
level of draw-downs fluctuates throughout the year. At year-end 2019, the Group did not use the facility (year-end 2018: not used).
As at 30 June 2019 the Group did not use the facility (30 June 2018: not used). Variable interest rates apply to the draw-downs on this 
facility with a margin between 150 and 275 basis points. As at 31 December 2019 the m argin was 150 basi s points (2018: 150 basis points).
19.7 Finance lease liabilities
See note 20. Lease liabilities.
19.8 Other financing
Other loans relate to financing of property, plant and equipment.
19.9 Bank overdrafts
In addition to the non-current committed syndicated credit facility (note 19.6), the Group holds €138 million in bilateral credit facilities 
and €25 million intraday facilities (2018: €163 million). At year-end 2019 as well as 2018 these facilities were not utilised.
19.10  Covenants
With regard to the various finance arrangements, the Group is bound by terms and conditions, both qualitative and quantitative and 
including financial ratios, in line with the industry’s practice. 
Following the finance arrangement of the €400 million Revolving Credit Facility (RCF), the financial covenant calculation should be based 
on financial figures which are in line with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as applicable on the closing date 
(i.e. 29 November 2016). Under the documentation it is also agreed that changes in the IFRS standards after the closing date, can be 
reversed for covenant calculation purposes, often referred to as ‘frozen GAAP’.
149
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSince the closing date of the RCF, IFRS 15 and 16 came into force. Initially BAM calculated the covenants on a frozen GAAP basis, but 
during 2019 BAM agreed with the lenders to update the financial documentation for both standards. The Group agreed to continue to 
reverse the initial IFRS 15 impact on transition date, however to be phased out to nil in six quarters starting from the third quarter of 
2019 onwards. With regard to IFRS 16, it has been agreed to leave all leases out of scope for covenant testing.
Terms and conditions for project financing, being (non-) recourse PPP loans, (non-) recourse property financing loans, are directly linked 
to the respective projects. A relevant ratio in property financing arrangements is the loan to value, i.e. the ratio between the financing 
arrangement and the value of the project. In PPP loans and recourse property financing arrangements the debt service cover ratio is 
applicable. This ratio relates the interest and repayment obligations to the project cash flow. No early payments were made in 2019 as a 
result of not adhering to the financing conditions of project related financing.
Terms and conditions for the committed syndicated credit facility are based on the Group as a whole, excluding non-recourse elements. 
The ratios for this financing arrangement (all recourse) are the leverage ratio, the interest cover, the solvency ratio and the guarantor 
covers. The Group complied with all ratios in 2019.
The set requirements and realisation of the recourse ratios described above, can be explained as follows:
Calculation Requirement 2019 2018
Leverage ratio Net borrowings/EBITDA ≤ 2.50 (6.35)  (2.70)
Interest cover EBITDA/net interest expense ≥ 4.00 9.56  27.48 
Solvency ratio Capital base/total assets ≥ 15% 28.5% 27.0%
Guarantor covers EBITDA share of guarantors ≥ 60% 120% 75%
Assets share of guarantors ≥ 70% 90% 88%
An increased recourse leverage ratio of a maximum of 2.75 is permitted under the terms and conditions and applies to the second and 
third quarters of the year. The capital base in our financial covenants (as part of the solvency ratio) is adjusted for the hedging reserve 
and remeasurements of post-employments benefits, among other things.
19.11 Other information
The Group’s subordinated convertible bonds are part of the capital base. Repayment obligations are subordinated to not subordinated 
obligations. 
The non-recourse PPP loans relate directly to the associated receivables from government bodies. Therefore, the interest rates are 
influenced marginally by market adjustments applying to companies. The terms of property loans are relatively short, as a consequence 
of which interest margins are in line with the markets. Therefore, the carrying amounts of these loans do not differ significantly from 
their fair values. 
The effective interest rates (including hedging instruments) are as follows:
2019 2018
Euro Pound sterling Euro Pound sterling
Subordinated convertible bonds 6.1% - 6.1% -
Committed syndicated credit facility - - 1.6% -
Non-recourse PPP loans - 6.4% - 6.8%
Non-recourse property financing 2.6% - 2.8% -
Recourse PPP loans - - 2.8% -
Recourse property financing 3.0% - 3.2% -
Other non-recourse financing 4.1% - 3.4% -
Other recourse financing 3.5% - 3.1% -The Group contracted interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of borrowings to interest rate fluctuations and contractual changes 
in interest rates.
The Group’s unhedged position is as follows:
Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Total borrowings 77,847 167,146 26,533 271,526 
Fixed interest rates (6,038) (122,987) (733) (129,758)
Hedged with interest rate swaps (3,848) (15,577) (20,800) (40,225)
As at 31 December 2019  67,961  28,582 5,000 101,543 
Total borrowings  62,758  255,736  24,282  342,776 
Fixed interest rates  (16,763)  (182,760)  (1,741)  (201,264)
Hedged with interest rate swaps  (4,962)  (15,586)  (22,541)  (43,089)
As at 31 December 2018  41,033  57,390  -  98,423 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2019 2018
Euro  231,301  296,375 
Pound sterling  40,225  46,401 
 271,526  342,776 
20. Lease liabilities 
The Group leases various land and buildings, equipment and installations, IT equipment, cars and other items from third parties under 
non-cancellable lease agreements. The lease agreements vary in duration, termination clauses and renewal options. The average 
incremental borrowing rate applied is 2.1 per cent as per 31 December 2019.
As from 2019 the lease liabilities in the balance sheet include leases that were formerly classified as operational and finance leases less 
exempted leases (i.e. short term leases and low value leases). In 2018 the lease liabilities were included in borrowings and only referred to 
finance leases. The operational lease liabilities in 2018 were shown as off-balance lease commitments.
During 2018 the financial lease liabilities were included in Borrowings. See note 19 for the repayments from the financial lease liabilities 
in 2018. See note 8. Right-of-use assets for the corresponding right-of-use assets.
150
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Group contracted interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of borrowings to interest rate fluctuations and contractual changes 
in interest rates.
The Group’s unhedged position is as follows:
Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Total borrowings 77,847 167,146 26,533 271,526 
Fixed interest rates (6,038) (122,987) (733) (129,758)
Hedged with interest rate swaps (3,848) (15,577) (20,800) (40,225)
As at 31 December 2019  67,961  28,582 5,000 101,543 
Total borrowings  62,758  255,736  24,282  342,776 
Fixed interest rates  (16,763)  (182,760)  (1,741)  (201,264)
Hedged with interest rate swaps  (4,962)  (15,586)  (22,541)  (43,089)
As at 31 December 2018  41,033  57,390  -  98,423 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2019 2018
Euro  231,301  296,375 
Pound sterling  40,225  46,401 
 271,526  342,776 
20. Lease liabilities 
The Group leases various land and buildings, equipment and installations, IT equipment, cars and other items from third parties under 
non-cancellable lease agreements. The lease agreements vary in duration, termination clauses and renewal options. The average 
incremental borrowing rate applied is 2.1 per cent as per 31 December 2019.
As from 2019 the lease liabilities in the balance sheet include leases that were formerly classified as operational and finance leases less 
exempted leases (i.e. short term leases and low value leases). In 2018 the lease liabilities were included in borrowings and only referred to 
finance leases. The operational lease liabilities in 2018 were shown as off-balance lease commitments.
During 2018 the financial lease liabilities were included in Borrowings. See note 19 for the repayments from the financial lease liabilities 
in 2018. See note 8. Right-of-use assets for the corresponding right-of-use assets.
151
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSet out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the period:
 Lease  
 liabilities  
 2019
As at 1 January 2019 295,931
Additions 113,538
Accretion of interest* 6,689
Payments* (105,092)
Exchange rate difference 525
As at 31 December 2019 311,591
Current 90,226
Non-current 221,365
As at 31 December 2019 311,591
* See consolidated statement of cash flows
The undiscounted future lease payments as included in the lease liabilities, presented in time buckets, are as follows:
 Lease  
 liabilities  
 2019 Finance lease  
 liabilities 
2018
Up to 1 year 90,400 7,428
1 to 5 years 180,474 18,402
Over 5 years 55,801 741
326,675 26,571
Future finance charges on leases / financial leases (1,575)
Present value of lease liabilities / finance lease liabilities 24,995
In addition to the identified lease liabilities above, an amount of €37 million of lease commitments exist regarding the short-term leases. Given 
the applied practical expedient, these leases have not been included in the lease liabilities and are therefore not stated in the table above.
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. These options are negotiated by management to 
provide flexibility in managing the leased-asset portfolio and align with the Group’s business needs. Management exercises significant 
judgement in determining whether these extension and termination options are reasonably certain to be exercised (see note 4). 
Set out below are the undiscounted potential future rental payments relating to periods following the exercise date of extension and 
termination options that are not included in the lease term:
 Within five  
 years More than  
 five yearsTotal
Potential cash options not included in the leaseterm:
- Extension options, if the options are exercised 9,844 46,776  56,620
- Termination options, if the options are not exercised 1,792 296 2,088Expenses
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
Note 2019
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets 8 99,656
Interest expense on lease liabilities 30 6,689
Rent expenses – short term leases 60,702
Rent expenses – leases of low-value assets 1,813
Rent expenses – variable lease payments 17,717
Total 186,577
The group has lease contracts for cars that contains variable payments related to fuel and insurance.
Cash flows
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of cash flows:
      
2019
Payments 105,092
Interest 6,689 
Repayments of principal portion of lease liabilities 98,403
The Group also had non-cash additions to right-of-use assets and lease liabilities of €113.5 million in 2019. The future cash outflows 
relating to leases that have not yet commenced are disclosed in note 35.
21. Derivative financial instruments
2019 2018
Assets Liabilities Fair value Assets Liabilities Fair value
Interest rate swaps  -  9,567  (9,567) - 9,691 (9,691)
Forward exchange contracts  704  946  (242) 642 272 370
 704  10,513  (9,809) 642 9,963 (9,321)
Of which current:  704  772  (68) 641 272 369
21.1 Interest rate swaps
At year-end 2019, interest rate swaps are outstanding to hedge the interest rate risk on the (non-) recourse PPP loans with a variable 
interest rate. Total borrowings amount to €272 million (2018: €343 million), of which an amount of €142 million (2018: €141 million) 
carries a variable interest rate. Of the borrowings with a variable interest rate an amount of €40 million (2018: €43 million) is hedged by 
interest rate swaps. All interest rate swaps are classified as hedge instruments. The fair value of the outstanding interest rate swaps 
amounts to €10 million negative (2018: €10 million negative). At year-end 2019 all interest rate swaps have a duration that exceeds one
year. The maximum duration of the derivative financial instruments is 12 years.
The fixed interest rates of these swaps vary from 4.9 per cent to 6.3 per cent at year-end 2019 (2018: between 1.5 per cent and 6.3 per 
cent). The variable interest rates of the corresponding loans are based on Euribor or Libor plus a margin.
At year-end 2019, all derivative financial instruments of the Group provide an effective compensation for movements in cash flows from 
the hedged positions. Therefore, the movements in 2019 are accounted for in other comprehensive income. The change in fair value of 
outstanding derivative financial instruments which do not provide an effective compensation are accounted for in the income statement 
within ‘finance income/expense’.
The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is disclosed in note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
152
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementExpenses
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
Note 2019
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets 8 99,656
Interest expense on lease liabilities 30 6,689
Rent expenses – short term leases 60,702
Rent expenses – leases of low-value assets 1,813
Rent expenses – variable lease payments 17,717
Total 186,577
The group has lease contracts for cars that contains variable payments related to fuel and insurance.
Cash flows
Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of cash flows:
      
2019
Payments 105,092
Interest 6,689 
Repayments of principal portion of lease liabilities 98,403
The Group also had non-cash additions to right-of-use assets and lease liabilities of €113.5 million in 2019. The future cash outflows 
relating to leases that have not yet commenced are disclosed in note 35.
21. Derivative financial instruments
2019 2018
Assets Liabilities Fair value Assets Liabilities Fair value
Interest rate swaps  -  9,567  (9,567) - 9,691 (9,691)
Forward exchange contracts  704  946  (242) 642 272 370
 704  10,513  (9,809) 642 9,963 (9,321)
Of which current:  704  772  (68) 641 272 369
21.1 Interest rate swaps
At year-end 2019, interest rate swaps are outstanding to hedge the interest rate risk on the (non-) recourse PPP loans with a variable 
interest rate. Total borrowings amount to €272 million (2018: €343 million), of which an amount of €142 million (2018: €141 million) 
carries a variable interest rate. Of the borrowings with a variable interest rate an amount of €40 million (2018: €43 million) is hedged by 
interest rate swaps. All interest rate swaps are classified as hedge instruments. The fair value of the outstanding interest rate swaps 
amounts to €10 million negative (2018: €10 million negative). At year-end 2019 all interest rate swaps have a duration that exceeds one
year. The maximum duration of the derivative financial instruments is 12 years.
The fixed interest rates of these swaps vary from 4.9 per cent to 6.3 per cent at year-end 2019 (2018: between 1.5 per cent and 6.3 per 
cent). The variable interest rates of the corresponding loans are based on Euribor or Libor plus a margin.
At year-end 2019, all derivative financial instruments of the Group provide an effective compensation for movements in cash flows from 
the hedged positions. Therefore, the movements in 2019 are accounted for in other comprehensive income. The change in fair value of 
outstanding derivative financial instruments which do not provide an effective compensation are accounted for in the income statement 
within ‘finance income/expense’.
The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is disclosed in note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
153
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management21.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2019 were €241 million 
(2018: €53 million). The fair value amounts to €0.2 million negative (2018: €0.4 million positive).
The terms to maturity of these contracts are up to a maximum of one year for the amount of €238 million (2018: €53 million), between 
one and two years for the amount of €2.3 million (2018: nil) and between two to four years €0.2 million (2018: nil).
The average forward rates of the foreign exchange contracts outstanding are:
2019 2018 
EURGBP 0.8513 0.8940
EURUSD 1.1271 1.1774
EURAED 4.0940 4.1868
EURCHF - 1.1300
EURDKK - 7.4640
EURAUD 1.6203 -
EURNOK 10.1619 -
EURCAD 1.4675 -
22. Employee benefits
2019 2018
Defined benefit asset 68,929 111,219
Defined benefit liability 98,081 91,740
Other employee benefits obligations 30,139 28,210
128,220 119,950
The Group operates defined contribution plans in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Ireland under broadly similar 
regulatory frameworks. The legacy defined benefit pension plans in all countries are closed for new entrants. The pension risks in the 
plans have been decreased.
A further description of the post-employment benefit plans per country is as follows:
The Netherlands
In the Netherlands, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit schemes as well as defined contribution schemes.
The pension schemes in the Netherlands are subject to the regulations as stipulated in the Pension Act. Due to the Pension Act the 
pension plans need to be fully funded and need to be operated outside the Company through a separate legal entity. Several multi- 
employer funds and insurers operate the various pension plans. The Group has no additional responsibilities for the governance of these 
schemes.
The basic pension for every employee is covered by multi-employer funds in which also other companies participate based on legal 
obligations. These funds have an indexed average salary scheme and are therefore defined benefit schemes. Specifically, these are the 
industry pension funds for construction, metal & technology and railways. As these funds are not equipped to provide the required 
information on the Group’s proportionate share of pension liabilities and plan assets, the defined benefit plans are accounted for as defined 
contribution plans. The Group is obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any excess payment 
and is not obliged to make up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The part exceeding the basic pension amount 
(top-up part), which is not covered by multi-employer funds, is carried out by external parties and relates to defined contribution schemes.
154
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAt year-end 2019, the (twelve-month average) coverage rate of the industry pension fund for construction is 112 per cent (2018: 118 per 
cent). The industry pension fund for metal & technology has a coverage rate of 99 per cent at year-end 2019 (2018: 102 per cent). The 
coverage rate of the industry pension fund for railways is 108 per cent (2018: 115 per cent).
With effect from 2006, the defined benefit scheme is closed for new entrants. The build-up of future pension entitlements for these 
employees is covered by the multi-employer funds or external insurance companies. Defined benefit schemes are closed for future 
accumulation and index-linked to the industry pension fund for Construction. Future build-up is solely possible for the top-up pension 
scheme of BAM, which terminates in 2020; it is financed by the employer based on a percentage of the pensionable salaries of the 
employees.
In the context of accountability for the Group’s pension policy (to be) implemented, with regard to, inter alia, supplements and 
investment performance, the Group has established an accountability committee, with representation from the Central Works Council 
(CWC) and the Socio-Economic Committee of the BAM pensioners association (SEC).
United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution plans. The Group is 
responsible for making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits. The plan for supplementary 
contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds in March 2016 and led to supplementary 
contributions in 2019 to the amount of approximately €7 million  (2018: approximately €10 million). During 2019, the Group revalued the 
scheme’s assets and pension obligations with the support of the actuary experts. This revaluation led to an actuarial loss of €35 million, 
mainly caused by the buy-in insurance policy, decrease of discount rate and change in demographic assumptions. The loss is partly offset 
by €6 million deferred tax assets. The Group recognises a net defined benefit asset because it is entitled to a return of surplus at the end 
of the plans’ lifes.
The Group replaced the closed defined benefit pension schemes with defined contribution schemes, which are executed by an outside 
insurance company. Following the closure of future accumulation in defined benefit pension schemes in 2010, employees who 
participated in these schemes were invited to participate in the defined contribution schemes.
In addition, several defined benefit schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes due to the fact that external parties 
administering them are not able to provide the required information. These schemes have limited numbers of members. The Group is 
obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any excess payment and is not obliged to make up 
any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The Group did not make any material contributions in 2019 nor 2018.
Following the recent High Court judgement in the Lloyds case, overall pension benefits in the United Kingdom are equalised to eliminate 
inequalities between male and female participants in Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (‘GMPs’). This equalisation affects all contracted-out 
pension schemes with benefits earned between 17 May 1990 and 5 April 1997 and will mean higher benefits for some members and 
therefore higher overall costs.  Under IAS 19/FRS 101, the additional liability was immediately recognised in 2018 as a plan amendment. 
The additional liability for the Group in 2018 amounted to €11.1 million.
Belgium
In Belgium, the Group makes contributions to a relatively small defined benefit scheme that is executed by an external insurance 
company. The Group has also made arrangements for employees to participate in a defined contribution scheme.
Belgian defined contribution plans are subject to the Law of 28 April 2003 on occupational pensions, due to changes in the law in 
December 2015 defined contribution should be classified and accounted for as defined benefit plans under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’.
Germany
In Germany, the Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme financed by the employer.
The Group closed two schemes to new participants and since 2006, the Group operates a defined contribution scheme, into which 
employees have the opportunity to contribute on an individual basis.
Ireland
The Group has a defined benefit scheme in Ireland, executed by a company pension fund. The multi-employer pension scheme was fully 
converted from a defined benefit scheme to a defined contribution scheme with effect from 1 January 2006 for new entrants.
The Group is responsible for making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits. The plan for supplementary 
contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds in 2017 . This has led to a yearly supplementary 
contribution of approximately €2 million (2018: €1 million).
155
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMovements in the defined benefit pension plans over the year is as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2019
Defined benefit liability 13,692 - 3,289 57,408 23,692 98,081
Defined benefit asset - 68,929 - - - 68,929
13,692 (68,929) 3,289 57,408 23,692 29,152
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2019 376,746 874,653 25,321 70,528 95,371 1,442,619
Service cost 832 66 1,361 17 1,853 4,129
Interest expense 6,631 25,060 442 1,232 1,996 35,361
Remeasurements 47,171 108,120 1,366 7,220 16,268 180,145
Plan participants contributions - - 596 - 386 982
Benefit payments (12,643) (34,628) (1,338) (4,335) (9,687) (62,631)
Changes and plan amendments - - - - - -
Settlements (4,000) - (53) - - (4,053)
Disposals - - (174) - - (174)
Exchange rate differences - 50,915 - - - 50,915
As at 31 December 2019 414,737 1,024,186 27,521 74,662 106,187 1,647,293
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2019 357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
Interest income 6,346 28,402 418 305 1,654 37,125
Remeasurements 41,318 51,463 338 71 8,354 101,544
Employer contributions 12,358 7,664 1,735 3,517 3,994 29,268
Plan participants contributions - - 596 - 386 982
Benefit payments (12,643) (34,628) (1,338) (4,335) (9,687) (62,631)
Administration cost (330) (1,353) (34) 5 - (1,712)
Settlements (4,000) - (53) - - (4,053)
Disposals - - (175) - - (175)
Exchange rate differences - 55,694 - - - 55,694
As at 31 December 2019 401,045 1,093,114 24,232 17,254 82,495 1,618,140
Present value of obligation 414,737 1,024,186 27,521 74,662 106,187 1,647,293
Fair value of plan assets 401,045 1,093,114 24,232 17,254 82,495 1,618,140
       
As at 31 December 2019 13,692 (68,929) 3,289 57,048 23,692 29,152
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 832 66 1,361 17 1,853 4,129
Net interest expense 285 (3,342) 24 927 342 (1,764)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements - - - - - -
Administration cost 330 1,353 34 (5) - 1,712
1,447 (1,923) 1,419 939 2,195 4,077
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
- Return on plan assets, excluding interest income (41,318) (51,463) (339) (71) (8,354) (101,545)
- (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions - 10,608 (1,371) 3,110 - 12,347
- (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions 43,709 99,277 2,255 3,852 16,132 165,225
- Experience (gains)/losses 3,462 (1,764) 482 258 136 2,574
5,853 56,657 1,028 7,149 7,914 78,601
Income tax (1,463) (10,098) (263) 2,338 (990) (10,476)
Remeasurement net of tax 4,390 46,559 765 9,487 6,924 68,125NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2018
Defined benefit liability 18,750 - 2,576 52,837 17,577 91,740
Defined benefit asset - 111,219 - - - 111,219
18,750 (111,219) 2,576 52,837 17,577 (19,479)
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2018 428,788 989,194 25,115 72,961 97,138 1,613,196
Service cost 891 76 1,518 126 2,056 4,667
Interest expense 7,166 24,549 342 1,206 2,001 35,264
Remeasurements (8,726) (86,012) (361) 422 (2,161) (96,838)
Plan participants contributions  -  - 597  - 405 1,002
Benefit payments (12,209) (51,886) (1,657) (4,187) (4,068) (74,007)
Changes and plan amendments  - 11,092  -  - - 11,092
Settlements (39,164)  - (169)  - - (39,333)
Disposals  -  - (64)  - - (64)
Exchange rate differences  - (12,359)  -  - - (12,359)
As at 31 December 2018 376,746 874,653 25,321 70,528 95,371 1,442,619
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2018 411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
Interest income 6,952 26,581 308 309 1,681 35,831
Remeasurements (18,242) (49,087) 540 (65) (4,124) (70,978)
Employer contributions 9,637 11,841 1,797 2,772 4,000 30,047
Plan participants contributions  -  - 597  - 405 1,002
Benefit payments (12,209) (51,886) (1,657) (4,187) (4,068) (74,007)
Administration cost (380) (1,820) (38)  - - (2,238)
Settlements (39,164)  - (169)  - - (39,333)
Disposals  -  - (61)  - - (61)
Exchange rate differences  - (13,972) 1  - - (13,971)
As at 31 December 2018 357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
Present value of obligation 376,746 874,653 25,321 70,528 95,371 1,442,619
Fair value of plan assets 357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
      
As at 31 December 2018 18,750 (111,219) 2,576 52,837 17,577 (19,479)
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 891 76 1,518 126 2,056 4,667
Net interest expense 214 (2,032) 34 897 320 (567)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements  - 11,092  -  -  - 11,092
Administration cost 380 1,820 38  - - 2,238
1,485 10,956 1,590 1,023 2,376 17,430
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 18,242 49,087 (542) 65 4,124 70,976
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (3,235) (38,506)  - 980 (40,761)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions (985) (53,924) (1,145) (814) (3,533) (60,401)
-  Experience (gains)/losses (4,506) 6,418 784 256 1,372 4,324
9,516 (36,926) (902) 487 1,963 (25,862)
Income tax (2,379) 6,278 322 (87) (245) 3,889
Remeasurement net of tax 7,137 (30,648) (580) 400 1,718 (21,973)
156
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementNetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2018
Defined benefit liability 18,750 - 2,576 52,837 17,577 91,740
Defined benefit asset - 111,219 - - - 111,219
18,750 (111,219) 2,576 52,837 17,577 (19,479)
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2018 428,788 989,194 25,115 72,961 97,138 1,613,196
Service cost 891 76 1,518 126 2,056 4,667
Interest expense 7,166 24,549 342 1,206 2,001 35,264
Remeasurements (8,726) (86,012) (361) 422 (2,161) (96,838)
Plan participants contributions  -  - 597  - 405 1,002
Benefit payments (12,209) (51,886) (1,657) (4,187) (4,068) (74,007)
Changes and plan amendments  - 11,092  -  - - 11,092
Settlements (39,164)  - (169)  - - (39,333)
Disposals  -  - (64)  - - (64)
Exchange rate differences  - (12,359)  -  - - (12,359)
As at 31 December 2018 376,746 874,653 25,321 70,528 95,371 1,442,619
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2018 411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
Interest income 6,952 26,581 308 309 1,681 35,831
Remeasurements (18,242) (49,087) 540 (65) (4,124) (70,978)
Employer contributions 9,637 11,841 1,797 2,772 4,000 30,047
Plan participants contributions  -  - 597  - 405 1,002
Benefit payments (12,209) (51,886) (1,657) (4,187) (4,068) (74,007)
Administration cost (380) (1,820) (38)  - - (2,238)
Settlements (39,164)  - (169)  - - (39,333)
Disposals  -  - (61)  - - (61)
Exchange rate differences  - (13,972) 1  - - (13,971)
As at 31 December 2018 357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
Present value of obligation 376,746 874,653 25,321 70,528 95,371 1,442,619
Fair value of plan assets 357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
      
As at 31 December 2018 18,750 (111,219) 2,576 52,837 17,577 (19,479)
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 891 76 1,518 126 2,056 4,667
Net interest expense 214 (2,032) 34 897 320 (567)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements  - 11,092  -  -  - 11,092
Administration cost 380 1,820 38  - - 2,238
1,485 10,956 1,590 1,023 2,376 17,430
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 18,242 49,087 (542) 65 4,124 70,976
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (3,235) (38,506)  - 980 (40,761)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions (985) (53,924) (1,145) (814) (3,533) (60,401)
-  Experience (gains)/losses (4,506) 6,418 784 256 1,372 4,324
9,516 (36,926) (902) 487 1,963 (25,862)
Income tax (2,379) 6,278 322 (87) (245) 3,889
Remeasurement net of tax 7,137 (30,648) (580) 400 1,718 (21,973)
157
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe average duration of the defined benefit obligations per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
2019
Average duration (in years) 17 20 17 11 22
2018
Average duration (in years) 16 19 16 11 23
The significant actuarial assumptions per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
2019
Discount rate 0.9% 2.1% 1.8% 1.0% 1.4%
Salary growth rate 0-1.7% 0-3.6% 1.8% 1.5% -
Pension growth rate 0-1.4% 2.2-3.0% - 1.5% 0-1.3%
2018
Discount rate 1.8% 2.8-2.9% 1.8% 1.8% 2.2%
Salary growth rate 0-1.9% 0-3.6% 1.9% 1.5% -
Pension growth rate 0-1.8% 2.2-3.3% - 1.5% 0-1.4%
Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in each 
country.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
•  If the discount rate is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will decrease by approximately €141 million (increase by 
approximately €162 million).
•  If the expected salary increase is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately €3 million (decrease by 
approximately €3 million).
•  If the expected indexation is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately €78 million (decrease by 
approximately €71 million).
•  If the life expectancy increases (decreases) by 1 year, the pension liability will increase by approximately €70 million (decrease by 
approximately €67 million).
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is 
unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit 
obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised 
within the statement of financial position.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.Plan assets are comprised as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
2019
Equity instruments (quoted) - 119,973 - - 46,484 166,457
Debt instruments (quoted) - 802,088 - - 31,544 833,632
Property (quoted) - 17,148 - - 3,630 20,778
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted) 401,045 99,784 24,232 17,254 521 542,836
Cash and cash equivalents -- 54,121 - - 335 54,456
401,045 1,093,114 24,232 17,254 82,495 1,618,140
2018
Equity instruments (quoted) - 104,289 - - 41,897 146,186
Debt instruments (quoted) - 739,518 - - 31,906 771,424
Property (quoted) - 16,885 - - 3,447 20,332
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted) 357,996 - 22,745 17,691 499 398,931
Cash and cash equivalents - 125,180 - - 45 125,225
357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
Plan assets do not include the Company’s ordinary shares. The Group applies IAS 19.104 for the valuation of the plan assets in connection 
with the insured contracts.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility
The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, 
this will create a deficit.
Changes in bond yields
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the 
plans’ bond holdings.
Salary growth
The plan liabilities are calculated based on future salaries of the plan participants, so increases in future salaries will result in an increase 
in the plan liabilities.
Pension growth
The majority of the plan liabilities are calculated based on future pension increases, so these increases will result in an increase in the plan 
liabilities.
Life expectancy
The majority of the plan liabilities are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an 
increase in the plan liabilities.
With regard to the funded plans, the Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (‘ALM’) 
framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the pension schemes. 
Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest 
securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The Group monitors how the 
duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations. The 
Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. Investments are well diversified, such that the 
failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. 
Employer contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2020 are expected to be slightly lower than 
2019 by €3 million to €4 million, due to less contributions in the Netherlands.
158
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementPlan assets are comprised as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
2019
Equity instruments (quoted) - 119,973 - - 46,484 166,457
Debt instruments (quoted) - 802,088 - - 31,544 833,632
Property (quoted) - 17,148 - - 3,630 20,778
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted) 401,045 99,784 24,232 17,254 521 542,836
Cash and cash equivalents -- 54,121 - - 335 54,456
401,045 1,093,114 24,232 17,254 82,495 1,618,140
2018
Equity instruments (quoted) - 104,289 - - 41,897 146,186
Debt instruments (quoted) - 739,518 - - 31,906 771,424
Property (quoted) - 16,885 - - 3,447 20,332
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted) 357,996 - 22,745 17,691 499 398,931
Cash and cash equivalents - 125,180 - - 45 125,225
357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
Plan assets do not include the Company’s ordinary shares. The Group applies IAS 19.104 for the valuation of the plan assets in connection 
with the insured contracts.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility
The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, 
this will create a deficit.
Changes in bond yields
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the 
plans’ bond holdings.
Salary growth
The plan liabilities are calculated based on future salaries of the plan participants, so increases in future salaries will result in an increase 
in the plan liabilities.
Pension growth
The majority of the plan liabilities are calculated based on future pension increases, so these increases will result in an increase in the plan 
liabilities.
Life expectancy
The majority of the plan liabilities are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an 
increase in the plan liabilities.
With regard to the funded plans, the Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (‘ALM’) 
framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the pension schemes. 
Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest 
securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The Group monitors how the 
duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations. The 
Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. Investments are well diversified, such that the 
failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. 
Employer contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2020 are expected to be slightly lower than 
2019 by €3 million to €4 million, due to less contributions in the Netherlands.
159
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management23. Provisions
Warranty RestructuringRental 
guaranteesAssociates and 
joint venturesOnerous 
contracts Other Total
As at 1 January 2019 31,657 8,289 240 24,067 135,899 37,488 237,640
Charged/(credited) to the  
income statement:
- Additional provisions  12,181  5,324 -  29,310  37,091  10,787  94,693 
- Release  (1,657)  (367) -  -  (21,897)  (5,324)  (29,245)
Used during the year  (10,156)  (5,471)  (85)  (6,607)  (29,784)  (3,048)  (55,151)
Reclassifications - - -  30,604  (2,832)  (1,173)  26,599 
Changes in discounted value - - -  -  - - -
Exchange rate differences - - -  92  360  29  481
As at 31 December 2019  32,025  7,775  155  77,466  118,837  38,759  275,017 
Provisions are classified in the balance sheet as follows:
2019 2018
Non-current 163,363 141,803
Current 111,654 95,837
275,017 237,640
The provision for warranty concerns the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle complaints and deficiencies that become 
apparent after the delivery of projects and that fall within the warranty period. In reaching its best estimate, the Group takes into 
account the risks and uncertainties that surround the underlying events which are assessed periodically. Approximately 45 per cent of 
the provision is current in nature (2018: approximately 44 per cent). 
The provision for restructuring concerns the best estimate of the expenditure associated with reorganisation plans already initiated. 
Approximately 69 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2018: approximately 71 per cent). The estimated staff restructuring costs 
to be incurred are recognised under ‘personnel expenses’. Other direct costs attributable to the restructuring  are recognised under 
‘other operating expenses’.
The provision for rental guarantees consists of commitments arising from rental guarantees issued to third parties. Approximately  
100 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2018: 67 per cent).
The provision for associates and joint ventures arise from the legal or constructive obligation in connection with structured entities for 
property development projects (associates and joint ventures) and the development of the hedging reserves in PPP joint ventures. An 
amount of €77.5 million (2018: €24.0 million) is attributable to joint ventures and €0.0 million (2018: €0.1 million) to associates.
The contract asset or contract liability does not include any provisions for future project losses and is not formed as a part of this 
contract asset or liability. Approximately 58 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2018: approximately 51 per cent). See note 
2.26 step 2.
Other provisions mainly include continuing rental commitments resulting from (temporarily) unused premises, claims and legal 
obligations in Germany. Approximately 59 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2018: approximately 17 per cent).
The non-current part of the provisions has been discounted at an interest rate in the range of approximately 0 to 3 per cent (2018: 
approximately 0 to 3 per cent).24. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
2019 2018
Deferred tax assets:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months 117,001  141,649 
- To be recovered within twelve months 19,467  23,908 
136,468  165,557 
Deferred tax liabilities:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months 18,160  38,261 
- To be recovered within twelve months 335  1,461 
18,495  39,722 
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (117,973)  (125,835)
The gross movement on the deferred income tax assets and liabilities is as follows:
2019 2018
As at 1 January (125,835)  (206,961)
Income statement charge/(credit) 22,048  52,310 
Tax charge/(credit) relating to components of other comprehensive income (9,376)  3,905 
Changes in enacted tax rates (5,570)  28,173 
Reclassifications (135)  (2,958)
Exchange rate differences 895  (304)
As at 31 December (117,973)  (125,835)
160
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management24. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
2019 2018
Deferred tax assets:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months 117,001  141,649 
- To be recovered within twelve months 19,467  23,908 
136,468  165,557 
Deferred tax liabilities:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months 18,160  38,261 
- To be recovered within twelve months 335  1,461 
18,495  39,722 
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (117,973)  (125,835)
The gross movement on the deferred income tax assets and liabilities is as follows:
2019 2018
As at 1 January (125,835)  (206,961)
Income statement charge/(credit) 22,048  52,310 
Tax charge/(credit) relating to components of other comprehensive income (9,376)  3,905 
Changes in enacted tax rates (5,570)  28,173 
Reclassifications (135)  (2,958)
Exchange rate differences 895  (304)
As at 31 December (117,973)  (125,835)
161
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances 
within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Provisions Tax losses DerivativesEmployee 
benefit 
obligations Other Total
Deferred tax assets
As at 1 January 2018  8,635  205,381  2,415  13,943  23,642  254,016
(Charged)/credited to the income statement  (3,729)  (42,635)  (1)  (2,401)  1,371  (47,395)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income  25  (159)  (152)  2,493  -  2,207 
Changes in enacted tax rates  21  (26,971)  -  (29)  (2,811)  (29,790)
Reclassifications  -  2,969  (520)  4  45  2,498 
Exchange rate differences  (12)  (2)  (23)  -  (17)  (54)
As at 31 December 2018  4,940  138,583  1,719  14,010  22,230  181,482 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement 826 (31,184) (1) (2,995) 1,572 (31,782)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income - (394) (57) 298 (250) (403)
Changes in enacted tax rates 134 7,234 - (25) 581 7,924
Reclassifications - 205 - - (12) 193
Exchange rate differences 57 44 88 - 64 253
As at 31 December 2019 5,957 114,488 1,749 11,288 24,185 157,667
Construction 
contractsAccelerated
 tax 
depreciation DerivativesEmployee
benefit
assets Other Total
Deferred tax liabilities
As at 1 January 2018  18,941  9,126  439  12,754  5,794  47,054
Charged/(credited) to the income statement  6,492  (404)  -  (31)  (1,142)  4,915 
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income  -  (298)  28  6,382  -  6,112 
Changes in enacted tax rates  (1,329)  (360)  -  72  -  (1,617)
Reclassifications  -  (132)  (328)  -  -  (460)
Exchange rate differences  -  (83)  -  (274)  -  (357)
As at 31 December 2018  24,104  7,849  139  18,903  4,652  55,647 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement (13,835) (186) - 1,752 2,535 (9,734)
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income - (277) (127) (10,178) 803 (9,779)
Changes in enacted tax rates 1,116 14 - 1,226 9 2,365
Reclassifications 13 (13) - - 47 47
Exchange rate differences - 312 - 835 1 1,148
As at 31 December 2019 11,398 7,699 12 12,538 8,047 39,694
Deferred income tax assets in a country are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits in that country 
are available against which the temporary differences and available tax losses carry-forwards can be utilised.
162
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTax losses available to the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for carry-forward losses at year-end 2019 amount to approximately €1 billion 
(2018: €1 billion). These unused tax losses relate to the years 2011 up to and including 2017 and result to a large extent from identifiable 
causes, which are unlikely to recur, including a loss relating to the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany, 
significant impairments on properties and significant restructuring costs during these years. The legal term within which these losses 
may be offset against future profits is nine years.
In December 2019 the Dutch tax plan 2020 was approved by the Dutch Senate increasing the corporate income tax rate to 25 per cent in 
2020 and 21.7 per cent in 2021. In total this has caused an increase of the deferred tax asset related to the Dutch fiscal unity tax losses of 
€7 million.
Based on estimates and timing of future taxable profits within the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for the upcoming seven years, 
approximately €470 million (2018: €568 million) of these losses are recognised. Management estimates of forecasted taxable profits in 
the Netherlands are based on financial budgets approved by management, extrapolated using growth rates for revenue and profit 
before tax margins that take into account external market data and benchmark information and taking into account past performance. 
Growth rates for revenue and profit before tax margins are in line with the Group’s mid- and long-term expectations. Subsequently these 
forecasts have been reduced to meet the recognition criteria under IFRS in respect of deferred tax assets. No specific tax planning 
opportunities have been taken into account. The measurement of the deferred tax asset is especially sensitive to the risk of expiry of tax 
loss carry forwards, for which therefore appropriate discounts have been used.
The taxable result in 2019 in the Netherlands for the Dutch fiscal unity was higher than expected and as a result this led to an 
unrecognized use of tax losses of €7 million. The assessment as to whether an entity will have sufficient taxable profits in the future is a 
matter requiring careful judgement based on the facts and circumstances available. Although the profit forecast shows that sufficient 
profit should be available in coming years to recognize a deferred tax asset for compensating losses, we performed further analysis of all 
positive and negative evidence to substantiate the position taken. Positive evidence amongst others are: the growth of the Dutch 
construct market and the performance of the Dutch construction and property unit, change in governance, identifiable one off 
non-recurring losses. Negative evidence are: unused carry forward losses and lower results than previously forecasted. Considering 
certain contingencies on the forecasted future taxable profits, an impairment charge of €16.7 million has been recorded in respect of the 
Dutch fiscal unity.
Tax losses to a minimum of €600 million (2018: €600 million) are expected to remain available for the companies in Germany, which can 
be offset against future taxable profits in Germany. Based on estimates of the level and timing of future taxable profits per operating 
company and per fiscal unity, approximately €15 million (2018: €48 million) of these losses are recognized. In 2019, the lower than 
expected performance of the German construction and property unit led to an non-recognition of tax losses for the tax amount of €14 
million. Furthermore an impairment for the usability of the carry forward losses of the upcoming six years of €7.9 million was taking into 
account. The legal term within which these losses may be offset against future profits is indefinite. Management estimates of forecasted 
taxable profits in Germany are based on financial budgets approved by management, extrapolated using estimated growth rates that 
are considered to be in line with the Group’s mid- and long-term expectations, taking into account past performance. The impairment 
charge for Germany and the Dutch fiscal unity totally amounts to €24.6 million.
163
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management25. Trade and other payables
Notes 2019 2018
Trade payables 835,624 980,342
Amounts due to customers (contract liabilities) 6 626,297 654,212
Amounts due to related parties 38 126,067 125,542
Social security and other taxes 147,495 157,586
Pension premiums 9,972 10,617
Amounts due for work completed 178,049 160,766
Amounts due for work in progress 616,598 661,976
Other financial liabilities 1,134 1,329
Other liabilities 67,264 92,518
Accrued expenses and deferred income 273,969 236,247
2,882,469 3,081,135
The amounts due for work completed and for work in progress relate to suppliers of the Group for contract work performed.
26. Employee benefit expenses
Note 2019 2018
Wages and salaries 1,130,460 1,075,233
Social security costs 171,983 165,883
Pension costs - defined contribution plans 84,482 79,834
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 22 4,077 17,430
Other post-employment benefits 904 (61)
1,391,906 1,338,319
Wages and salaries include restructuring costs and other termination benefits of €3.0 million (2018: €3.8 million).
At year-end 2019, the Group had 19,517 employees in FTE (2018: 20,194). The average number of employees in FTE amounted 
to 19,433 (2018: 20,156), of which 10,966 in other countries than the Netherlands (2018: 12,186).27. Impairment charges
Notes 2019 2018
Intangible assets 9 10,337 -
Other financial assets 12 - (1,292)
Inventories 13 10,841 21,920
Impairment charges 21,178 20,628
Share of impairment charges in investments 11 (2,655) 3,122
18,523 23,750
The impairment charges of intangible assets relates to the capitalised developments costs for the patented Gravity Based Foundations for 
offshore wind power. 
In 2019, the net impairment charges in connection with inventories are related to property developments in the Netherlands.
28. Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or their nature, or that are non-recurring are considered as exceptional and are 
presented within the line items to which they best relate.
An analysis of the amount presented as exceptional items in these financial statements is given below:
Notes 2019 2018
Impairment charges 27 18,523 23,750
Restructuring costs 23 4,957 3,837
Pension one-off 22 - 11,092
23,480 38,679
29. Audit fees
The total fees for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 2019 are listed below. The fees stated below for the audit of the 
financial statements are based on the total fees for the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the procedures were 
already performed in the financial year.
Expenses for services provided by the Company’s current independent auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY) and its foreign 
member firms to the Group are specified as follows: 
2019 2018
EY 
Netherlands  EY foreign
 member firmsTotal EY 
Netherlands  EY foreign
 member firmsTotal
Audit fees 4,099 2,173 6,272 4,279 2,234 6,513
Audit-related fees 93 36 129 52 9 61
Tax fees - - - - - -
Other non-audit fees - - - - - -
6,401 6,574
The decrease in the audit fee 2019 compared to 2018 relates to the in 2018 additional audit procedures on the application of new 
accounting standards such as IFRS 15 and IFRS 16. In 2019 only additional audit procedures for IFRS 16 were performed.
164
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management27. Impairment charges
Notes 2019 2018
Intangible assets 9 10,337 -
Other financial assets 12 - (1,292)
Inventories 13 10,841 21,920
Impairment charges 21,178 20,628
Share of impairment charges in investments 11 (2,655) 3,122
18,523 23,750
The impairment charges of intangible assets relates to the capitalised developments costs for the patented Gravity Based Foundations for 
offshore wind power. 
In 2019, the net impairment charges in connection with inventories are related to property developments in the Netherlands.
28. Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or their nature, or that are non-recurring are considered as exceptional and are 
presented within the line items to which they best relate.
An analysis of the amount presented as exceptional items in these financial statements is given below:
Notes 2019 2018
Impairment charges 27 18,523 23,750
Restructuring costs 23 4,957 3,837
Pension one-off 22 - 11,092
23,480 38,679
29. Audit fees
The total fees for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 2019 are listed below. The fees stated below for the audit of the 
financial statements are based on the total fees for the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the procedures were 
already performed in the financial year.
Expenses for services provided by the Company’s current independent auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY) and its foreign 
member firms to the Group are specified as follows: 
2019 2018
EY 
Netherlands  EY foreign
 member firmsTotal EY 
Netherlands  EY foreign
 member firmsTotal
Audit fees 4,099 2,173 6,272 4,279 2,234 6,513
Audit-related fees 93 36 129 52 9 61
Tax fees - - - - - -
Other non-audit fees - - - - - -
6,401 6,574
The decrease in the audit fee 2019 compared to 2018 relates to the in 2018 additional audit procedures on the application of new 
accounting standards such as IFRS 15 and IFRS 16. In 2019 only additional audit procedures for IFRS 16 were performed.
165
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management30. Finance income and expense
2019 2018 
Finance income
- Interest income - cash at banks 1,911 1,175
- Interest income - other financial assets 1,904 2,579
- Interest income - PPP receivables 5,490 5,446
- Other finance income 8,160 12,021
17,465 21,221
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds 7,189 7,025
- Committed syndicated credit facility 185 328
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility 2,708 2,611
- Non-recourse PPP loans 2,903 3,155
- Non-recourse property financing 1,618 2,185
- Other non-recourse financing 185 153
- Interest expense - bank overdrafts and deposits 125 253
- Interest expense on lease liabilties / finance lease liabilities * 6,689 556
- Recourse property financing 1,196 1,222
- Other recourse financing 856 1,592
- Interest expense - other liabilities 587 848
24,241 19,928
Less: capitalised interest on the Group’s own projects (5,063) (8,034)
19,178 11,894
  
Net finance result (1,713) 9,327
*  As from 2019 the interest expenses on lease liabilities include all leases (former operational and finance leases), since all leases have been included in the 
right-of-use assets due to IFRS 16. In 2018 the lease expenses only included finance leases.
Included in the finance expense is an amount of €1.4 million (2018: €1.8 million) relating to interest rate swaps that was reclassified from 
equity to the income statement. An overview of the applicable effective interest rates on borrowings are disclosed in note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The Group encounters various negative interest rates on deposits. 31. Income tax
2019 2018
Current tax 22,162 9,642 
Deferred tax 16,489 80,483 
38,651 90,125 
Income tax on the Group’s result before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate 
applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows:
2019 2018
Result before tax 50,618 114,540
Tax calculated at Dutch tax rate 12,654 28,633
Tax effects of:
- Tax rates in other countries 453 (10,592)
- Income not subject to tax 37 (1,638)
- Remeasurement of deferred tax – changes in enacted tax rates (5,570) 27,973
- Tax filings and previously unrecognised temporary differences 5,056 (5,108)
- Previously unrecognised tax losses (9,709) (5,718)
- Tax losses no(t) (longer) recognised 36,657 55,797
- Results of investments and other participations, net of tax (8,271) (5,334)
- Other including expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7,344 6,112
Tax charge/(gain) 38,651 90,125
Effective tax rate 76,4% 78.7%
The weighted average tax rate applicable was 25.9 per cent (2018: 15.8 per cent). The difference is attributable to a different spread of 
results over the countries. 
In December 2019 the Dutch corporate income tax rate was increased to 25.0 per cent applicable as of 1 January 2020 and will be 
brought to 21.7 per cent as of 1 January 2021.
In 2019 the tax burden was influenced by tax losses which are not recognised (anymore), the recognition of tax losses that were 
previously unrecognized and the increase of the corporate tax rates in the Netherlands.
The corporate income tax rate effect related to the losses within the Dutch fiscal unity increased the deferred tax asset by €7 million. An 
amount of €16.7 million of the tax charge relates to the impairment of previously recognised tax losses of the fiscal unity in the 
Netherlands. The lower than expected performance of the German construction and property unit led to a non-recognition of tax losses 
for the year of €14 million. Furthermore an impairment of €7.9 million was taken into account for the previously recognized losses for the 
upcoming six years.
 
166
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management31. Income tax
2019 2018
Current tax 22,162 9,642 
Deferred tax 16,489 80,483 
38,651 90,125 
Income tax on the Group’s result before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate 
applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows:
2019 2018
Result before tax 50,618 114,540
Tax calculated at Dutch tax rate 12,654 28,633
Tax effects of:
- Tax rates in other countries 453 (10,592)
- Income not subject to tax 37 (1,638)
- Remeasurement of deferred tax – changes in enacted tax rates (5,570) 27,973
- Tax filings and previously unrecognised temporary differences 5,056 (5,108)
- Previously unrecognised tax losses (9,709) (5,718)
- Tax losses no(t) (longer) recognised 36,657 55,797
- Results of investments and other participations, net of tax (8,271) (5,334)
- Other including expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7,344 6,112
Tax charge/(gain) 38,651 90,125
Effective tax rate 76,4% 78.7%
The weighted average tax rate applicable was 25.9 per cent (2018: 15.8 per cent). The difference is attributable to a different spread of 
results over the countries. 
In December 2019 the Dutch corporate income tax rate was increased to 25.0 per cent applicable as of 1 January 2020 and will be 
brought to 21.7 per cent as of 1 January 2021.
In 2019 the tax burden was influenced by tax losses which are not recognised (anymore), the recognition of tax losses that were 
previously unrecognized and the increase of the corporate tax rates in the Netherlands.
The corporate income tax rate effect related to the losses within the Dutch fiscal unity increased the deferred tax asset by €7 million. An 
amount of €16.7 million of the tax charge relates to the impairment of previously recognised tax losses of the fiscal unity in the 
Netherlands. The lower than expected performance of the German construction and property unit led to a non-recognition of tax losses 
for the year of €14 million. Furthermore an impairment of €7.9 million was taken into account for the previously recognized losses for the 
upcoming six years.
 
167
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management32. Earnings per share  
2019 2018
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000) 273,496 273,491
Net result attributable to shareholders 11,846 23,773
Basic earnings per share (in €) 0.04 0.09
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 11,846 23,773
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (in €) 0.04 0.09
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders - -
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (in €) - -
 
Allowing for dilution, the earnings per share are as follows:
2019 2018
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000) 299,039 298,269
Net result attributable to shareholders (diluted) 17,238 29,042
Diluted earnings per share (in €) 0.04 0.09
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders (diluted) 17,238 29,042
Diluted earnings from continuing operations per share (in €) 0.04 0.09
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders (diluted) - -
Diluted earnings from discontinued operations per share (in €) - -
In 2019 the calculation of the diluted earnings per share stated €0.06 (2018: (€0.10) however due to IAS 33, no anti-dilutive effect is 
allowed. So in both years diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share.
168
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management33. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
The net result for 2019, amounting to €11.8 million, has been accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2019 of 2 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase of shares to offset dilution (2018: 14 eurocents). Based on the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding at year-end 2019, a maximum of €5.5 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
The dividends paid to shareholders of ordinary shares in 2019 were €38.3 million, €19.5 million in cash (€0.14 per share) and €18.8 million 
in shares (€0.14 per share), these shares are repurchased in 2019 for €16.9 million. In 2018 dividends paid to shareholders of ordinary 
shares were €27.3 million, €11.4 million in cash (€0.10 per share) and €15.9 million in shares (€0.10 per share), these shares are 
repurchased for €15.2 million.
34. Contingencies
34.1  Legal proceedings
In the normal course of business the Group is involved in legal proceedings predominantly concerning litigation in connection with 
(completed) construction contracts. The legal proceedings, whether pending, threatened or unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, 
may have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, operational result or cash flows. The Group may enter into discussions 
regarding settlement of these and other proceedings and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best 
interests of the Company’s shareholders. In accordance with current accounting policies, the Group has recognised provisions with 
respect to these proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. 
On 3 March 2009, during the construction of a section of the Cologne metro system, several adjacent buildings, including the building of 
the City Archives of the City of Cologne, collapsed. Two persons were killed as a result of this accident. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau is a 
one-third partner in the consortium carrying out this project but was not directly involved in the work performed at the site of the 
accident. The customer has instituted a judicial inquiry (known as a Beweisverfahren) before the district court (the Landgericht in 
Cologne). As part of these proceedings, a number of specialists are investigating the cause of the accident. At this point in time it is not 
possible to determine if and to what extent the consortium might be held responsible for the accident and to estimate a potential 
financial impact. In two criminal law suits against six individuals, none of them an employee of Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau, the 
German court has found two of those individuals guilty. The others were acquitted. The prosecution and the convicted individuals have 
filed an appeal against the judgements. The damage to property is considerable and the parties involved have claimed under several 
different insurance policies.
34.2 Guarantees
Bonds and Guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business to our clients, either by the Company (parental guarantees), by 
banks (bank guarantees), or by surety companies (surety bonds), securing due performance of the obligations under the contracts by the 
subsidiaries of the Company.
It is not expected that any material risks will arise from these securities. These securities are limited in amount and can only be called 
upon in case of (proven) default.
The parent company guarantees issued amount to €178 million (2018: €160 million). Guarantees issued by banks and surety companies 
amount to €2,032 million (2018: €1,868 million). Guarantee facilities amount to €3.2 billion (2018: €3.2 billion).
 
169
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management35. Commitments
35.1  Purchase commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred and conditional contractual obligations to 
purchase land for property development activities is as follows:
2019 2018
Property, plant and equipment 6,288 5,290
Land 203,291 177,090
209,579 182,380
The conditional nature of the contractual obligations to purchase land relate to, among other items, the amendment of development 
plans, the acquirement of planning permissions and the actual completion of property development projects.
35.2 Lease commitments
The future undiscounted lease payments regarding lease commitments are included in note  20. Lease liabilities. 
The Group has various lease contracts that have not yet commenced as at 31 December 2019. The future undiscounted lease payments 
for these non-cancellable lease contracts are €3.3 million within one year, €12.4 million within five years and €1.2 million thereafter.
 
The Group has future variable lease payments related to €54.1 million which are not recognised in lease liabilities, but are recognised as 
expense in profit and loss. The expected future costs related to these variable lease payments are €14.4 million within one year, 
€36.8 million within five years and €2.9 million thereafter.
36. Business combinations
No material acquisitions have taken place in 2019 nor 2018.
37. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
2019 2018
Inventories 8,516 8,516 
Assets held for sale 8,516 8,516 
At year-end 2019 and 2018, the assets held for sale related to inventories compromising of one remaining property development 
position in the Northeast part of the Netherlands, which are not yet transferred.
170
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management38. Related parties
The Group identifies subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements, third parties executing the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and 
key management as related parties. Transactions with related parties are conducted at arm’s length, on terms comparable to those for 
transactions with third parties.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
38.1 Sales and purchase of goods and services
A major part of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements. These activities include the assignment and/or financing of 
land as well as carrying out construction contracts. 
The Group carried out transactions with associates and joint arrangements related to the sale of goods and services for €410.1 million 
(2018: €435.6 million) and related to the purchase of goods and services for €11.2 million (2018: €27.8 million).
The 2019 year-end balance of short term receivables amounts to €21.4 million (2018: €30.7 million) and the short term liabilities 
amounts to €126.1 million (2018: €125.5 million).
38.2 Loans to related parties
At year-end 2019, the Group granted loans to related parties (mainly relating to associates and joint ventures) for the amount of  
€89 million (2018: €68 million). These transactions were made on normal commercial terms and conditions, except that for a number of 
loans there are no fixed terms for the repayment of loans between the parties. Interests for these loans are at arm’s length. Loans to 
related parties are included in ‘Other financial assets’ in the statement of financial position.
171
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management38.3  Key management compensation
Key management includes members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.
Executive Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Executive Board for services is shown below:
2019
Fixed
remunerationShort-term
incentivePost-
employment
benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term
incentiveTotal
R.P. van Wingerden ¹ 700 230 154 - 28 1,112
L.F. den Houter 2 486 159 30 - 58 733
E.J. Bax ³ 81 - 17 - (46) 52
1,267 389 201 - 40 1,897
2018
Fixed
remunerationShort-term
incentivePost-
employment
benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term
incentiveTotal
R.P. van Wingerden ¹ 686 343 151 - (41) 1,139
L.F. den Houter 2 203 101 10 - - 314
E.J. Bax ³ 486 243 101 - (77) 753
T. Menssen 4,5243 50 28 491 (105) 707
1,618 737 290 491 (223) 2,913
1 Appointed as Chairman of the Executive Board with effect from 1 October 2014, reappointed as Chairman 20 April 2016.
2 Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 August 2018.
3 Mr Bax has stepped down from the Executive Board with effect from 1 March 2019.
4 Mrs Menssen has stepped down from the Executive Board with effect from 1 July 2018.
5 Mrs Menssen has received a severance payment of €486 thousand and €5 thousand for legal fees, which are included in the other benefits in 2018.
The short-term incentive (‘STI’) is part of the remuneration package of the Executive Board and is based on financial objectives (70 per 
cent) and non-financial objectives (30 per cent). At the beginning of each financial year, the Supervisory Board determines the financial 
and non-financial STI objectives, their relative weighting and the performance incentive zones (i.e. threshold, at target and excellent 
performance levels). Payout gradually increases with performance, starting with a payout of 35 per cent of the fixed annual remuneration 
at threshold performance, 55 per cent at target performance and potentially going up to 75 per cent when performance is excellent. 
Below threshold there will be zero payout. The Supervisory Board determined the payout for 2019 at 32.8 per cent (2018: 50.0 per cent).
Post-employment benefits relate to the pension costs of the defined benefit plans recognized in the income statement and, if no pension 
arrangements were made, paid contributions for personal pension arrangements. Cost of defined benefit plans are determined on the 
basis of the individual pension obligations. Interest results and return on plan assets are not allocated on an individual basis. Certain 
components of the post-employment benefits are conditional and paid if employment continues until the retirement age.
The actual and necessarily incurred costs in the performance of the duties for the Group are reimbursed.
The long-term incentive relates to the Performance Share Plan and Phantom Share Plan. Additional information is disclosed in note 39.
No share options have been awarded to the members of the Executive Board. No loans or advances have been granted to the members 
of the Executive Board. Supervisory Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Supervisory Board for services is shown below:
2019 2018
H.L.J. Noy, Chairman 80 80
G. Boon, Vice-Chairman 63 60
C.M.C. Mahieu 60 60
M.P. Sheffield 68 69
H. Valentin 68 68
K.S. Wester, former Vice-Chairman 18 62
R. Provoost 8 -
365 399
The actual and necessarily incurred costs in the performance of the duties for the Group are reimbursed.
No share options have been awarded to the members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board do not hold any 
shares in the Company nor have loans or advances been granted as per  31 December 2019.
Other related parties
The Group has not entered into any material transaction with other related parties.
39. Share-based payments
In 2019, BAM’s long-term incentive plan consisted of a conditional share-based incentive plan called Performance Share Plan. This 
equity-settled plan replaced as of 2015 the cash-settled Phantom Share Plan effective from 2011 through 2014 and is applicable for 
members of the Executive Board and selected positions below the Executive Board (‘Participants’) whereas the Phantom Share Plan 
solely included members of the Executive Board.
39.1 Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, each year performance shares are conditionally awarded subject to performance over a vesting 
period of three financial years. The number of awarded performance shares is calculated by dividing the award value (expressed as a 
percentage of fixed remuneration) by the average closing price of the BAM share on Euronext Amsterdam on the five days after the 
General Meeting in the year of award. 
Performance is based on two financial objectives, being relative total shareholder return (TSR) and return on capital employed (ROCE) 
and one non-financial objective, being sustainability. TSR is defined as the share price increase, including dividends and measured over a 
three year period based on the three month average share price before the start and the end of the three year performance period. The 
relative position within the peer group determines the vesting percentage. The TSR peer group comprises of Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, 
Eiffage, Heijmans, Hochtief, NCC, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci, VolkerWessels (and BAM). At the beginning of each financial year, based upon 
a proposal from the Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory Board determines the performance incentive zones (i.e. threshold, at 
target and excellent performance levels) for ROCE and sustainability.
After the three year performance period, the Supervisory Board will assess the extent to which the performance objectives have been 
achieved. This results in a vesting percentage for each of the three performance objectives, each determining one third of the vesting of 
the conditionally awarded performance shares. For excellent performance, the number of performance shares that vests may amount to 
a maximum of 150 per cent of the ‘at target’ number of performance shares. This percentage may be reduced to 50 per cent (on a sliding 
scale) for threshold performance and to 0 below that. The TSR objective will also operate as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting linked to 
the other two performance objectives: in case BAM ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the other two objectives will 
not result in vesting regardless of the performance.
172
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSupervisory Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Supervisory Board for services is shown below:
2019 2018
H.L.J. Noy, Chairman 80 80
G. Boon, Vice-Chairman 63 60
C.M.C. Mahieu 60 60
M.P. Sheffield 68 69
H. Valentin 68 68
K.S. Wester, former Vice-Chairman 18 62
R. Provoost 8 -
365 399
The actual and necessarily incurred costs in the performance of the duties for the Group are reimbursed.
No share options have been awarded to the members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board do not hold any 
shares in the Company nor have loans or advances been granted as per  31 December 2019.
Other related parties
The Group has not entered into any material transaction with other related parties.
39. Share-based payments
In 2019, BAM’s long-term incentive plan consisted of a conditional share-based incentive plan called Performance Share Plan. This 
equity-settled plan replaced as of 2015 the cash-settled Phantom Share Plan effective from 2011 through 2014 and is applicable for 
members of the Executive Board and selected positions below the Executive Board (‘Participants’) whereas the Phantom Share Plan 
solely included members of the Executive Board.
39.1 Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, each year performance shares are conditionally awarded subject to performance over a vesting 
period of three financial years. The number of awarded performance shares is calculated by dividing the award value (expressed as a 
percentage of fixed remuneration) by the average closing price of the BAM share on Euronext Amsterdam on the five days after the 
General Meeting in the year of award. 
Performance is based on two financial objectives, being relative total shareholder return (TSR) and return on capital employed (ROCE) 
and one non-financial objective, being sustainability. TSR is defined as the share price increase, including dividends and measured over a 
three year period based on the three month average share price before the start and the end of the three year performance period. The 
relative position within the peer group determines the vesting percentage. The TSR peer group comprises of Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, 
Eiffage, Heijmans, Hochtief, NCC, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci, VolkerWessels (and BAM). At the beginning of each financial year, based upon 
a proposal from the Remuneration Committee, the Supervisory Board determines the performance incentive zones (i.e. threshold, at 
target and excellent performance levels) for ROCE and sustainability.
After the three year performance period, the Supervisory Board will assess the extent to which the performance objectives have been 
achieved. This results in a vesting percentage for each of the three performance objectives, each determining one third of the vesting of 
the conditionally awarded performance shares. For excellent performance, the number of performance shares that vests may amount to 
a maximum of 150 per cent of the ‘at target’ number of performance shares. This percentage may be reduced to 50 per cent (on a sliding 
scale) for threshold performance and to 0 below that. The TSR objective will also operate as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting linked to 
the other two performance objectives: in case BAM ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the other two objectives will 
not result in vesting regardless of the performance.
173
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price at 
the moment of vesting – that will become unconditional to a participant will at vesting never exceed two and a half times the award 
value in order to avoid inappropriate payouts.
The three-year vesting period will be followed by a two-year lock-up period. In addition, there is a minimum share ownership 
requirement. Executive Board members are not allowed to divest any shareholding until the two-year lock-up period has lapsed and the 
minimum share ownership requirements are met, with the exception of any sale of shares during the lock-up period required to meet 
any tax obligations and social security premiums (including any other duties and levies) as a consequence of the vesting.
The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined performance 
conditions:
TSR ROCE Sustainability
Ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
2 125% Excellent 150% Excellent 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below threshold 0% Below threshold 0%
6 25%
7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%
At the end of each reporting period, BAM revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the non-
market vesting conditions (financial and non-financial) and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In principle, conditionally awarded shares are forfeited if the participant is no longer employed by the company, however upon 
termination of employment due to retirement, disability or death the participant (or his or her heirs) reserves the right on the pro rata 
number of conditionally awarded shares to become unconditionally pursuant to the same vesting conditions as described above (pro 
rata means the number of full months that the participant was engaged by the Company during the performance period divided by
36 months). For the performance shares, the most recent performance results will be applied to calculate the number of vested shares.
The status of the Performance Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2019 for the members of the Executive Board and for all other 
participants is shown below:
As at
1 January
2019Awarded Vested
(including 
dividend)Forfeited As at
31 December
2019
R.P. van Wingerden 329,832 114,926 - 112,711 332,047
L.F. den Houter - 68,393 - - 68,393
E.J. Bax 199,833 - - 129,551 70,282
Other participants * 972,382 504,605 - 413,597 1,063,390
1,502,047 687,924 - 655,859 1,534,112
*The closing balance as per 31 December 2018 included a number of 68,195 shares, which were already forfeited in 2018, in line with the applicable plan 
rules and as included in the note. The opening balance in the above table has been adjusted accordingly.The fair value per share of the 2019 award, for the participants, in connection with the TSR performance part amounted to €4.86 per 
share and is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. For the other financial and non-financial performance part, the fair value 
equals the share price at the date of award, corrected for the expected value of the possibility of achieving the ‘circuit breaker’. As 
participants receive dividend compensation the dividend yield on the awards equals nil. 
For the Performance Share Plan 2016 the ‘circuit breaker’ was applicable, leading to the full plan of 487,906 (remaining) shares to be 
forfeited as at the vesting date 28 April 2019.
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2019
Share price at award date (in €) 4.38 
Risk-free interest rate (in %) (0.42)
Volatility (in %) 44.89
Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of five years. 
In 2019, an amount of €48,000 was released (2018: €95,000 charged) to the income statement arising from the Performance Share Plan 
due to not meeting the relevant vesting conditions. 
39.2  Phantom Share Plan
The last Phantom Share Plan has been paid out in 2019. Under the Phantom Share Plan the number of phantom shares awarded is 
calculated by dividing the award value (expressed as a percentage of fixed remuneration) by the average share price based on the five 
trading days after the Annual General Meeting. 
The phantom shares are awarded on the sixth trading day following the day of the Annual General Meeting and vest subject to the 
achievement of pre-determined performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed by 
BAM.
The number of shares that have been vested depended on BAM’s performance compared to five other listed construction companies in 
Europe, measured over a three-year period using TSR, which is the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. The peer group on the 
previous balance sheet date consisted of Balfour Beatty, Ballast Nedam (until delisting), Bilfinger, Heijmans and Skanska. Vested phantom 
shares are not paid out to participants until the two year lock-up period has lapsed. The maximum cash distribution to the participants at 
the date of payout of the Phantom Share Plan is capped at 1.5 times the fixed remuneration of the participant.
The final status of the Phantom Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2019 for the individual Executive Board members is as follows:
As at
1 January
2019Stock 
dividendPayout* As at  
31 December 
2019
R.P. van Wingerden 62,847 2,053 64,900 -
E.J. Bax 62,847 2,053 64,900 -
125,694 4,106 129,800 -
*The vesting percentage is 45 per cent, so 55 per cent of the shares have not been paid out.
174
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe fair value per share of the 2019 award, for the participants, in connection with the TSR performance part amounted to €4.86 per 
share and is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. For the other financial and non-financial performance part, the fair value 
equals the share price at the date of award, corrected for the expected value of the possibility of achieving the ‘circuit breaker’. As 
participants receive dividend compensation the dividend yield on the awards equals nil. 
For the Performance Share Plan 2016 the ‘circuit breaker’ was applicable, leading to the full plan of 487,906 (remaining) shares to be 
forfeited as at the vesting date 28 April 2019.
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2019
Share price at award date (in €) 4.38 
Risk-free interest rate (in %) (0.42)
Volatility (in %) 44.89
Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of five years. 
In 2019, an amount of €48,000 was released (2018: €95,000 charged) to the income statement arising from the Performance Share Plan 
due to not meeting the relevant vesting conditions. 
39.2  Phantom Share Plan
The last Phantom Share Plan has been paid out in 2019. Under the Phantom Share Plan the number of phantom shares awarded is 
calculated by dividing the award value (expressed as a percentage of fixed remuneration) by the average share price based on the five 
trading days after the Annual General Meeting. 
The phantom shares are awarded on the sixth trading day following the day of the Annual General Meeting and vest subject to the 
achievement of pre-determined performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed by 
BAM.
The number of shares that have been vested depended on BAM’s performance compared to five other listed construction companies in 
Europe, measured over a three-year period using TSR, which is the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. The peer group on the 
previous balance sheet date consisted of Balfour Beatty, Ballast Nedam (until delisting), Bilfinger, Heijmans and Skanska. Vested phantom 
shares are not paid out to participants until the two year lock-up period has lapsed. The maximum cash distribution to the participants at 
the date of payout of the Phantom Share Plan is capped at 1.5 times the fixed remuneration of the participant.
The final status of the Phantom Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2019 for the individual Executive Board members is as follows:
As at
1 January
2019Stock 
dividendPayout* As at  
31 December 
2019
R.P. van Wingerden 62,847 2,053 64,900 -
E.J. Bax 62,847 2,053 64,900 -
125,694 4,106 129,800 -
*The vesting percentage is 45 per cent, so 55 per cent of the shares have not been paid out.
175
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDuring 2019 the Phantom Share Plan 2014 has been paid out. The value has been based on the average share price of BAM on the five 
trading days before the end of the blocking period as per 1 May 2019 (€4.2834) and on the number of vested shares three years after the 
award against the vesting percentage of 45 per cent. The finalisation of the 2014 award (end of lock-up period 1 May 2019) has resulted 
in a payout of €287 thousand for the current and retired Executive Board members. In addition, 45 per cent of 19,263 shares have been 
paid out to retired Executive Board members during 2019.
The payout of the 2014 Phantom Share Plan for previous Executive Board Member Thessa Menssen has already taken place in 2018.
   
In 2019, an amount of € 124,000  was charged (2018: €82,000 charged) to the income statement arising from the Phantom Share Plan. 
As at 31 December 2019, no liability exists (2018: €245 thousand).
40. Joint operations
A part of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements and classified as joint operations. This applies to all activities and all 
countries in which the Group operates. These arrangements remain in place until a project is finished. In practice, the duration of the 
majority of the joint operations is limited to a period of between 1 and 4 years, with the exception of joint operations in connection with 
land and building rights held for strategic purposes.
Based on assessment of balance sheet total, revenue and result, none of the joint operations is material to the Group, except for OpenIJ 
EPC V.O.F. in which the construction of sea lock IJmuiden is carried out. BAM’s share in the result of OpenIJ EPC V.O.F. amounts to a loss of 
4 million (2018: €32 million loss).
The Group’s share of the revenue of these joint operations amounts to approximately €1.0 billion in 2019 (2018: approximately  
€1.4 billion), which represents approximately 14 per cent of the Group’s revenue (2018: 19 per cent). 
The Group’s share of the balance sheets of joint operations is indicated below: 
(in € million) 2019
Construction
and Property  Civil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets 0.2 21.4 21.6
 - Current assets 339.1 586.3 925.4
339.3 607.7 947.0
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 25.7 3.0 28.7
 - Current liabilities 318.4 588.9 907.3
344.1 591.9 936.0
Net balance (4.8) 15.8 11.0(in € million) 2018
Construction
and Property  Civil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets 0.2 33.4 33.6
 - Current assets 385.8 608.0 993.6
385.8 641.4 1,027.2
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 30.5 17.7 48.2
 - Current liabilities 362.0 676.2 1,038.2
392.5 693.9 1,086.4
Net balance (6.7) (52.5) (59.2)
The group has capital commitments under joint operations amount to €8 million (2018: €5 million). Guarantees issued by banks and 
surety companies amount to €31 million (2018: €15 million). Transfers of funds and/or other assets are made in consultation with the 
partners of the joint operations. 
As from 31 December 2018, on a prospective basis, the Group has classified the Argen as Joint Ventures to fully align with interpretations 
from German Audit Profession. 
176
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management(in € million) 2018
Construction
and Property  Civil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets 0.2 33.4 33.6
 - Current assets 385.8 608.0 993.6
385.8 641.4 1,027.2
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 30.5 17.7 48.2
 - Current liabilities 362.0 676.2 1,038.2
392.5 693.9 1,086.4
Net balance (6.7) (52.5) (59.2)
The group has capital commitments under joint operations amount to €8 million (2018: €5 million). Guarantees issued by banks and 
surety companies amount to €31 million (2018: €15 million). Transfers of funds and/or other assets are made in consultation with the 
partners of the joint operations. 
As from 31 December 2018, on a prospective basis, the Group has classified the Argen as Joint Ventures to fully align with interpretations 
from German Audit Profession. 
177
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management41. Service concession arrangements
The Group operates various service concession arrangements, both in the accommodation and infrastructure areas. These activities 
comprise the construction, exploitation, maintenance and divestment of (a part of) concession arrangements structured through 
separate legal entities and are principally carried out by BAM PPP independently and/or in collaboration with third parties. 
The Group has a stake in the following concession arrangements:
Interest Classification Category Country Operational As fromConcession 
period 
(in years)
Accommodations
East Ayrshire Hospital 100% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2000 25
Wharfedale Hospital 75% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2004 30
Derby Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2000 30
Cheshire Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2003 30
Peacehaven Schools 100% Group company Education United Kingdom Yes 2001 25
Bromsgrove Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2008 30
Solihull Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 25
West Dunbartonshire Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 30
Somerset Schools 17.8% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Camden Schools 18% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Irish Schools Bundle 3 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2014 25
Irish Schools Bundle 4 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2016 25
Irish Courts Bundle 20% Joint venture Justice Ireland Yes 2017 25
Gent Universiteit 20% Joint venture Education Belgium Yes 2011 33
Beveren Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Belgium Yes 2013 25
Dendermonde Prison 100% Joint venture Justice Belgium No 2022 25
Schiphol 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2012 25
High Court 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2015 30
Ministry VROM 20% Joint venture Other Netherlands Yes 2017 25
Potsdam 100% Group company Other Germany Yes 2012 30
Bremervoerde Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Germany Yes 2013 25
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein 50% Joint venture Health Germany No 2015 29
Burgdorf Prison 17.6% Joint venture Justice Switzerland Yes 2012 25
Infrastructure
Dundalk By-pass 6.7% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2005 28
Waterford By-pass 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2009 30
Portlaoise 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2010 30
N11/N7 20% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2015 25
M11 10% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2019 25
N25 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2020 25
A59 14% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2005 15
N31 66.7% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2007 15
A12 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2012 20
N33 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2014 20
Infraspeed HSL 10.5% Associate Railway Netherlands Yes 2006 25
Lock IJmuiden 50% Joint venture Lock Netherlands No 2022 26
Afsluitdijk 46% Joint venture Dike Netherlands No 2022 25
A8 5% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2010 30
A9 50% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2014 17
A94 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2019 26
A10/A24 70% Joint venture Motorway Germany No 2023 25
Liefkenshoektunnel 10% Joint venture Railway Belgium Yes 2013 38
Brabo II 80.1% Joint venture Tramway Belgium No 2020 25
Cross River Rail 15% Joint venture Railway Australia No 2024 24
Silvertown Tunnel 22.5% Joint venture Motorway United Kingdom No 2024 25
178
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Group is also involved in (accommodation and infrastructure) concession arrangements and energy service companies through other 
group companies.
The Group’s equity investment in PPP projects amount to €80 million (2018: €75 million).
The Group has approximately €46 million (2018: €40 million) of obligations for capital contributions (after deduction of the PGGM share) in 
projects which have been awarded to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM. Construction revenue to be realised in connection with PPP projects 
amounts to approximately €1.5 billion (2018: approximately €0.8 billion).
A further description of the Group’s concession arrangements is as follows:
Accommodation
The accommodation concession arrangements relate to schools, police stations, hospitals, sport complexes, a penitentiary institution and a 
laboratory building. These arrangements are located in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Switzerland. The 
concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the accommodation. The actual usage of the accommodation 
does not affect the amount of the concession payments. Most arrangements include maintenance and facility management services.
During the concession periods, payments are based on the availability of the related accommodation and the maintenance and facility 
management services. The majority of the concession arrangements are subject to indexation. The part of the concession payment that relates 
to the services will be evaluated every five years in general, using a benchmark. There may consequently be a limited settlement with the 
principal as a result. However, the volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
Infrastructure
The infrastructure concession arrangements relate to motorways in Ireland, the Netherlands and Germany, a railway tunnel in Belgium, a 
railway line in the Netherlands and a coastal defence scheme in the United Kingdom. The concession arrangements started between 2005 up 
to and including 2019, for periods varying from 15 to 38 years.
The majority of the concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the related infrastructure. This availability 
is evaluated based on the contractually agreed upon criteria. These criteria cover the intensity of usage, temporary closures and maintenance. 
There may consequently be (temporarily) adjustments to the concession payments with the principal as a result. However, the volatility of the 
revenue and result is limited.
For three motorways in Ireland and one in Germany, concession payments are directly linked to the traffic volume (toll collection) and 
revenueand result are consequently volatile to some extent.
42. Government grants
Government grants received in 2019 amount to €6.2 million (2018: €2.6 million), of wich an amount of €4.3 million (2018: nil) is related 
to R&D and €1.9 million (2018: €2.6 million) to education.
43. Research and development
Research and development costs, which predominantly relate to projects, are considered to be part of contract costs. 
Other research and development costs, in the amount of approximately €0.2 million (2018: approximately €0.2 million), are recognised 
in the income statement. 
44. Events after the reporting period
The Supervisory Board of Royal BAM Group nv has announced that by mutual agreement it has been decided that Rob van Wingerden 
will not be nominated for a next term as CEO and member of the Executive Board. In accordance with its contractual obligations, BAM 
will pay a severance payment of one-year base salary.  
No further material events after the reporting period have occurred.
179
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management Notes 31 December 
201931 December  
 2018 
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2 12,320  8,760
Right-of-use assets *3 4,314 -
Intangible assets 4 368,712  361,955 
Financial assets 5 1,033,795  1,154,469 
Deferred tax assets 6 114,046  124,005 
1,533,187  1,649,189 
Current assets
Receivables 7 38,442  35,338 
Cash and cash equivalents 8 220,850  172,604 
259,292  207,942 
  
Total assets 1,792,479  1,857,131 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
Issued and paid capital 9 27,941  27,879 
Share premium 811,370  811,432 
Reserves (183,647)  (164,966)
Retained earnings (39,066)  30,913 
Net result 11,846  23,773 
628,444  729,031 
Provisions
Employee benefits 10 14,712  42,747 
14,712  42,747 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings *11 120,451  117,637 
Lease liabilities *12 2,709 -
123,160  117,637 
Current liabilities
Lease liabilities * 12 1,683  -
Other liabilities 13 1,024,480  967,716 
1,026,163  967,716 
  
Total equity and liabilities 1,792,479  1,857,131
*  As from 2019 all lease contracts have been capitalised (former operational and finance leases) as right-of use assets, due to the implementation of  
IFRS 16. Accordingly, lease liabilities have been separately included under non-current and current liabilities. In 2018 the lease liabilities were included  
in borrowings and only related to finance leases. Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
(before appropriation of result, x €1,000)
180
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management Notes 31 December 
201931 December  
 2018 
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2 12,320  8,760
Right-of-use assets *3 4,314 -
Intangible assets 4 368,712  361,955 
Financial assets 5 1,033,795  1,154,469 
Deferred tax assets 6 114,046  124,005 
1,533,187  1,649,189 
Current assets
Receivables 7 38,442  35,338 
Cash and cash equivalents 8 220,850  172,604 
259,292  207,942 
  
Total assets 1,792,479  1,857,131 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
Issued and paid capital 9 27,941  27,879 
Share premium 811,370  811,432 
Reserves (183,647)  (164,966)
Retained earnings (39,066)  30,913 
Net result 11,846  23,773 
628,444  729,031 
Provisions
Employee benefits 10 14,712  42,747 
14,712  42,747 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings *11 120,451  117,637 
Lease liabilities *12 2,709 -
123,160  117,637 
Current liabilities
Lease liabilities * 12 1,683  -
Other liabilities 13 1,024,480  967,716 
1,026,163  967,716 
  
Total equity and liabilities 1,792,479  1,857,131
*  As from 2019 all lease contracts have been capitalised (former operational and finance leases) as right-of use assets, due to the implementation of  
IFRS 16. Accordingly, lease liabilities have been separately included under non-current and current liabilities. In 2018 the lease liabilities were included  
in borrowings and only related to finance leases.  
Notes 2019 2018
Internal charges 14 120,291 105,385
External charges (10,421) (7,718) 
Employee benefit expenses 15 (33,536) (31,647) 
Depreciation and amortisation charges 2,3,4 (7,909) (5,292) 
Other operating expenses (68,893) (61,352) 
Exchange rate differences 913 561
(119,846) (105,448)
  
Operating result 445 (63)
Finance income 16 10,837 14,793
Finance expense 16 (12,936) (13,137) 
(2,099) 1,656
Share of result of investments 5 28,114 96,218 
  
Result before tax 26,460 97,811 
Income tax (14,614) (74,038) 
Result for the year from operations 11,846 23,773Company income statement
(x €1,000)
181
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management1. Summary of significant accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The company financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’) have been prepared in accordance with Part 9,  
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and 
measurement principles applied in these parent company financial statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated 
financial statements (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).
Regarding IFRS 9 combination 3, the Group has applied the Dutch ‘RJ 100.107a’ regarding expected credit losses. Therefore the expected 
credit losses on receivables from subsidiaries have not been included in the company financial statements, since these have been 
eliminated within the book value of the receivables.
1.2 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. The net asset value is calculated using the accounting policies, as described 
in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The net asset value of subsidiaries comprises the cost, excluding goodwill, of BAM’s 
share in the net assets of the subsidiary plus BAM’s share in income or losses since acquisition, less dividends received. 
1.3 Income tax
Corporate income tax is allocated to the subsidiaries forming part of the fiscal unit, as if they were independent taxable entities. 
2. Property, plant and equipment
Other
assets Total
As at 1 January 2018
Cost 22,224 22,224
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (14,646) (14,646)
7,578 7,578
Additions  5,594  5,594 
Disposals  (23)  (23)
Depreciation charges  (4,389)  (4,389)
 1,182  1,182 
As at 31 December 2018   
Cost 27,794 27,794
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (19,034) (19,034)
8,760 8,760
Additions 8,417 8,417
Disposals (2) (2)
Reclassifications (6) (6)
Depreciation charges (4,849) (4,849)
3,560 3,560
As at 31 December 2019
Cost 36,193 36,193
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (23,873) (23,873)
12,320 12,320Notes to the company financial statements
3. Right-of-use assets
Land and 
buildings Cars Total
As at 1 January 2019 132 3,474 3,606
Additions 35 2,149 2,184
Depreciation charges (69) (1,407) (1,476)
(34) 742 708
As at 31 December 2019 98 4,216 4,314
All right-of-use assets are related to former operational leases, no finance lease were applicable in 2018. 
Additional information on right-of-use assets is disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
182
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3. Right-of-use assets
Land and 
buildings Cars Total
As at 1 January 2019 132 3,474 3,606
Additions 35 2,149 2,184
Depreciation charges (69) (1,407) (1,476)
(34) 742 708
As at 31 December 2019 98 4,216 4,314
All right-of-use assets are related to former operational leases, no finance lease were applicable in 2018. 
Additional information on right-of-use assets is disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
183
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management4.  Intangible assets
GoodwillNon-
integrated 
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2018
Cost 514,546 4,455 883 519,884
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (157,088) (2,050) (155) (159,293)
357,458 2,405 728 360,591
Additions  -  4,128  -  4,128 
Amortisation charges  -  (815)  (88)  (903) 
Exchange rate differences  (1,861)  -  -  (1,861) 
 (1,861)  3,313 (88)  1,364 
As at 31 December 2018
Cost  512,685  6,859  883  520,427 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (157,088)  (1,141)  (243)  (158,472) 
 355,597  5,718  640  361,955 
Additions - 1,111 - 1,111
Amortisation charges - (1,496) (88) (1,584)
Exchange rate differences 7,230 - - 7,230
7,230 (385) (88) 6,757
As at 31 December 2019
Cost 519,915 7,946 883 528,744
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (157,088) (2,613) (331) (160,032)
362,827 5,333 552 368,7125. Financial assets
Shares in 
subsidiariesReceivables 
from 
subsidiariesOther 
participating 
interests Total
As at 1 January 2018 647,496 566,815 648 1,214,959
Net result for the year 96,218 - - 96,218
Dividends (17,255) - - (17,255)
Reclassifications (13,661) 13,661 - -
Adjustments in group structure (12) - - (12)
Capital contributions 41,000 - - 41,000
Loans granted and repayments - (200,469) - (200,469)
Hedging reserve (4,532) - - (4,532)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 29,110 - - 29,110
Exchange rate differences (4,550) - - (4,550)
As at 31 December 2018 773,814 380,007 648 1,154,469
Net result for the year 28,114 - - 28,114
Dividends (18,589) - - (18,589)
Adjustments in group structure (38) - - (38)
Capital contributions 22,500 - - 22,500
Loans granted and repayments - (73,815) - (73,815)
Hedging reserve (30,745) - - (30,745)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations (63,735) - - (63,735)
Exchange rate differences 15,634 - - 15,634
As at 31 December 2019 726,955 306,192 648 1,033,795
The reclassification in 2018 relates to the entities of the Dutch sector Construction and Property and BAM Services Nederland bv. 
None of the financial assets were subject to impairment.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is disclosed in section Other information, paragraph 8.5.
6. Deferred tax assets
2019 2018
Deferred tax assets 114,046  124,005 
114,046  124,005 
Deferred tax assets include the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany and the tax loss carry-forwards of the 
operations in the Netherlands to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable offset 
against deferred tax liabilities.
Additional information on deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
184
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management5. Financial assets
Shares in 
subsidiariesReceivables 
from 
subsidiariesOther 
participating 
interests Total
As at 1 January 2018 647,496 566,815 648 1,214,959
Net result for the year 96,218 - - 96,218
Dividends (17,255) - - (17,255)
Reclassifications (13,661) 13,661 - -
Adjustments in group structure (12) - - (12)
Capital contributions 41,000 - - 41,000
Loans granted and repayments - (200,469) - (200,469)
Hedging reserve (4,532) - - (4,532)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 29,110 - - 29,110
Exchange rate differences (4,550) - - (4,550)
As at 31 December 2018 773,814 380,007 648 1,154,469
Net result for the year 28,114 - - 28,114
Dividends (18,589) - - (18,589)
Adjustments in group structure (38) - - (38)
Capital contributions 22,500 - - 22,500
Loans granted and repayments - (73,815) - (73,815)
Hedging reserve (30,745) - - (30,745)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations (63,735) - - (63,735)
Exchange rate differences 15,634 - - 15,634
As at 31 December 2019 726,955 306,192 648 1,033,795
The reclassification in 2018 relates to the entities of the Dutch sector Construction and Property and BAM Services Nederland bv. 
None of the financial assets were subject to impairment.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is disclosed in section Other information, paragraph 8.5.
6. Deferred tax assets
2019 2018
Deferred tax assets 114,046  124,005 
114,046  124,005 
Deferred tax assets include the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany and the tax loss carry-forwards of the 
operations in the Netherlands to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable offset 
against deferred tax liabilities.
Additional information on deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
185
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management7. Receivables
2019 2018
Amounts due from subsidiaries 23,173  21,752 
Prepayments and accrued income 15,269  13,586 
38,442  35,338 
Receivables are due within one year.
8. Cash and cash equivalents
2019 2018
Cash at bank and in hand 220,850  172,604 
220,850  172,604 
Cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Company.
9. Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
At year-end 2019, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2018: 400 million) and 600 million preference 
shares (2018: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2018: €0.10 per share).
All issued shares have been paid in full.
Movements in the number of ordinary shares are as follows:
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of 
treasury 
sharesNumber of
ordinary 
shares in issue
As at 1 January 2018 274,925,419 1,712,085 273,213,334 
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 3,940,956 (3,940,956)
Awarded LTI shares (170,039) 170,039
Dividends 3,853,600  -  3,853,600
As at 31 December 2018 278,779,019 5,483,002 273,296,017 
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 4,482,030 (4,482,030)
Awarded LTI shares - - -
Dividends 628,430 (3,853,600) 4,482,030
As at 31 December 2019 279,407,449 6,111,432 273,296,017Movements in shareholders’ equity are as follows:
Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
Issued and 
paid capitalShare 
premium ReservesRetained 
earnings Net result Total
As at 1 January 2018 27,493 811,818 (152,815) 48,549 (13,789) 721,256 
Net result for the year - - - - 23,773 23,773
Appropriation of result - - - (13,789) 13,789 -
Dividends 386 (386) - (11,429) - (11,429)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - - 21,973 - 21,973
Cash flow hedges - - (4,541) - - (4,541)
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - - (15,492) - (15,492)
Share-based payments - - - (95) - (95)
Exchange rate differences - - (6,410) - - (6,410)
Development cost - - (1,200) 1,200 - -
Other - - - (4) - (4) 
As at 31 December 2018 27,879 811,432 (164,966) 30,913 23,773 729,031 
Net result for the year - - - - 11,846 11,846
Appropriation of result 23,773 (23,773) -
Dividends 62 (62) - (19,456) - (19,456)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - - (68,125) - (68,125)
Cash flow hedges - - (30,745) - - (30,745)
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - - (16,889) - (16,889)
Share-based payments - - - (46) - (46)
Exchange rate differences - - 22,864 - - 22,864
Development cost - - (10,800) 10,800 - -
Other - - - (36) - (36)
As at 31 December 2019 27,941 811,370 (183,647) (39,066) 11,846 628,444
9.1 Reserves
Reserves relate to the reserves for (cash flow) hedging, translation differences and legal reserve related to the capitalisation of 
development cost. All of these reserves are legal reserves that are required by Dutch law. Distributions to the shareholders of the 
Company are restricted to the extent of the balance.
The hedging reserve amounts to €95 million negative  (2018: €64 million negative) and the translation reserve €89 million negative 
(2018: €112 million negative). The total reserves include as legal reserve for the capitalised development cost of €0 million 
(2018: €10.8 million).
For a further breakdown of the reserves see note 16 en 17 in the Consolidated statements.
9.2 Dividends per share
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2019 of 2 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase of shares to offset dilution (2018: 14 eurocents). Based on the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding at year-end 2019, a maximum of €5.5 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
 
186
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMovements in shareholders’ equity are as follows:
Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
Issued and 
paid capitalShare 
premium ReservesRetained 
earnings Net result Total
As at 1 January 2018 27,493 811,818 (152,815) 48,549 (13,789) 721,256 
Net result for the year - - - - 23,773 23,773
Appropriation of result - - - (13,789) 13,789 -
Dividends 386 (386) - (11,429) - (11,429)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - - 21,973 - 21,973
Cash flow hedges - - (4,541) - - (4,541)
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - - (15,492) - (15,492)
Share-based payments - - - (95) - (95)
Exchange rate differences - - (6,410) - - (6,410)
Development cost - - (1,200) 1,200 - -
Other - - - (4) - (4) 
As at 31 December 2018 27,879 811,432 (164,966) 30,913 23,773 729,031 
Net result for the year - - - - 11,846 11,846
Appropriation of result 23,773 (23,773) -
Dividends 62 (62) - (19,456) - (19,456)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - - (68,125) - (68,125)
Cash flow hedges - - (30,745) - - (30,745)
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - - (16,889) - (16,889)
Share-based payments - - - (46) - (46)
Exchange rate differences - - 22,864 - - 22,864
Development cost - - (10,800) 10,800 - -
Other - - - (36) - (36)
As at 31 December 2019 27,941 811,370 (183,647) (39,066) 11,846 628,444
9.1 Reserves
Reserves relate to the reserves for (cash flow) hedging, translation differences and legal reserve related to the capitalisation of 
development cost. All of these reserves are legal reserves that are required by Dutch law. Distributions to the shareholders of the 
Company are restricted to the extent of the balance.
The hedging reserve amounts to €95 million negative  (2018: €64 million negative) and the translation reserve €89 million negative 
(2018: €112 million negative). The total reserves include as legal reserve for the capitalised development cost of €0 million 
(2018: €10.8 million).
For a further breakdown of the reserves see note 16 en 17 in the Consolidated statements.
9.2 Dividends per share
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2019 of 2 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase of shares to offset dilution (2018: 14 eurocents). Based on the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding at year-end 2019, a maximum of €5.5 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
 
187
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management10. Provisions
2019 2018
Employee benefits 14,712  42,747 
14,712  42,747
The duration of the provisions is more than one year. Provisions with a duration less than one year are included in current liabilities.
11. Borrowings
2019 2018
Subordinated convertible bonds 120,451 117,637 
120,451 117,637
Additional information on borrowings is disclosed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
12. Lease liabilities
2019 2018
Lease liabilities 4,392 -
4,392 -
As from 2019, all lease liabilities (former operational leases) are included in the balance sheet. In 2018 no finance leases occurred.
Additional information on lease liabilities is disclosed in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
13. Current liabilities
2019 2018
Amounts due to subsidiaries 985,833 928,118 
Other liabilities 38,647 39,598 
1,024,480 967,716
The other liabilities mainly consist of trade and other payables.14. Internal charges
The internal charges represent services that have been charged to the other Group companies. 
15. Employee benefit expenses
2019 2018
Wages and salaries 28,282 26,994
Social security costs 2,870 2,570
Pension costs - defined contribution plans 2,218 1,909
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 166 174
33,536 31,647
At year-end 2019, the Company had 307 employees in FTE (2018: 271). The average number of employees in FTE amounted to  
289 (2018: 251). There are no employees in other countries than the Netherlands.
16. Finance income and expense
2019 2018
Finance income
- Interest income - intercompany 8,686  12,534 
- Interest income - cash at banks 307  78 
- Interest income - other financial assets 4  11 
- Other finance income 1,840  2,170 
10,837  14,793 
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds 7,189  7,025 
- Committed syndicated credit facility 185 328 
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility 2,708  2,611 
- Interest expense - intercompany 2,413  1,770 
- Interest expense on lease liabilities 54 -
- Recourse property financing 87  - 
- Other recourse financing 300  1,403 
12,936  13,137 
  
Net finance result (2,099)  1,656
Additional information on finance income and expense is disclosed in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
188
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management14. Internal charges
The internal charges represent services that have been charged to the other Group companies. 
15. Employee benefit expenses
2019 2018
Wages and salaries 28,282 26,994
Social security costs 2,870 2,570
Pension costs - defined contribution plans 2,218 1,909
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 166 174
33,536 31,647
At year-end 2019, the Company had 307 employees in FTE (2018: 271). The average number of employees in FTE amounted to  
289 (2018: 251). There are no employees in other countries than the Netherlands.
16. Finance income and expense
2019 2018
Finance income
- Interest income - intercompany 8,686  12,534 
- Interest income - cash at banks 307  78 
- Interest income - other financial assets 4  11 
- Other finance income 1,840  2,170 
10,837  14,793 
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds 7,189  7,025 
- Committed syndicated credit facility 185 328 
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility 2,708  2,611 
- Interest expense - intercompany 2,413  1,770 
- Interest expense on lease liabilities 54 -
- Recourse property financing 87  - 
- Other recourse financing 300  1,403 
12,936  13,137 
  
Net finance result (2,099)  1,656
Additional information on finance income and expense is disclosed in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
189
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management17. Related parties
The Company has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. 
These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at market prices.
Additional information on key management compensation is disclosed in note 38 to the consolidated financial statements.
18. Commitments and contingencies
18.1 Guarantees
The Company has issued parent company guarantees amounting to €178 million (2018: €160 million) at year-end 2019.
18.2  Third-party liability
The Company is jointly and severally liable for the debts of the subsidiaries based in the Netherlands pursuant to section 403, Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code.
The Company, together with other participants, has a joint and several liability for deficits in the Group’s cash pool as a whole.
The Company forms a fiscal unity with BAM’s major Dutch and certain other subsidiaries for income tax and VAT purposes and, for that 
reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch income tax and Dutch VAT liabilities of the whole fiscal unity. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2020
Supervisory Board:  Executive Board:
H.L.J. Noy  R.P. van Wingerden
G. Boon L.F. den Houter 
C.M.C. Mahieu 
M.P. Sheffield 
H. Valentin 
190
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management191
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTitel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Other information
Inspiration from New 
York  
The Lofts, Amsterdam,  
the Netherlands 
The Lofts is a response to 
the increasing demand for 
trendy and affordable 
housing in Amsterdam’s 
city centre, especially for 
millennials. AM and BAM 
Wonen are behind this 
collection of 212 studios 
and two-room apartments 
which come completely 
finished and can be 
arranged flexibly.  
The sturdy urban block was 
inspired by New York lofts 
and offers very energy-
efficiency, with an EPC of 
0.15. Solar panels on the 
roof provide the building 
with electricity. 
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
192To: the shareholders and Supervisory Board of Royal BAM Group nv
Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the independent auditor’s report, 
which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please refer to the next pages.
Summary
Conclusions
Object of audit or review Outcome of work performed Level of assurance
Financial statements 2019 (consolidated and company financial 
statements)True and fair view Reasonable assurance
Sustainability information 2019 in Material themes, Business 
conduct and transparency and SafetyReliable and adequate view Reasonable assurance
Sustainability information 2019 in selected chapters and 
appendicesReliable and adequate view Limited assurance
Other information, including the reports from the Executive 
Board and the Supervisory BoardNo material misstatements
Main features of our audit and review
What we have done Scope of our work Materiality Key audit and review matters
Audit of financial statements 
2019 (consolidated and company 
financial statements)Worldwide €35 million, based on 0.5% of 
revenueValuation of projects and revenue 
recognition, implementation of 
IFRS 16, valuation of deferred tax 
assets and valuation of land and 
building rights 
Audit of the sustainability 
information 2019Material themes, Business 
conduct and transparency 
and SafetySpecific materiality levels for each 
element of the sustainability 
information in scopeCompleteness registration of 
safety incidents
Review of the sustainability 
information 2019Selected chapters and 
appendicesSpecific materiality levels for each 
element of the sustainability 
information in scopeNone
Procedures for other information Full reports Similar materiality levels as our 
audit and review scopesNone8.1   Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2019  
financial statements and sustainability information
Our conclusions
We have audited the financial statements 2019 of Royal BAM Group 
nv based in Bunnik. The financial statements include the 
consolidated financial statements and the Company financial 
statements. We have reviewed the sustainability information and 
audited selected sustainability information in the integrated report 
for the year 2019 of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Report’). The scope is 
described in the section Our Scope. A review is aimed at obtaining a 
limited level of assurance. An audit is aimed at obtaining a 
reasonable level of assurance.
In our opinion:
• The consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of 
the financial position of Royal BAM Group nv as at 31 December 
2019 and of its result and its cash flows for 2019 in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code.• The Company financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
financial position of Royal BAM Group nv as at 31 December 2019 
and of its result for 2019 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code.
• The sustainability information in Material themes (pages 20-21), 
Business Conduct and transparency (pages 37-38) and Safety (KPI: 
IF BAM, KPI: number of serious accidents, KPI: safety behaviour 
audit) in chapter Social performance (pages 30-41) in the 
integrated report 2019 of Royal BAM Group nv is prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting 
Standards (core option) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
and the applied supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in 
appendix 9.6 Non-financial reporting process and methods.
Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability 
information does not present, in all material respects, a reliable 
and adequate view of the policy and business operations with 
regard to corporate social responsibility and the thereto related 
193
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementevents and achievements for the year 2019 in accordance with the 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (core option) of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the applied supplemental reporting 
criteria as disclosed in appendix 9.6 Non-financial reporting 
process and methods of the Report.
Based on our procedures performed according to the 
requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the 
Dutch Standard 720, we conclude that the other information 
included in the Report, including the Executive Board report and 
the report from the Supervisory Board:
• Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain 
material misstatements.
• Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 and 
section 2:135b of the Dutch Civil Code.
Basis for our conclusions
We performed our assurance engagements in accordance with 
Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch 
Standard 3810N ‘Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke 
verslagen’ (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability 
reports), which is a specified Dutch Standard that is based on the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, 
‘Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information’.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in 
the section Our responsibilities in this report.
We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions.
Our independence
We are independent of Royal BAM Group nv in accordance with the 
EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of 
public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties 
(Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the ‘Verordening inzake de 
onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, 
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with 
respect to independence)’ and other relevant independence 
regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not perform 
any activities that could result in a conflict of interest with our 
independent assurance engagements. Furthermore, we have 
complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels 
accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics)’. 
Our scope
Our engagements scope
The Report of Royal BAM Group nv consists of the financial 
statements and other information, including the Executive Board 
report and the report from the Supervisory Board, that provides 
altogether an overview of the policy, activities, events and 
performances related to both the financial position and the 
sustainable development of Royal BAM Group nv during reporting year 2019. The following information in the Report has been in 
scope for our assurance engagements:
The consolidated financial statements comprise:
• The consolidated statement of financial position as at  
31 December 2019;
• The following statements for 2019: the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows;
• The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
The Company financial statements comprise: 
•  The Company statement of financial position as at  
31 December 2019;
• The Company income statement for 2019;
• The notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.
The sustainability information comprises: 
• Reasonable assurance – Sustainability information in the 
following paragraphs/chapters: Material themes (pages 20-21), 
Business conduct and transparency (pages 37-38) and Safety 
(KPI: IF BAM, KPI: number of serious accidents, KPI: safety 
behaviour audit) in chapter Social performance (pages 30-41) - 
hereafter: the selected sustainability information.
• Limited assurance – All other sustainability information 
reported in the paragraphs/chapters Business model (pages 
11-13), Strategy (pages 14-18), Stakeholder engagement and 
material themes (pages 19-21), Social performance (pages 
30-41), Environmental performance (pages 42-49), Non-
financial reporting process and methods (pages 214-216), GRI 
Disclosures as disclosed on the website of Royal BAM Group nv 
– hereafter: the other sustainability information.
The other information comprises:
• Key figures.
• Executive Board report.
• Report from the Supervisory Board.
• Remuneration report.
• Other information pursuant to the requirements of Part 9 of Book 
2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
• Chapter 9: appendices.
Limitations to the scope of our assurance engagement on the 
sustainability information
The sustainability information includes prospective information, 
such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and estimates. 
Inherent to prospective information, the actual future results are 
uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and 
achievability of prospective information in the sustainability 
information. 
The references to external sources or websites in the sustainability 
information, except for the GRI Disclosures, which are available on 
the website of Royal BAM Group nv, are not part of the sustainability 
information as reviewed and audited by us. We therefore do not 
provide assurance on this information.
194
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementReporting criteria
The financial statements and the sustainability information need to 
be read and understood together with the reporting criteria. Royal 
BAM Group nv is solely responsible for selecting and applying these 
reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations 
related to reporting. 
The absence of an established practice on which to draw, to evaluate 
and measure sustainability information allows for different, but 
acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability 
between entities and over time.
The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the financial 
statements and the sustainability information are presented below.
Consolidated financial 
statementsInternational Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European 
Union (EU-IFRS) and Part 9 of Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code
Corporate financial 
statements, report by 
the board of 
management and 
report of the 
Supervisory BoardPart 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
Sustainability 
informationSustainability Reporting Standards of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the 
applied supplemental reporting criteria 
as disclosed in appendix 9.6 Non-financial 
reporting process and methods on pages 
214-216 of the Report.
Our focus on fraud and non-compliance with laws 
and regulations
Our responsibility
Although we are not responsible for preventing fraud or non-
compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with 
all laws and regulations, it is our responsibility to obtain reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
Non-compliance with laws and regulations may result in fines, 
litigation or other consequences for the Company that may have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
Our audit response related to fraud risks
In order to identify and assess the risks of material misstatements of 
the financial statements due to fraud, we obtained an 
understanding of the entity and its environment, including the 
entity’s internal control relevant to the audit and in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. As in all 
of our audits, we addressed the risk of management override of 
internal control. We do not audit internal control per se for the 
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal control.We considered available information and made enquiries of relevant 
executives, directors (including internal audit, legal, compliance, 
human resources and regional directors) and the Supervisory Board. 
As part of our process of identifying fraud risks, we evaluated fraud 
risk factors with respect to financial reporting fraud, 
misappropriation of assets and bribery and corruption.
We evaluated the design and the implementation and, where 
considered appropriate, tested the operating effectiveness of internal 
controls that mitigate fraud risks. In addition, we performed 
procedures to evaluate key accounting estimates for management 
bias in particular relating to important judgment areas and significant 
accounting estimates as disclosed in Note 4. ‘Critical accounting 
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties’ in the 
financial statements. We have also used data analysis to identify and 
address high-risk journal entries.
We incorporated elements of unpredictability in our audit. We 
considered the outcome of our other audit procedures and evaluated 
whether any findings were indicative of fraud or non-compliance. If 
so, we reevaluate our assessment of fraud risk and its resulting 
impact on our audit procedures.
Our audit response related to risks of non-compliance with laws and 
regulations
We assessed factors related to the risks of non-compliance with laws 
and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material 
effect on the financial statements from our general industry 
experience, through discussions with the management board, 
reading minutes, inspection of internal audit and compliance reports 
and performing substantive tests of details of classes of transactions, 
account balances or disclosures.
We also inspected lawyers’ letters and correspondence with 
regulatory authorities and remained alert to any indication of 
(suspected) non-compliance throughout the audit. Finally we 
obtained written representations that all known instances of 
non-compliance with laws and regulations have been disclosed to us.
Going concern
In order to identify and assess the risks of going concern and to 
conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting, we consider based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to 
events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause a company to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
195
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMateriality
General
The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the 
application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to 
provide assurance about whether the financial statements and the 
sustainability information are free from material misstatement. 
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or errors. They are considered 
to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the (economic) decisions of 
users taken on the basis of the financial statements and the 
sustainability information. The materiality affects the nature, timing 
and extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation of the 
effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions.
Financial statements
For the audit of the financial statements our considerations 
regarding the materiality are as follows:
Materiality €35 million (2018: €34 million)
Benchmark used 0.5 per cent of revenue 
Additional 
explanationBased on our analyses of the common 
information needs of users of the financial 
statements, we consider profit before tax the 
most appropriate benchmark to determine 
materiality. However, profit before tax has 
been volatile in recent years and is not yet at a 
representative level, given the size of the 
business. For this reason we considered 
revenues to be a more appropriate benchmark 
to determine the materiality. 
We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible 
misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the 
financial statements for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess 
of €1.75 million, which are identified during the audit, would be 
reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view 
must be reported on qualitative grounds.
Sustainability information
Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality 
levels for each relevant part of the sustainability information and for 
the sustainability information as a whole. When evaluating our 
materiality levels, we have taken into account quantitative and 
qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of information for 
both stakeholders and the Company. 
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements which 
are identified during the review and which in our view must be 
reported on quantitative or qualitative grounds, would be reported 
to them.Our scope for the Group audit of the financial 
statements
Royal BAM Group nv is the head of a group of entities primarily 
located in BAM’s home countries (Belgium, Germany, Ireland, the 
Netherlands and United Kingdom), along with certain corporate 
functions part of Royal BAM Group nv’s headquarters. The financial 
information of this group is included in the consolidated financial 
statements of Royal BAM Group nv. 
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also 
responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group 
audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of 
the audit procedures to be carried out for entities within the Group. 
Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the entities within 
the Group or operations. On this basis, we selected entities within 
the Group for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the 
complete set of financial information or specific items. 
Our Group audit focused on significant entities within the Group. 
Entities are considered significant either because of their individual 
financial significance or because they are likely to include significant 
risks of material misstatement due to their specific nature or 
circumstances. On this basis, we selected entities for which an audit 
or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial 
information or on specific items. In establishing the overall approach 
to the audit, we determined the audit procedures required to be 
performed by us, as Group auditors or by (non-)Ernst & Young Global 
member firms operating under our instructions.
For the foreign BAM home countries, we involved EY component 
auditors, who are familiar with local laws and regulations and who 
applied full scope audits. In order to take responsibility as Group 
auditor in line with current auditing standards, we visited our 
component auditors in the Belgium, Germany, Ireland and United 
Kingdom and furthermore, we discussed the outcome of audit 
procedures with all component auditors.
BAM International has, for purpose of the 2019 audit, engaged EY 
Canada for the audit procedures on a project in Canada. For the 
Middle East projects, BAM has involved a local non-EY audit firm 
who we visited and we reviewed their work. We concluded that we 
can rely on both the EY and non-EY component auditors and their 
work performed in relation to the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Royal BAM Group nv.
We have performed audit procedures ourselves for entities within 
the Group located in the Netherlands, thereby focusing on the key 
risk areas. Apart from focusing on significant entities within the 
Group, we also reviewed and selected projects on a risk basis, 
thereby taking into consideration the size and nature of projects, 
as well as the countries in which projects are being executed. 
As a result of the above mentioned procedures, we have covered all 
entities and foreign locations that are material to the consolidated 
financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv. In addition, we have 
performed analytical review procedures and made inquiries with the 
196
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementValuation of projects and revenue recognition
Refer to pages 57-60 (Executive Board Report), pages 122-124 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties) and pages 128-130 (Note 6. Projects)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
The valuation of projects and revenue 
recognition are significant to the financial 
statements based on the quantitative 
materiality and the degree of management 
judgment required to account for complex 
projects and to apply the percentage of 
completion method. We therefore considered 
this to be a key audit matter.
BAM is involved in large and complex 
construction projects for which the Company 
applies the percentage of completion 
method. The amount of project revenue, 
profit recognised as well as provisions for 
onerous contracts in a year is dependent, inter 
alia, on the actual costs incurred, the 
assessment of the percentage of completion 
of (long-term) contracts and the forecasted 
contract revenue and costs to complete of 
each project. 
Furthermore, the amount of revenue and 
result is influenced by the valuation of 
variation orders and claims. This often 
involves a high degree of judgment due to the 
complexity of projects, uncertainty about 
costs to complete and uncertainty about the 
outcome of discussions with clients on 
variation orders and claims, thereby taking 
into account the various parts of the world 
BAM operates in.Our audit procedures included an assessment 
of the internal control environment of BAM, 
testing existence of relevant controls, 
performing site visits, vouching project 
valuations and testing the Executive Board’s 
position against supporting documentation 
and BAM’s accounting policy. In cases where 
a high amount of judgment is involved, we 
gained additional comfort by comparing the 
Executive Board’s positions to opinions from 
external parties such as lawyers or surveyors. 
For long-term contracts, we also compared 
BAM’s current positions taken to the 
positions taken in previous year, to ensure 
consistency in the valuation and to perform 
back testing on this estimate.Overall, we are of the opinion that projects 
have been valued in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU, thereby taking into 
account the disclosures with respect to risk 
and uncertainty mentioned on the pages 
referred to above. The Report also includes 
references to those projects valuations 
considered most significant by the Executive 
Board.Executive Board with respect to some smaller locations that are not 
material and made sure that there are no developments or 
exposures that should have been covered.
By performing the procedures mentioned above at entities within 
the Group, together with additional procedures at Group level, we 
have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence 
about the Group’s financial information to provide an opinion about 
the consolidated financial statements.
Our key audit and assurance matters
Key audit and assurance matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in our assurance 
procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability 
information. We have communicated the key audit and assurance 
matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit and assurance 
matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance 
procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability 
information as a whole and to conclude thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate conclusion on these matters. 
As per 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ is effective, which has a 
significant impact on BAM’s financial statements as from 2019. We 
therefore consider this topic to be a key audit matter for the audit of 
the financial statements 2019. As BAM has adopted IFRS 15 
‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ in 2018 we do not 
consider this to be a key audit matter for the audit of the financial 
statements 2019 anymore. Furthermore, we paid additional 
attention to Royal BAM Group nv’s reassessment of the forecasted 
results due to the lower than expected results of certain CGU’s as 
part of the annual impairment tests on goodwill in 2019. 
For the audit of the financial statements 2019 we identified the 
following key audit matters:
197
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementImplementation of IFRS 16
Refer to pages 97-115 (Summary of significant accounting policies), page 122-124 (Critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainties), 132 (Note 8. Right-of-use assets) and 151-153 (Note 20. Lease liabilities)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
BAM has adopted IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ with effect from 
1 January 2019, using the modified retrospective 
transition approach whereby comparative figures 
were not restated. BAM chose to apply the 
transition option whereby the right-of-use asset is 
measured at an amount equal to the lease liability 
at transition date. 
Implementation of the new standard has resulted 
in a significant impact on BAM’s financial 
statements as from 2019. At transition date the 
total assets increased with €265 million and the 
total liabilities with €271 million. We therefore 
considered this to be a key audit matter.Our audit procedures focused on auditing 
BAM’s transition adjustments and disclosures 
and assessing the appropriateness of the 
applied practical expedients, judgments and 
assumptions. Specific attention was paid to 
the completeness of the population of leases 
by among others an expense analysis on lease 
costs and a lease commitment reconciliation. 
We evaluated the completeness and accuracy 
of the data used to calculate the transition 
adjustments, which included an assessment 
of the reasonableness of estimates with 
respect to the lease term and the incremental 
borrowing rate.  
We also determined the accuracy of the lease 
calculations by the lease accounting tool 
applied by BAM. We concur with the IFRS 16 opening 
balances. 
We concur with the accounting for leases 
based on IFRS 16 including the relevant 
(transition) disclosures made in the 
Report.
Valuation of goodwill and deferred tax assets
Refer to page 27 (Executive Board Report), pages 122-124 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties), pages 133-134 (Note 9. Intangible assets) and pages 161-163 (Note 24. Deferred tax assets and liabilities)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
As per 31 December 2019, BAM recognised goodwill 
(€380 million) and deferred tax assets (€136 million).
The valuation of both goodwill and deferred tax 
assets is primarily based on expected future 
cashflows and forecasted results, among others 
derived from the 2020 operating plan as approved by 
the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board’s 
outlook based on order intake and expected margins 
for new projects for 2020 and beyond. 
Estimation of future cashflows and results inherently 
involves a high degree of judgment. We therefore 
considered this to be a key audit matter. The 
Executive Board has re-assessed the ability to realise 
projected future results to meet the recognition 
criteria under IFRS. To reflect for the lower than 
expected results in amongst others Germany, 
Belgium and the Netherlands, the Executive Board 
reduced the expected forecasted results for 2020 and 
onwards. For goodwill valuation purposes, BAM’s 
re-assessed whether projected future results would 
reduce the available headroom for certain CGU’s. 
CGU’s with limited headroom are disclosed on page 
134 of the Report. The reduced expected forecasted 
results led to an impairment of €24.6 million of the 
recognized deferred tax assets related to tax losses 
carried forward in the Netherlands and Germany. Our audit procedures included an 
assessment of the Company’s 
assumptions underlying the estimated 
future (taxable) results for their 
reasonableness and consistency with 
internal budgets, strategic plans for future 
years, order intake and expected margins 
for new projects for 2020 and beyond. We 
also challenged the Executive Board’s 
expectations of future (taxable) results, 
challenged risk adjustments made by the 
Executive Board and we assessed the 
historical accuracy of the Executive 
Board’s assumptions (back-testing) and 
analysed the rationale for differences 
between expected results and the actual 
results.
We involved a tax and valuation specialist 
to determine the reasonableness of the 
assumptions and models used by BAM in 
determining the valuation of goodwill and 
deferred tax assets. In our opinion, the Executive Board’s 
assessment on the recognised goodwill 
and deferred tax assets is reasonable 
and within the acceptable range of the 
requirements of IFRS. 
Realisation of the forecasted results 
should further evidence assumptions 
and the related valuation of goodwill 
and deferred tax assets. We do note 
assumptions may be impacted by future 
changes in the assessment and/or 
outcome of variable considerations on 
various projects as well as the long term 
expectation on the operational 
performance of BAM.  
198
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementValuation of land and building rights
Refer to pages 122-124 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties) and pages 128-130 
(Note 6. Projects)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
The estimates for valuation of land and 
building rights relate to terms which vary 
from one year to more than thirty years, 
because of which the estimation uncertainty 
is significant. We therefore considered this 
to be a key audit matter.We have assessed the calculations of the land’s 
net realisable values and challenged the 
reasonableness and consistency of the 
assumptions used by the Executive Board. We 
also determined consistency with prior years 
and external available information such as 
external appraisals and plans and decisions of 
government bodies. 
We also compared the Executive Board’s 
assumptions concerning the development of 
house prices with independent expectations of 
external parties and institutions.In our opinion, the valuation applied by 
BAM is in line with IFRS as adopted by the 
EU.
For the assurance engagement on the sustainability information, we identified the following key assurance matter:
Completeness registration of safety incidents
Refer to pages 30-41 (Executive Board Report) and pages 214-216 (Appendix 9.6 Non-financial reporting process and methods)
Key assurance matter How our assurance engagement addressed 
the matterKey observations
Royal BAM Group nv uses and discloses own 
reporting criteria for the KPI ‘Incident 
Frequency BAM’ (hereinafter: IF BAM) and 
the ‘number of serious accidents’. 
The complexity of the scoping of the 
indicators and the decentralised 
organisation of BAM inherently involves risk 
that not all safety incidents are registered.Our assurance procedures focused on the 
suitability of the reporting criteria, inquiry of 
responsible personnel from different levels within 
the organisation on how BAM monitors this risk 
and which controls are in place to mitigate this 
risk. We performed testing procedures, on group 
and operational Company level, to verify the 
completeness of the registered safety incidents. 
We have also reviewed whether the disclosures in 
the Report, including any inherent limitations in 
measurement, are adequate.We concur with the reporting criteria 
applied and the disclosures made.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Engagement
We have been appointed in the shareholders meeting on 22 April 2015 
as auditors of Royal BAM Group nv as of the audit for the year 2016 and 
have operated as statutory auditor since that date.
No prohibited non-audit services 
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in 
Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding 
statutory audit of public-interest entities.
Other non-prohibited services provided 
In addition to the statutory audit of the financial statements we provided 
the following services:
• Agreed upon procedures on debt covenants and other financial ratios;
• Assurance on other items than the consolidated financial statements 
of Royal BAM Group nv (such as local statutory audits and assurance 
on the Carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 as included in the Report ‘CO2 
emissie inventaris’ of Royal BAM Group nv;• Assurance on sustainability information as described in the section 
‘Our scope’ of this report.
All other non-prohibited services provided have been pre-approved by 
the Audit Committee.
Responsibilities
Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and 
Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the 
other information, including the Executive Board report in accordance 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code,the other information 
pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the 
remuneration report in accordance with Section 2:135b of the Dutch 
Civil Code. 
The Executive Board is also responsible for the preparation of reliable and 
adequate sustainability information in accordance with the Sustainability 
199
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementReporting Standards of the GRI (core option) and the applied 
supplemental reporting criteria, including the identification of the 
stakeholders and the determination of material issues. The choices 
made by the Executive Board with respect to the scope of the 
sustainability information are included in paragraph 9.6 Non-financial 
reporting processes and methods (pages 214-216) of the Report. 
Furthermore, the Executive Board is responsible for such internal 
control as the Executive Board determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of the financial statements and the sustainability 
information that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or errors. 
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Executive 
Board is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks 
mentioned, the Executive Board should prepare the financial 
statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
Executive Board either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Executive 
Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern in the financial statements. 
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the (financial) 
reporting process of Royal BAM Group nv.
Our responsibility
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagements in 
a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance 
evidence for our conclusions. 
Our audit of the financial statements and our audit of the selected 
sustainability information have been performed with a high, but not 
absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not detect all 
material errors and fraud during our audit. 
Our review of the other sustainability information is aimed to obtain a 
limited level of assurance. The assurance procedures performed to 
obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the 
plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and are 
less in extent, than for a reasonable assurance engagement. The level 
of assurance obtained in a review is therefore substantially less than the 
assurance obtained in an audit.
We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ (NVKS, 
Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly 
maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including 
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and other relevant legal 
and regulatory requirements.
A further description of our responsibilities is included in the Annex to 
the combined independent auditor’s report.
Amsterdam, 20 February 2020
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by A.A. van EimerenWork performed
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained 
professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements 
performed by a multi-disciplinary team, in accordance with the Dutch 
Standards on Auditing and the Dutch assurance standards, ethical 
requirements and independence requirements. 
Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial
statements (consolidated and corporate) included the following: 
• Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or errors, designing and 
performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and 
obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control 
• Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit 
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control 
• Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by the Executive Board 
• Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
financial statements, including the disclosures
• Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation
Our review to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability 
information included the following:
•  Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining 
an understanding of relevant social themes and issues and the 
characteristics of the Company
•  Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their 
consistent application and related disclosures in the sustainability 
information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the 
stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made 
by the Executive Board
•  Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the 
sustainability information, including obtaining a general 
understanding of internal control relevant to our review
•  Identifying areas of the sustainability information with a higher risk 
of misleading or unbalanced information or material 
misstatements, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and 
performing further procedures aimed at determining the 
plausibility of the sustainability information responsive to this risk 
analysis. These further review procedures consisted of:
 -  Interviewing the Executive Board and relevant staff at corporate 
and local levels responsible for the sustainability strategy, 
policies and results
 -  Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the 
information for, carrying out internal control procedures on, and 
consolidating the data in the sustainability information
 -  Determining the nature and extent of the review procedures for Annex to the combined 
independent auditor’s report
200
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementlocations. For this, the nature, extent and/or risk profile of these 
locations are decisive. Based thereon we selected the locations 
to visit. The visits to multiple sites and offices of BAM’s Operating 
Companies in Belgium, United Kingdom and The Netherlands 
are aimed at, on local level, valuating source data and evaluating 
the design and implementation of internal controls and 
validation procedures
 -  Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external 
documentation
 - Performing an analytical review of the data and trends
•  Evaluating the consistency of the sustainability information with 
the information in the Integrated Report which is not included in 
the scope of our review
•  Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the 
sustainability information
•  Considering whether the sustainability information as a whole, 
including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the reporting 
criteria used.
In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for the selected 
sustainability information we designed and performed further audit 
procedures responsive to the risks identified and obtained audit 
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk that the other sustainability information is 
misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from errors. Fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
These further audit procedures included the following procedures:
•  Obtaining a more detailed understanding of the systems and 
reporting processes, including obtaining an understanding of 
internal control relevant to our assurance engagement, but not for 
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal control
•  Evaluating the design and implementation of the relevant internal 
controls during the reporting year
•  Conducting more in-depth analytical procedures and substantive 
testing procedures on the relevant data
•  Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test 
basis, to determine the reliability of the selected sustainability 
information.
We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and 
understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements 
or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information 
contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, 
we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 and Section 
2:135b sub-Section 7 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 
720. The scope of the procedures performed on the other information 
is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of 
the financial statements or in our review of the sustainability 
information.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also 
responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. 
In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit 
procedures to be carried out for entities within the Group. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the entities within the Group or 
operations. On this basis, we selected entities within the Group for 
which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of 
financial information or specific items.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other 
matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures 
and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal 
control that we identify during our assurance engagements. In this 
respect we also submit an additional report to the audit committee in 
accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific 
requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The 
information included in this additional report is consistent with our 
audit opinion in this auditor’s report.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters 
that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the financial statements and the assurance engagement on the 
sustainability information of the current period and are therefore the 
key audit and assurance matters. We describe these matters in our 
combined independent auditor’s report unless law or regulation 
precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public 
interest.
201
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe net result for 2019, amounting to €11.8 million, has been 
accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial 
year 2019 of €2 cents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase and cancellation of 
shares to offset dilution. Based on the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding at year-end 2019, a maximum of €5.5 million will be 
distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the 
dividend proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings 
under equity.8.2 Proposed appropriation of result
Antarctic infrastructure modernisation
In partnership with client British Antarctic Survey, designers 
SWECO and technical experts Ramboll, BAM Nuttall and BAM 
International are working on the Antarctic Infrastructure 
Modernisation Programme. The programme aims to keep the 
United Kingdom at the forefront of climate, biodiversity and 
ocean research.
In 2019, the team worked on the deconstruction of the old 
Rothera Wharf and constructed the first phase of the 74-metre-
long wharf for the new polar research ship RRS Sir David 
Attenborough. Also part of the programme is the comprehensive 
modernisation of the Rothera Science and Operations building 
(the largest British Antarctic research station) as well as 
improving facilities and working conditions at other British 
Antarctic Survey research stations.
The application of digital construction has brought benefits 
when planning work in this remote, harsh and sometimes 
hazardous environment that the team faces during delivery. The 
construction of Rothera Wharf is scheduled to complete summer 
2020, and groundworks for the Rothera Science and Operations 
building started recently. 
David Seaton, British Antarctic Survey, Antarctic 
Infrastructure Programme Manager: ‘Work to date on Rothera 
Wharf has seen some exceptional results and innovative 
engineering. The teams from BAS, BAM, SWECO and Ramboll 
completed all that they set out to do. They delivered their work 
on time to the highest standards of quality, safety and 
environmental performance.’
202
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management(Summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association)
From the profit realised in any financial year, an amount will first 
be distributed, where possible, on the class B cumulative 
preference shares, calculated by applying the percentage stated 
below to the mandatory amount paid up on those shares as at the 
start of the financial year for which the distribution is made. The 
percentage referred to above will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of twelve 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor refers to 
the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and published by 
the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of this article, equal to an amount 
calculated by applying a percentage to the nominal amount of the 
financing preference share concerned at the start of that financial 
year, plus the amount of share premium paid in on the financing 
preference share issued in the series concerned at the time of 
initial issue of the financing preference shares of that series, less 
the amount paid out on each financing preference share 
concerned and charged to the share premium reserve formed at 
the time of issue of the financing preference shares of that series 
prior to that financial year. If and to the extent that a distribution 
has been made on the financing preference shares concerned in 
the course of the year and charged to the share premium reserve 
formed at the time of issue of the financing preference shares of 
the series concerned, or partial repayment has been made on such 
shares, the amount of the distribution will be reduced pro rata 
over the period concerned according to the amount of the 
distribution charged to the share premium reserve and/or the 
repayment with respect to the amount referred to in the 
preceding sentence.
The calculation of the dividend percentage for the financing 
preference shares of a certain series will be made for each of the 
series of financing preference shares referred to below, in the 
manner set forth for the series concerned.Series FP1 to FP4
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the 
arithmetic mean of the yield to maturity on euro government 
loans issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining 
term matching as closely as possible the term of the series 
concerned, as published in the Euronext Prices Lists, plus two 
percentage points.
Series FP5 to FP8
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of twelve 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus two percentage points.
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an 
amount of no more than 300 basis points.
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and 
FP7: seven years and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a period 
expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance with the 
rules laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles of 
Association.
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal 
by the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. 
The part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of 
the General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further 
dividends will be distributed on the preference shares and with 
due consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the 
Articles of Association.8.3  Articles of Association provisions governing  
the distribution of profit
203
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Foundation’s board consists of three members who are 
appointed by the Foundation’s board, after notification to the 
Executive Board. The Foundation is supported by its own legal and 
communication advisors.
The composition of the board as per the end of this financial year is:
J.J. Nooitgedagt, Chairman;
F.K. Buijn;
P. van Riel.
The Chairman of the Foundation’s board receives an annual fee of 
€12,000 from the Foundation. The Foundation pays an annual fee 
of €10,000 to each of the other members of its board.
The particulars of the board members per the end of 2019 are:
J.J. (Jan) Nooitgedagt (1953)
Mr Nooitgedagt has served on the Foundation’s board since 2017 
and was appointed Chairman in that same year. He is a Dutch 
national. A former member of the Executive Board and Chief 
Financial Officer of Aegon, Mr Nooitgedagt is a member of the 
Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Risk Committee of 
Rabobank, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of PostNL and a 
member of the board of the Stichting Beschermingspreferente 
Aandelen Fugro. He is also the Chairman of the Board of VEUO, 
Chairman of the advisory committee establishing Invest-NL, a 
member of the committee Financial Reporting and Accountancy 
at the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) and 
member of the advisory committee Governance, Risk and 
Compliance at the Dutch Institute of Chartered Accountants. 
F.K. (Frederik) Buijn (1950)
Mr Buijn has been a member of the Foundation’s board since 2012. 
He is a Dutch national. Due to his long-term experience as a 
qualified civil-law notary Mr Buijn is well-versed in commercial law. 
Mr Buijn is a member of the board of the Stichting Preferente 
Aandelen Arcadis N.V. He is involved in various large family 
companies as chairman or member of foundation trust offices and 
is also Chairman of the Board of the Stichting Instituut Gak.
P. (Paul) van Riel (1956)
Mr Van Riel has been a member of the Foundation’s board since 
2019. He is a Dutch national. He is a former CEO and Chairman of 
the Executive Board of Fugro. He is also the Chairman of the Board 
of the Stichting Preferente Aandelen Arcadis N.V. Royal BAM Group nv (hereafter ‘the Company’) has taken the 
following measures to protect itself against any undesired 
developments that might have an impact on the independence, 
continuity and/or identity of the Company and the group of 
companies associated with the Company (hereinafter ‘the Group’).
Pursuant to a resolution passed by the General Meeting held on 
12 June 1972, the Articles of Association include the possibility of 
issuing preference shares. Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep 
(hereafter referred to as ‘the Foundation’) was founded with a 
view to this possibility in 1978. The objective of the Foundation is 
to look after the interests of the Company and the Group . 
Specifically, the Foundation seeks to ensure that the interests of 
the Company, the Group and all their stakeholders are 
safeguarded as much as possible, and that influences which could 
undermine the independence and/or continuity and/or identity of 
the Company and the Group  and which are in conflict with those 
interests are averted to the best of the Foundation’s ability. The 
Foundation attempts to achieve its objective by acquiring and 
holding class B cumulative preference shares in the Company’s 
capital, by exercising the rights connected with those shares and/
or by using its right of enquiry.
As announced at the General Meeting held on 4 June 1992 and 
considered at the General Meeting on 8 June 1993, the company 
granted the Foundation an option to acquire class B cumulative 
preference shares in the Company’s capital on 17 May 1993. This 
option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation 
might require, subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that 
would result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative 
preference shares in issue and not held by the company equalling 
no more than ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9%) of the 
nominal amount of the issued share capital in the form of shares 
other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by 
the company at the time of exercising of the right referred to 
above. The board of the Foundation has the exclusive right to 
determine whether or not to exercise this right to acquire class B 
cumulative preference shares. No class B cumulative preference 
shares have been issued at this time.
On 6 October 2008, the Company granted the Foundation the 
right, under Article 2:346(c) of the Dutch Civil Code, to submit a 
petition as referred to in Article 2:345 of the Dutch Civil Code 
(right of enquiry).
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board reserve the right, 
in the interests of the Company and its associated companies, to 
resolve to take alternative measures in order to protect the 
Company and the Group against influences that might be 
regarded by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, after 
balancing the interests of the company and all of the stakeholders 
in the Group, as being potentially damaging to the independence, 
continuity and/or identity of the Company and/or the Group.8.4 Anti-takeover measures 
Subsidiaries  
%
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Bouw en Techniek bv*, Bunnik  100
 BAM Wonen bv*, Bunnik  100
 AM bv*, Utrecht 100
BAM Infra Nederland bv*, Gouda (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Infra bv*, Gouda 100
 BAM Infra Energie & Water bv, Zwolle 100
 BAM Infra Rail bv*, Breda 100
 BAM Infra Telecom bv, Zwammerdam 100
 BAM Infraconsult bv*, Gouda 100
BAM Belgium nv, Brussels (Belgium) 100
uniting the activities of:
 Interbuild nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
 Galère sa, Chaudfontaine 100
 BAM Contractors nv, Brussels  100
 Kairos nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
BAM Construct UK Ltd, Hemel Hempstead (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Nuttall Ltd, Camberley, Surrey (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Deutschland AG, Stuttgart (Germany) 100
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau AG, Frankfurt am Main (Germany) 100
BAM International bv*, The Hague (Netherlands) 100
BAM Contractors Ltd, Kill, County Kildare (Ireland) 100
BAM PPP bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
Joint arrangements
%
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (Netherlands)  50.0
Associates
%
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv, Haarlem (Netherlands) 10.5
A list of associates as referred to in Sections 379 and 414, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code 
has been deposited at the Office of the Trade Register in Utrecht.
*  In respect of these subsidiaries, Royal BAM Group nv has deposited a declaration of joint and several liability pursuant to Section 403, Part 9,  
Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
204
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSubsidiaries  
%
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Bouw en Techniek bv*, Bunnik  100
 BAM Wonen bv*, Bunnik  100
 AM bv*, Utrecht 100
BAM Infra Nederland bv*, Gouda (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Infra bv*, Gouda 100
 BAM Infra Energie & Water bv, Zwolle 100
 BAM Infra Rail bv*, Breda 100
 BAM Infra Telecom bv, Zwammerdam 100
 BAM Infraconsult bv*, Gouda 100
BAM Belgium nv, Brussels (Belgium) 100
uniting the activities of:
 Interbuild nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
 Galère sa, Chaudfontaine 100
 BAM Contractors nv, Brussels  100
 Kairos nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
BAM Construct UK Ltd, Hemel Hempstead (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Nuttall Ltd, Camberley, Surrey (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Deutschland AG, Stuttgart (Germany) 100
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau AG, Frankfurt am Main (Germany) 100
BAM International bv*, The Hague (Netherlands) 100
BAM Contractors Ltd, Kill, County Kildare (Ireland) 100
BAM PPP bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
Joint arrangements
%
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (Netherlands)  50.0
Associates
%
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv, Haarlem (Netherlands) 10.5
A list of associates as referred to in Sections 379 and 414, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code 
has been deposited at the Office of the Trade Register in Utrecht.
*  In respect of these subsidiaries, Royal BAM Group nv has deposited a declaration of joint and several liability pursuant to Section 403, Part 9,  
Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.8.5  List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements  
and associates
205
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTitel
Xxxxxxxx
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx Xxxxxxxx
Appendices
Office tower to LEED 
standards
Spreeturm, Berlin, Germany
BAM Deutschland is 
working on a new 
sustainable office tower, 
located on the former 
border strip between East 
and West Berlin, which will 
offer flexible office spaces. 
The building will be 
designed and constructed 
according to the LEED 
(Leadership in Energy and 
Environment Design) 
certification system, which 
defines a series of 
standards for 
environmentally friendly, 
resource-saving and 
sustainable construction. 
Spreeturm’s completion is 
scheduled for 2020.
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nv
206Stock exchange listing
BAM has been listed on Euronext Amsterdam since 1959 (symbol: 
BAMNB; ISIN code: NL0000337319). The share is included in the 
Amsterdam Midcap Index (AMX) and the Euronext NEXT-150 
Index. Options are traded by Liffe, the Euronext derivatives 
exchange. The market capitalisation was €734 million at year-end 
2019 (year-end 2018: €687 million).
Investor relations policy
The purpose of the investor relations policy is to provide accurate, 
transparent, consistent, information simultaneously and timely to 
stakeholders, which include existing and potential shareholders, 
financial institutions, brokers and the media. BAM wants to ensure 
a clear understanding about its strategy, performance and 
decisions to create awareness and confidence. Information is made 
available through the annual integrated report, quarterly (financial) 
information, press releases and presentations to investors, which 
are all available on the website. BAM discloses price-sensitive 
information without delay by press release and on its site.
BAM publishes quarterly (financial) information. The full-year and 
half-year results are presented at analyst meetings. The trading 
updates for the first quarter and the nine months are presented 
during conference calls. These events are held in the English 
language and can be followed live or on demand on the website. 
BAM organises road shows and participates in investor conferences 
to meet existing and potential investors. All data and venues are 
published on the website.
BAM observes a closed period in which no meetings with existing or 
potential investors take place. For the annual results, this period 
extends from 1 January up to the date of publication. For the 
half-year results the closed period extends from 1 July up to the day 
of publication. For the trading updates after the first quarter and 
the nine months, it extends from 1 April and 1 October, up to the 
day of publication.
BAM is covered by analysts of all major Dutch brokers; they are key 
in distributing information to support the investment case to their 
clients. Research reports about BAM are available through these 
brokers. Contact details are available on the website.
All activities comply with the rules and regulations of Euronext 
Amsterdam and the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets 
(AFM).
More information about investor relations is available on 
www.bam.com under the link Investor relations or from Manager 
Investor Relations Michel Aupers, e-mail ir@bam.com, telephone 
+31 (0)30 659 89 88.Share price  
The 2019 closing price of the ordinary share was €2.69, which was 
7 per cent above the closing price at year-end 2018 (€2.51). The 
AMX index ended the year 38 per cent higher. BAM’s share price 
increased by 13 per cent over the last five years. By way of 
comparison, the AEX and the AMX index rose by 42 per cent and 
43 per cent in the same period.
Graph  51 shows the history of the BAM ordinary share price over 
the past five years.
51 - Ordinary share price movement
(in €)
2019 2018 2016 2017 2015
BAM AEX AMX0123456
Trading volume on Euronext Amsterdam  
The average daily trade was 2,528,000 ordinary shares (2018: 
1,723,000). In 2019 the average daily trade in BAM shares was 
€7.9 million (2018: €6.2 million).
If necessary, ING and Rabobank act as liquidity providers for the 
trade in ordinary shares.9.1 Royal BAM Group nv shares
207
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementas at 31 December 2019
 
Netherlands 1
Retail 2
United States
United Kingdom
Other
Rest of the World
Unidenti/f_ied
1 Netherlands including treasury shares
2 Retail, Primary dutch shareholders52 - Information per share
(in € per share, unless otherwise indicated)
 
2019 2018 201742016 2015
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend 273,296,017 273,296,017 273,213,334 270,621,583 270,393,982
Average number of ordinary shares 273,495,636 273,490,657 272,215,432 270,503,004 270,956,691
Net result ranking for dividend 0.04 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04
Net result from continued operations 0.04 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04
Average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 299,039,187 298,269,233 296,427,682 283,642,546 270,956,691
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend (diluted) 299,157,729 298,297,517 297,584,081 294,547,317 270,393,982
Net result (diluted) 0.04 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04
Net result from continued operations (diluted) 0.04 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04
Cash flow before dividend 0.69 0.43 0.18 0.60 0.44
Equity attributable to shareholders 2.30 2.61 2.64 3.08 3.34
Dividend 10.02 0.14 0.10 0.09 0.02
Payout (in %) 40 40 50 50 50
Dividend yield (in %) 27.4 5.6 2.6 2.1 0.4
Highest closing price 4.38 4.16 5.46 5.02 5.16
Lowest closing price 2.16 2.37 3.45 2.97 2.22
Price on 31 December 2.69 2.51 3.83 4.39 5.13
Average daily trade (in number of shares) 2,528,000 1,723,000 1,926,000 1,717,000 3,117,000
Market capitalisation at year-end (x €1,000) 3734,074 687,066 1,053,239 1,193,267 1,387,121
1 Dividend proposal 2019.  2 Based on share price at year-end.  3 Based on total number of ordinary shares in issue.  4 Adjusted for IFRS 15. 
53 -  Geographical distribution shareholders  Shareholders
BAM closely monitors the development in its shareholder base by 
following public market information and a yearly shareholder 
identification report. Under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, 
shareholders of 3 per cent or more must disclose to the Dutch 
Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) and when these 
shareholders transfer to a different threshold level. The Company 
holds 6,111,432 (2 per cent) treasury shares, of which 1,629,402 
shares for the long-term incentive plan of management.
54 -  Shareholders owning 3 per cent or more in BAM’s share 
capital as at 31 December 2019
OwnershipDate of last 
notificationInterest above  
3 per cent since
Dimensional Fund 
Advisors Ltd. 4.8% 27 September 2019 26 July 2018
NN Group N.V. 5.5% 26 May 2015 February 1992
I.M. Fares 5.0% 24 October 2014 July 2013
 According to the AFM register of substantial shareholdings, three 
institutional investors have real interests of 3 per cent or more.  
Changes may have occurred, however, within the disclosure thresholds.  
208
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSubordinated unsecured convertible bonds
In 2016, BAM placed €125 million subordinated unsecured 
convertible bonds to redeem the existing subordinated loan of the 
same amount. The transaction was in line with BAM’s financing 
strategy to strengthen its balance sheet by lengthening the maturity 
and broadening the sources of its funding. It also improved BAM’s 
commercial position and supports the execution of its strategy.
The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.5 per cent, an initial 
conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible into 
ordinary shares of BAM with a nominal value of €0.10 each. The 
bonds were issued at 100 per cent of their principal amount and, 
unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and 
cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount 
on or around 13 June 2021.
Upon exercise of their conversion rights, holders will receive 
shares at the then prevailing conversion price. BAM will have the 
option to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their 
principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest from 28 June 
2019, if the value of the shares underlying a bond exceeds 
€130,000 for a specified period of time. The bonds are trading on 
the Open Market (Freiverkehr) segment of the Frankfurt Stock 
Exchange.
More details of the subordinated unsecured convertible bond are 
published on www.bam.com under the link Investor relations.Shareholders
BAM closely monitors the development in its shareholder base by 
following public market information and a yearly shareholder 
identification report. Under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, 
shareholders of 3 per cent or more must disclose to the Dutch 
Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) and when these 
shareholders transfer to a different threshold level. The Company 
holds 6,111,432 (2 per cent) treasury shares, of which 1,629,402 
shares for the long-term incentive plan of management.
54 -  Shareholders owning 3 per cent or more in BAM’s share 
capital as at 31 December 2019
OwnershipDate of last 
notificationInterest above  
3 per cent since
Dimensional Fund 
Advisors Ltd. 4.8% 27 September 2019 26 July 2018
NN Group N.V. 5.5% 26 May 2015 February 1992
I.M. Fares 5.0% 24 October 2014 July 2013
 According to the AFM register of substantial shareholdings, three 
institutional investors have real interests of 3 per cent or more.  
Changes may have occurred, however, within the disclosure thresholds.  Dividend policy 
BAM has a dividend policy to distribute a dividend between 
30 and 50 per cent of the net result for the year. When deciding 
upon the dividend, the Company takes into account the balance 
sheet structure supporting the strategic agenda Building the 
present, creating the future and the interest of the shareholders.
In accordance with the Company’s dividend policy the proposal is 
to distribute a dividend of 2 euro cents per ordinary share for 2019 
(2018: 14 euro cents). This equates to a payout ratio of 40 per cent 
of the net result in line with BAM’s policy. Subject to approval by 
the Annual General Meeting on 15 April 2020, this will be paid in 
cash in May 2020. Number of outstanding ordinary shares 
55 - The movement in the number of outstanding shares
 2019 2018
Outstanding ordinary shares as at 1 January 278,779,019 274,925,419
Shares issued for stock dividend 628,430 3,853,600
Outstanding ordinary shares as at 31 December 279,407,449 278,779,019
Treasury shares to offset dilution stock dividend (4,482,030) (3,853,600)
Treasury shares held for Performance Share Plan (1,629,402) (1,629,402)
Ordinary shares ranking for dividend as at 31 December 273,296,017 273,296,017
Percentage ordinary shares ranking for dividend 97.8% 98.0%
209
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management9.2  Five-year overview
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Revenue 7,209  7,208 6,535 6,976 7,423
Operating result 52.3  105.2 10.4 52.8 2.3
Result before tax 50.6  114.5 20.0 60.1 13.3
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company 11.8  23.8 (13.8) 46.8 10.2
Basic earnings per share (in €1) 0.04  0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04
Diluted earnings per share (in €1) 0.04  0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04
Dividend per ordinary share (in €1) 10.02  0.14 0.10 0.09 0.02
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company 628.4  729.0 721.3 834.3 902.1
Subordinated convertible bonds 120.5  117.6 115.0 112.5 -
Subordinated loan -  - - - 124.3
Capital base 748.9  846.7 836.3 946.7 1.026.5
Net investment in property, plant and equipment 67.7  72.2 70.7 45.1 41.7
Net additions right-of-use assets 115.8 - - - -
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges of:
- Property, plant and equipment 54.0  63.7 55.0 62.5 67.9
- Right-of-use assets 99.7 - - - -
- Intangible assets 16.2  6.0 5.2 5.0 7.4
- Other impairment charges 8.2 20.6 3.9 47.6 34.3
Cash flow before dividend 189.9  117.4 50.5 161.9 119.8
Total impairment charges 18.5  23.8 4.8 50.7 39.1
Order book 212,659  12,692 11,636 10,193 11,480
Number of employees as at 31 December (in FTE) 19,517  20,194 19,720 20,370 21,916
Average number of employees (in FTE) 19,433  20,156 19,837 19,486 21,248
Ratios (in %)
Result before tax and impairment charges as % of revenue 1.0  2.1 0.4 1.6 0.7
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue 0.2  0.3 (0.2) 0.7 0.1
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % average equity 1.7  3.3 (1.8) 5.4 1.2
Solvency ratios (in %)
Equity attributable to shareholders as % of total assets 13.8  15.9 16.1 17.3 18.6
Capital ratio as % of total assets 16.5  18.5 18.6 19.7 21.2
Current ratio as current assets divided by current liabilities 0.95  1.02 1.00 1.04 1.07
* Due to the implementation of IFRS 16, leases are no longer classified as operational or financial lease, but are recognised as a right-of-use asset.
1 For 2019 dividend proposal.
2 Order book comprises both signed contracts and agreed upon orders.
210
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTopic SubtopicIncluded
(yes/no) Page reference
Business model N/A Yes 11-12
Relevant social and personnel matters 
(e.g. HR, safety etc.)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 12, 21, 30-43
The outcome of those policies Yes 21, 30-43
Principal risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 21, 57-59, 
217-222
Non-financial key performance indicators Yes 30
Relevant environmental matters 
(e.g. climate-related impacts)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 12, 21, 42-48, 
217-222
The outcome of those policies Yes 21, 42-48
Principal risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 21, 57-59, 
217-222
Non-financial key performance indicators Yes 42
Relevant matters with respect to human 
rights (e.g. labour protection)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 21, 37-38, 222
The outcome of those policies Yes 37-38
Principal risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 37-38, 57-59
Non-financial key performance indicators Yes 21, 38
Relevant matters with respect to 
anti-corruption and bribery A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 21, 37-38, 218
The outcome of those policies Yes 37-38
Principal risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 21, 57-59, 218
Non-financial key performance indicators Yes 37-38
Insight into diversity (Supervisory Board 
and Executive Board)A description of the policies pursued Yes 63-64, 78-79
Diversity targets Yes 63-64, 78-79
Description of how the policy is implemented Yes 63-64, 78-79
Results of the diversity policy Yes 63-64, 78-79
* In compliance with ‘Besluit bekendmaking niet-financiële informatie’ which is the implementation of the EU Directive 2014/95/EU
 on Non-Financial information.9.3   Non-financial information* and diversity information 
reference table
211
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementYoung BAM Germany meets in Hamburg 
In September 2019, Young BAM 
Germany met in Hamburg to visit the 
construction site of the 
Überseequartier. After the visit there 
was ample opportunity to exchange 
ideas and meet colleagues from other 
disciplines or locations. Similar 
meetings in the course of the year took 
the Young BAM members to Frankfurt 
and Stuttgart. 
Young employees from BAM 
Deutschland and Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau are associated in Young 
BAM Germany with the aim of inspiring, 
networking and supporting young 
people in their professional 
development. It offers a platform for 
exchanging experiences, asking 
questions, sharing personal ideas and 
supporting each other in their further 
development. 
9.4 Key financial dates
15 April 2020 Annual general meeting of shareholders
7 May 2020 Trading update first quarter 2020
20 August 2020 Publication of half-year results 2020
5 November 2020 Trading update first nine months 2020
18 February 2021 Publication of annual results 2020
14 April 2021 Annual general meeting of shareholders
6 May 2021 Trading update first quarter 2021
19 August 2021 Publication of half-year results 2021
4 November 2021 Trading update first nine months 2021
212
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAdjusted result before tax Result before tax excluding restructuring costs, impairment charges and pension one-off.
Adjusted pre-tax margin Adjusted result before tax divided by rolling-year revenue.
Capital base Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company plus subordinated convertible bond.
Capital employed Non-current assets plus net working capital and cash and cash equivalents.
Capital ratio Capital base divided by total assets.
Carbon footprint Total amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during a defined period, or across the 
total or part of the duration of a project. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide 
equivalents CO2(e) emitted.
Cash flow before dividend Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company adjusted for depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges.
Community engagement The process by which community benefit organisations and individuals build ongoing, 
permanent relationships with the purpose of applying a collective vision for the benefit of a 
(local) community.
Comprehensive income The change in equity during a period resulting from transactions and other events, other than 
those changes resulting from transactions with shareholders in their capacity as shareholders.
Current ratio Current assets including assets held for sale divided by current liabilities including liabilities held 
for sale.
Earnings per share Net result attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year.
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax.
Emissions and waste BAM solely reports CO2 emissions. Other greenhouse substances, such as CH4 (methane), 
N2O (nitrous oxide) are excluded as they are considered not material. BAM reports all waste 
leaving its sites and offices.
General Meeting Annual general meeting of shareholders.
GHG Greenhouse gases which have a global warming impact.
HSE Health, safety and environment.
IF BAM Incident frequency including all BAM site employees on own work and joint ventures.
Incident frequency (IF) The total number of industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million hours worked 
on construction sites.
Industrial accident An unintended occurrence during a period of paid work that results in physical injury or illness, 
including accidents that occur during business trips (during working hours, no commuting). In 
case of an accident involving multiple victims the number of accidents is considered equal to the 
number of victims.
Net debt Long-term borrowings plus short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net working capital Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) minus current liabilities (excluding current 
borrowings and current lease liabilities).
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Rolling-year EBIT divided by the average four-quarter rolling capital employed.
Return on equity (ROE) Rolling-year net result divided by the average four-quarter rolling invested equity.
Serious accident An industrial accident that leads to the person involved being admitted to hospital for more than 
24 hours or results in electrocution, amputation or fracture with and without lost time.
Solvency Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company divided by total assets.
Total shareholder return (TSR) Metric used to compare the performance of companies in BAM’s peer group’s shares over time. 
The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to the 
peer group.
Trade working capital Net working capital excluding land and building rights, property development, PPP receivables, 
other financial assets, other receivables, taxes, derivative financial instruments, provisions, other 
liabilities and assets and liabilities held for sale.
Trade working capital efficiency The average four-quarters’ trade working capital divided by rolling-year revenue.9.5 Glossary 
213
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementReporting criteria: GRI Standards – Core 
This report has been prepared ‘in accordance’ with the GRI 
Standards: Core option. An overview of the GRI disclosures covered 
by this report is available on BAM’s website (www.bam.com/en/
sustainability/reports-and-policies). In this overview, more 
information is disclosed on the nature and coverage of reporting per 
GRI disclosure (e.g. quantitatively or qualitatively).
Reporting period and reporting frequency
This report presents both quantitative and qualitative data for the 
calendar year 2019. For some operating companies or topics an 
exception is made and a reporting period of 1 December 2018 to 30 
November 2019 is applied. BAM allows for this different reporting 
period when due to a complex operating and reporting structure 
more time is required to ensure that the reported data are reliable 
and adequate. BAM considers the effects of a different reporting 
period as not material to the Group’s integrated report. There have 
been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 
scope and boundaries.
Reporting boundaries
Sustainability performance and data are accounted for according to 
BAM’s share of equity. As an exception to this rule, BAM 
International reports all sustainability data for joint arrangement 
projects in which it is the leading party. In general, BAM views 
disclosure regarding acquisitions and divestments on a case-by-
case basis. 
Reporting process
The integrated report, including all material aspects, is compiled by 
the Executive Board and discussed with the Supervisory Board. BAM 
uses a reporting system for non-financial information (including 
safety, CO2, waste and HR), as an extension of the financial 
reporting system. The applied reporting processes and definitions 
are formalised in BAM’s non-financial reporting manual, which 
provides guidance on how to collect, consolidate and report data.
Reporting indicators
For BAM’s main non-financial indicators this chapter provides 
further insight below. For other quantitative indicators disclosures 
on the reporting scope and methods used are given elsewhere in 
this report.
Safety
BAM defines its incident frequency (IF) as the number of BAM 
employees (not including site employees outsourced to external 
companies) involved in industrial incidents leading to absence from 
work per million hours worked on construction sites. Reportable 
incidents are based on actual occurrences and are never 
extrapolated or estimated. Despite all measures and an open 
safety culture there is an inherent risk of incomplete accident 
reporting. BAM is partially dependent on information provided by 
the person involved in an accident. Reported hours are measured, 
calculated or estimated. The absolute number of reported serious 
accidents covers all BAM employees, subcontractors, hired 
employees and thirds on own projects and BAM employees, BAM subcontractors and direct hired employees by BAM on joint 
ventures. 
For all companies, except for BAM International, BAM includes only 
employee-related accidents and hours. BAM International takes into 
account all persons working under its direct supervision even 
though they may not have a labour contract with BAM directly. As a 
result, the accidents and hours worked by all persons working under 
the supervision of BAM International and irrespective of their labour 
contract are included in the reported incident frequency.  
Creating uniform safety reporting across all operating companies 
is one of the strategic objectives which create access to the right 
management information. BAM is in the process of enhancing the 
reporting process for worked hours of subcontractors. The Group 
strives to obtain reliable information by implementing automated 
on-site entrance systems such as tourniquets, fingerprint readers, 
iris scans and card systems.
BAM safety behavior audit
The audit was carried out following the official BAM safety 
behaviour audit (BAM-SBA) questionnaire 2016, which is aligned 
with the BAM Health and Safety Directive of January 2015. The 
audit template consists of the sections: safety climate, 
management system and site conditions. Each section is scored 
independently with all elements collated to provide the overall 
score. Additional points may be added for innovative practices and 
where areas of concern, points deducted. The scoring of the various 
sections is marked from 1 to 5 as below:
No evidence of commitment Poor 0% - 40%
Slight evidence of commitment Fair 41% - 60%
Commitment evident but room for 
ImprovementGood 61% - 80%
Good commitment demonstrated Very good 81% - 90%
Excellent commitment demonstrated Excellent 91% - 100%
Safety climate: management ambition and commitment to 
keeping workers safe is demonstrated through words and actions. 
Visual leadership coaching/ supporting the organisation, 
demonstration of intervention and enforcement where necessary.
 
Management system: safety policies, processes and procedures 
used to the task specific requirements (including resources) to 
achieve its safety objectives by risk management, supply chain 
management and continuous improvement. Demonstrate 
learning ability of the organisation. Compliance with the law and 
safety regulations (including the Royal BAM Safety Directive).
Site conditions: site setup, site logistics, collective and personal 
measurements to mitigate the task specific risks. Safe physical 
work environment and equipment. Demonstrate how to plan for 
safety and engage with the workforce.
 
The reported SBA score is the average of all individual operating 
company scores. It is the responsibility of safety officers from 9.6 Non-financial reporting process and methods
214
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementthe operating company to organise the SBA interviews in detail 
and select the projects within the overall planning. Safety 
officers have to take into account the diversity in areas, business 
units, type of projects, phase of the projects. The selection of 
various projects could result into fluctuation of the score 
between the years. During all SBAs an independent person is 
present to oversee the results of all SBAs.
Human Resources (HR)
HR data are obtained twice a year using a standardised reporting 
platform. HR data are derived from the HR accounts held by  
BAM’s operating companies. Due to different definitions used, 
breakdowns in paragraph Organisational development and 
employee engagement (  page 34) are based on figures that do 
not match the total number of FTE in Key figures. This does not 
result in different insights. 
Energy consumption and CO2 emissions
BAM’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas inventory is based 
on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (2013: Corporate Standard) as 
issued by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
and the World Resources Institute. BAM reports its greenhouse gas 
emissions as CO2 equivalent, taking into account other greenhouse 
gasses than CO2 . BAM calculates the energy consumption (in 
terajoules) and CO2 emissions associated with BAM’s energy 
consumption, using conversion factors from reputable and 
authoritative sources. BAM applies country-specific conversion 
factors for electricity and natural gas, based on GHG emissions 
reported in national inventory reports (NIR). BAM uses tank-to-
wheel emission factors. All conversion factors are reviewed 
annually and updated if necessary.
The Group’s reporting scope includes its direct CO2 emissions  
(scope 1 emissions, from BAM’s own sources), indirect CO2 
emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed 
by BAM (scope 2 emissions) and employee travel-related scope 3 
emissions.
The GHG Corporate value chain (scope 3) accounting and reporting 
standard for full scope 3 reporting has not been implemented. 
Contrary to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol BAM reports fuel 
consumption by leased vehicles under scope 1 emissions. Energy 
consumption from district heating and use of public transport are 
considered negligible and therefore not included in BAM’s overall 
energy consumption and related CO2 emissions. The basis for 
consolidated energy consumption and CO2 emissions is activity 
data, which in turn are based mostly on meter readings, invoices 
and data provided by suppliers. Where reliable data are not 
available, BAM uses calculations or estimations using reliable 
methods and input data. BAM is satisfied that the estimates are 
reliable in all material respects.
Where clients provide BAM with electricity and BAM is able to 
receive reliable information on its client-supplied electricity 
consumption, the Company includes this consumption in its carbon footprint. Similarly, information received on CO2 emissions 
associated with air travel is included in BAM’s scope 3 emissions.
It occurs on projects that BAM supplies fuel and electricity to 
subcontractors. In accordance with BAM’s non-financial reporting 
manual the supplied fuel and electricity to subcontractors should be 
measured and excluded from reported figures, unless fuel and 
electricity are supplied under the supervision of BAM. In practice, 
however, it is not always possible to determine how much fuel is 
supplied to subcontractors. In that case BAM accounts for all CO2 
emissions. 
Waste
The reporting scope includes all waste leaving BAM’s sites and 
offices, mainly based on waste tickets and data provided by 
suppliers. Reported waste is either measured, calculated or 
estimated using reliable methods and input data which can be 
based on BAM’s experience in comparable works. Excavation waste 
and demolition waste are especially difficult to measure and are 
more often calculated.
Construction and office waste consists of temporary and 
permanent (construction) materials and packaging brought on to 
sites which are to be discarded and subsequently leave offices, 
construction sites and/or BAM sites such as depots or premises.
Materials
BAM reports the amount of materials used and the recycled 
content of various materials used by Dutch operating companies. 
Raw materials which are consumed in large quantities and which 
have a significant impact on natural resources have been selected. 
The Group reports on concrete, timber, asphalt and steel.
The raw material consumption in the Netherlands was determined 
using supplier reports. Extrapolation of data is applied to cover all 
suppliers. BAM aspires to keep the extrapolated data below 20 per 
cent. The results are verified against BAM’s procurement database, 
internal and external experts. The recycled content is determined 
based on information provided by suppliers.
 
True Price of asphalt
The True Price calculations of LE2AP and conventional asphalt are 
made by a third party and contain inherent estimates and 
specialised supplier data. The methodology has been checked for 
logic and consistency, yet it is known that different visions on the 
cost of CO2 are available and that the cost of CO2 is subjective.
A comparison by True Price has been performed to evaluate the 
bandwidth of CO2 cost, in which a conservative estimate is used by 
True Price. 
Local sourcing
For the Dutch companies BAM has investigated the extent to which 
its purchases are sourced locally. BAM has defined local sourcing as 
a purchase done with a supplier who is located in the same country 
as the construction site. BAM determines the percentage of local 
sourcing based on the country of residence of its suppliers. 
215
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementVarious dates in 2019, Kibale
50,000 trees on degraded land, to restore and protect tropical 
rainforest, including the habitat for primates. Together with 
local villagers, the Uganda Wildlife Authorities (UWA) have set 
up three tree nurseries. A total of around 155 villagers have 
found employment through BAM’s tree-planting initiative, 
either in nursery work, planting activities or maintenance. 
Verification of this report
In order to provide BAM’s stakeholders comfort over BAM’s 
sustainability information, the Executive Board has appointed Ernst 
& Young Accountants LLP (EY) to provide independent assurance of 
the report. As in previous years, BAM has obtained reasonable 
assurance for the following KPIs: IF BAM, number of serious 
accidents, safety behaviour audit, as included in the ‘Safety’ 
section in  paragraph 3.2. Additionally EY has provided reasonable 
assurance over the ‘Material themes’ section in  paragraph 2.3 
and the ‘Business conduct and transparency’ section in 
 paragraph 3.2. For all other information reported in
 paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 3.2, 3.3 and 9.3, 9.6 and 9.7 BAM 
has obtained limited assurance.
25 October 2019, Hardwald, Basel.
500 oak trees were planted in replacement of pine trees which 
did not survive the hot and dry summer of 2018. ‘We all have a 
responsibility for the sustainable use of our environment. The 
fact that almost all BAM Swiss employees volunteered to plant 
trees says a lot about the culture in our company‘, said 
Stephan Wüstemann, Managing Director of BAM Swiss AG.
216
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe content of this chapter is an integral part of the Executive Board Report as required under EU Directive.9.7 Material themes and management approach  
 
Definition Impact Management approach
Health and safety
Health and safety 
(zero accidents) of 
all employees and 
subcontractors and 
everyone involved 
with BAM’s 
activities, including 
the general public.‘BAM borrows its employees from their families’, is 
how BAM expresses its responsibility for everyone who 
works with and for BAM. There is nothing more 
important than everyone returning home safely. 
Health and safety at work contribute to the 
satisfaction of the employees of the Group and their 
family members, BAM’s subcontractors, its supply 
partners and others involved in BAM’s construction 
sites. Safety also affects BAM’s clients and BAM’s 
reputation.BAM has developed a Group-wide guideline for safety 
management. All safety management systems from 
operational companies must comply with this framework.
Meeting the strategy means focussing on the quality of 
the underlying goals: striving for the ambition ‘zero 
accidents’ every day is the goal for safety. Zero accidents 
means the mindset (intrinsic motivation) and the true 
belief that it is feasible to create a safe working 
environment that means ‘everyone returns home safe 
every day’. 
 For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.2 Social performance.
Project and product quality and control
Quality of the 
tender process, 
efficient project 
management and 
effective project 
execution with the 
aim to meet or 
exceed the 
expectations of the 
client.In order to exceed client expectations, BAM must 
continuously improve the experienced performance of 
BAM’s products. Product quality means that BAM does 
what it has promised to do, within budget and on 
time. Operational performance is crucial for achieving 
the right level of financial and non-financial results for 
construction projects.BAM has the tender process focussed on quality of its 
tenders in order to guarantee the current and future 
results of construction projects.
The evaluation of the internal governance framework has 
resulted in the updating of the business principles and 
management guidelines, including the strengthening of 
project selection and BAM’s tender process for large and 
high-risk projects. In connection with this development, 
peer reviews are carried out on project estimates under 
the leadership of the Tender Desk Director.
In order to comply with product responsibility, BAM 
assures that projects where its operating companies are 
responsible for design and construction are certified. In 
other projects (PPP projects) BAM uses verification and 
validation methods. Each operating company has a quality 
manager who is responsible for the quality control of the 
operating company’s processes. System audits are 
conducted by third parties. On all levels, outcomes are 
assessed by the senior management of BAM’s operating 
companies. 
 For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 2.2 Strategy and chapter 4 Risk management.
217
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Business conduct and transparency
Openness and 
compliance with 
generally accepted 
standards and 
values and 
compliance with 
local legal and 
other rules and 
regulations, in 
particular with 
regard to the 
acquisition and 
execution of 
contracts.BAM’s reputation and licence to operate depend on 
responsible business conduct, by stimulating dialogue 
about dilemmas. Ensuring compliance with anti-
corruption legislation improves efficiency through 
lower transaction costs for BAM and its stakeholders. 
Moreover, BAM is of the opinion that doing business 
honestly is of vital importance for the strengthening 
of the competitive position of both BAM and its 
partners. Competitive behaviour contributes to 
innovation and collaboration. It creates an 
environment in which the best products will win and in 
which BAM’s clients will get the best products for the 
best price. The Group believes that by providing 
financial and non-financial information on the 
achievement of BAM’s strategic goals, it can 
continuously improve the reporting process as well as 
its performance.For BAM, it is fundamental to comply with generally 
accepted standards and values but also with local legal 
and other rules and regulations, particularly with respect 
to the acquisition and performance of contracts. This is set 
out in the Group’s core values, the Code of Conduct and 
adjoining policies such as those relating to bribery, 
corruption and competition. All employees must act 
honestly, comply with agreements and deal carefully with 
customers and business partners, including suppliers and 
subcontractors. The Executive Board encourages this 
compliance, which is continuously evaluated in order to 
make integrity a fundamental part of the daily activities. 
The Group has an enhanced speak-up policy with an 
external reporting line, so that breaches of the code and 
policy can be reported through various channels. This 
policy is easily accessible to employees (e.g. on the 
intranet) and there is frequent communication around the 
themes. Compliance officers monitor compliance and 
advise on integrity issues.
 For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.2 Social performance.
Financial performance
Overall financial 
health, including 
balance sheet, 
profit and loss, 
property 
divestment and 
working capital 
improvement. A healthy financial performance provides BAM with 
the means to undertake transactions with its supply 
chain partners, leading to the possibility to develop 
new activities and to pay BAM’s employees and 
shareholders.Constant attention is paid to strengthening BAM’s balance 
sheet and net results by improving financial processes to 
ensure a solid track record of project execution and 
margin stability, including rigorous monitoring of the cost 
base in line with BAM’s portfolio. Other key elements are 
working capital management and the execution of a 
property divestment programme.
Example KPI: Return on capital employed (ROCE) >10 per cent by 2020.    For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.1 Financial performance.
218
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Employee recruitment, development and retention
Encourage 
employees to use 
their skills, abilities 
and experience in a 
way that adds value 
to the Company 
and delivers 
personal growth, 
technical innovation 
and profit.BAM increases its intellectual capital and the human 
capital of its stakeholders by investing in employee 
development. Although the impact of the development 
of employees on society in general is minimal, it is 
much greater within BAM, where it contributes to the 
involvement of employees and lifelong learning. BAM 
recognises the importance of Group-wide development 
and implementation of the talent strategy and agenda, 
succession planning and internal mobility, based on 
BAM’s organisational development and strategic 
objectives. Talent management allows BAM to attract, 
develop, motivate and retain productive, engaged 
employees, now and in the future. BAM is committed to 
the principles of equal opportunity and diversity. The 
Group believes that diverse teams are better aligned 
with the wishes and expectations of its clients and to 
society in all BAM markets. In line with its vision on 
diversity, BAM wants to attract people with different 
profiles and backgrounds to build teams that are 
suitable for future challenges and will contribute to the 
achievement of BAM’s strategic goals.The Group’s development approach is aimed at encouraging 
employees to take their development into their own hands, 
with the manager/company taking on a supporting and 
facilitating role. The employee’s personal development is 
recorded in a personal learning and development plan. 
These plans are evaluated annually between manager and 
employee. BAM offers employees various tools that can be 
used in their personal development, and which are all 
accessible via BAM’s intranet Connect. With BAM Learning, 
BAM offers an integrated approach to support employees in 
achieving their professional goals. The training portfolio 
enables employees to keep up with their professional 
knowledge and to further develop the broader skills related 
to their role and career paths. Courses include topics such as 
integrity, entrepreneurship, commerce, new contract forms, 
project and risk management, procurement and financial 
management. The Group aims to foster an open culture of 
learning and exchanging knowledge in the form of training 
and education, building on the knowledge and expertise 
available. For business and project leadership development, 
the Group has specialised programmes. Participants for 
these programmes are nominated by their manager.
 For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.2 Social performance.
Energy and emissions
Energy 
consumption for 
BAM’s direct 
activities and the 
entire lifecycle of its 
products, and the 
CO2 emissions as a 
result of this energy 
consumption.The Group’s energy consumption contributes to a 
significant amount of its costs and is an indicator of the 
efficiency of its processes. The construction industry has 
a high energy consumption compared to others, 
therefore BAM’s energy use has a major impact on 
society. Climate adaptation and mitigation options can 
help address climate change, but no single option is 
sufficient by itself. Effective implementation depends on 
policies and cooperation from governmental bodies. 
Urgent action is needed to significantly reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions and BAM supports global 
developments like the UN’s Sustainable Development 
Goals (  paragraph 2.2 Strategy for BAM’s alignment), 
the Paris Agreement, the EU Emissions Trading System 
and the Science Based Target Initiative.BAM innovates and works with value chain partners to 
identify possible reductions in both upstream and 
downstream manufacturing and operational processes.
BAM has calculated its carbon footprint in order to identify 
the main influences and therefore the key areas for 
potential reduction of emissions. The Group has set 
targets for both absolute and relative reduction of 
emissions. BAM monitors and benchmarks progress on 
these targets on a quarterly basis for different activities 
within the Company. The Company focusses on reducing 
its direct CO2 emissions by lowering energy consumption 
during the construction process. The Group also maintains 
its efforts to use higher proportions of renewable energy. 
By joining the Dutch Climate Coalition (Nederlandse 
Klimaat Coalitie), BAM has committed to: 
• Having climate-neutral operations by 2050; 
• Providing insights into its carbon footprint;
• Setting interim targets for climate neutrality; 
•  Becoming an ambassador of the Dutch Climate 
Coalition within the construction industry.
Example KPI: CO2 intensity   For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.3 Environmental performance.
219
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Circular economy
An economy which 
aims to keep 
materials, 
components and 
products at their 
highest utility and 
value, at all times.BAM has a continuous need for raw materials, water 
and energy. This means that primary processes are 
influenced by the increasing volatility of raw materials 
and energy prices. The products made by the Group 
must also comply with current and future 
requirements, with particular attention to the 
significant influence of changing laws and regulations. 
Waste production influences BAM’s licence to operate 
and is an indicator for the efficiency of the business 
processes. In addition, waste products lead to costs 
due to the low value of residual material. 
Approximately 25-30 per cent of the total demolition 
and construction waste in the European Union is 
generated by the construction process. Being a large 
construction company, the Group’s waste production 
has an impact on society. Since about 83 per cent of all 
materials is recycled, this involves large quantities that 
have to be reused. BAM has identified opportunities 
for innovation on the basis of changing customer 
requests, especially with regard to greater attention 
for the recycling of materials and the use of 
sustainable materials, including wood from 
sustainable forests.BAM is innovating to reduce material consumption during 
the design process. The Group works with its supply chain 
partners to identify more sustainable alternatives for 
production and operational processes, both upstream and 
downstream. BAM focusses on improving the recycling 
potential of materials and renewable materials by asking 
its most important suppliers to provide insight into their 
origin. 
BAM has set targets for waste reduction, waste recycling 
and responsible sourcing. The Group monitors and 
benchmarks progress on these targets on a quarterly basis 
for various activities within the Company. BAM is also the 
only major construction member of the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation’s CE100 programme, which promotes the 
circular economy.
Example KPI: source 100 per cent sustainable timber by 2020.  For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.3 Environmental performance.
Community engagement
The relationships 
with the 
communities 
surrounding BAM’s 
activities.By its very nature, the Group’s construction and 
renovation work has an impact on the local 
community, residents and other users of buildings and 
infrastructure, and society as a whole. Community 
engagement affects the Group’s licence to operate 
and enables BAM to build faster, leading directly to 
results. The Group’s impact on its surroundings 
immediately affects its employees and local suppliers. 
And BAM’s community engagement improves jobs 
and education in its environment, contributing to 
society as well. This requires a constant focus on 
everything BAM does to minimise the Group’s 
negative impact and create value for local 
communities by implementing community 
engagement programmes. Involvement of people 
from diverse backgrounds provides an opportunity to 
create social value. BAM actively supports social 
return, providing work for people who are 
unemployed for various reasons, for example due to 
poor education, health issues and people with 
disabilities. Through the support of BAM, these people 
benefit from ‘social return on investment’ initiatives.For many of its projects, BAM identifies local interests and, 
on that basis, chooses the best approach to increase the 
license to operate, which may mean that BAM participates 
in local events. BAM also participates in the Considerate 
Constructors Scheme in the United Kingdom, as well as its 
Dutch equivalent (Bewuste Bouwers).
Example KPI: Enhance one million lives in local communities by 2020.   For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.2 Social performance.
220
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Innovation
The creation of new 
viable business 
offerings.Innovation influences BAM’s ability to adapt to 
changing market needs and competitiveness in 
relation to current competition and future newcomers 
to the market. Digital construction is a main theme 
within BAM’s innovation agenda. The benefits of 
digital construction for BAM and its stakeholders are 
higher resource productivity, end-user value, 
sustainability and outcome predictability. BAM shapes its future portfolio over two tracks. Both 
tracks are supported by an organisation and a lively 
ecosystem for innovation. In both tracks BAM focusses 
strongly on digital innovation.
•  Track one, ‘Business innovation’, follows an innovation 
stage gate-process to improve and align BAM’s current 
innovation portfolio.
•  Track two, ‘Scaling edges’, uses scalable learning and 
sprint methodology to develop and scale new business 
offerings at the edges of BAM’s current business. 
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 2.2 Strategy.
Procurement strategy
Selecting suppliers 
and subcontractors 
and stimulating 
them to practise 
their skills and 
improve their 
products in a way 
that adds long-term 
value to BAM and 
its clients as well as 
the suppliers and 
subcontractors, 
providing process 
and product 
innovation and 
profit.Labour policies of the Group’s suppliers and 
subcontractors can affect BAM’s reputation. Loss of 
reputation can lead to less work. The suppliers and 
subcontractors of the Group must at least adapt their 
policies to the BAM standards in order to be able to 
work for the Company. As a result, these standards 
also have a positive influence outside the Group.To integrate t he development of the Group’s supply chain 
and its values, BAM strives for added value, long-term, 
mutually beneficial relationships with partners that can help 
to improve the Group’s supply chain. In order to achieve 
this, BAM is developing selected groups of suppliers and 
subcontractors on different levels – unit, operating 
company, country and Group level – within BAM. By having 
a preferred group of suppliers and subcontractors BAM is 
able to further interact with the supply chain on a regular 
basis, thereby creating the possibility to challenge each 
other to learn, innovate and improve its joint performance 
for the client. Based on the level of the relationship, there 
are different types of suppliers and subcontractors, such as 
preferred suppliers, partners and co-makers. Based on the 
challenges in client markets, development in the supply 
chain and performance of the suppliers and subcontractors, 
the position and role of the suppliers and subcontractors 
can change. The challenge is, on the one hand, to select 
up-front supply chain partners, products and services that 
really make a difference to the value proposition of BAM, 
and on the other hand let go of suppliers and subcontractors 
who do not add value. Apart from a more standardised due 
diligence, suppliers are assessed against five different 
themes: safety, quality, total cost, logistics and engineering 
and process. If they score below the required level, BAM 
starts a dialogue to improve their performance. If they are 
not willing and/or able to improve their performance, they 
will be excluded from future work with BAM.
 For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.2 Social performance
221
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Fair tax
Compliance to the 
letter and spirit of 
tax laws resulting in 
paying an 
appropriate 
amount of tax 
according to where 
value is created 
within the normal 
course of and being 
transparent about 
approach and 
outcome.Tax is a relevant subject for BAM and its stakeholders. 
Tax payments to governments can contribute to the 
development of countries. On the other hand, 
optimisation of taxes is in the interest of the Company 
and its financial position.BAM strives to come to a responsible approach to tax and 
supports paying fair tax as an integral part of its strategic 
agenda.
BAM’s tax policy statement is published on the website 
www.bam.com.
 For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.1 Financial performance. 
Human rights
Ensuring 
compliance within 
the entire value 
chain regarding the 
basic rights and 
freedoms to which 
all humans are 
considered to be 
entitled, often held 
to include the rights 
to equality, a fair 
trial, freedom from 
slavery, and 
freedom of thought 
and expression.Human rights practices within BAM and its supply 
chain affect the reputation of the Group and are 
associated with the risk of losing work. The risk of 
violations of human rights as referred to in the 
Framework Agreement agreed with the international 
federation Building and Wood Worker’s International 
(BWI) is considered to be limited by having social 
audits conducted on a regular basis. Subcontractors 
have to bring their practices up to at least BAM 
standards to be able to work for the Company and in 
doing so will have a positive influence outside of the 
Group as well. BAM has signed a framework agreement with Building and 
Wood Worker’s International (BWI), to promote and 
protect employee rights. By signing the agreement BAM 
agreed to recognise and respect:
•  The fundamental principles of human rights as defined 
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
•  The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work;
• The ILO Conventions in force;
•  The ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning 
Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy; and
• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Within the agreement, BAM also endorses the need for fair 
negotiations with national trade unions and acknowledges 
that corruption, bribery and anti-competitive behaviour 
are not acceptable. Regular meetings are held with 
management representatives from BAM and trade union 
organisations, including BWI, to monitor implementation 
of the agreement. 
Subcontractors must comply with labour conditions as 
stated in BAM’s purchasing conditions. The UK Modern 
Slavery Act 2015 requires all larger companies to prepare a 
statement of its activities in this area. Both BAM Construct 
UK and BAM Nuttall have initiated working groups and are 
working towards developing their approaches.
 For BAM’s performance, see paragraph 3.2 Social performance.
222
Integrated Report 2019 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management®
