Integrated Report2 – 2015
Key figures
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Continuing operations
Revenue  7,423 7,314
Adjusted result before tax 88.2 62.2
Result before tax  13.3 (122.4)
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company  10.2 (108.2)
Earnings per share  (in €1)
 - Continuing operations  0.04 (0.40)
 - Discontinued operations - -
Dividends per ordinary share (in €1)  0.02 -
Dividend payout (in %)  50 -
Number of shares as at 31 December  (x 1,000) 270,394 270,999
Share closing price as at 31 December (in €1) 5.13 2.58
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  902.1 827.4
Capital base  1,026.5 951.9
Total assets  4,852.2 4,956.0
Order book  11,480 10,268
Net investment in property, plant and equipment 41.7 39.0
Depreciation charges 66.5 79.6
Amortisation charges 4.0 3.2
Impairment charges 39.1 115.9
Cash flow before dividend  119.8 90.5
Ratios
-  Adjusted result before tax from continuing operations as % of revenue  1.2 0.9
-  Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue  0.1 -
-  Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company as % of average equity  1.2 -
Solvency ratios
-  Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company as % of total assets  18.6 16.7
- Capital ratio 21.2 19.2
People
Average number of employees (in FTE) 21,916 23,325
Number of employees as at 31 December (in FTE) 21,248 23,137
Training costs per employee  (in €1)  509 579
Female/male  (in %)  14/86 14/86
Safety
Incident frequency (IF) 4.5 5.0
Safety Awareness Audits (SAA) 75.4 74.2
CO2 and energy
CO2 emissions (in kilotonnes)  230 242
CO2 emissions intensity (in tonnes per € million revenue)  30.9 33.0
Energy (in terra joules) 3,356 3,410
Waste
Waste (in million tonnes)  2.4 4.8
Construction and office waste  (in kilotonnes)  161 182
Construction waste separation (in %) 29 33Adjusted result  
before tax
Result before tax 
excluding 
restructuring costs 
and other exceptional 
costs, impairment 
charges and pension 
one-off.
Incident frequency 
(IF)
The total number of 
industrial accidents 
leading to absence 
from work per million 
hours worked on 
construction sites.Capital base
Equity attributable to 
the shareholders of 
the Company plus 
subordinated debt.
Capital ratio
Capital base divided  
by total assets.2 Key figures
4 1.  Message from the CEO
6 2.  Value creation
7  Stakeholder engagement and material themes
16 Strategy
20 Business model
24 Risks and opportunities
38 3.  Business performance
39 Financial performance
53 Social performance
64 Environmental performance
77 Outlook
80 4.  Governance
81 Corporate governance
91 Report of the Supervisory Board to shareholders
99 Remuneration report
106  Declaration in accordance with the Dutch Financial 
   Supervision Act
107  Decision on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive
109 Supervisory Board and Executive Board
112 5.  Financial statements
114 Consolidated financial statements
119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
190 Company financial statements
191 Notes to the company financial statements
198 6.  Other information
199 Independent auditor’s and assurance report
209 Proposed appropriation of result
209 Articles of Association provisions governing the 
    distribution of profit
209 Anti-takeover measures
211 Five-year overview
212  List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements  
    and associates
213 Glossary
 
214 7.  Appendices
215 Sustainability reporting process and methods
218 GRI Disclosures
226 Charters, memberships and certifications
233 8.   Organisation structure and Management 
Board
234 9.  Royal BAM Group nv shares
237 Key financial datesRoyal BAM Group nv (BAM or the Group) is a European construction 
group that unites operating companies in five home markets with 
the corporate centre in the Netherlands and is listed at Euronext 
Amsterdam. With approximately 21,500 employees, BAM is active 
in the construction and mechanical and electrical services, civil 
engineering, property and public private partnerships (PPP) sectors.
The Group ranks among the largest construction companies in 
Europe. BAM has leading market positions in the Netherlands, 
Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. The Group 
undertakes specialist construction and civil engineering projects in 
niche markets worldwide.
One of BAM’s prominent features is its widespread regional 
network of offices, meaning that the company is always close to  
its clients. 
BAM’s philosophy is to offer real value to its clients and work with 
them in close and lasting collaboration that provides outstanding 
performance in relation to the maintenance, innovation and 
expansion of built environments. BAM is recognised and 
acknowledged for the quality and reliability of its products and 
services as well as for the commitment, knowledge and  
experience of its employees.Contents BAM at a glance
Front cover: 
The Arnhem Central Public Transport 
Terminal in the Netherlands celebrated its 
grand opening on 19 November 2015. Bus 
terminal and train station are combined 
into a new type of complex - an integrated 
public transportation area, designed by 
UNStudio. The transfer hall shelters the 
facilities and waiting areas for the trains, 
trolley buses and bus station, as well as commercial areas and a 
conference centre, and serves as the linking hub between these 
transportation modes, the city centre, the underground car park and 
the office plaza of the Public Transport Terminal in Arnhem. The Public 
Transport Terminal was built by BAM Bouw en Techniek, in joint 
arrangement with Ballast Nedam. BAM Infra was involved in the civil 
works near the terminal, including the square for the trolley buses.  
See also pages 50-51.
2015  – 31. Message  
from the CEO4 – 2015‘I am pleased with the major advances we made in 2015 to 
successfully implement the Back in Shape programme. With our 
21,500 people working together, we delivered on demanding 
targets. Our results for the year show we are turning around our 
performance, and there is more potential to be unlocked.
Our full year results featured a strong rebound in margins at Civil 
engineering. Construction and M&E services was still held back by a 
loss at the Dutch non-residential activities. The result at Property 
was driven by commercial property divestments. There was a 
non-cash impairment of Dutch property due to the twin-track 
housing market and the subdued retail sector. PPP had a solid year 
with good project wins. Our total order book increased in the year.
BAM is continuously improving the Group’s safety performance. 
In 2015 BAM succeeded in reducing the Incident frequency (IF), 
which reflects the number of lost-time incidents per million worked 
hours, to 4.5 (2014: 5.0). The Group intensified the Safety 
Awareness Audits (SAA) conducted across and between operating 
companies, and held its annual Worldwide BAM Safety Day where 
attendance is mandatory for all employees and subcontractors on 
site. BAM reduced the absolute CO2 emissions by 17 per cent 
compared to the level of 2009, which is better than the targeted 
improvement of 15 per cent.
BAM was again ranked within the top five of the leading Dutch 
sustainability index, the annual Transparency Benchmark. BAM’s 
2015 Integrated Report is the second report that is prepared in line 
with the Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework. Integrated 
Reporting provides insight on financial and non-financial value 
creation. By adopting the principles of Integrated Reporting and by 
application of the Global Reporting Initiative, G4 ‘Comprehensive’, 
BAM will continue to provide more relevant information to all 
stakeholders.
Back in Shape has resulted in a solid foundation, on which we can 
build further to BAM’s success in 2016 and beyond. During the year 
a BAM-wide representation of employees has contributed to our 
updated strategy for 2016-2020 – ‘Building the present, creating 
the future’. In several sessions during an inspiring Edge Journey, 
external and internal specialists gave their views to think about 
future technologies and applications having impact on BAM’s 
current and future business.
Our updated strategy for 2016-2020 will further improve the 
performance of our current project and business portfolio, and will 
position us for future opportunities. In a fragile macro-economic 
environment, our objective is to improve profitability and  capital 
efficiency by ‘doing things better’. This means a more disciplined 
focus on market segments and projects where we can use either 
scale or expertise as critical success factors. Secondly, we will  shape our business portfolio towards ‘doing better things’ by 
rationalising our propositions and developing new solutions for 
customers. Thirdly,  we will invest in digitalisation to be an industry 
leader in how we build and what we build – ‘doing new things’. 
Our target is to reach a double digit return on capital employed 
by 2020. 
2016 will be a year of reinforcement with a top priority to 
implement ‘Building the present, creating the future’. We are 
preparing further restructuring measures for Dutch Construction 
and Property to restore its profitability in the coming quarters. 
The de-risking of the project backlog will be largely completed by 
the end of 2016. For the full year 2016, we expect the adjusted 
result before tax to be higher than the level of 2015. We anticipate 
a restructuring charge of approximately €20 million, mainly related 
to the Dutch activities. 
On behalf of Thessa Menssen, Erik Bax and myself, I would like to 
thank all our employees for their hard work and commitment 
throughout the year. We are very motivated for the challenge of 
the coming years, to continue to unlock the significant upside 
potential of BAM.  We will work together to serve our clients better, 
improve our financial performance, and be a preferred employer 
and partner. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 17 February 2016
Rob van Wingerden,
CEO,
Royal BAM Group nvBuilding the present, creating the future 
2015  – 52. Value creation6 – 2015Stakeholder engagement
BAM recognises that real business benefits can only be achieved 
with the involvement of its stakeholders. During 2015 BAM met with 
its clients, main suppliers and other stakeholders in multi- 
stakeholder forums to further align BAM’s policies with stakeholder 
demands.
The Group has defined its stakeholders as those groups which 
significantly influence or are influenced by the economic, 
environmental and social performance of BAM. BAM has identified 
its stakeholders based on the risks and opportunities for its business 
performance, strategy execution and strategic objectives.
BAM continuously engages with its stakeholders to understand their 
priorities and concerns through benchmarking, sector meetings, 
client surveys and direct contracts. BAM’s key stakeholder groups, 
and interactions with them, are:
Clients
BAM is in daily discussion with its clients and sustainability is an 
increasingly important topic in these discussions. In addition, BAM 
organises client meetings to share knowledge, best practices and 
innovation with its value chain. Some clients have developed their 
own sustainability benchmarks, including ProRail, the government 
task organisation that takes care of maintenance and extensions of 
the Dutch railway network infrastructure, with its CO2 Performance 
Ladder. Positioning on the ladder forms part of the tender 
evaluation process and positively affects BAM’s ability to win 
contracts. It is therefore important that BAM keeps itself informed 
of and is able to respond proactively to these initiatives.
Providers of financial capital
Communication with investors, financial institutions and the 
financial community in general, usually takes place through 
meetings, project visits, road shows, seminars, presentations, 
investment meetings and press releases. All dates and locations of 
road shows, seminars and other investor relations activities are 
published on the BAM website. The Group has also been responding 
to CDP’s investor information requests since 2008.
Employees
BAM’s most important asset are its employees. As part of BAM’s 
performance management process, employees’ personal learning 
and development plans are evaluated annually between manager 
and employee.
Suppliers and subcontractors
BAM’s procurement responsibles are in daily contact with suppliers 
and subcontractors to discuss responsible sourcing in relation to 
health and safety and environmental management. Supply chain 
partners are increasingly being involved at the early stages of the bidding process and helping to develop and plan BAM’s projects 
through lean planning meetings and optimising the efficiency of the 
build programme through the value chain. BAM involves its supply 
chain partners by investing in relationships.
Society
By its very nature, BAM’s construction and civil engineering works 
have an impact on local communities, occupiers and other users of 
buildings and infrastructure and society as a whole. Chapter 3.2 of 
this report describes BAM’s results and gives several examples of its 
community engagement activities in 2015.
Through its delivery of projects BAM has ongoing contact with local 
government bodies regarding the issuing of permits, compliance 
with regulations and supervision of its activities. BAM is involved in 
many governmental initiatives including several Green Deals in the 
Netherlands. In the UK, BAM responded to Government 
consultations on the Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) and 
Energy Efficiency Scheme (EES), among others.
Multi-stakeholder dialogue
In addition to its engagements with different stakeholders across its 
operating companies, the Group organises a yearly multi-
stakeholder meeting. In 2015, as part of BAM’s strategy defining 
process, BAM wanted to think together with its most important 
stakeholders about what the construction and civil engineering 
industry will look like in 2020 and how to anticipate on this.  
During the meeting, stakeholders attended a presentation on a 
BAM icon project and technology, big data and smart cities. The 
stakeholders reflected on industry impact, discussed the BAM’s 
emerging 2020 vision and how BAM’s stakeholders could be 
involved in this journey. The stakeholders selected for the dialogue 
comprised fifty management level representatives of clients, 
financial institutions, suppliers, architects, start-ups, NGOs, and 
knowledge institutes that are active with BAM and thirty executive 
representatives of the same organisations. BAM executives and 
internal stakeholders from BAM’s operating companies attended 
the meeting as well. All were invited to participate in preparation 
of the meeting by means of a survey questionnaire. BAM used the 
key messages from this survey to strengthen its strategy.
During the 2015 meeting, stakeholders indicated the following cross 
industry trends for 2020 and beyond:
• Individualisation, personalisation, collaboration;
• Changing fundamentals: innovation, sharing economy, 
digitalisation;
• Population: aging, growth, migration.2.1 Stakeholder engagement and material themes
2015  – 7For the construction industry in 2020 they listed the following 
dilemma’s:
• Standardisation versus personalisation;
• the need for a higher quality of workforce and productivity;
• the need for collaboration and partnerships;
• the conservative character of the industry and low margins could 
hamper innovation.
This resulted in the following input from stakeholders for BAM 
towards 2020 and beyond:
• Offer a product that is dynamic, appealing and flexible;
• Move from offering goods to services;
• Specialise and create partnerships;
• Invest in innovation and ICT;
• For a better revenue model: expand the business and focus on 
added value;
• Become an open platform for knowledge and skills sharing.
The 2015 multi-stakeholder dialogue was a first step in integrating 
the construction value chain into an integrated platform.
Material themes
As part of the development of the strategic agenda for 2016-2020 
and in keeping with BAM’s aim to create an integrated approach 
that concentrates on matters that are critical to achieving BAM’s 
goals and managing its impact on society, the Group has 
conducted a materiality assessment. Material themes are those 
that substantively affect BAM’s ability to create value over the 
short, medium and long term.
As a first step in the process of identifying material themes, BAM 
selected relevant matters from a long-list of topics, based on their 
ability to affect financial, environmental and social value creation for BAM’s stakeholders. This long-list included aspects derived from the 
fourth edition of the Guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), 
BAM’s Group strategy, the results of research into stakeholders’ 
interests and feedback from previous stakeholder dialogues and 
general meetings of shareholders.
A selection of BAM employees with a Group-wide presentation then 
evaluated the importance of these relevant matters in terms of their 
known or potential effect on BAM’s activities, products, services and 
relations, both within and outside of BAM, within the timeframe 
2016-2020. ‘Effect’ within BAM was defined as ‘impact on BAM’s 
balance sheet’.
Stakeholders were asked to identify and prioritise the potential 
impact of these matters on themselves and on society. Most 
relevant for the clients group were ‘health and safety’ and ‘project 
and product quality and control’. The group of employees 
specifically indicated ‘employee recruitment, development and 
retention’ as a material theme. Providers of financial capital 
indicated that BAM’s performance on ‘circular economy’ is most 
relevant to their organisations. BAM’s subcontractors and suppliers 
as well as the group representing society (NGO’s, government and 
knowledge institutes) specifically indicated ‘business conduct and 
transparency’ as the most material theme. They were also asked to 
introduce and assess matters that were omitted from BAM’s initial 
materiality assessment. No new topics were added.
The materiality matrix displays the prioritisation of the matters 
based on their relative importance to BAM and to BAM’s 
stakeholders. It should be noted that opinions of various 
stakeholders and appreciation in BAM’s home markets may differ.
This report addresses BAM’s performance in relation to the 
following topics that are positioned in the materiality matrix:
employee recruitment,
development and retention ﬁnancial performance  project & product quality and control 
health & safety  innovation  business conduct & transparency 
procurement 
local community engagement  
human rights circular economy  
energy & emissions  
responsible tax 
Impact of BAM’s performance on stakeholders 
Impact of BAM’s performance on achieving its strategic goalsDot size representsthe impact of BAM’sperformance onsociety
Materiality matrix 1employee recruitment,
development and retention ﬁnancial performance  project & product quality and control 
health & safety  innovation  business conduct & transparency 
procurement 
local community engagement  
human rights circular economy  
energy & emissions  
responsible tax 
Impact of BAM’s performance on stakeholders 
Impact of BAM’s performance on achieving its strategic goalsDot size represents
the impact of BAM’sperformance onsociety
8 – 2015Health and safety
Definition: Health and safety (zero accidents) of all employees and 
subcontractors and everyone involved with BAM’s activities, 
including the general public.
Impact:  ‘BAM borrows its employees from their families’, is how 
BAM expresses its responsibility for everyone who works with and 
for BAM. There is nothing more important than everyone returning 
home safely. Occupational health and safety contributes to the 
satisfaction of the Group’s employees and their relatives, BAM’s 
subcontractors, its supply chain partners and others involved with 
BAM’s construction sites. Safety also affects BAM’s clients and 
BAM’s reputation.
Management approach: A Group-wide guideline for safety 
management provides BAM’s operating companies with a framework 
within which their safety management system must comply.
BAM has started an international safety campaign ‘Making BAM a 
safer place’ to move towards an open safety culture, where BAM’s 
employees actively call each other to account on unsafe behaviour. 
Three safety principles (respect, comply and intervene) underpin 
ten safety rules that encourage employees to hold each other to 
account on safety.
At the annual Safety Awareness Audit (SAA), BAM monitors the 
extent to which the safety management systems of operating 
companies comply with the guideline and the extent to which 
employees are aware of the safety risks inherent in their projects. 
The audits also highlight areas where the safety management 
system can be improved.
While the SAA score gives an indication of the extent to which risks 
and hazards are managed, the BAM incident frequency (IF BAM) can 
be seen as the result of effort. The IF is an indicator which is used to 
establish an organisation’s actual safety performance. In the 
absence of an internationally recognised indicator, BAM has 
introduced its own definition, which the operating companies use to 
compare their performances.
 
From 2015 onwards BAM’s safety targets will extend focus on BAM’s 
responsibility towards its value chain. Safety statistics will include 
accidents involving absence of BAM employees, hired employees, 
subcontractors and other third parties involved with BAM’s 
activities. BAM is in the process of enhancing the reporting process 
for worked hours of subcontractors and it is expected to report this 
information and therefore the ‘IF Total’ of BAM including the IF for 
subcontractors in the 2016 Integrated Report. The Group is working 
to obtain reliable information for example by implementing 
automated on-site entrance systems as tourniquets, fingerprint 
readers, iris scans and card systems.
 
When a fatal industrial accident occurs, involving a BAM employee 
or a subcontractor, the following actions take place:
1. The operating company informs the Executive Board and the 
Corporate Safety Officer (CSO) directly after the accident;2. The first details of the accident are communicated within 
24 hours of the accident;
3. No later than the day following the fatal accident, a message will 
be published on BAM’s intranet;
4. If the accident occurred in Western Europe, the COO, assisted by 
the CSO, will pay a visit to the operating company within 15 days 
after the accident;
5. For accidents occurring outside Western Europe: video- 
conference; and
6. Three weeks after the accident a ‘safety start’ takes place in the 
country where the fatality occurred; A safety presentation/
bulletin has been produced highlighting the lessons learned and 
who must have intervened. This has to be briefed out to all 
operatives.
 
More insidious than the fatal and serious industrial accidents is the 
number of workers who suffer impaired health or long-term illness 
caused or made worse at work. Many of these illnesses only 
manifest themselves years after exposure and many are ultimate 
fatal. BAM believes that all injuries, deaths and illnesses can and 
should be prevented. BAM has yet to develop a management 
approach for health. However, within ENCORD, Europe’s forum for 
industry-led research, development and innovation in the 
construction industry, the Group has put on the agenda research 
and development regarding quartz dust and asbestos inhalation, 
diabetes and skin cancer.
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 53-55.
Project and product quality and control 
Definition: Quality of tender process, efficient project management 
and effective project execution with the aim to meet or exceed 
clients’ expectations.
Impact:  To exceed clients’ expectations, BAM needs to continuously 
improve the (perceived) performance of BAM’s products. Product 
quality means that BAM does what it has promised to do, within the 
budget and on time. Product responsibility compliance, contract 
management and innovation are key value drivers. Operational 
performance is crucial to realising the appropriate level of financial 
and non-financial results on construction projects. 
Management approach:  Since 2014 BAM has increased its efforts 
to improve the quality of its tender process in order to safeguard its 
current and future results arising from construction projects. 
BAM has continued to cascade its internal risk management 
framework down through the Group. In addition, the evaluation of 
BAM’s internal governance framework has resulted in the update of 
Company Principles and Management Guidelines, including 
strengthening BAM’s project selection and tendering process for 
large and high-risk projects. In connection with this development, 
peer reviews on project estimates are undertaken under the 
leadership of the Tender Desk Director.
In order to comply with product responsibility, BAM makes sure that 
all projects where its operating companies are responsible for 2015  – 9design and construction are certified. In other projects (PPP 
projects) BAM uses verification and validation methods. Each 
operating company has a quality manager who is responsible for 
the quality control of the operating company’s processes. Quality 
managers have company-wide meetings in which they discuss 
findings and evaluate their management systems. System audits are 
conducted by third parties. On all levels, outcomes are assessed  
by the senior management of BAM’s operating companies.
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 58-61.
Business conduct and transparency
Definition: Openness regarding, and adherence to, generally 
accepted standards and values and compliance with local statutory 
and other rules and regulations, particularly with respect to the 
acquisition and performance of contracts.
Impact: BAM’s reputation and licence to operate depend on 
responsible business conduct, by stimulating dialogue on dilemmas. 
Ensuring compliance with anti-corruption legislation enhances 
efficiency by reducing transaction costs for BAM and for BAM’s 
stakeholders. Furthermore, BAM believes that doing business 
honestly is vital to increasing competitiveness for BAM and for 
BAM’s partners. Competitive behaviour contributes to innovation 
and collaboration. It creates an environment in which the best 
products will win and where BAM’s stakeholders will get the best 
products for the best price. The Group believes that by providing 
financial and non-financial information on the achievement of BAM’s 
strategic goals, it can continuously improve the reporting process as 
well as its performance.
Management approach: Chapter Business conduct on page 40 
describes BAM’s management measures related to business conduct 
as part of BAM’s management approach related to specific risks.
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 56-59.
Financial performance
Definition: Overall financial health, including balance sheet, profit 
and loss, property divestment and working capital improvement.
Impact:  A healthy financial performance provides BAM with the 
means to undertake transactions with its supply chain partners, 
which leads to the opportunity to develop new activities and to pay 
BAM’s employees and shareholders.
Management approach: Continuous focus is put on strengthening 
BAM’s balance sheet by improving its financial processes to ensure  
a solid track record on project execution and margin stability, 
including close monitoring of its cost base in line with BAM’s 
portfolio. Additionally, working capital management and the 
execution of a property divestment programme are key elements.  
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 39-51.
Employee recruitment, development and retention
Definition: Stimulating employees to use their competencies, 
capabilities and experience in a way that adds value to the business, 
providing personal growth, technical innovation and profit.January
Technical University of Denmark (DTU) commissions 
BAM Danmark construction of new biotechnology 
research centre. 
 
February
BAM Infraconsult signs licence agreement for the 
application of Xbloc breakwater armour units in 
Mundra LNG project (first Xbloc application in India).
March
Oberbürgermeister (mayor) Gerold Noerenberg 
officially opens the new shopping centre Glacis-Galerie 
in Neu-Ulm, built by  BAM Deutschland.
 
April
BAM Clough joint arrangement completes fifth iron ore 
loading berth at Anderson Point Facility (AP5) in Port 
Hedland, Western Australia for Fortescue Metals Group.
 
May
BAM Deutschland wins contract for 110-metre-high office 
tower WINX in Frankfurt am Main 
May
BAM Construction wins major contract for  No.1 
Spinningfields, Manchester.
 
June
A1/28 joint venture (BAM, Van Oord) and partner ARCADIS 
win Rijkswaterstaat tender for Hoevelaken junction.
 
July
Official opening city tunnel Luise-Kiesselbach in Munich. 
 
August
Microsoft Ireland awards contract for office facility with 
value in excess of €100 million to BAM Contractors Ltd.
 
September
BAM Deutschland wins €88-million hospital contract in 
Stuttgart.
 
October
BAM Nuttall principal contractor for €225-million upgrade 
of the Aberdeen-Inverness rail line.
 
November
BAM wins contract major road project Rotterdamsebaan, 
The Hague.
December
BAM-PGGM reaches financial close on the Courts Bundle 
PPP Project, Ireland.Projects 2015 20
11
19
2
7
13
15
25
4
10
16
27
2810 – 2015Impact: BAM increases its intellectual capital and the human capital 
of its stakeholders by investing in employee development. While the 
impact of employee development on wider society is minimal, 
within BAM, employee development contributes to employee 
engagement and lifelong learning. BAM recognises the importance 
of Group-wide development and implementation of the talent 
strategy and agenda, succession planning and internal mobility, 
based on BAM’s organisational development and strategic aims. 
Talent management allows BAM to attract, develop, motivate and 
retain productive, engaged employees, now and in the future.
BAM is committed to the principles of equal opportunity and 
diversity. The Group believes that diverse teams connect better to 
the wishes and expectations of it’s clients and to society in all BAM 
markets. In line with its vision on diversity BAM aims to attract 
people with different profiles and backgrounds in order to build 
teams that are fit for future challenges and will contribute to 
achieving BAM’s strategic goals.
Management approach:  The Group’s development approach is to 
encourage the employees to take ownership of their development 
with the manager / company adopting a supportive / facilitating 
role. The employee’s personal development is captured in a personal 
Learning and Development Plan. These plans are evaluated annually 
between manager and employee. BAM offers employees various 
tools that can be used in their personal development, all accessible 
via the internal My BAM Career site. Across the Group, BAM works with a number of universities externally and internally with the 
Group’s training centres to ensure BAM continues to offer high-
quality training and development programmes.
Employee development at BAM is enhanced by the performance 
management process, in which the consequences of – among other 
things – commercial goals are translated in terms of individual 
contributions (and targets). Continuous performance management 
creates a learning loop for the individual and a learning environment 
for the entire company.
With BAM Business School, BAM offers an integrated approach to 
support employees in achieving their goals. The training portfolio 
allows employees to keep their professional knowledge up to date 
and to further develop the wider skills related to their role. In this 
way, BAM Business School also supports the various career paths 
that can be realised within the organisation. The training courses 
support the focus on collaboration between different disciplines, 
promote synergy between subsidiaries and play an important role in 
knowledge management within the Group. These courses include 
topics like integrity, entrepreneurship, commerce, new contract 
forms, project development, risk management, procurement and 
financial management. The Group aims to foster an open culture of 
learning and exchanging knowledge in the form of training and 
education, building on the knowledge and expertise available.
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 59-60.
Engineering, procurement and 
construction (EPC) of a petroleum 
jetty for client PetroJetty Ltd at the 
Kissy Oil Terminal of Freetown in 
Sierra Leone. BAM International 
(in joint arrangement); hose tower, 
firefighting system and piping and 
electrical part by BAM Infra.2015  – 11Energy and emissions
Definition: Energy consumption for BAM’s direct activities and the 
entire lifecycle of its products, and the CO2 emissions as a result of 
this energy consumption.
Impact: The Group’s energy consumption contributes to a 
significant amount of its costs and is an indicator of the efficiency of 
its processes. As a large player in an industry with a relatively high 
energy consumption versus other industries, its energy usage has a 
great impact on society. Business conduct and transparency account 
for 40 per cent of European Union (EU) final energy demand. The 
renovation of existing buildings represents more than 17 per cent of 
the primary energy saving potential of the EU up to 2050.
Through the Energy Agreement for Sustainable Growth and the 
Agreement for Energy Saving for Corporations (Convenant 
Energiebesparing corporatiesector), the Dutch government has set 
the following targets for the construction industry: From 2020 
onwards, all newly built houses and buildings should be energy 
neutral; From 2050 onwards, all existing buildings should be energy 
neutral; In 2021, all 2.4 million houses owned by housing 
corporations should be retrofitted into an average energy label B 
standard. Emissions that relate to the Group’s energy usage, are 
relevant to BAM due to risks driven by changes in regulation, mainly 
in the case of the EU Emissions Trading System regarding the 
Group’s asphalt plants. Buildings account for 30 per cent of EU 
CO2 emissions. The operation of a building accounts for 80 per cent 
of the total CO2 emissions through the building’s life cycle. Most of January
Steve Fox, BAM Nuttall’s Chief Executive, is awarded a CBE 
(Commander of the British Empire) for services to Civil 
Engineering and Construction in the New Years Honours List.
February
The Irish Minister for Education and Skills, Jan O’Sullivan TD, 
turns the sod on St Joseph’s Secondary School in Tulla, 
County Clare, providing state-of-the-art educational 
facilities for 650 students.
March
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne officially 
openes  the £61-million National Graphene Institute (NGI)  
at The University of Manchester
April
Wietze Potze (Counsellor Municipality of Vlagtwedde) and 
Gerard Bakker (Chairman of the Board of the Central Agency 
for the Reception of Asylum Seekers, COA) mark the official 
start of the redevelopment and the multiannual management 
and maintenance of the refugee centre in Ter Apel (in the 
province Groningen, in the north of the Netherlands). 
May
His Majesty King Willem-Alexander officially opens Sluiskil 
tunnel near Terneuzen, built by BAM Infra and Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau (in joint arrangement).
June
BAM’s Contracts Manager Darren Devane receives the 
Gold Medal Award for his management of the Newlands 
Cross Flyover Project in Dublin during the Chartered 
Institute  of Building 2015 Construction Manager of the 
Year Awards in Dublin.
July
Tom Moore IEng MICE (BAM Nuttall) receives the Baroness 
Platt of Writtle Award 2015, presented by the Worshipful 
Company of Engineers, a prestigious annual national award 
recognising the achievements of a newly registered 
Incorporated Engineer (IEng). 
August
Comic illustrator Will Morris and graphic designer David 
Mackenzie design a giant 150-metre-long comic strip 
illustrating the brilliance of design at the waterfront 
construction site of V&A Museum of Design Dundee.5
4
20
29
19
5
616People 2015 12 – 2015Station at Herstal. Architect: ARJM. 
BAM Belgium (Galère). 
those existing today will still be standing in thirty years’ time; the 
rate of new construction continues to remain low. In the field of 
energy and emissions, BAM can create value by building energy 
efficient buildings and by renovating buildings to higher energy 
performance standards.
Management approach:  BAM innovates and works with value chain 
partners to identify possible reductions in both upstream and 
downstream manufacturing and operational processes. 
BAM has calculated its carbon footprint in order to identify the main 
influences and therefore the key areas for potential reduction of 
emissions. The Group has set targets for both absolute and relative 
reduction of emissions. BAM monitors and benchmarks progress 
on these targets on a quarterly basis for different activities within 
the company. BAM focuses on reducing its direct CO2 emissions by 
lowering energy use during the construction process. The Group 
uses renewable energy.
By joining the Dutch Climate Coalition (Nederlandse Klimaat 
Coalitie), BAM has committed to: Having climate neutral 
operations in 2050 at the latest; Providing insights into its carbon 
footprint; Setting interim targets for climate neutrality; Becoming 
an ambassador of the Dutch Climate Coalition within the 
construction industry; If desired, playing a role in the 2015 World 
Climate Summit.
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 64-68.
September
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth officially opens the 
Borders Railway on the day that she becomes 
Britain’s longest-serving Monarch.
September
Kristin Alheit (Minister for Social Affairs, Health, 
Science, and Equality of the Federal State of 
Schleswig-Holstein) and Prof. Dr. Jens Scholz 
(Chairman Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, 
UKSH) mark start of construction University hospital 
PPP project in Lübeck.
October
His Majesty King Willem-Alexander officially opens 
EnTranCe, Energy Academy and Hanze University’s 
open-innovation testing facility in Groningen. 
BAM Nuttall’s event to celebrate its 150th 
anniversary includes a keynote speech from 
broadcaster and former politician Michael Portillo.
November
Sharon Dijksma, the Dutch State Secretary for 
Infrastructure and the Environment, officially opens 
Arnhem Station. 
December
Minister for Regional Development Michelle McIlveen 
visits Magherafelt bypass in Northern Ireland.9
30
13
20
16
People 20152015  – 13employees are an opportunity to create value. This is known as 
‘social return’ and BAM actively supports its implementation. 
People who have been unemployed due to various causes, such as 
physical handicaps, unfinished educations or lack of opportunity 
to be employed in or outside the industry for a longer period of 
time, are considered to benefit from social return initiatives.
Management approach:  On many of its projects, BAM makes an 
inventory of local interests and, based on this, opts for the best 
approach to increase its licence to operate (which could be 
participation in local events). In addition, BAM participates in the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme in the United Kingdom and in 
Dutch Considerate Constructors (Bewuste Bouwers) in the 
Netherlands.
BAM manages social return on a project basis and considers social 
return a part of its office operations, since in both cases it creates 
human capital and license to operate in local communities. Social 
return may never lead to a reduction of safety for all involved, and 
therefore no compromises are made on required skills and 
trainings before job sites are open to people who are contracted 
under social return conditions.
> For BAM’s performance, see page 61.
Procurement
Definition: Selecting and stimulating suppliers to practise their 
skills and products in a way that adds long-term value to BAM and  
its suppliers, providing technical innovation and profit.
Impact: Labour practices of the Group’s suppliers affect BAM’s 
reputation and are associated with the risk of losing work. The 
Group’s suppliers have to bring their practices at least to BAM 
standards to be able to work for the company and in doing so will 
have a good influence outside of the Group as well.
Management approach:  To develop the Group’s supply chain and 
incorporate its values, BAM seeks added value, long-term, 
mutually beneficial relationships with partners who can help 
improve the Group’s supply chain. The challenge is to select 
supply chain partners, products and services that really make a 
difference. Suppliers are assessed against five different themes 
(safety, quality, total cost, logistics and engineering and process). 
If the score is lower than required, BAM starts a dialogue to 
improve their performance. If they are not willing and / or able to 
improve their performance, they will be excluded from future 
work with BAM.
> For BAM’s performance, see page 61.
Innovation
Definition: The exploration of new solutions as well as the 
application of better solutions that meet new requirements, 
anticipated and existing market needs.
Impact:  Ability to adapt to changing market needs, 
competitiveness with current competition and future entrants 
into our market.Circular economy 
Definition: An economy which aims to keep materials, 
components and products at their highest utility and value, at all 
times.
Impact:  Globally the construction industry accounts for 40-50 per 
cent of natural resource use and 25 per cent of all timber use. BAM 
has a continuous need for raw materials, water and energy. This 
means primary processes are affected by increasing volatility in raw 
material and energy prices. The products produced by the Group 
must also meet current and future demands, where the impact of 
changing laws and regulations, in particular, has proved to be very 
significant. Waste production affects BAM’s licence to operate and 
is an indicator of the efficiency of BAM’s processes. Also, waste 
incurs costs due to the low value of residual material. Activities 
involved in the construction process generate approximately 
25-30 per cent of total waste within the European Union. As a large 
construction company, the Group’s waste production affects 
society. As approximately 80 per cent of materials are recycled, it 
concerns large amounts of materials that are to be reused. BAM has 
identified opportunities for innovation based on changing client 
requests, particularly in relation to a greater focus on the recycling 
of materials and the use of sustainable materials, including timber 
sourced from sustainable forests.
Management approach: Firstly, BAM innovates to reduce material 
consumption during the design process;
The Group works with its supply chain partners to identify more 
sustainable alternatives both in the upstream and downstream of 
manufacturing and operational processes; BAM focuses on 
improving the percentage of recycled materials used as well as 
renewable materials, by asking its main suppliers to provide an 
insight into the source of the materials; BAM has set targets for 
both waste reduction and recycling. The Group monitors and 
benchmarks progress on these targets on a quarterly basis for 
different activities within the company.
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 68-76.
Local community engagement
Definition: The relationships with the communities surrounding 
BAM’s activities.
Impact:  By its very nature, the Group’s construction and renovation 
work has an impact on the local community, occupiers and other 
users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a whole. 
Community engagement affects the Group’s licence to operate and 
allows BAM to build faster, which directly leads to results.
The Group’s impact on its surroundings immediately affects its 
employees and local suppliers. And BAM’s community 
engagement improves jobs and education in its environment, 
contributing to society as well. This requires a constant focus on 
everything BAM does to minimise the Group’s negative impact 
and create value for local communities by implementing 
community engagement programmes. BAM considers that 
community engagement and involvement of less privileged 14 – 2015Management approach: BAM is creating a future portfolio by 
delivering construction services using a digital construction 
platform. BAM intends to be at the forefront of digitalisation by 
using cutting edge design and visualisation tools and keeping 
close to customers’ evolving requirements. BAM will facilitate this 
transition by investing in innovation to create an attractive 
environment for partnerships and rapid prototyping to shorten 
time to market.
> For BAM’s performance, see pages 28-29.
Human rights
Ensuring compliance within the entire value chain regarding the 
basic rights and freedoms to which all humans are considered to 
be entitled, often held to include the rights to equality, a fair trial, 
freedom from slavery and freedom of thought and expression.
Impact:  Human rights practices within BAM and its supply chain 
affect the reputation of the Group and are associated with the risk 
of losing work. Subcontractors have to bring their practices at 
least to BAM standards to be able to work for the company and in 
doing so will have a good influence outside of the Group as well.
Management approach:  In 2006, BAM and Building and Wood 
Workers’ International (BWI), signed a framework agreement to 
promote and protect employee rights. By signing the agreement 
BAM agrees to recognise and respect:
• The fundamental principles of human rights as defined in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
• The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work;
• The ILO Conventions in force;
• The ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principle concerning 
Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy;
• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Within the agreement BAM also endorses the need for fair 
negotiations with national trade unions and acknowledges that 
corruption, bribery and anti-competitive behaviour are not 
acceptable. BAM is committed to achieving social justice and 
sustainable development in its activities with its trading partners, 
subcontractors and suppliers. In that regard, BAM and BWI will 
work together to ensure that the following social criteria are 
effectively applied:
• A ban on forced labour;
• The right to equality and diversity in terms of ethnicity, race, 
gender, religion, political affiliation, nationality or other 
distinguishing characteristics;
• A ban on child labour;
• A safe and healthy working environment;
• The right to establish and join trade union organisations;
• The right of employees to receive fair pay and respect for the 
minimum wage;
• The right to suitable working conditions (working hours, 
facilities, learning and development, health and safety).Regular meetings are held with management representatives from 
BAM and trade union organisations, including BWI, to monitor 
implementation of the agreement. 
Sub-subcontractors ought to comply with labour conditions as 
BAM enforces them on subcontractors. 
> For BAM’s performance, see page 61.
Responsible tax
Definition: Compliance to the letter and spirit of tax laws resulting 
in paying an appropriate amount of tax according to where value is 
created within the normal course of business and being 
transparent about approach and outcome. 
Impact:  Tax is a relevant subject for BAM and its stakeholders. 
Tax payments to governments can contribute to the development 
of countries. On the other hand, optimisation of taxes is in the 
interest of the company and its financial position.
Management approach:  Therefore, BAM strives to come to a 
responsible approach to tax and supports a responsible approach 
to tax as an integral part of its sustainability agenda.
Find BAM’s responsible tax statement on its website www.bam.eu.
> For BAM’s performance, see page 59.2015  – 15Strategy 2016-2020
The Executive Board launched the Back in Shape programme in 
late 2014 to unlock the Group’s potential and turn around its 
performance. This programme was delivered successfully in 2015, 
creating a base for the updated Group strategy for 2016-2020 – 
‘Building the present, Creating the future’ to position itself as 
leader in the digitalisation of the industry. The Executive Board 
engaged with the top 150 management and Young BAM 
representatives as ambassadors for the operating companies.
Three external forces are shaping prospects for the construction 
industry. Economic growth, currently vulnerable, will have a low 
to modest impact on construction volumes. Sustainability and 
mega trends such as urbanisation and energy efficiency are 
creating areas of higher growth. Digitalisation is increasingly 
transforming the construction industry and the built environment. 
Against this background, the main focus of strategy for 2016-2020 
is to continue to restore profitability and improve capital 
efficiency. This underlines BAM's principle that margin is more 
important than volume. The strategy has three objectives: to 
focus the project portfolio, shape the business portfolio and 
create the future portfolio. These are supported by two 
foundations – culture and capabilities. 
Objectives
BAM is focusing the project portfolio (‘Doing Things Better’) after 
a rigorous analysis of the project portfolio. Using either scale or 
differentiation to win projects will be the main drivers of 
performance improvement at the operating companies. In  
market segments characterised by price-led competition, 
BAM can achieve cost leadership through project bundling and 
industrialisation. For projects where requirements are more 
demanding, BAM will use its knowledge leadership, innovation 
and quality assurance as key differentiating factors. This greater 
focus will also lead to better planning and management of the 
fixed cost base. 
Examples of project focus areas include near-shore marine works, 
energy-neutral home refurbishment, stadiums and tunnel-based 
infrastructure. In Property, BAM will focus on equity-light 
developments in the main urban areas and further integration of 
activities with construction to unlock synergies. PPP will continue 
to target contracts in home markets where payments are based 
on availability.
BAM is shaping the business portfolio (‘Doing Better Things’) by 
supporting the operating companies in developing new 
propositions in the home markets as extensions of projects along 
the lifecycle, and leveraging specialisms in international markets. 
These initiatives will be driven by investments in people and 
systems and developing partnerships. At the same time, BAM will continue to de-emphasise or exit operational activities which do 
not offer sufficient opportunities to use scale or differentiation as 
critical success factors. BAM will continue to reduce its portfolio 
of Property assets. 
BAM is creating the future portfolio (‘Doing New Things’) by 
delivering construction services using a digital construction 
platform. BAM intends to be at the forefront of digitalisation by 
using cutting edge design and visualisation tools and keeping 
close to customer’s evolving requirements. BAM will facilitate this 
transition by investing in innovation to create an attractive 
environment for partnerships and rapid prototyping to shorten 
time to market.
Culture
The Group’s culture will be strengthened further by scalable 
learning from tenders and projects, more predictable 
performance, working together in open collaboration and taking 
ownership of challenges and opportunities. BAM’s people are 
fundamental to its success, project and business career will be 
aligned and a stronger culture will make the Group more 
attractive as an employer and partner of choice. BAM's aim is to 
continuously improve health and safety, and have a net positive 
impact on the environment so it can deliver more value for clients. 
By collaborating with the supply chain, encouraging innovative 
thinking through its products, and realising the benefits of circular 
economic business models, BAM will have a net positive impact on 
climate, resources and local communities.
Differentiating capabilities 
BAM’s differentiating capabilities and operating model are being 
sharpened, with a focus on employee training and development. 
The operating companies are improving their systems, knowledge 
and expertise for data-driven project selection, tendering and 
execution. At the same time, Group synergies are being leveraged 
in areas such as business controls, information management, 
digital construction, strategic sourcing and partnerships, 
enhancing local entrepreneurship to serve clients. 
Targets
Based on the updated strategy, BAM is setting the following 
targets:
• Grow Return on Capital Employed to > 10 per cent by 2020 
(2015: 0.2 per cent).
• Raise the adjusted pre-tax margin to between 2 per cent and  
4 per cent by 2020 (2015: 1.2 per cent). 
• Improve trade working capital efficiency to at least -10 per cent 
(2015: -8.1 per cent). 
• Reduce the property portfolio to under €500 million (end 2015:  
€740 million).
• Improve capital ratio towards 25 per cent by 2020 (2015: 
21.2 per cent).2.2 Strategy16 – 2015Group strategy and performance indicators
Sont bridge across the Winschoterdiep 
canal for the City of Groningen.  
BAM Infra. 2015  – 17• Unchanged dividend policy of paying out 30-50 per cent of the 
net result for the year.
• Continuously improvement health and safety; net positive 
impact on the environment.
Seamless implementation is key for the success of the strategy for 
2016-2020. The strategy is being communicated across the Group 
and action plans are being developed by the operating companies 
and Group functions. The process is being led by a dedicated team 
which reports directly to the Executive Board, and delivery of the 
programme is being included in management assessment and 
remuneration. ‘Building the present, creating the future’ will  
build on the base created by Back in Shape, deliver improving 
performance in the next five years, and position BAM as a leader 
in digital construction for these years and beyond.
BAM is responsible for the design, build, 
finance, maintenance and operation of 
the new housing for the Dutch Supreme 
Court in the centre of the Hague 
(15,000 square metre in six levels, 
including two courtrooms, a reception 
area, two cells, various meeting rooms, 
a restaurant, a library and a workspace 
for 350 people).  
Architects: KAAN Architecten. BAM PPP 
and BAM Bouw en Vastgoed.18 – 2015Professor Carlo Ratti
What is the main driver for change of  
the construction industry in the  
coming years?
‘Cities are undergoing a profound 
transformation at the convergence of the 
digital and physical world. We could say 
that our new building materials are bits and 
bricks. As virtual systems become 
spatialised – entering our world through the 
Internet of Things – no industry remains 
unaffected. Construction is certainly at the 
centre of tomorrow’s changes.’
 
What do you consider to be essential for 
further sustainable development in the 
construction industry?
‘I think it’s important to always focus on 
citizens – and on how we can promote 
behavioral change. I believe that that is one 
of the most powerful drivers for 
sustainability.’
 What role should clients and architects/
designers take to support that 
development? 
‘Architects and clients should face up to a 
new reality. Architecture was always 
concerned with designing interfaces 
between people and their environment. 
That has not changed – but the material 
those interfaces are made of is being 
transformed at the digital/physical 
boundary. As a result, design is becoming 
an increasingly multi-disciplinary field.’
 
You have stated that smart cities needs 
smart (active) citizens. Is there a role for 
smart contractors and what is making a 
construction firm ‘smart(er)?
‘Of course! Urban smartness (intended as 
the ability to reinvent our processes thanks 
to today’s new technological tools) happens 
at all levels – nobody is unaffected!’Stakeholder interview
‘Our new building materials 
are bits and bricks’Carlo Ratti is architect, engineer, inventor and educator 
who teaches at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
USA, as Director of MIT Senseable City Laboratory, a 
research group that explores how new technologies are 
changing the way we understand, design and ultimately 
live in cities. He is also a founding partner of the 
international design office Carlo Ratti Associati, Director 
of MIT Italy Program, Richard W. Trott Distinguished 
Visiting Professor at Ohio State University and Rudolf 
Diesel Industry Fellow at Technische Universität München  
(TUM Munich).
2015  – 19Revenue clients
MarginProperty
developmentAsset management
Construction contractsPPP
ROCE ROEFree working capital
Construction contractsFree working capital
Divestment
operational
concessions Divestment
property
ROCE
Construction
Civil engineering
Business lines
The unique diversity of countries and sectors in which the Group 
operates and of the relationships that BAM maintains with its 
clients and subcontractors enables BAM to continuously expand 
and increase its potential.
Construction and mechanical and electrical services
BAM is active in the Construction and mechanical and electrical 
services sector in all BAM’s home markets, as well as in 
Switzerland and Denmark. In addition to carrying out non-
residential construction work in all the home markets, BAM also 
carries out residential construction contracts (mainly in the 
Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Ireland). BAM International 
also carries out non-residential construction projects, in the 
Middle East and Indonesia in particular. BAM International 
operates from its headquarters in the Netherlands and from 
regional offices in Tanzania, Dubai, Panama, Indonesia and other 
locations. BAM’s  Construction and mechanical and electrical 
services  
sector employs approximately 7,300 staff. 
Civil engineering
BAM operates in the Civil engineering sector in all BAM’s home 
markets. BAM International also carries out specialised civil 
engineering works worldwide. BAM’s Civil engineering sector 
employs approximately 1,400 staff. Property
BAM is active in property development in the Netherlands, the 
United Kingdom, Ireland and Belgium. Principally, construction 
of the project development activities is carried out by BAM’s 
construction operating companies in the respective home 
markets. BAM develops single family homes in the Netherlands 
with area and project developer AM. BAM’s Property sector 
employs approximately 200 staff. 
Public Private Partnerships
BAM PPP is responsible for BAM’s presence in the European public 
private partnerships market: its results reflect the returns from 
investment activities only. Operating from offices in Bunnik, 
Birmingham, Brussels, Dublin, Frankfurt am Main and Glasgow, 
BAM  PPP operates in the roads, rail, education, health care, 
judicial and general accommodation sectors and employs 
approximately 100 staff. 
Creating financial value
BAM offers an extensive range of products and services in the 
operational sectors (Construction and mechanical and electrical 
services and Civil engineering) and investment sectors (Property 
and Public Private Partnerships). With the current product 
portfolio and expertise, presence in these sectors of BAM’s five 
home markets and encouraging internal collaboration enables 2.3 Business model
Return on equity 
(ROE)
Rolling year net result 
divided by the average 
invested equity.ROCE
Rolling year 
EBIT divided by the 
average capital 
employed.
Creating financial value 220 – 2015Natural, human and financial capital are typically sourced locally 
in BAM’s home markets. In the Netherlands 96 per cent of BAM’s 
purchases were locally sourced in 2015. BAM expects comparable 
percentages in its other home countries. An exception to the rule 
is tropical timber (typically under FSC- or PEFC-labelling). BAM 
operates mainly in a business-to-business environment and in 
a business-to-government environment. Within all its European 
home countries BAM works for national and local governments. 
Typical supply chain partners are mechanical and electrical 
suppliers, often in conjunction with local labour suppliers as well 
as local small and medium enterprises.BAM to utilise free working capital from its operations to invest in 
selected property and PPP projects which again generates 
construction contracts. > Image 2 illustrates the financial 
interaction between the sectors including the relevant financial 
metrics to assess BAM’s performance.
Value chain
The Group’s value chain management and subcontractor 
engagement provides the opportunity to bring value to BAM’s 
clients from innovations and cross-fertilisation from the value 
chain. With lean planning techniques, BAM can incorporate 
schedules of supply chain partners, allowing for a reduction in 
labour and equipment costs. Value chain management requires 
sharing BAM’s business principles and policies on CSR including 
targets and BAM requires its major value chain partners to share 
information on their CO2 emissions.
BAM’s operating companies achieve most of their turnover in 
collaboration with their subcontractors and suppliers. More than 
75 per cent of turnover is sourced from supply chain partners. 
Projects may also be carried out in collaboration with other 
construction companies (as part of a joint arrangement).
Design and construction of technical 
centres for NedTrain, the Netherlands 
Railway’s subsidiary responsible for 
rolling stock maintenance, in The 
Hague (pictured) and Utrecht. The 
technical centres undertake rolling 
stock repairs. The main buildings 
incorporate a variety of water-, 
energy- and waste-saving measures 
including roof-mounted solar panels 
and LED lighting. 
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed (BAM Advies 
& Engineering, BAM Bouw en 
Techniek).2015  – 21Maintenance
When the building or infrastructure development has been 
completed it is put into service. Facility management delivers life 
cycle services and ensures that the development is operated and 
maintained efficiently.
End-of-life/recycling
This is generally the starting point for a new development.
Typically before reuse, the structure is assessed for future use as 
construction elements or raw material.
The earlier BAM gets involved in a development the greater its 
opportunity is to influence the sustainability of the development 
at a lower cost. Where BAM is the property developer or where 
BAM is part of a public private partnership, BAM has the greatest 
opportunity to maximise sustainability outcomes, as the company 
can set sustainability ambitions in the early concept stages. This 
allows life cycle costing to be taken into consideration at the early 
design stages, allowing for higher capital investment to be 
considered against lower maintenance and operational costs.
Innovative solutions are developed by BAM’s operating companies 
during the search for sustainable solutions to meet its clients’ 
needs. BAM also supports a number of organisations in the 
research of specific technology and process innovations. BAM is 
also part of a number of international and industry leading forums 
sharing best practice on sustainability (see Stakeholder 
engagement, page 7).    Recycle
End of life / ConstructEngineer
 Design Bid / Develop   MaintainValue drivers Value drivers Value drivers 
Key business activities 3Key business activities
The construction industry provides services on a project-by-
project basis. A project may comprise various stages:
Bid/development
At this stage the type and scope of a project is determined, 
including stakeholder analysis. Conceptual drawings are 
developed to visualise the desired outcome. A project may be bid 
at this stage on a design-and-build basis or after the design stage 
on a construction only basis.
Design
The main purpose is to develop the design of the project 
according to functional demands.
Engineering
Details and work method of the construction and installation 
together with a project schedule, budget and resource estimate 
are determined.
Construction
Once designed the project is built and commissioned to ensure it 
meets the project requirements, including budget and planning.22 – 2015Suppliers are a special stakeholder category. 
Their knowledge, people and other resources provide 75 per cent of BAM’s turnover which 
BAM brings as value to its clients. Working 
with BAM provides them the opportunity to increase their value through innovation.
Society and local communities are impactedat the site that BAM prepares before building starts: excavations deliver resources and landscaping can positively impact biodiversity.The approval of the ﬁnal contract is the conclusion of the bidding process, and the decision is made to continue the value creation process.
BAM’s employees coordinate workers and subcontractors with BIM and lean techniques to reduce all avoidable cost in assembling materials, to create maximum ﬁnancial value for BAM’s ﬁnancial stakeholders.BAM’s suppliers provide the materials that 
BAM orders, which creates jobs and 
stimulates supply chain innovations.BAM’s bid needs to meet needs and demands of all relevant stakeholders to be sustainable and winning. Engagement provides the opportunity for better decision making by bringing together stakeholder demands and 
creating value for them.
Value is described, to be judged by 
the client, mostly in terms of ﬁnancial 
value and quality. Quality is often 
expressed in sustainability terms, 
which often relate to life cycle cost 
and other externalities. Some argue that design is where art 
meets science. For BAM it means: the process of optimising resources to meet functional demands, a creative process 
considering laws of physics, economics 
and society.
• Functionality to the client• Turnover to the suppliers• Knowledge to the employees• Shareholder value to the shareholders• A better world to society
See an
opportunity
Propose
to the client
Order
materialsDesign
Build
Maintain and deliverEngage with
suppliers
The client acceptsEngage with otherstakeholders
Preparethe siteCustomers do approach BAM and BAM 
identiﬁes customers, in business-to-business, business-to-consumer and business-to-
government relations. It all leads to the question: 
will BAM make a proposal to the client? Please refer to Stage gate tender procedure on page 34-35 for a detailed description of the supporting decision making process. 
How BAM creates value 42015  – 23Most important risks relate to:
• Market factors
• Primary process
• People, organisation and culture
• Health and safety
• Business conduct
• Reputation2.4  Risks and opportunities
Risk management
Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the 
Group is exposed is not unusual or different from what is considered 
acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk management system is 
designed to identify and manage threats and opportunities. 
Effective risk management enables BAM to capitalise on 
opportunities in a carefully controlled environment. 
The risk management system provides a platform for sharing 
knowledge and expertise among the operating companies in a 
structured manner, making risk management a key enabler in 
achieving the strategic objectives. Risk management framework 
The Executive Board is responsible for risk management in the 
company and has created and implemented the Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework, supported by the Risk Management 
Department. This framework, which is based on COSO (Committee 
of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission), is 
integrated into the regular planning and control cycle and involves 
achieving the strategic objectives, the effectiveness and efficiency 
of business processes, the reliability of information provision 
(including financial information) and compliance with the relevant 
laws and regulations. 
The first step in the risk management process is defining and 
planning the Group strategy. This process is conducted every three 
years in conjunction with all the operating companies and results in 
strategic objectives and implementation plans. The strategic 
objectives are assessed by the Executive Board and the Group’s  
staff directors based on the BAM Risk Register, which contains 
28 pre-defined risk areas, relevant to the environment in which 
BAM operates and to the risk appetite specified. The purpose of this 
assessment is to prioritise risk factors and the corresponding 
implementation and improvement goals. 
The Group strategy and risk management framework is shared with 
the operating companies, which operate in the specific industries 
and geographic areas shown in the activity matrix. They adapt the 
Group strategy to their own specific activities and environment 
and subsequently assess their (derived) strategies based on the 
BAM Risk Register. This process helps to identify all relevant risks in 
the 28 risk areas and results in the prioritisation of risk areas and the 
corresponding implementation and improvement plans for each 
operating company. 
The strategic plans and risk assessments for each operating 
company are shared across the entire Group, resulting in a platform 
where best practices are shared and implementation and 
improvement plans are executed collectively by the operating 
companies where possible. Staff positions and networks of subject 
matter experts accelerate this process of acquiring and sharing 
knowledge and expertise through a consistent risk management 
language and approach. 
The Executive Board receives progress updates on the 
implementation of the strategic goals and the related 
implementation and improvement plans through the quarterly 
reports and management meetings. This is also shared regularly 
with the Supervisory Board.
General management measures 
The Group uses a variety of general management measures as part 
of its risk management and monitoring system. The first of these 
are the business principles, which represent the Group’s beliefs, 
values and expected behaviour. Along with the Code of Conduct, 
these principles form a key part of the internal environment in which 
risk management is conducted. Key risks 5
BAM Nuttall celebrates 150 years with  
Borders Railway handover
14 June 2015 marked the formal contract completion for BAM 
Nuttall, BAM Infra Rail and BAM Ireland on the Borders 
Railway project and the date when the new railway transfers 
officially to the ScotRail Alliance team. To mark this major 
milestone and as a signature event in BAM Nuttall’s 150th 
Anniversary Celebrations, pupils and teachers from Stow 
Primary School in the Scottish Borders joined BAM’s Project 
Director, Nissar Mohammed, at the new Stow Station. Little 
more than two years after construction commenced on the 
£294-million Borders Railway project, the longest domestic 
railway to be constructed in Britain for over a century has 
been delivered on time and within budget. Driver training 
has commenced on the fully commissioned route with rail 
services on programme to return to the Scottish Borders for 
the first time in 46 years in September. Moreover, the project 
has received the Rail Supplier of the Year Award at the 
Scottish Transport Awards in Glasgow.24 – 2015The Borders Railway connects the city 
of Edinburgh with Galashiels and 
Tweedbank in the Scottish Borders. 
After its close in 1969, rebuilding 
works of the 50-kilometre-long rail 
track began in November 2012. 
Passenger service on the line began on 
6 September 2015, while an official 
opening by Queen Elizabeth II took 
place on 9 September. 
BAM Nuttall, BAM Infra Rail and 
BAM Contractors.
Business principles  
A. People:  We offer added value to clients, employees, business 
partners and the community.
1. Clients:  We always do our utmost to exceed our client’s 
expectations. We work in partnership with our clients to deliver 
high-end projects within the timescale set, both safely and with 
respect for the environment. We encourage our clients to work 
with us to develop suitable sustainable solutions. We aim to be 
the preferred supplier for CO2-neutral solutions.
Dilemma: In a market where cost often takes precedence over 
value, especially at tender stage, incentives to reduce impacts 
such as value engineering and innovation are often implicitly 
induced and BAM’s newly developed products are not 
considered as proven technologies and accordingly rejected. 
Yet, BAM staff is encouraged to maintain a sustainable 
relationship with clients, based on its business principles and 
the opportunity to work with them in the long term.
2. Community:  We promote good communications with the 
local community. By its very nature, our construction and 
renovation work has an impact on local communities, occupiers and other users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a 
whole. We are pro-active therefore in minimising the level of 
negative impact on the local environment and seek to make a 
positive contribution to local communities.
Dilemma:  BAM often operates in communities that have not 
chosen the projects that BAM builds and often BAM is not 
responsible for the value the projects have for communities 
after completion. Especially outside Europe BAM’s operations 
are often in areas where its licence to operate depends on 
community engagement and CSR, not on good intention or 
charity.
3. Employees:  We believe in our employees. We aim to create a 
safe and inspiring environment for our employees to develop 
their skills and in turn enable them to contribute to the further 
development and growth of our organisation. 
The commitment to our employees is demonstrated by:
•  Health and Safety – Health and Safety is the top priority of 
our company. We are committed to the continuous 
improvement of our performance in Health and Safety for all 2015  – 25our employees and subcontractors and everyone involved 
with our activities, including the general public;
•  Equality and diversity – We offer a challenging working 
environment where everyone feels valued and respected. We 
are committed to offering equal opportunities and we 
ensure that job applicants and employees do not face 
discrimination on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, 
skin colour, ethnic origin, religious belief, sexual orientation, 
disability, or age;
•  Learning and development – We create a learning culture 
and provide opportunities for our employees to fully apply 
their knowledge and skills in the service of the company. We 
are committed to professional development and will help our 
employees to continue their development in the interests of 
the company and its objectives.
Dilemma:  Despite economic pressures that result in job losses, 
BAM continues to invest in people by offering new and varying 
opportunities for work. Heavy competition drives innovation 
capabilities in BAM’s projects and employees accordingly. 
Economic pressure might also result in using fewer safety 
measures, like barriers or other equipment to protect workers. 
BAM considers savings at the expensive of safety unacceptable 
and qualifies reducing safety measures at the risk of employees 
as dangerous for all stakeholders and as unfair competition.
4. Supply chain partners: We procure responsibly. We treat our 
supply chain partners honestly and respectfully. We work with 
subcontractors and suppliers to ensure that they operate safely 
and in an environmentally-conscious way. Together with our 
preferred partners, we promote and develop sustainable 
solutions and best practice for the industry.
Dilemma:  Low-price bidding and the decisions taken to arrive at 
lowest price, because of economic pressures, do not necessarily 
provide value for clients. BAM focuses on long-term 
partnerships that create intellectual capital for all in order to 
decrease total cost. 
B. Planet:  We recognise our responsibility to future 
generations.
5. Energy:  We strive to reduce our impact on climate change.  
We will improve our energy efficiency, reduce our CO2 emissions  
and work with our clients to develop CO2-neutral solutions.
Dilemma:  Under current market conditions, CO2-intensive 
markets like civil engineering outside Europe perform better 
than construction, mechanical and electrical and the Dutch 
market. This has a negative impact on climate change 
indicators, but does contribute to local communities, 
economies and social circumstances.6. Raw materials: We are becoming more efficient in our use of 
materials. We believe in reducing our impact on the supply of 
natural raw materials used in our products. We will work with 
our clients and suppliers to use alternative materials and 
methods in order to optimise the use of raw materials. We also 
promote measures to recycle and reduce waste.
Dilemma:  New and recycled materials tend to suffer from 
regulatory restrictions for acceptance in construction, which 
favours traditional materials. True pricing, taking into account 
social and environmental costs, gives transparency to the 
Group’s product value, which BAM trusts will yield acceptance.
7. Environment: We will limit our environmental impact. We 
take all possible reasonable measures to ensure that our 
activities are conducted in a way that minimises the impact on 
the local environment. We promote environmentally-friendly 
operations and seek opportunities to promote biodiversity on 
our construction sites.
Dilemma:  The value of biodiversity is generally appreciated, yet 
hardly quantified. Monetising, or otherwise comparing value 
needs further research for proper assessments that are in line 
with public perception. Biodiversity is rarely addressed in client 
specifications or invitations to tender. 
C. Profit:  Creating economic value.
8. Innovation:  We innovate to identify balanced sustainable 
solutions. Innovation is essential for our development and to 
identify powerful sustainable solutions in the built environment. 
Together with our partners in the supply chain, from customers 
to subcontractors and suppliers, we will provide sustainable 
solutions in which economic, environmental and community 
interests are well- balanced. This approach ensures that we use 
materials efficiently and provide good value to our customers. 
Dilemma:  Innovations typically provide unique solutions for 
which no equivalent exists. Public procurement often prohibits 
patented or BAM’s unique solutions for fear of lack of 
competition, despite the sustainability.
9. Prosperity:  We believe that sustainability results in economic 
value and we choose to create value by working on effective and 
profitable solutions for our shareholders that contribute to a 
sustainable future. We believe that by applying these business 
principles, we create value for our shareholders, clients, 
employees and for society as a whole.
Dilemma:  Advantages of being a first-mover in the field of 
corporate social responsibility often seem to cause 
disadvantages in competition. Yet, as a first-mover BAM has the 
opportunity to organise the supply chain.26 – 2015The N11 Arklow Rathnew project in 
Ireland is part of the National Roads 
Authority’s (NRA) Second Roads PPP 
Programme. It consists of four 
sections, including the design, 
construction, operation and 
maintenance of approximately 
16.5 kilometres of dual carriageway 
and the operation and maintenance 
of an additional 30-kilometre section 
of the existing M11 route (Arklow-
Gorey and Arklow Bypass. 
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure 
Cooperatie UA and BAM Ireland.
Management guidelines
A second general management measure involves the guidelines 
and instructions the Group provides to the management of the 
operating companies, as well as feedback. This measure defines 
the levels of responsibility of the operating companies and sets 
requirements for the quality of vital management measures and 
include, among other things, limits for entering into risks and 
commitments related to investments and bidding on projects. 
The guidelines are assessed – and amended if necessary – based 
on changes in the risk appetite for achieving the objectives, the 
risk profile, or changes in the internal organisation. 
In addition to the management guidelines, there are more detailed 
instructions for establishing the control environment, external 
reporting, security policy, tax policy and treasury-related matters. 
The Group’s third general management tool is a system for 
budgeting, reporting and (internal) controls. The entire Group uses 
uniform guidelines and accounting policies, which serve as the basis 
for all financial, non-financial and management reporting. As part 
of the detailed monthly and quarterly reports, the operating 
companies report on changes in (projected) company revenues, 
financial results, working capital and liquidity, order book and 
sustainability. Lastly, the Group manages several insurance policies relating to 
liability, design liability (i.e. professional indemnity), construction 
all risks (CAR) and equipment (including floating structures) and 
fire. A specialised department ensures that all relevant risks are 
included in the insurance agreements during construction (which 
are entered into at the head office) and that the liability insurance 
policies purchased provide sufficient cover. In addition, they also 
inform the operating companies of their claims history in order to 
be able to continue improving. The Group regularly consults 
professional insurance brokers on its insurance cover. 
Risk appetite 
Risk appetite is defined as the level in which BAM is willing to accept 
risk in the ordinary course of business in order to achieve its 
objectives. 
Based on its knowledge and experience in the home markets, BAM 
is willing to tender on complex multidisciplinary projects, which 
involves the controlled transfer of risk between the client and BAM. 
In order to spread risks, BAM considers tendering for large projects 
in conjunction with solid and solvent partners. In projects that 
exceed €300 million, BAM in principle bids together with partners. 2015  – 27February
BAM Infraconsult signs a licence agreement with  
Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone for the 
application of Xbloc breakwater armour units in the 
Mundra LNG project, which is the first 
Xbloc  application in India.
March
Together with the Dutch Green Building Council 
(DGBC), Dura Vermeer and DGMR, BAM Infraconsult is 
exploring the need and possibilities to set up a 
BREEAM-Infra index to assess Infrastructural projects.
April
BAM Bouw en Techniek’s water-efficient residential 
water tap sprinkler is awarded the Fire protection 
innovation award 2015.
April
Approximately 100 invitees attended the LE2AP 
midterm seminar in Helmond, organised at the 
opening of BAM’s fourth asphalt plant that is able to 
produce Low Energy Asphalt Concrete (LEAB). LE2AP 
(Low Emission2 Asphalt Pavement) is a demonstration 
project that is part of the LIFE programme, an 
instrument of the European Commission for providing 
additional funding for environmental initiatives.
May
The European Commission awards a grant for BAM’s 
REnnovates innovation project. The grant is part of 
Horizon 2020, the leading European subsidy 
programme for research and innovation. BAM 
considers REnnovates the next step in the serial 
renovating of homes.
June
BAM Infraconsult signs two new licence agreements 
for Xbloc projects in Costa Rica and in the 
Dominican  Republic.
July
BAM Infra and Brabant Water develop innovative 
technology for trenchless water line replacement.
August
Rijkswaterstaat awards construction of the new sea 
lock at IJmuiden to Consortium OpenIJ based on an 
innovative design.Innovative 2015In entering into PPP investments, BAM aims to generate 
construction output for the operating companies. The company’s 
intention is to sell these projects to investors after the construction 
phase, as was achieved in the joint venture BAM/PPP-PGGM. Since 
the risk profile is substantially based on volume (i.e. variable 
compensation), BAM generally only invests in projects based on 
contractual availability (i.e. fixed compensation). 
Property development also generates construction output for the 
operating companies and BAM continues to invest in property 
development projects provided they are profitable and have a 
plausible and profitable exit strategy that has been defined in 
advance. 
Outside its home markets, BAM intends to invest worldwide in 
niche areas, provided they are in line with the Group’s business 
principles. 
General risks and corresponding management 
measures
Construction contracts
The majority of construction work is performed on a project basis, 
with projects varying in their nature, size, scope, complexity and 
duration. The industry as a whole shows a certain imbalance 
(i.e. asymmetry) between risks and results, meaning the upward 
potential of projects tends to be more limited than the downward 
potential. As a result, the Group must have a strong project 
organisation in place, operating close to the projects and within 
the markets. 
Before bidding on any new project, the operating companies assess 
the qualitative and quantitative risk factors. Uncertainties may 
relate to financial and contractual aspects, safety, construction 
materials, plant and equipment, location (including site conditions 
and permits), the construction period and the work schedule as 
well as to clients, subcontractors and construction partners. 
A quantitative analysis is performed on the risk factors, based 
on empirical data. This analysis is used to make adjustments to 
the project schedule or construction methods in order to reduce 
project risk. The analysis may also result in adjustments to the risk 
premium in the contract price. 
Bids for major projects or projects involving exceptional risk are 
submitted and presented to the Executive Board for prior approval. 
During the execution, the project team periodically and 
systematically assesses the opportunities and risks attached to the 
project. If necessary, the project team implements measures to 
reduce newly identified risks, focusing mainly on the quality of the 
construction work to be completed, avoidance of construction 
faults and meeting the handover date. Project managers submit 11
20
23
07
211128 – 2015reports on progress, the main opportunities and downside risks 
associated with the project, the quality and the financial aspects of 
the project to their regional office managers, who, in turn, report 
at least on a monthly basis to the operating company managers. 
They, in turn, report to the Executive Board each month, through 
the information systems described above. 
The success of projects BAM acquires depends largely on the 
quality of the employees and management. In order to attract, 
challenge and develop talented employees in a structured and 
effective manner, the Group has made human resources policies  
a key priority, as discussed on pages 10-11 of this report. 
In order to limit legal risk, BAM uses standard legal documents 
required for projects wherever possible. Where a non-standard 
contract is used, BAM’s (in-house) lawyers and other specialists will 
assess the contract beforehand. Standard contracts include among 
other things clauses that provide that price increases in units of 
wages and materials may be charged on to the client during the 
construction period. Clients also have the option to buy off these 
risks. 
In the construction industry, clients commonly demand guarantees 
by way of security that the project will be completed successfully. 
This guarantee may be provided by the parent company or, 
alternatively, by external parties such as banks and surety 
institutions. The Group has strict procedures in place to ensure that 
the contractual terms of the guarantees provided comply with the 
company’s specific guidelines. 
On an annual basis, the Group procures more than 75 per cent of its 
revenue from suppliers and subcontractors. These companies have 
a major impact on the projects, both in financial and in technical 
terms. The Group aims to build strong partnerships with its 
suppliers and subcontractors in order to ensure that the 
construction process runs as smoothly as possible and to achieve 
the optimum lowest possible costs and high quality of products. 
For collaboration and management of price risks to work well, 
suppliers need to be involved in the project at an early stage. This 
collaboration is set out in partnerships and framework contracts, 
which contain agreements about fees and conditions (such as 
delivery times, invoicing, risks and bonus discounts). Project-
specific orders can then be placed under the framework contracts. 
The comprehensive knowledge and extensive experience of its 
operating companies enable the Group to complete major projects 
successfully on its own. Nonetheless, it can be advantageous 
– including from the point of view of spreading the risks – to work 
in a joint arrangement when dealing with larger projects. This 
usually involves establishing a general partnership (a legal form in 
which all parties are jointly and severally liable for mutual 
commitments connected with the performance of the project). 
September
BAM takes first steps towards a smart grid with the 
retrofit of 69 homes of housing corporation Portaal in 
Soesterberg. The retrofit is one of the projects 
undertaken as part of ‘de Stroomversnelling’ 
programme (the Rapids – electricity acceleration) to 
refurbish (often older) homes to become comfortable, 
energy efficient net-zero-energy homes. In 
Soesterberg (near Utrecht) Portal and BAM have fit 
seven homes with smart technology to deal with the 
electrical and mechanical installations and thus 
making these houses ‘Smart Grid Ready’.
October
BAM has succeeded in producing industrial scale ZOAB 
(porous asphalt concrete) that comprises 93 per cent 
recovered raw materials. Compared to current ZOAB 
recycling percentages, which amount from 0 to 30 per 
cent, this means a breakthrough in sustainable asphalt 
production. The successful trial involving 
approximately 60 tonnes of ZOAB took place on the 
site of the Brabantse Asfalt Centrale in Helmond. 
BAM developed this innovative production method in 
the framework of the European Life+ demonstration 
project, LE2AP.
November
BAM strengthens homes in the earthquake area 
Groningen (the Netherlands).
December
BAM Construct UK is one of the first two companies to 
be independently verified by BSI to BIM scheme for 
improved collaboration in the construction industry.
December
BAM Infra Rail and ProRail start a pilot project with the 
Happy Railing Scissor Fence (HRS) – developed by 
BAM – to improve safety of rail workers.
Innovative 201523
28412222015  – 29The Group mitigates the risk arising from these activities to its 
construction partners by entering into joint arrangements only 
with solid and solvent partners. If the risk to which the partner is 
exposed is nevertheless assessed to be too high, the BAM operating 
company concerned demands other securities which can take the 
form of a bank guarantee or of the partner leaving sufficient cash 
invested in the joint arrangement. 
Operating companies limit payment risks of projects as much as 
possible by agreeing on contractual payment schedules. This 
ensures that the client’s payments are at least in balance with the 
progress cost of the work performed. For projects completed in 
emerging markets and developing countries, adequate security is 
agreed or export credit insurance is purchased prior to the start of 
the project in order to hedge political risk and payment risk. When 
entering into financing arrangements, BAM performs a credit check 
on clients. The Group also focuses in particular on the security 
provided by banks and the payment systems used by government 
bodies. 
Property
If the Group intends to take on property development risk, this 
requires the prior consent of the Executive Board. The latter takes a 
decision regarding these risks, based on the project proposals from the operating company concerned and associated analyses 
performed by the Group’s Property Investment Director. The 
general rule is that construction does not start until a substantial 
number of properties have been sold or, for non-residential, a large 
part of the project has been let or sold. However, the United 
Kingdom – where BAM only operates in the non-residential 
property sector – is an exception to this. There, the inventory risk is 
mitigated by implementing a system of phased project execution. 
The Dutch property portfolio still includes a number of residential 
construction projects from the past where there is an unconditional 
obligation to build.
PPP
Entering into PPP and concession contracts always requires the 
prior consent of the Executive Board. In its assessment of the risks 
attached to PPP and concession contracts, the Executive Board is 
assisted by the management of BAM PPP. This operating company 
optimises the utilisation of the know-how and experience available 
within the Group, both for acquiring new projects and for properly 
assessing the specific risks connected with concessions. 
A joint arrangement that included 
BAM Lux and Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau constructed two 
tunnels on the Route du Nord (A7), 
north of Luxembourg City, the Grouft 
tunnel (pictured) and Stafelter 
Tunnel - 3,000 and 1,850 metres in 
length respectively. 30 – 2015Specific risks and corresponding management 
measures 
Besides the general risks outlined above, several specific risk areas 
and measures have been identified in relation to the objectives of 
the updated strategy. The main risks and opportunities in these 
risk areas relate to changing market factors impacting the primary 
process. The identified improvement activities to manage risks and 
capitalise on opportunities will be further developed and aligned 
throughout the Group. Follow-up and feedback forms part of the 
regular management reporting cycle. These risk and opportunity 
areas are specified here.
Market factors
Risks: The current market has been heavily affected by the 
economic crisis in Europe, resulting in intense competition for the 
shrinking number of projects available in the Group’s home 
markets. This has created a buyer’s market, where margins are 
down and design and contract risks are shifted increasingly to 
construction companies. 
With many property development projects being cancelled or 
deferred, the value of BAM’s property portfolio has been under 
pressure. 
The limited availability of capital constitutes a substantial risk 
across the entire value chain. As a result of tighter guidelines for 
banks under Basel III, banks are less willing to provide finance for 
property development, construction and PPP projects. In addition, 
the pre-financing of projects by customers has also been 
compromised (i.e. working capital).
Management measures: In order to deal with these market 
conditions, as well as to seize the opportunities they create, BAM 
has launched or enhanced a variety of initiatives based on the 
activity matrix and the Best in class programme. The main 
initiatives are increasing BAM’s market share in niche markets and 
other geographic areas; forward integration and a client-oriented 
approach; switching to complex/multidisciplinary projects; and 
providing alternative property development and financing 
methods.
BAM also assesses and redefines predictive risk indicators (i.e. 
leading indicators) so as to be able to effectively compete in the 
rapidly changing environment.
Specific market risks (e.g. financial risks), including interest rate risk, 
price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are stated in section 3 (Financial 
risk management) of the financial statements in conjunction with the 
management measures implemented by the Group. 
Primary process
Risks: The primary process constitutes the core of construction 
activities, which include tendering, procurement, contract 
management, project management and the corresponding value 
chain. The results of projects are determined mainly during the 
tender stage. During this stage, the changing contract types and conditions (contract management) constitute a risk as well as an 
opportunity in terms of the potential for differentiation. Contract 
management is vital, both during the tender stage as well as 
during implementation. 
The risks described above may lead to fluctuations in the project 
results. The sector is known for having an asymmetrical risk profile 
– in which several successful projects are required in order to 
compensate for one unsuccessful (project management).
Management measures: Based on the Best in class programme, 
a variety of initiatives were launched or further enhanced in order 
to address these risks and to capitalise on the associated 
opportunities.
These initiatives include: promoting internal research networks 
that actively exchange knowledge and expertise; further applying 
lean and BIM to integrated projects; more stringent project 
monitoring and performance management; and concept and 
process innovation related to sustainability and lean construction.
The company also increases contract knowledge and risk 
awareness of operational employees through education and 
training. Reviews of project-related contracts are conducted by 
BAM’s (in-house) legal experts and contribute to awareness and 
continuous improvement. These reviews are conducted both 
during the tender stage to assess contractual risks and after 
completion to capture lessons learnt.
Employees, organisation and culture
Risks: Employees are BAM’s most vital asset and by using their 
full potential the Group can respond more effectively to changes 
in the market. 
Specific challenges in this process include, first of all, a change in 
leadership style and the competencies required. Secondly, new 
types of contracts make it necessary to further train employees in 
contract and risk management. 
Thirdly, competencies such as sustainability, customer focus, 
establishing integrated partnerships, exchanging knowledge, 
Best in class operations and diversity have become increasingly 
important in achieving BAM’s strategic objectives.
Finally, it is essential that BAM remains a preferred employer, 
in order to be able to continue to attract top talent.
Management measures: Various initiatives and activities of 
BAM’s Best in class strategy are aligned with these risks.
First of all, BAM will continue to invest in further developing 
employees so they can: contribute to achieving the strategic 
objectives; prepare a sufficient number of candidates for key 
positions and improve (inclusive) leadership.
Secondly, the company aims to foster an open culture of learning 
and exchanging knowledge in the form of training and education, 
building on the knowledge and expertise available.
Thirdly, BAM aims to increase the mobility of BAM employees in 
core businesses. This is facilitated by the international recruitment 
site, publishing all vacancies and career opportunities within the 
Group.2015  – 31Fourthly, BAM operates in the labour market by working with 
recruitment agencies, through advertising and by collaborating 
with various training institutes.
Health and safety
Health and safety risks and opportunities and associated 
management measures are further shared under paragraph 
Material themes on pages 53-55.
CSR
CSR risks and opportunities and associated management  
measures are further shared under paragraph Material themes  
on pages 64-76.
Business conduct 
The trust placed by clients, shareholders, lenders, construction 
partners and employees in the Group is vital in order to be able to 
ensure the company’s continuity. The Group accordingly adheres to 
generally accepted standards and values and complies with local 
statutory and other rules and regulations, particularly with respect 
to the acquisition and performance of contracts. This principle is 
set out in the Group’s Business Principles and Code of Conduct. All 
employees are required to act fairly, to honour agreements and to 
act with care towards clients and business partners, including 
suppliers and subcontractors. This is kept under constant review in 
order to make integrity a fundamental part of day-today activities. 
The Executive Board has appointed a Group Compliance Officer, 
who promotes compliance with the Code of Conduct and provides 
advice on issues involving integrity. The operating companies, too, 
have their compliance officers, to whom breaches of the Code of 
Conduct can and must be reported. For this, the Group has a 
whistleblower policy in place. 
The Group believes it is important that employees can report any 
suspicions of wrongdoings within the Group and that they are able 
to report such matters without fear of reprisals. 
Both the Code of Conduct and the whistleblower policy are easily 
accessible to employees. For example, they can be found on the 
Group’s intranet site and on its website. 
Reputation risk 
BAM’s reputation may be damaged if one or more of the risks 
described above occur. This means that reputation risk is not a 
separate, defined risk area, but rather the result of specific risks 
occurring. Outstanding claims and procedures 
Companies operating in the construction industry are involved in 
discussions on the financial settlement of construction projects, 
including contract variations, the time of completion and the 
quality level of the work. Most of these discussions are concluded 
to the satisfaction of all concerned. However, in some cases it is 
impossible to avoid a discussion ending in legal proceedings. BAM 
is also involved in a number of lawsuits. Financial claims that the 
Group has pending against third parties are generally not 
capitalised unless it is reasonably certain that the amount in 
question will be paid. The Group takes great care to prevent such 
legal proceedings by implementing quality programmes and 
providing training for its employees. Some examples of major 
legal proceedings involving BAM are given briefly below.
In 2005, during the construction of a drilled tunnel for the SMART 
North tunnel project in Kuala Lumpur, engineering firm Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau was faced with ground conditions that 
varied from the information provided by the client. Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau terminated the contract in early 2006 as a 
result of the client’s failure to fulfil its payment obligations and 
refusal to deal with Wayss & Freytag’s claims for an extension of 
the construction period and reimbursement of costs. The client, in 
turn, also terminated the contract in January 2006. Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau lodged a claim against the client for more 
than €20 million as compensation for costs incurred. The client 
lodged provisional counterclaims amounting to €5 million. An 
independent dispute adjudicator, in the contractually prescribed 
procedure, has ruled that Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau was 
entitled to terminate the contract. This verdict has been 
confirmed by an arbitration. The client has attempted to set aside 
this arbitration award before the high court in Malaysia. In the first 
instance, the arbitration award was confirmed by the court. The 
client appealed from this verdict. Based on the information 
currently available, the Group considers the valuation of the claim 
to be adequate.
On 3 March 2009, during the construction of a section of the 
Cologne metro system, several adjacent buildings, including the 
building of the City Archives of the City of Cologne, collapsed. Two 
persons were killed as a result of this accident. Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau is a one-third partner in the consortium carrying out 
this project but was not directly involved in the work performed at 
the site of the accident. The customer has instituted a judicial 
inquiry (known as a Beweisverfahren) before the district court (the 
Landgericht in Cologne). As part of these proceedings, a number 
of specialists are investigating the cause of the accident, which is 
expected to take some time. Only when their investigation is 
complete will it be possible to determine if and to what extend 
the consortium might be held responsible for the accident. The 
German Public Prosecution Service is also carrying out its own 32 – 2015investigation to determine whether any criminal offences have 
been committed.
The damage to property is considerable and the parties involved 
have claimed under several different insurance policies. Intensifying risk management 
In order to enhance the Group’s risk management, BAM intends to 
achieve the following objectives: 
• Accurate and complete identification of key opportunities and 
threats at strategic, tactical and operational level; 
• Strengthening the link of the strategic objectives between the 
Group and its operating companies; 
• Avoiding surprises; 
• Creating a shared risk management language; 
• Supporting a learning and sharing environment. 
The Group has a standardised evaluation method to identify and 
prioritise risks and improvement potential at operating companies 
and regions. There is a Group-wide focus on risk management in 
the primary process, prompted by increasing complexity and 
growing competition. The potential for improvement relates to 
developing and sharing best practices on project selection, new 
business development, implementation and management. 
Supportive to the primary process, there is a focus on developing 
employees’ relevant competencies and skills in this changing 
environment. 
Artesis Plantijn University College, 
Antwerp. The 36,700 m² complex  
contains spaces and facilities for 3,500 
students on various study 
programmes, including computer 
science, nursing, and  
teacher training. Architects: POLO 
Architects in cooperation  
with Jaspers-Eyers Architects. BAM 
Belgium (Interbuild).2015  – 33Both the Enterprise Risk Management and the internal governance 
framework have been enhanced by translating the Group strategy 
into strategic planning and associated dashboard for monitoring 
the initiatives and strengthening the company principles and 
management guidelines.
Lastly, BAM has included the risk management philosophy in its 
curriculum of BAM Business School, the in-house training institute. 
Key attention areas are risk awareness and risk attitude. 
In 2015, the Group improved the tender stage gate procedure  
( > figure 6). All larger tenders and tenders with specific risks, have 
been assessed by the corporate Tender Desk and approved by the 
Executive Board. Lessons learned from these tenders have been 
shared with the management of the operating companies focusing 
on product type, client relationship, geographical location, 
contract type and required partners for the tender at hand.
 
Several peer reviews have been performed during the tender phase 
of major projects. These peer reviews mobilise the full knowledge 
of the Group and contribute in robustness of the proposal made to 
the client.In addition, compliance with these procedures are assured by the 
operational audit function. To ensure the effectiveness of this 
process, key staff have been appointed at Group level.
The operational audit function started to perform Stage Gate 5 
reviews (reality checks) in 2015 on newly won projects to ensure 
compliance with the tender stage gate procedure, that measures 
to manage risks during execution, are in place. This will be further 
intensified in 2016.
 
With the new strategy BAM is taking the next step in enterprise risk 
management. The Group will further strengthen governance and 
have a stronger focus on where BAM can win. In addition there will 
be a stronger focus on cultural values, further supporting the BAM 
brand and strategy;
• Based on Corporate Strategy 2016-2020, risk assessments and 
dialogue will take place at each operating company on their 
derived strategy. This will result in actions and activities that will 
be followed-up;
• Based on the corporate strategy leading indicators will be refined 
and followed up;
Extension of the laboratories of the 
Hubrecht Institute for Developmental 
Biology and Stem Cell Research at 
Utrecht. BAM Bouw en Techniek.34 – 2015•  BAM will further develop Projects in Control, which is a strong 
foundation in BAM’s governance in project selection and 
execution. As from 1 January 2016, all tenders and new projects 
are categorised with regard to their risk profile. The stage gates 
are tailored to each category and the governance structure is 
tailored to each category.
Management letter from the independent auditor
The independent auditor assesses BAM’s internal control 
environment as an integral part of its audit procedures, mainly 
focusing on the key financial processes and reporting systems 
underlying the information contained in the financial statements. 
Based on the ambition of BAM, its Group strategy and the current 
(market) developments, the auditor has put specific attention to 
the following subjects:
• Progress of the Back in Shape programme;
• Project control and risk management;
• Other internal control procedures;
• IT governance, security and continuity;
• Maturity of the sustainability reporting process.
Differences in approach and quality across the operating 
companies are inherent to BAM’s model. The independent auditor 
consequently forms an impression of each operating company. 
The independent auditor concluded that the quality of the internal 
control environment on the operating company level varies 
between normal and strong. None of the operating companies was 
assessed as being weak despite the significant organisational 
changes following the Back in Shape programme. However, the 
independent auditor has identified the uniformity of internal control procedures within BAM and the increase of automated 
control measures in business processes as areas for further 
improvement.
The independent auditor concludes that project control from a 
compliance perspective is classified as normal and management is 
further implementing measures to strengthen this. In 2015 BAM 
has implemented the procedures in connection with project 
control, being the stage gate tender and peer review procedure, 
throughout the Group with a stronger focus on earlier stages 
before actual tender submission to rationalise tender cost and 
further reduce risk on acquiring projects that could turn into a loss. 
These procedures combined with the operational audit function in 
place is in line with the Group strategy and the current (market) 
developments. The independent auditor recommends to further 
strengthen the operating effectiveness of the stage gate tender 
procedure.
In connection with the other internal control procedures mainly 
relating to support functions, such as group sourcing, payables, 
cash management and human resources, the independent auditor 
concludes that the quality of these procedures on the operating 
company level varies between normal and strong notwithstanding 
that at a limited number of operating companies improvements 
can be achieved.
The independent auditor recognises that the overall IT governance 
of BAM has improved as a result of the measures taken following 
the Back in Shape programme. Standardised IT systems and 
procedures will further increase efficiency in operations and 
improve the quality of the control environment.
Operational audit
Stage gate
Decision 
to tender1Stage gate Stage gate Stage gate Stage gate
If won:
reality check5
Approval ﬁnalcontract4
Decisionto bid
Tender submitted Contract awarded Peer review3
Initial validation2
Stage gate
Categorisation0
Tender Stage Gate Procedure 62015  – 35The independent auditor concludes that the improved relevance 
and robustness of the sustainability reporting has accelerated 
BAM’s path to integrated reporting with its first publication last 
year. Challenges have been identified with respect to connectivity 
of the material themes as part of the value creation process of BAM. 
However, the independent auditor has reported findings in 
connection with the quality of worked hours registration of 
subcontractors related to the safety indicator and in connection 
with the quality of compliance reporting related to the integrity 
indicator. BAM has carried out appropriate actions to remediate 
these matters in 2016. Assessment of risk management and  
monitoring systems 
The risk management and monitoring systems worked adequately 
during the year under review and no deficiencies were identified in 
relation to these systems and their operation that could have 
potential material implications in the financial year 2015.
BAM can reasonably state that there are no indications that the risk 
management and monitoring systems will not function adequately 
during the financial year 2016. No other significant changes are 
planned for these systems, except the further enhancement of risk 
management, as detailed above. The Group cannot guarantee that 
no risks will materialise and the Group continiously strives to 
improve the risk management and monitoring systems. 
The optimisation of internal risk management and monitoring 
systems remains a key focus for the Executive Board and it may 
result in the systems being improved or expanded. The 
aforementioned intensifying of risk management is one example. Aqaba New Liquefied Natural Gas 
(LNG) Terminal for Aqaba 
Development Corporation (ADC). 
BAM International (in partnership 
with BAM Contractors Ltd and 
Jordan’s engineering company MAG) 
designed, built and commissioned an 
LNG jetty with approach trestle, 
including the mechanical, 
engineering and piping services, 
buildings, infrastructure works and 
tug jetty berth for attending tugs. 
The civil works were designed by 
BAM  Infraconsult.36 – 2015Carlo van de Weijer, PhD MSc
What is driving smart mobility in the 
coming years?
‘ICT and the internet have entered the 
mobility arena. Vehicles have become 
computers on wheels and have started 
sharing their information to further improve 
traffic flow. It is unbelievable how much 
calculating and processing power there is 
in a car today. Cars are more and more like 
a digital platform rather than just a 
mechanical device. Motor vehicles have 
rapidly become an inherently safe and clean 
means of transport. That will also change 
our common view on public transport. 
Arguments that public transport is safer 
and better for the environment are 
disappearing.’
‘Secondly, you see how ICT and the internet 
influence the organisation of personal 
mobility. New platforms like Uber and 
Blablacar make a much better link between 
supply and demand. Take for instance 
Blablacar, the leading long-distance 
ridesharing service, which connects drivers 
with empty seats with people travelling the 
same way and then share journey costs. 
Established in 2006 it has already more than 
20 million members in 19 countries, and carries more passengers than the Eurostar 
high-speed train service! similarly with 
Uber, which provides a better, cheaper and 
cleaner form of transport than conventional 
public transport systems. These new 
developments are really changing the 
landscape of mobility today.’
Can governments really anticipate these 
developments? Can industries like the 
construction industry adapt quickly 
enough to change?
‘That’s indeed very hard. All these changes 
are happening in a shorter time frame than 
the infrastructure will last. Within the life 
span of a project, cars are expected to be 
inherently safe and clean, and the traffic will 
be a self-steering system of well-informed 
individuals. These are things which will 
happen within a few years, it’s not taking 
decades anymore. So how should 
governments, but also construction 
companies, prepare for that? They have to 
shift from managing traffic to facilitating 
traffic flow. That’s a fundamental change 
and you will have to make sure that the 
infrastructure is able to adapt. It’s very hard 
to predict the future, but it not so hard to 
be prepared for a changing future.’Stakeholder interview
‘It’s very hard to predict 
the future, but it is not  
so hard to be prepared  
for a changing future’
Carlo van de Weijer is TU Eindhoven’s Strategic Director 
in the field of ‘smart mobility’ and also works for 
TomTom. He is an expert in the fast changing world of 
transportation and how these disruptive changes 
influence other industries.
What do you see as the biggest strategic 
challenge for construction companies 
such as BAM as a ‘smart company’ 
contributing to smart cities and smart 
infrastructure?
‘Built-in inherent flexibility. What if 
everything were to change? Will my 
solution still be valid or will we have to 
build it all over again? The latter might be 
the best thing for company revenue, but 
you would be underestimating the needs of 
the customer, because they probably will 
want additional flexibility as well. Always 
think about end-users, the travelling 
public. Invite your most innovative 
customers, sit down with them and talk 
about the future and come up with the 
right solutions together.’
2015  – 373. Business 
performance38 – 20153.1 Financial performance
Ambition: Creating economic value
Targets Back in Shape Performance Progress
Improve trade working capital
Improvement trade working capital by at least  
€300 million by year-end 2015 compared to the  
start of the programme mid-2014. 
Improvement tracked through average trade working 
capital as percentage of 4Q rolling revenue.Cash flow from trade working capital since the start of the 
programme mid-2014 was €312 million. 
The trade working capital efficiency improved to -8.1 per cent  
at year-end 2015 compared to -6.8 per cent at the start of the 
programme mid-2014. 
Continue divestment programme
BAM maintains its existing target for divestments
of at least €100 million per year.BAM achieved divestments of property and other assets 
for a total of €95 million in 2015 (2014: €170 million).
Cost savings
BAM will achieve cost savings of at least €100 million
as an annual run-rate by end-2015 compared to the 
level of 2013.The cost base was reduced by €105 million at year-end 2015 
compared to the level of 2013.
Increase profitability
BAM aims to get its results on projects into a
2 to 4 per cent range in the longer term.The margin on the adjusted result before tax for 2015 improved 
to 1.2 per cent, 0.3 per cent points up compared to 2014.7
The Back in Shape programme is completed successfully this year. 
The adjusted result is driven by a strong rebound in margins at Civil 
engineering, but was held back by Dutch non-residential Construction 
and M&E activities. The result at Property was driven by commercial 
property divestment. As anticipated, PPP made a lower result after the 
high profits on project transfers to the joint venture in 2014.
Management summary
• Revenue €7,423 million, 1.5 per cent up compared to 2014;
• Adjusted result before tax of €88.2 million, 42 per cent up 
compared to 2014;
• Order book increased in the year with €1,212 million, or  
12 per cent, to €11,480 million; 
• Results delivered by the Back in Shape programme in 2015  
are in line with targets.
• Gross (property) divestments totalling €95 million in 2015, 
almost reaching the annual target of €100 million;Key financial results
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Revenue 7,423 7,314
Adjusted result before tax 88.2 62.2
Margin, % 1.2 0.9
Result before tax 13.3 (122.4)
Net result attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company 10.2 (108.2)
Order book 11,480 10,268
Earnings per share 4 cents -
Dividend proposal 2 cents -8
Earnings per share
Net result attributable 
to shareholders of the 
Company divided by 
the weighted average 
number of common 
shares outstanding 
during the year.2015  – 39BAM Infra has modernised the N261 
road between Tilburg and Waalwijk 
in the Dutch province of Noord-
Brabant. The road was reconstructed 
to a four-lane road with bus lane and 
overpass junctions.40 – 2015Result before tax
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Continuing operations
Adjusted result before tax, 
depreciation and amortisation 
charges 158.7 145.0
Depreciation and amortisation charges (70.5) (82.8)
Adjusted result before tax 88.2 62.2
Impairment charges (39.1) (115.9)
Restructuring and other exceptional 
costs (38.6) (68.7)
Pension one-off 2.8 -
Result before tax 13.3 (122.4)
Income tax (2.3) 15.5
Result for the year from continuing 
operations 11.0 (106.9)
Result for the year from discontinued 
operations - -
 
Non-controlling interests 0.8 (1.2)
Net result attributable to 
shareholders of the Company 10.2 (108.1)
Revenue
Revenue increased with €109 million, or 1.5 per cent, in 2015 
principally due to a foreign exchange rate effect of the pound 
sterling of 3 per cent. The operational sectors reported an increase 
in revenue of 3.3 per cent on average whilst revenue of the 
investment sectors declined with 11.5 per cent. Revenue in the 
Construction and M&E sector was up 8.3 per cent, Civil sector 
revenue was slightly down, mainly in the Netherlands due to lower 
activity levels at larger projects and in Belgium due to lower 
government spending and project delays. Order book
As at 31 December 2015 the order book (orders in hand for the next 
five years) amounted to €11.5 billion representing an increase of 
€1,2 billion compared to prior year.
The (net) order intake of the 
operational sectors amounted to 
€1,327 million (2014: €440 million) 
while the investment sectors 
reported a decline of €52 million 
(2014: €129 million) attributable in 
full to the sector Property. Of the 
current order book position, 
€5.9 billion (2014: €5.8 billion) is 
expected to be carried out in 2016 and €5.6 billion (2014: 
€4.4 billion) in the years after. Approximately 81 per cent of the 
forecasted revenue for the year 2016 has been secured, which is 
slightly higher than 2014, both in relative and absolute terms. In 
addition, the Group has more than €2.6 billion (2014: €2.7 billion) in 
the order book beyond five years, mainly comprising long-term 
maintenance contracts for PPP projects.
Earnings per share
The number of outstanding common shares of BAM decreased by 
0.6 million in 2015 to 270.4 million shares as at 31 December 2015, 
due to the repurchase of shares. Earnings per share was 4 cents 
(2014: negative).
Dividend proposal 
The announced dividend of 2 eurocents per share (in cash or in 
shares) for 2015 (2014: nil) will be proposed to shareholders at the 
annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 20 April 
2016. The recommended dividend is in line with our dividend policy 
to target a pay-out ratio in the range of 30 to 50 per cent of the net 
result. The dividend return amounts to 0.4 per cent, based on the 
2015 closing price (2014: nil).9
Net debt
Long-term borrowings 
plus short-term 
borrowings less cash 
and cash equivalents.2015  – 41Financial position
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 637 624
Borrowings 597 664
Net debt (40) 40
Less: Non-recourse financing (319) (376)
Recourse net debt (359) (336)
Capital employed
- Non-current assets 1,507 1,469
- Net working capital (340) (223)
Shareholders’ equity 902 827
Capital base 1,026 952
Total assets 4,852 4,956
Capital ratio, % 21.2 19.2
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents was €637 million as at 31 December 2015 
(2014: €624 million), of which €181 million (2014: €163 million)  
concerns the Group’s share of cash and cash equivalents in joint 
operations.
Borrowings
As at 31 December 2015 total borrowings amounted to 
€597 million (2014: €664 million) of which €319 million  
(2014: €376 million) concerned non-recourse debt. The decrease 
in 2015 is driven by non-recourse debt; both non-recourse loans 
associated with PPP projects and property development decreased 
in 2015 with €11 million and €46 million (2014: €89 million and 
€110 million) principally due to divestments in the year and 
consequential debt repayment.
As at 31 December 2015 a net cash position is achieved of 
€40 million (2014: €40 million net debt position) and comprised 
non-recourse PPP and property loans of €319 million  
(2014: €376 million).
The Group had two credit facilities as at 31 December 2015: 
a subordinated loan with a nominal value of €125 million 
(2014: €125 million) and a committed syndicated credit facility of 
€500 million. In December 2015 the Group has reached agreement 
with two bank syndicates on the extension of the existing revolving 
credit facility to an amount of €412.5 million until 30 January 2018 
and on the extension of the existing subordinated loan to an amount of €108 million until 30 July 2018. The previously agreed 
bank covenants remain unchanged. As at 31 December 2015 the 
committed syndicated credit facility was not used, consistent with 
2014.
Borrowings
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Non-recourse debt
PPP 195 206
Property 116 161
Other 8 9
319 376
Subordinated loan 124 125
Recourse debt
PPP 53 64
Property 87 77
Financial lease 15 22
279 288
Borrowings 597 664
The recourse net debt, part of the recourse leverage ratio in BAM’s 
financing arrangements, mainly comprising equity bridge loans for 
PPP projects and property loans on a recourse basis minus cash and 
cash equivalents, amounted to a net cash position of €359 million 
as at 31 December 2015, €23 million up compared to 2014.
Capital employed
Non-current assets
On balance, non-current assets increased in the year with 
€38 million.
As the annual depreciation was partly compensated by the net 
capital expenditures in the year, the carrying amount of property, 
plant and equipment decreased with €24 million to €292 million. 
The majority of the capital expenditures and disposals concerned 
the asset category equipment and installations in the sector Civil 
engineering.
Intangible assets predominantly comprises goodwill with a carrying 
amount of €406 million, an increase of €6 million compared to 2014 
owing to the exchange rate of the pound sterling compared to the 
prior year with an effect of approximately €9 million compensated 
by the goodwill impairment charge of approximately €3 million. 10
1142 – 2015Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and this did result in an 
impairment this year on a Belgian cash generating unit. The 
sensitivity analyses indicated that for another Belgian cash-
generating unit, representing a goodwill amount of €16 million, a 
limited headroom remains in case of a negative change of 50 basis 
points on the discount rate and/or growth rate beyond the forecast 
period.
Non-current PPP receivables decreased in 2015 to €279 million 
from €304 million principally due to the transfer of two projects to 
the joint venture with PGGM (€144 million) compensated by 
progress on the construction of current PPP projects (€154 million). 
In addition, an amount of €39 million (2014: €117 million) has been 
reclassified to assets held for sale in anticipation of the transfer of 
one associated PPP project to the joint venture with PGGM in 2016.
The carrying amounts of investments (accounted for using the 
equity method) and other financial assets decreased in the year 
with €1 million (from €95 million to €94 million) respectively 
increased by €13 million (from €85 million to €98 million). 
The increase in other financial assets includes a reversal of 
impairment charges of €1 million. 
The pension asset increased in 2015 with €57 million to €75 million 
and fully relates to the defined benefit schemes in the United 
Kingdom. This increase is mainly attributable to the supplementary 
contributions of €36 million in the year and changes in actuarial 
assumptions with an positive effect of €26 million.
Net working capital
Net working capital (excluding cash and cash equivalents and 
current borrowings) as at 31 December 2015 amounted to minus 
€340 million (2014: minus €223 million). Gross investment in 
property development has been reduced with €83 million in 2015 
to €740 million. Net investment in property development, taking 
into account associated borrowings, amounted to €544 million 
(2014: €592 million).
The further improvement of net working capital in 2015 was mainly 
driven by the progress on the property divestment programme and 
also takes account for an impairment charge of €37 million (2014: 
€54 million) on land and building rights and property development.
Shareholders’ equity and capital base
Shareholders’ equity significantly increased by €75 million in 2015 
to €902 million as at 31 December 2015. Apart from the net result 
for the year of €10 million, this increase is principally due the 
favourable development of the remeasurements of post-
employment benefit obligations (€37 million) and foreign  
exchange rate differences (€26 million).Capital base includes the subordinated loan amounting to 
€124 million (2014: €125 million).
Capital ratio
As at 31 December 2015 capital ratio is 21.2 per cent (2014: 19.2 
per cent) determined by using the capital base. Recourse solvency, 
the ratio in accordance with the bank covenants, increased with 
1.2 per cent point to 29.3 per cent as at 31 December 2015 (2014: 
28.3 per cent), which comfortably exceeds the required minimum 
of 15 per cent.
Other significant movements in balance sheet items
Post-employment benefits
The net defined benefit liability amounted to €47 million as at 
31 December 2015, a decrease of €93 million compared to 2014 
principally due to changes in actuarial assumptions, specifically the 
discount rate used. The current year balance allows for a pension 
one-off gain of €3 million in connection with a defined benefit 
scheme in the Netherlands.
Provisions
Provisions, other than post-employment benefits, significantly 
decreased by €37 million to €150 million (2014: €187 million). 
The restructuring provision decreased by €16 million to €41 million 
as at 31 December 2015. Additional restructuring provisions of net 
€28 million, in connection with the Back in Shape programme, were 
recognised in the year compensated by restructuring payments of 
€44 million. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The Group had a net deferred tax asset of €221 million (2014: 
€217 million) principally reflecting the tax losses carry forward in 
the Netherlands and Germany. The valuation as at 31 December 
2015 allows for estimates of the level and timing of future taxable 
profits for the upcoming nine years (the Netherlands) and for an 
indefinite period (Germany) including available tax planning 
opportunities.
Assets and liabilities held for sale
The assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2015 
amounted to €42 million (2014: €127 million) for the assets and 
€46 million (2014: €129 million) for the liabilities and were fully 
attributable to one PPP project (2014: one PPP project) that is 
expected to be transferred to the joint arrangement with 
PGGM in 2016. 2015  – 43Property
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Revenue 474 477
Adjusted result before tax 15.5 19.6
Margin (%) 3.3 4.1
Order book 797 859
In Property, the result was again supported by non-residential sales 
in Belgium, the Netherlands and the UK. Margins at residential 
property remained low due to the market opportunities focused 
on affordable homes and developments on impaired land. Dutch 
house sales in 2015 were up by 17 per cent at 2,187, with a rise in 
the proportion of sales to private buyers to 75 per cent (2014: 
70 per cent). 
The non-cash impairments of €34.3 million (2014: €93.2 million) 
reflected value adjustments for Dutch land bank (€20.8 million) and 
retail commercial property (€13.5 million). In 2015 the market 
developed further along the ‘twin track’. The ‘strong track’ applies 
to the areas in and around the major cities and to smaller and more 
affordable houses and apartments, where volumes and prices rose. 
Conversely, the ‘weak track’ is still evident in some regional areas. 
The retail property market was affected by pressure on rental 
prices due to bankruptcies of retailers and growing internet sales.
 Sector results
Construction and M&E services
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Revenue 3,266 3,016
Adjusted result before tax (9.2) (5.5)
Margin (%) - -
Order book 4,608 4,424
Revenue at Construction and M&E services rose by 8 per cent to 
€3,266 million. This was mainly attributable to the UK, including 
the benefit of the stronger pound sterling. The loss for the sector 
was due to negative results in the Netherlands on some older 
non-residential projects and to a lesser extent under recovery of 
overheads. Plans are being finalised to integrate Dutch construction 
and property activities to restore profitability. The result in the UK 
improved from a low level in 2014. The order book increased by 
4 per cent to €4,608 million at year end 2015 excluding the foreign 
exchange effect, the increase was 1 per cent. The order book rose 
in the UK (mainly foreign exchange) and Germany; the order book 
fell in Belgium and the Netherlands.
Civil engineering
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Revenue 3,926 3,949
Adjusted result before tax 74.4 14.2
Margin (%) 1.9 0.4
Order book 6,272 5,129
In Civil engineering, revenue slipped by 1 per cent to €3,926 
million. Revenue was up at BAM International due to order phasing, 
in the UK driven by the currency effect and in Ireland reflecting the 
strong position in a recovering market. Revenue in the Netherlands 
was down due to lower activities at larger projects, while Belgium 
was impacted by project delays and lower government spending. 
The sector result came mainly from the Netherlands, BAM 
International and Ireland. The order book grew 22 per cent despite 
the lower order intake at BAM International reflecting 
developments in the oil and gas industry and in Belgium. The 
increase was driven by the intake of some large multi-year projects 
in the Netherlands, Ireland and Germany.
12
131444 – 2015The Zaha Hadid-designed ‘Softbridge’ 
building is an iconic extension to the 
Middle East Centre at St Antony’s 
College, Oxford University.  
The three-storey, 1,200 m2 building 
houses a library, archive and lecture 
theatre. Beyond its practical function, 
it has created a distinctive landmark 
on Oxford’s architectural landscape. 
2015  – 45Commercial court centre, Hannover, 
Germany. BAM Deutschland. The total investment in property reduced by €83 million to 
€740 million at the end of 2015. These investments were financed 
by €80 million recourse property loans (year-end 2014: €57 million) 
and €116 million non recourse property loans (year-end 2014: 
€161  million).
PPP
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2015 2014
Revenue 185 258
Adjusted result before tax 18.7 38.6
Order book 558 548
Average invested equity 97 104
Return on equity 19.3% 37.1%
The sector PPP had another operational good year. Although the 
adjusted result for 2015 of €18.7 million was down from €38.6 million 
in 2014, the net result increased by 14 per cent in 2015.
The 2014 adjusted result before tax was driven by asset 
management profits on transfers of older projects to the joint venture with PGGM. Going forward, the focus is on divesting newly 
completed projects.
The success of the joint venture is reflected by PGGM’s decision in 
2015 to increase its commitment. The total committed funding for 
the joint venture is now €600 million.
ln addition to the result from asset management, PPP generated a 
result from its growing portfolio.
PPP won four projects in 2015, a hit rate of 50 per cent for the 
second year in a row. These represent approximately €620 million 
of construction revenues for the operational sectors in the coming 
years. The pipeline of active bids is healthy.
At the end of 2015 the number of PPP projects in the portfolio was 
45 of which BAM PPP retains interest in 41; for the remaining 
4 projects only asset management services are provided by BAM PPP.
Four projects reached financial close in 2015:
• Tram line Antwerp (BRABO 2), Belgium
• M11 road (M11), Ireland
• Irish Courts Bundle (Courts), Ireland
• Lock IJmuiden (IJmond), Netherlands1546 – 2015BAM PPP’s projects are spread across BAM’s European markets with 
revenue based mainly on the availability criterion. Investments in 
volume based projects have been reduced or impaired in 2014. 
The ratio of accommodation to civil engineering projects is also 
balanced, although civil engineering projects are often greater in 
size.
The joint venture with PGGM made good progress during 2015, 
with the investment in two new projects. The joint venture provides 
BAM PPP with the twin benefits of a strong position from which to 
pursue further projects and a stable platform within which equity 
can be made available for new investments.
Strategy
BAM PPP harnesses the strengths, experience and expertise within 
Royal BAM Group, coordinating the provision of lifecycle solutions 
for the benefit of public-sector clients. The company focuses on 
BAM’s European home markets where the Group has proven 
construction and maintenance skills and expertise. 
Its strategy aims to grow the portfolio to provide short-term 
construction turnover, long-term Facility Management and lifecycle 
turnover, equity investment returns and asset management 
income.
Market
The PPP markets continue to offer an attractive supply of bidding 
opportunities. Competition continues to be intense and is 
demonstrated by the increased number of competitors at the 
prequalification stage. The bidding opportunities are spread 
reasonably evenly across all of our markets with the exception of 
the UK. The availability of long term debt has improved in the last 
years and is currently not an area of concern.
BAM PPP Portfolio financial performance
At year-end 2015, shareholders equity invested by BAM PPP totaled 
€72 million (€59 million 2014), of which BAM PPP invested 
€41 million and transferred for €27 million to the BAM PPP PGGM 
joint venture in 2015. BAM PPP does not invest in projects until their 
structural completion, with the shareholders’ equity part being 
financed with a bridging loan.
Committed equity is €171 million, all by the joint venture. The 
invested and committed equity totaled €242 million. New projects 
will mainly be undertaken by the joint venture.
The future asset flow is based on the expected inflow of cash from 
the concessions portfolio for the shareholders’ equity (dividend and 
repayment). The discounted value of this future cash inflow is the 
Director’s valuation and totals €239 million (2014: €222 million).
A comparison of the directors’ valuation and the discounted value 
of the invested and committed equity results in an unrealised value 
of the portfolio of €77 million (2014: €78 million).Business development
The current portfolio provides BAM PPP with returns on equity 
investments, in addition, as at year-end 2015, to an order book of 
construction turnover of €1,481 million and Facility Management 
and lifecycle turnover for BAM sister companies of €3.2 billion. 
BAM PPP has in the pipeline 14 active bids, providing potential 
equity investments of €184 million, potential construction turnover 
of €2.1 billion and potential Facility Management turnover 
(excluding lifecycle) of €1.4 billion.
Directors’ valuation
The directors’ valuation is intended to illustrate movements in the 
value of the PPP portfolio during the year taking account of the 
impact of intervening transactions, through the application of a 
consistent methodology. The valuation is based on the forecast 
returns of the projects, based on current projections, and may 
differ significantly from the book value of the investments shown in 
the accounts. Cash flows accruing from projects are calculated on 
the basis of financial models, based on contractual terms with 
clients and have been approved by external lenders. The valuation 
is calculated using the widely acknowledged discounted cash flow 
basis, discounting all future cash flows to BAM PPP at an 
appropriate discount rate. All future cash flows are converted into 
euros. All projects that have reached financial close are taken into 
account; projects for which BAM PPP is the preferred bidder have 
been excluded.
Discount rates
BAM PPP applies discount rates based on the company’s knowledge 
of the market, the agreed transfer mechanism with PGGM, through 
the joint venture, and the use of a simple project phase analysis. 
A higher discount rate is applied from financial close through to 
construction completion before stepping it down once into 
operations due to the reduced risk and greater certainty of future 
cash flows. BAM PPP believes this approach is preferable to using 
and adjusted market risk free rate approach as we have the benefit 
of up-to-date market information based on our discussions and 
agreement with PGGM.2015  – 47Portfolio financial performance 2015
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Nominal Discounted
Invested equity 72
Committed equity 114
Total invested and committed 
equity (a) 186 162
Future equity cash flows (b) 737 239
Implied forecast unrealised 
value in the portfolio (b) - (a) 77
Sensitivities
The > table below shows the sensitivity of the directors’ valuation if 
all the project discount rates applied are changed simultaneously 
by plus or minus 1 per cent and 2 per cent.
Sensitivity of the directors’ valuation
Discount rate 
adjustment Portfolio valuationDifference in 
valuation
(€ million) (€ million)
+2% 219 -20
+1% 202 -37
0% 239 -
-1% 262 23
-2% 289 50Directors’ valuation 2015
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Valuation as at December 2014 222
Dividends and distributions received since December 2014 -11
Divestments since December 2014 -31
Exchange rate movements 4
Rebased December 2014 184
Valuation at December 2015 239
Increase/(decrease) in portfolio valuation  55
New projects added 41
Revaluation 2015 1 14
Increase/(decrease) in portfolio valuation 55
1  The revaluation 2015 consists of a combination of factors including:
-  The discount unwind (over time, the discounted value increases given that 
the future value is a year closer);
-  The impact of changes in discount rates applied as projects move into 
operations;
-  Operational performance gains as a result of factors such as the impact of 
macro-economic changes, higher inflation, better performance, successful 
asset management, changes in demand and revisions to costs.
Construction revenue secured through PPP-projects
(in € million)
213 469 555 347 110
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
and after191716 1848 – 2015Near the Hazza Bin Zayed Stadium in 
Al Ain, Abu Dhabi, BAM International 
is realising six residential buildings, 
including over 550 apartments, a 
commercial building, a multi-storey 
car park of 1,250 spaces, a food and 
beverage souk, a 172-bedhotel 
including multi-storey car park and 
all external and off-site works 
including underground utilities, 
roads, footpaths and landscaping 
works.2015  – 49The Arnhem Central Public Transport Terminal in the 
Netherlands celebrated its grand opening on 
19 November 2015. Bus terminal and train station are 
combined into a new type of complex – an integrated 
public transportation area, designed by UNStudio. The 
transfer hall shelters the facilities and waiting areas for 
the trains, trolley buses and bus station, as well as 
commercial areas and a conference centre, and serves as 
the linking hub between these transportation modes, the 
city centre, the underground car park and the office plaza 
of the Public Transport Terminal in Arnhem. The Public 
Transport Terminal was built by BAM Bouw en Techniek, 
in joint arrangement with Ballast Nedam. BAM Infra was 
involved in the civil works near the terminal, including 
the square for the trolley buses. 
Acquisitions and divestments 
There were no material acquisitions in 2015.
On 3 February 2015, BAM Infra Nederland transferred the  
drainage activities of its subsidiary BAM Nelis De Ruiter, to 
Mos  Grondwatertechniek.
The transaction included nine employees, work in progress, and 
plant and equipment. The annual sales from them for BAM Infra 
were approximately €2 million. The transaction was part of the 
organisational streamlining that BAM implemented through its 
Back in shape programme.
On 4 March 2015, BAM Infra Nederland transferred the piling and 
civil engineering activities of its subsidiary BAM Nelis de Ruiter at 
Halfweg (near Amsterdam) to Kleybruggen B.V., which will continue the activities in a new subsidiary Nelis Infra. The drilling activities 
will be continued by Gebr. van Leeuwen Boringen B.V.
The transaction included forty employees, work in progress and 
plant and equipment. The transaction was part of the current 
organisational streamlining that BAM implemented through 
its Back in Shape programme. 
On 19 March 2015, BAM Infra transferred the heat and cold storage 
activities of its subsidiary BAM Nelis De Ruiter at Halfweg, including 
the service and maintenance department, to De Ruiter 
Grondwatertechniek bv. The transaction included 33 employees, 
work in progress and plant and equipment.
BAM Infra Nederland sold its subsidiary Nootenboom Sports bv 
at Hardinxveld-Giessendam to D.R. Nootenboom Holding bv and 
Drechtmolen Holding bv on 23 April 2015. Nootenboom Sports 50 – 2015specialises in constructing and maintaining sports facilities. 
The transaction related to work in progress, equipment and 
five employees.
BAM saw insufficient opportunities to develop the activities of 
Nootenboom Sports and considered its added value limited. 
The sale was part of the organisational streamlining that BAM 
implemented through its Back in Shape programme. The annual 
turnover of Nootenboom Sport in recent years amounted to 
approximately €8 million.
BAM Infra Nederland sold its subsidiary Mostert De Winter bv in 
Hardinxveld-Giessendam to Elkarij bv in Wouw on 23 October 2015. 
Mostert De Winter is a roof garden, façade vegetation system and 
landscaping specialist. The transaction included all 39 employees, 
work in progress and plant and equipment.
BAM saw insufficient opportunities for further development of the 
activities of Mostert De Winter and considered the added value of this specialisation for the Group limited. The transaction was in line 
with the streamlining of the organisation in relation to BAM’s Back 
in Shape programme. Last year Mostert De Winter’s turnover was 
approximately €16 million.
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed bv sold its subsidiary BAM Techniek - 
Integrated Works to the management on 17 December 2015. 
The transaction included all eight employees and work in progress.
BAM saw insufficient opportunities for further development of the 
activities of BAM Techniek - Integrated Works, which is specialised 
in telecommunications, and considers the added value of this 
specialisation for the Group limited. The transaction was in line 
with the streamlining of the organisation in relation to BAM’s Back 
in Shape programme. Last year BAM Techniek - Integrated Works’ 
turnover was approximately €1 million.
BAM sold the production facility for precast concrete elements to 
Betonfabriek Vrijenban with effect from 1 January 2016. 
Betonfabriek Vrijenban produces high-tech precast concrete 
elements, retaining walls and concrete mortars and has already 
production plants in Delft and Vianen, both in the Netherlands.
In the course of 2015, as part of its Back in Shape programme 
BAM came to the conclusion that there were insufficient 
opportunities to continue the activities of its concrete production 
facility. This then led to closure of the plant. This transaction 
related only to the real estate and did not include a transfer of 
projects or guarantees. 
After bance sheet date, BAM Infra Nederland bv has sold its water 
treatment activities, which formed part of BAM Infra Milieu, to SITA 
Remediation bv in Utrecht. The transaction refered to the four 
employees, work in progress and plant and water treatment 
equipment.
BAM saw insufficient opportunities for further development of the 
water treatment activities and considered the added value of this 
specialisation for the Group limited. Furthermore, the transaction 
was in line with the streamlining of the organisation.2015  – 51The Port House in Antwerp combines 
a new beam-shaped structure and a 
former fire brigade building into a 
new head office building  
for the Port Authority. The project is 
designed by Zaha Hadid.  
The articulate glass walls – some 
transparent, others reflective –  
refer to the Antwerp diamond trade. 
BAM Belgium (Interbuild).52 – 2015Ambition: Offering added value to clients, employees, business partners and the community
Targets Performance in 2015 Progress
Fully incorporate safety in daily activities
-  To achieve an incident frequency IF BAM total  
of ≤ 5.0 for 2015- IF BAM of 4.5
-  To have all BAM operating companies  
OHSAS 18001 certified by 1 January 2016.-  97 per cent of BAM was operating in verified compliance with 
OHSAS 18001 by the end of 2015.
- To achieve an SAA score of 75.0 in 2015 - SAA of 75.4
Achieve a higher level of gender diversity in BAM’s top management
 To have five women appointed at BAM’s senior 
management level by the end of 2015BAM has women in the Supervisory and Executive Board and at 
the levels director ICT, director Human Resources of BAM Infra, 
Director Projects and Rail of BAM Infra Energie & Water and 
Financial Directors of BAM Belgium and of Interbuild.3.2 Social performance
20
IF BAM
Incident frequency for 
BAM site employees.IF BAM total
Incident frequency 
including all employees 
working for BAM  
(BAM, hired, 
subcontractors and 
third parties).
BAM International wins Construction Week Award for 
CSR Initiative of the year 
BAM International’s CSR activities in the Middle East were 
rewarded at the Construction Week Awards 2015. 
CSR activities carried out by BAM International in 2015 
include maintenance of a mosque in Al Ain; upgrading of the 
Al Dabbiya village road; periodic beach cleans on all marine 
projects in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, and Jordan; charity collections 
through all its projects; and, worker initiatives, such as boat 
trips, cricket competitions, and excursions to tourist 
destinations. BAM International’s emphasis on region-wide 
CSR was highly appreciated by the jury. In the words of one 
judge: ‘Their CSR efforts are carried out throughout the year, 
and not only during the Ramadan period. They have engaged 
in numerous effective CSR programmes which actively 
involve staff, which in turn, enforces the importance of 
outreach programmes.’ Fergal Kelly, corporate safety 
manager at BAM International, said, ‘Essentially it is a 
management commitment towards our CSR initiatives. We 
have to do minimum six CSR community initiatives, if not 
then hit more than that. We speak to our stakeholders, 
sub-contractors to see if they have any ideas about where we 
are working.’2015  – 53• Consortium / joint venture (all BAM employees, leasing 
employees, self-employed persons and employees of 
subcontractors and their subcontractors who are working 
for BAM);
• Other / third parties (principal, supervisor, inspector, supplier, 
visitor and so forth).
 
As part of the SAA each operating 
company is awarded a score on a 
scale from 0 to 100. The SAA audit 
report includes recommendations 
for further improvement. The 
average of all the audit results 
provides a picture of safety 
performance within BAM as a whole. 
Safety awareness in 2015, as 
measured through the SAA, 
increased to 75.4 (2014: 74.2), which 
exceeded the 2015 target of 75.0.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
75.4
(out of 100)
406080100
Safety Awareness Audit (SAA)
The IF for BAM is determined by the total number of industrial 
serious accidents leading to absence from work, per million hours 
worked on construction sites. In 2015 the IF decreased to 4.5 
(2014: 5.0), which is below the 2015 target of 5.0. The number of 
fatal and serious accidents (BAM employees, hired, subcontractors’ 
employees, other) decreased from 205 in 2014 to 153 in total in 
2015.
Group incident frequency (IF)Where BAM can improve
Despite BAM’s continuing effort to improve safety on its projects, the 
company deeply regrets the sad loss of two subcontractor employees in 
2015 as results of industrial accidents. BAM is aiming for zero accidents, 
regardless of the severity of the accidents or the numbers of hours 
worked. The challenge for a future that appears impossible but will be 
made possible through personal commitment. We are in the process to 
generate a genuine and sustainable safety leadership culture across the 
senior management of the Royal BAM Group.
Health and safety
Royal BAM Group feels responsible for all people involved in or 
affected by the activities of the Group. This includes BAM’s 
employees, clients, designers, partners, suppliers, subcontractors, 
buyers and the general public.
 
Safety
In order to effectively monitor its safety performance, BAM records 
statistics of the following groups:
• BAM employees (all employees with an employment contract 
with the company);
• Hired employees (all employees from the leasing sector, who 
work for a BAM company, excluding hired BAM employees);
• Subcontractors (all employees of the subcontractor and the 
employees of their subcontractors, employees hired by 
subcontractors and self-employed persons);
BAM International secures on-site safety  
with i-BAM app
A handheld device that verifies employees’ health, safety and 
environment (HSE) credentials. The introduction of the 
i-BAM device signaled a further improvement to the HSE 
performance on BAM International projects in the Middle 
East and Gulf area. Known as i-BAM, short for ‘instant 
biometric Android monitoring’, the device uses biometric 
data to immediately verify if the person has completed the 
required training and has the applicable certificates for the 
task that is being carried out. With i-BAM BAM International 
can immediately check whether someone is performing tasks 
for which they have actually received training. There is also 
no more hassle with stickers that have to be stuck onto 
helmets and the data is updated on a daily basis.21Serious accident
An industrial accident 
that leads to the 
person involved being 
admitted to hospital 
for more than 24 hours 
or results in 
electrocution, 
amputation or fracture 
with lost time.
222010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20150369
4.5
(lost days 4,675)54 – 2015Incident frequency (IF) by country
It stands to reason that managers’ attitude and behaviour are 
crucial for better safety results. Therefore in 2015 BAM continued 
the Making BAM a Safer Place campaign, which started in 2013. 
On 13 October 2015 the global BAM Safety Day took place, which 
paid attention to health and safety with the global theme ‘in shape 
to start’. The main aim of In Shape to Start is for the team or 
individual to assess the activities and working environment prior 
to starting work each shift and additionally before starting each 
different work activity during that day. The assessment should not 
replace normal risk assessments. It should include not only the task 
to be performed but also the work environment and those who 
may be affected.
 
In short, In Shape to Start is:
•  Involvement of the workforce;
•  An opportunity for workers to seek improvements ahead of 
commencing work activities;
•  A means of pausing to re-evaluate hazards, risks and control 
measures;
•  A means of reinforcing original risk assessments and method 
statements;
•  Part of a wider health and safety improvement programme.
 23In 2015 BAM and TNO have done more work towards employee 
resilience through the ‘B-Alert’ programme. BAM also continued 
with implementation of the programmes Hein® in the Netherlands 
and Beyond Zero and Zero Harm in Ireland and the United Kingdom 
to encourage and strengthen a culture of openness.
 
Furthermore, it is apparent that fewer accidents take place when 
clients include safety in requirements for contract selection and 
contract execution. In the Netherlands in 2015, BAM, together with 
other large construction companies and clients, committed to 
making industry-wide agreements to improve safety by signing a 
Governance Code Safety in Construction. By doing so, they aim to 
improve the industry’s safety culture and performance, strengthen 
the supply chain and promote standardisation, education and 
knowledge exchange. Therefore in 2015 BAM participated in 
selected Governance Code meetings, workgroups and were 
presentations held at the Dutch ‘Bouwcampus’ for the construction 
industry. Chairman’s of the workers council, active in construction 
and dredging in the Netherlands, were involved by BAM about the 
progress on implementation of the Governance Code. BAM also 
endorsed the Zero Accidents Network, that focuses on 
management commitment of the participating companies. 
Furthermore in 2015, BAM chaired the health and safety working 
group of ENCORD, which worked on sharing and learning, 
standardisation of safety indicators and research and development. 
BAM also revised its General Terms and Conditions for Purchasing 
and Subcontracting to include safety performance management of 
subcontractors.
Health
BAM actively focuses on health concerns for its employees, such as 
sun protection and exposure to asbestos and quartz dust. Over the 
past years, BAM sees a decreasing trend in its absenteeism figures.
2345
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20152.33.2
Absenteeism (number of sick days as a percentage  
of total number of available days)Ireland 1.8 (lost days: 54)United Kingdom 1.9
(lost days: 749)Germany 6.2
(lost days: 405)
Rest of the world 0.7 (lost days: 348)0510152530
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015Belgium 23.0
(lost days: 1,744)
The Netherlands 6.1
(lost days: 1,375)
242015  – 55Revenue according to Corruption Perception Index  
country 
(in %)Business conduct and transparency
In 2013, the BAM Code of Conduct was modernised and aligned to 
new regulations such as the UK Bribery Act. All new BAM employees 
are required to sign a declaration of adherence to this Code as part 
of their employment agreement with BAM. An e-learning tool has 
been launched in 2014 to train and remind employees of these 
BAM values and standards. The training was introduced for Dutch 
operating companies first. By the end of 2015 3,765 employees in 
the Netherlands received an invitation to follow the online course, 
which was successfully completed by 69 per cent of these 
employees. All invitees receive periodical reminders until they have 
completed the training successfully. In 2015 BAM worked on 
different translations of the course for introduction in its other 
home countries in 2016. The training will be obliged for all new 
BAM employees. 
During 2015 Dutch media paid attention to one particular incident, 
where an area director of a BAM-subsidiary was involved, who had 
withheld financial information about a project from management. 
In this particular case all BAM procedures were applied directly 
and correctly, well before it was mentioned in the media.  
As a consequence the area director lost his position at BAM.
 
In 2015 no legal actions were taken for anti-competitive behaviour, 
anti-trust and monopoly practices. In addition, there have been no 
material instances of corruption or of non-compliance with laws 
and regulations.BAM recognised as leader in Dutch benchmark  
for transparency
For the sixth consecutive year, Royal BAM Group has  
been awarded with a top 20 position on the Transparency 
Benchmark (Transparantiebenchmark) of the Dutch Ministry 
of Economic Affairs, and has been declared one of the 
leaders by achieving a fifth place and a score of 193 out of 
200 (2014: 192). BAM is the highest-scoring construction 
company.
The Transparency Benchmark is an annual survey into the 
quality of sustainability reporting among the 500 largest 
companies in the Netherlands. The benchmark was 
established to improve sustainability reporting.
In 2015 BAM published its first annual report in accordance 
with the framework of the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC). The results of the Transparency Benchmark 
confirm that BAM describes material themes for value 
creation accurately and that the Group reports relevant 
information for its stakeholders transparently.
25
01020304050607080
Very low risk
CPI >80Low risk
80≥ CPI >60Average risk
60≥ CPI >40High risk
40≥ CPI >20Very high risk
CPI ≤2012 13 14 15 12 13 14 152178
010
12 13 14 15 12 13 14 15 12 13 14 15Corruption index
The Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is calculated annually by 
Transparency International, which focuses on strict implementation 
of the UN Convention against Corruption. The CPI classifies 
countries according to their perceived level of corruption on a 
scale from 0 to 100. BAM achieves the majority of its turnover in 
countries with a Corruption Perception Index Score higher than 80, 
i.e. in countries with a very low risk of corruption.56 – 2015Operatives of geotechnical specialist BAM 
Ritchies brave the steep incline of the cutting 
through Longfield Hill on the Chatham Main Line 
linking Victoria to the Medway towns, Dover and 
Ramsgate. Remediation is taking place on both 
sides of the cutting over a total length of about 
750 metre and the completed work will see 
4,000 soil nails, 1,500 rock bolts – with 
20 kilometre of drilling to install them – and 
22,500 square metre of facing mesh installed at 
the site.2015  – 57Installation of LED lightning in the 
Wijker Tunnel under the North Sea 
Canal at Beverwijk, the Netherlands.  
BAM Infra.
Responsible tax
Corporate income tax, taxes on wages, social security 
contributions, and VAT are also considered relevant taxes in relation 
to the turnover that BAM makes in the areas where it works. These 
taxes provide good comparability in the Netherlands, the rest of 
Europe, and the rest of the world for BAM. Under these categories 
BAM’s taxes amount to 831.1 million. Relative to BAM’s turnover, 
the share of taxes paid deviates most from the share of turnover in 
the Netherlands. Here BAM’s share of taxes is relatively high 
compared to turnover.
Taxes paid in 2015
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Taxes %Turnover %
Netherlands 375.3 45 2,475.3 33
Rest of Europe 411.9 50 4,276.5 58
Rest of the world 43.9 5 671.2 9
Total 831.1 100 7,422.9 1002658 – 2015Female employees by region
(in % of total employees) 
2015 2014
Netherlands 11% 11%
United Kingdom 23% 22%
Belgium 10% 11%
Germany 21% 21%
Ireland 25% 24%
Rest of the world 4% 4%
Employees per gender by employment type
(in %)
  
 2015  2014  2015  2014
Full-time 96%  96% 56%  56%
Part-time 4%  4% 44%  44%
Employees per employment contract by gender in 2015
(in %)
 permanent contract temporary contract
13% 1%
77% 9%
Total 90% 10%
Employees per employee category by gender in 2015
(in %) 
Senior 
managementMiddle 
managementOperational 
staff
4% 8% 15%
96% 92% 85%
Employees by age group
(in %) 
Age group 2015 2014
<20 1% 1%
20-29 15% 14%
30-39 25% 25%
40-49 27% 28%
50-59 24% 24%
60 ≥ 8% 8%Employee recruitment, development and retention
Back in Shape
Its employees are BAM’s most important asset. A reduction in jobs 
as part of the Back in Shape programme appears to contradict this. 
BAM is aware of this apparent contradiction yet it is important to 
safeguard BAM’s performance from an economic point of view. 
BAM supports sustainable employee development with its 
endeavours to help employees involved find suitable new work. 
This is laid down in a social plan.
Employees who have been made redundant have an additional 
option. The social plan offers:
1. Outplacement (help with going from work to work, employee 
receives compensation);
2. Immediate termination of employment contract (employee 
receives compensation).
BAM’s social side is clearly visible in the plan, particularly in the 
safety net scheme: if, for instance, someone has chosen the 
outplacement path and receives a new six-month employment 
contract, and this contract is not extended due to reasons beyond 
the responsibilities of the employee involved, he or she can fall back 
on BAM’s mobility process. The safety net means that one initially 
receives help with finding a new job, and if one is not successful, he 
or she will get financial compensation. The duration of this safety 
net scheme is maximum 24 months.
 
The active aspect signifies a pro-active attitude, both of the 
employer and the employee, and this element was lacking in the 
former social plan. This aspect is mainly expressed in the work-to-
work programme for both parties, which entails assisting 
employees whose positions have become redundant towards a new 
challenge. For this BAM has established BAM Link, BAM’s mobility 
centre, where people are assigned a personal mobility advisor who 
helps finding another job, whether at BAM or outside the 
organisation. BAM is focusing on this process more than before, 
which is a huge investment in terms of time, money and energy. 
An active approach of the employee who has been made redundant 
is always rewarded.
Diversity
During 2015 the Dutch construction daily Cobouw reported that 
the share of female employees in the Dutch construction industry 
has not increased over the last years. The construction industry is 
still considered to be the least emancipated industry in the 
Netherlands. Of all main contractors in the Netherlands, BAM 
employs the largest share of women: 14 per cent are women.
For all home countries except for Belgium, the percentage of 
female employees increased or remained at the same level.27
302928
312015  – 59BAM Ireland launches ‘Breakfast and Learn’ series
As part of its staff development programme, BAM Ireland 
has held a series of ‘Breakfast and Learn’ events across sites 
and offices in 2015. The events included presentations from a 
variety of sources which are selected on the basis of their 
interest to staff and their application in building and civil 
engineering principles. The series commenced with 
presentations of the Building the Shard – construction of the 
tallest building in London and ‘BIM – BAM’s move into 21st 
Century Construction’. Presentations counted as continuing 
professional development (CPD) training and provide staff 
with an accessible and enjoyable way of contributing to 
CPD  targets. Contributions and discussions were encouraged 
during the events on the topic at hand. Constructive 
feedback and ideas were also used towards improving the 
CPD process across the company.Employee engagement
During 2015 approximately 130 colleagues, with a Group-wide 
representation, participated in four sessions called the ‘Edge 
Journey - Growing Together’ to develop the strategic agenda 
2016-2020. External speakers were invited to present their 
businesses and to challenge BAM staff to come up with innovative 
business concepts that BAM might bring to the market in the 
coming years. Many of the innovative ideas were based on 
expansion of services over the life-cycle of projects and using data 
to ultimately serve the end-user in its need for smart solutions.
0510152025
2012 2011 2013 2014 20151316
Average hours of training per employee Annual total compensation by country
In 2015 the rounded ratios for annual total compensation of BAM’s 
highest paid individual to the average annual total compensation 
for all employees remained at the same level as in 2014, except for 
Germany. In Germany the ratio decreased from seven to six, which 
means that the average salary increased more than the salary 
increase of the highest paid individual. The ratio of percentage 
increased in the Netherlands, and decreased in Belgium and 
Germany. 
The relatively high ratio for BAM’s international business can be 
explained by the fact that Dutch management members work 
together with local workforce, thereby explaining  the difference in 
salary standards.
Annual total compensation by country
 (in ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s 
highest-paid individual to the average annual total compensation for all 
employees (excluding the highest-paid individual))
   2015 2014
ratio of percentage 
increase ratio ratio
Netherlands 4% 13 13
United Kingdom 0% 7 7
Belgium -7% 7 7
Germany -5% 6 7
Ireland -2% 6 6
Rest of the world                  N/A 23 -333260 – 2015Local community engagement
In 2015, local community engagement programmes, that 
measure and manage the impact of building projects on the local 
environment, were implemented at 33 per cent of BAM’s 
operations. These were initiatives as part of existing programmes, 
such as the Considerate Constructors Scheme (CCS), Bewuste 
Bouwers and Making TIME for Communities, as well as unique 
initiatives of engagement managers on projects and site-specific 
sponsoring or charity work. 
Considerate Constructors Scheme 
CCS fosters good communication with the local community and 
promotes professionalism on building sites. Both BAM Construct 
UK and BAM Nuttall in the United Kingdom are associate 
members of the CCS. Construction sites registered under the 
CCS scheme are monitored to ensure that they comply with the 
Code of Considerate Practice developed to promote good 
practice, going beyond legal requirements.
Bewuste Bouwers
Based on the success of the UK Scheme, BAM was one of the 
companies that introduced the scheme Bewuste Bouwers in the 
Netherlands in 2009. After five years of participation, Bewuste 
Bouwers decided to involve BAM in further roll-out of the scheme. 
During 2015, 78 sites were registered under the scheme in the 
Netherlands (2014: 82). 
Making TIME for Communities
BAM Construct UK continued its commitment to targeting the 
social issues highlighted in the Making TIME for Communities 
strategy. For the third year running, BAM Construct UK’s 
community initiatives were award winning, with the Manchester 
Football Academy project collecting a hat-trick of community 
awards. BAM  Construct UK uses the London Benchmarking Model 
to quantitatively measure its community investment. In 2015 
BAM Construct UK estimated that 90 per cent of all community 
engagement activities were monitored and given a monetary 
value. In 2015, €766,400 was invested in to the communities 
surrounding BAM Construct UK’s projects, which benefitted over 
20,000 people.
Additionally in 2015, BAM Construct UK introduced an apprentice-
tracking tool to document the number of young people gaining 
expertise on its sites. To date, 155 apprentices have gained over 
11,500 days of site experience on BAM projects.
Procurement
BAM uses a tool to measure supplier performance. During project 
preparation, implementation and follow-up, the tool assesses 
suppliers against the themes safety, quality, total cost, logistics 
and engineering and process. Operating companies have the opportunity to add any specific criteria. On a scale of 1 to 4, each 
supplier has to score at least 3 for each criterion. In 2015 a total of 
3,679 supplier performance assessments were carried out. 
Human rights
 
On 26 May 2015, a delegation of BWI and trade union organisations 
FNVBouw STICC visited the BAM project site of Hoog Catharijne in 
Utrecht, the Netherlands. No anomalies were detected in any of the 
areas that have been challenged by the BWI. A report, issued by 
FNVBouw confirmed this and stated that, among other things: 
there is an extensive safety programme on site; employment is 
freely chosen; there is no discrimination in employment; child 
labour is not used; working conditions are decent; safety 
representatives are chosen; and the employment relationship is 
established. The delegation was pleasantly surprised by the 
openness of the workers.
BAM International donates wheels to drive out malaria
BAM International’s Limbe Shipyard project in Cameroon 
supported the Drive Against Malaria campaign with the 
donation of a Land Rover. Drive Against Malaria is a Dutch-
based organisation that aims to drive malaria out of Africa. 
Founded in 1988 by David Robertson, Drive Against Malaria 
has the support of companies and organisations in Europe 
and the US as it offers direct support in emergency areas by 
providing medication and diagnostic tools, establishing 
clinics, training local people and distributing mosquito nets.
The Limbe Shipyard team has supported the organisation by 
helping to build a clinic in Cameroon and the donation of a 
car and other items. The Land Rover 4x4 vehicle makes it 
possible to reach patients and aid workers in areas that are 
often difficult to access.
Project manager Rick van Lent: ‘Drive Against Malaria’s 
efforts to drive out malaria are impressive. Through our 
activities on the continent we are well aware of the malaria 
problem and we’re proud to be able to make a contribution.’ 
David M.C. Robertson, the founder of Drive Against Malaria: 
‘We like to thank BAM International for their support by 
helping Drive Against Malaria Foundation with the donation 
of a Land Rover Discovery and various needs for our projects. 
Also the technical support and helping hands with the 
building of our Malaria clinic in Idenau, Cameroon. We have 
been humbled by the extraordinary generosity of BAM 
International in response to our unprecedented appeal.’2015  – 61Render of BAM Construct UK’s BIM 
model for the V&A Museum of 
Design Dundee including 
surrounding area existing buildings 
and also part of BAM’s site setup. 
The BIM model shows the complexity 
of the structure with the external 
concrete walls / central cores and 
structural steelwork.62 – 2015John Hagel III
Which of the long-term forces of change 
do you consider to be the main drivers of 
change in the construction industry in the 
coming years? 
‘There are many forces, but the one that 
probably has the greatest potential for 
impact is the continuing exponential 
improvement of digital technology and the 
deployment of digital technology 
infrastructures around the world. I think one 
of the things that is particularly interesting is 
the extension of these technologies into 
other technology areas. Take a look at the 
whole arena of 3D printing, where we can 
now print physical products using digital 
technology as a key driver, a shaper of that 
performance. Another related area is 
materials science, where we now use digital 
technology to design and deploy materials 
that can evolve over time, based on sensing 
of the environment. These are just some 
examples of the way that digital technology 
is going to have a significant and continuing 
impact on the construction industry as well 
as all businesses.’
What do you consider to be essential for 
further sustainable development in the 
construction industry?
‘It is an imperative: you have to figure out 
ways to first of all harness the technology, 
but more importantly find ways of create 
sustainable businesses around that 
technology, because if you don’t, you will be 
marginalised. One of the key opportunities 
and imperatives is to find ways to harness 
these technologies in the form of business platforms that can mobilise and coordinate 
activities across an expanding number of 
participants. We tend to call them pull 
platforms, where the key is how do you pull 
out the relevant resources and people when 
you need them and where you need them. In 
many respects the construction industry has 
always had pull platforms in the sense that 
any new major construction project requires 
drawing in relevant contractors and 
subcontractors and expertise. But it has 
been largely around mobilising them to do a 
certain task. What we call mobilisation 
platforms. Our view is that one of the big 
opportunities with digital technology is to 
evolve those platforms into learning 
platforms. Where participants are in the 
process of learning better and faster 
together than on their own. This way 
construction companies can take up a role  
as trusted advisors to their clients.’
What do you consider to be key elements 
in defining the strategic agenda for any 
major construction company?
‘One of the biggest opportunities or needs 
for companies is to approach strategy from 
two different time horizons. There is often a 
tendency in this world of rapid change to 
shrink your time horizon to focus on what 
must be done today, as there is so much 
going on. It is important to focus on a 
long-term time horizon, asking two key 
questions: ‘What is my relevant market or 
industry going to look like in in ten tot 
twenty years from now?’. And secondly: 
‘What are the implications for the company Stakeholder interview
‘Harness the technology, 
but more importantly find 
ways of creating 
sustainable businesses 
around it’
John Hagel III is an author and former consultant who 
specialises in the intersection of business strategy and 
information technology. In 2007, Hagel co-founded the 
Deloitte Center for the Edge Innovation.
that I want to become in ten to twenty years 
from now?’. On a much shorter time horizon 
the key question that should be asked is: ‘In 
the next six to twelve months, what are the 
two or three business initiatives, no more, 
that could have the greatest impact in 
accelerating our movement toward that 
longer term destination?’. And then: ‘Do we 
have the critical mass of resources to realise 
those two or three business initiatives?’ If 
you’re not continuously operating on two 
horizons simultaneously and rapidly 
iterating back and forth between these two 
horizons, you’ll quickly get sidelined. But 
just remember, there’s a very big upside: in 
an exponential world, small moves, smartly 
made, can set very big things in motion.’
2015  – 63Ambition: Recognising the responsibility to future generations
Targets Performance in 2015 Progress
Fully incorporate CSR in daily activities
-  To reduce BAM’s total CO2 emissions by 15 per cent  
by 2015 (based on its 2009 emissions), taking into 
account the turnover and type of the projects.-  BAM reduced CO2 emissions from 277 kilotonnes in 2009 
to 230 kilotonnes in 2015, a reduction of 17 per cent.
-  To be included in the CDP Climate A List Leadership 
Index by achieving performance band A.-  In 2015 BAM was included in the CDP Climate A List, and 
achieved a maximum score of 100 A. 
-  To reduce BAM’s total construction and office waste  
by 15 per cent by 2015 (based on its 2009 volume), 
taking into account the turnover and nature of the 
projects.-  BAM reduced construction and office waste from 574 
kilotonnes in 2009 to 161 kilotonnes in 2015, a significant 
reduction of 72 per cent. 
-  To increase BAM’s separation rate of construction 
waste by 25 per cent by 2015 (compared to 2009 
volumes) taking into account the turnover and  
nature of the projects.-  BAM’s separation rate of construction waste increased from  
10 per cent in 2009 to 29 per cent in 2015, an improvement  
of 63 per cent. 3.3  Environmental performance
Young BAM and KNMI discuss climate change  
and its impact on BAM
In a delta country such as the Netherlands, the climate plays 
an important role. For an accessible, livable and safe country, 
knowledge about the future climate is crucial. The KNMI 
(Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute) has developed 
climate scenarios to gain insight into the future climate of the 
Netherlands and the specific influence of global warming. 
The scenarios show a picture of higher temperatures, 
accelerating sea level rise, wetter winters, more intense 
rainfall and chances of drier summers. This will require 
significant changes in buildings, coastal defenses, drainage 
and sewerage systems, which are all huge business 
opportunities for BAM. At the same time, extreme weather 
conditions might have negative effects on construction 
activities and project planning.
In the afternoon of 24 April 2015, KNMI hosted a special 
event for Young BAM members to learn more about climate 
change and the specific risks and opportunities for BAM. The 
event included a welcome of KNMI director Gerard van der 
Steenhoven, presentations on the climate scenarios and the 
impact on BAM, a special visit to the ‘weather room’ and a 
3D simulation of specific weather influences. 34
64 – 2015Where BAM can improve
In general BAM emits greenhouse gases through the nature of its 
business. Production of asphalt is one of BAM’s carbon-intensive 
activities. BAM can further reduce the emissions from its asphalt plants 
by producing more low-energy asphalt (LEAB). Furthermore, BAM should 
intensify its engagement with suppliers regarding the use and disclosure 
of FSC certified timber.
In a circular economy, 100 per cent of the materials is reused. In 2015 
BAM managed to reuse 88.1 per cent of its waste as construction 
materials. There is an opportunity to find more useful purposes than 
landfill or incineration for 11.9 per cent of BAM’s waste.
Energy and emissions
BAM’s total energy consumption in 2015 was 3,356 TJ (2014: 
3,410 TJ). The energy intensity, based on TJ per million euro 
turnover, in 2015 was 0.45 TJ/million euro (2014: 0.47 TJ/million 
euro). 
BAM has rebuilt the majority of its Dutch offices into open plan 
shared office spaces using the latest energy saving measures.  
In 2015 BAM used 75 kWh per square metre in its buildings in the 
Netherlands (2014: 122 kWh). 
The total current vehicle fleet of BAM in the Netherlands consisted 
of 94.2 per cent A or B labels, compared to 91.3 per cent in 2014. 
BAM  also deploys electric vehicles to reduce fuel consumption, 
CO2 emissions and air pollution. In 2015 more than 5,590,000 
kilometres were driven with the Group’s fully electric vehicles and 
plug in hybrid cars.
BAM’s carbon footprint in 2015 was calculated on the basis of 
energy consumption of all operating companies worldwide as a 
consequence of direct and indirect CO2 emissions from business 
activities. The Group’s 2015 reduction target was 15 per cent 
compared to 2009. In 2015 BAM emitted 230 kilotonnes CO2 
(2014: 242 kilotonnes). In absolute terms, BAM’s carbon footprint 
fell by 5 per cent compared to 2019 and by 17 per cent compared to 
2009 (277 kilotonnes CO2). The CO2 intensity, based on CO2 
emissions per turnover, decreased by 7.2 per cent to 30.9 tonnes 
CO2 per million euro (2009: 33.3 tonnes CO2/million euro). 
The CO2 emissions intensity of BAM’s office buildings in the 
Netherlands was 12.6 kilograms CO2 per square metre (2014: 13.7).Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau builds Austrian 
hydroelectric power station
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau has won a joint arrangement 
contract for the construction of a turbine building as part of a 
hydroelectric power scheme in Austria. The power station is 
expected to be operational by 2018. Compared to a 
conventional power plant the new power station will 
generate savings of more than 320,000 tons of CO2 annually.
The client, Gemeinschaftskraftwerk Inn GmbH will operate 
the hydroelectric power station, which will be located in the 
Inn valley in Austria and will provide sustainable energy to 
approximately 100,000 households annually. A new dam will 
be constructed as part of the project that will create a 
two-kilometre-long reservoir stretching beyond the Austrian 
border into Switzerland. Water will be fed through a 
22-kilometre tunnel to the turbine building, which will be 
located 160 metres beneath the dam. Here hydropower is 
converted into electricity. The water will flow back to the Inn 
through a 300-metre-long underground channel. The joint 
arrangement will be responsible for the construction of the 
turbine building and the outflow channel near the Austrian 
town of Prutz.
The four-star Margo Hotel in Depok, 
south of Jakarta. features twelve 
floors with 288 rooms, including two 
restaurants and a swimming pool.  
The hotel is situated adjacent to the 
Margo City Mall which was built by 
BAM a few years ago for the same 
client, PT Puri Dibya Property, part of 
the Djarum Group. BAM International.2015  – 65BAM completed 39 zero-energy houses in 
Soesterberg, the Netherlands, for housing 
corporation Portaal. The project is part of 
‘the Stroomversnelling’ initiative, which aims 
to renovate 111,000 social housing homes 
without any cost increase for the tenants. In 
order to create zero-energy homes, a new 
outer wall facade, among other things, will 
be built against the existing brickwork. 
Almost all the technical installations are 
housed in an energy unit outside each home. 
Significant improvements have also been 
made on the roofs. The PV panels reach over 
the load-bearing walls. The ridge tiles and 
the fascia boards are made of aluminium. 
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed (BAM Woningbouw).
Total absolute CO2 emissions
(in kilotonnes)
 
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol differentiates between three scopes, 
namely emissions directly resulting from a company’s own 
activities (scope 1), indirect emissions from purchased electricity, 
heating and cooling (scope 2) and indirect emissions in the value 
chain (scope 3). Scope 1 CO2 emissions are responsible for 86 per 
cent of BAM’s total CO2 emissions. 15 14 13 12 11 10 09050100150200250300Target 2015
230277
*  Employee air travel; Employee car travel with privately owned cars; 
Business travel.  
 
CO2 emissions per scope 1, 2 and 3 
(in kilotonnes)Scope 111 10 09 12 13 14 15 11 10 09 12 13 14 15 11 10 09 12 13 14 15
Scope 2 Scope 3*197
1518
050100150200250
363566 – 2015There has also been a decline of emissions at BAM’s vehicle fleet, 
which attributed to 27 per cent of total emissions, and decreased 
by 7 per cent compared to 2014. This is the result of a reduction of 
leased vehicles, an increase of fuel efficient cars and continuation of 
programmes for fuel efficient driving. 
Other things that contributed to changes in BAM’s carbon  
footprint were:
• Continuous improvement of the reporting process and  
reporting methods since 2009;
• Weather conditions;
• Other emission reduction initiatives.
CO2 emissions per source 
(in kilotonnes)
CO2 emissions intensity per sector 
(in tonnes per €1 million revenue)BAM’s carbon footprint and its carbon intensity depend largely on 
the type, the phase and the location of projects in the reporting 
year. Emissions from BAM’s offices reduced by 13 per cent 
compared to 2014 as a result of an almost complete shift towards 
renewable electricity use in the United Kingdom and the 
Netherlands, the merging of offices throughout BAM and 
continued energy efficiency improvements.
CO2 emissions per sector
(in kilotonnes)050100150200250
PPP and 
otherPropertyCivil 
engineeringConstruction
and mechanical
and electrical
services111009 12131415 111009 12131415 111009 12131415 111009 1213141534
1 1154
37
050100
PPP and 
otherPropertyCivil 
engineeringConstruction
and mechanical 
and electrical
services11 0910 12131415 11 0910 12131415 11 0910 12131415 11 0910 121314151049
27050100150200
Vehicle 
ﬂeetBusiness
ﬂightsAsphalt
plantConstruction 
sitesOfﬁces111009 12131415 111009 12131415 111009 12131415 111009 12131415 111009 1213141572662
6129
38
392015  – 67Circular economy
Waste
BAM’s waste consists of excavation, demolition, construction and 
office waste. BAM focuses on construction and office waste as 
indicators of operational performance, since these outputs are 
based on the Group’s own doings. All construction and office waste 
is initially brought to BAM’s sites and offices on its behalf; in contrast 
to excavation and demolition waste. Excavation and demolition 
waste are initially at sites before BAM takes on a project and 
therefore less relevant as indicator of operational performance or 
sustainability; it is merely a part of BAM’s business model to 
efficiently take it from sites.
Much like CO2 emissions, trends in removed waste depend heavily 
on the phase and type of a project. This can give rise to major 
differences among civil engineering companies in particular. It is, 
however, still challenging to understand the relationship between 
BAM’s turnover, the type of activities and the level of waste 
produced.
The Group’s construction and office waste reduced by 12 per cent 
compared to 2014, from 182 kilotonnes to 161 kilotonnes and 
72 per cent from 2009 (574 kilotonnes). This significantly exceeds 
BAM’s 2009 ambition of 15 per cent reduction.
A large contribution to this year’s reduction of the volume of 
construction waste was due to termination of large construction 
projects.
Efficiency in BAM’s production process is further gained from 
prefabrication and the use of BIM, which reduces the amount of 
waste produced at construction sites.
To promote appropriate recycling, BAM has the objective to 
improve the separation of construction waste. In 2015, 29 per cent 
of the Group’s construction waste in the Netherlands was 
separated, compared with 18 per cent in 2009 (63 per cent 
improvement). 
BAM’s efforts to separate construction waste on site have resulted 
in improved performance. In 2015, large volumes of timber, metals 
and cardboard were separately diverted. A proactive approach of 
project managers to separate these materials has resulted in a 
significant increase of the separation rate.The largest impact on climate change of BAM’s activities in the 
Construction and mechanical and electrical services sector occurs 
in the use phase of its products. In 2015, 18 per cent of BAM’s 
revenue, approximately €1.3 billion, came from projects that have 
been registered with third-party green building or sustainable 
construction rating organisations, such as the U.S. Green Building 
Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
standards, the UK’s Building Research Establishment Environmental 
Assessment Method (BREEAM), Germany’s Passivhaus standards 
and other objective and third-party standards or BAM’s green 
building products.
For its actions to reduce CO2 emissions and mitigate the business 
risks of climate change, BAM has been awarded with a position on 
the CDP Climate A List 2015: The CDP Climate Performance 
Leadership Index 2015. The index has been produced at the request 
of 822 investors – who represent more than a third of the world’s 
invested capital – by CDP, the international NGO that drives 
sustainable economies. Information provided by nearly 5,500 listed 
companies has been independently assessed against CDP’s scoring 
methodology and ranked accordingly. BAM has been awarded an 
A grade for its climate performance, earning a position on this 
global ranking of corporate efforts to mitigate climate change. 
Since 2012 BAM has been one of the leaders regarding transparency 
on impact on climate change. Only some of these companies also 
show improved climate performance. Since 2014 BAM has been 
among the best performing companies.
Highest score Circular Business for BAM
BAM leads the Benchmark Circular Business Practices 2015, 
a comparative study of the efforts of 52 Dutch listed 
companies to realise a circular value chain. The Dutch 
Association of Investors for Sustainable Development (VBDO), 
that conducted the study, is especially positive about BAM’s 
innovations. ‘One example is Low Energy Asphalt Concrete 
(LEAB), produced with fewer scarce natural resources and 
lower CO2 emissions than conventional asphalt. Furthermore 
BAM puts a lot of effort into dialogue with clients, partners 
and suppliers on recyclability of construction materials and 
buildings. Also during the construction process BAM pays a 
lot of attention to sustainability.’68 – 2015Recycling / re-use11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15
Waste to energy
incinerationIncineration without
energy recovery / landﬁll88
210
050100
0100200300400500600
Construction
waste11 10 09 12 13 14 15 11 10 09 12 13 14 15
Ofﬁce
waste156
5
Waste production per source  
 (in kilotonnes)
The Glasvezelnet Schiedam joint 
arrangement (BAM Infra Telecom and 
Van Gelder Telecom) has connected 
nearly 40,000 homes in Schiedam,  
the Netherlands, to a high-speed 
fibre optic network for its client CIF 
(Communication Infrastructure Fund). 
40 Waste production per destination category 
(in %)412015  – 69BAM Woningbouw has tested the BIM360 Field 
Autodesk application successfully on the Summertime 
project in Amsterdam. Using an iPad, project engineers, 
foremen and carpenters have online access on site to 
the 3D models created by designers in BIM. The BIM360 
Field Autodesk application collects and manages all 
project data in a way that makes it well-suited to for 
multiple purposes.
Water
In 2015, BAM consumed 68,655 m3 potable water in the Netherlands 
(2014: 92,000 m3; 2013: 390,000 m3; 2012: 147,000 m3). In 2013, 
water consumption at construction sites was strongly influenced 
by tunnel drilling operations. 
Water usage in the Netherlands 42Potable water use
92,000 m3 
201468,655 m3 
2015390,000 m3 
2013147,000 m3 
201270 – 2015Materials 
Since 2011 BAM has identified the quantities of materials used in its 
construction projects in the Netherlands. Based on statistical 
analysis of the financial data, the Group has identified the main 
categories of procured materials, as shown in > table 43 in the 
Netherlands. Due to their nature, most used materials can be 
recycled. Based on this statistical analysis and supplier data BAM 
believes that the recycled percentages are corresponding with the 
figures shown in this table. In cases where BAM applies recycled 
materials, nearly all materials are processed before they can be 
reused for construction. Therefore BAM chooses to report all 
materials to be recycled instead of partly reused. 
Material consumption in the Netherlands 
Consumption
Resource 2012 2013 2014 2015
Concrete  
and mortarm3658,000 558,000 536,000 490,000
Timber m328,000 23,000 28,000 32,000
Asphalt t 1,300,000 1,400,000 1,500,000 1,400,000
Bricks nr 40,800,000 30,400,000 17,000,000 18,500,000
Steel t 61,000 67,000 79,000 73,000
Limestone m3- 14,000 11,400 16,000
Recycled content
Resource 2012 2013 2014 2015
Concrete and 
mortarm311% 11% 10% 12%
Timber m32% 2% 2% 1%
Asphalt t 41% 39% 42% 40%
Bricks nr 0% 0% 0% 0%
Steel t 60% 66% 64% 63%
Limestone m3- 19% 19% 19%
BAM is the only major construction member of the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation’s CE100 programme. The Group actively works with 
clients to develop business models for ‘circular buildings’, including 
the Brummen Town Hall project in the Netherlands, which was 
completed in 2013. 
BAM also has a strategic partnership with Autodesk and is actively 
involved in developing BIM applications to help manage the 
life-cycle of buildings.43BAM’s experience in getting to grips with the circular economy in 
2015 involved:
• Working with Horizon 2020’s BAMB (Buildings as Material Banks) 
on the prevention of construction and demolition waste, the 
reduction of virgin resource consumption and the development 
towards a circular economy through industial symbiosis.
• Working with WRAP in the United Kingdom, to collaborate on a 
project to develop resource efficient (circular) business models. 
The aim is to implement these in BAM’s own developments, 
beginning with two commercial properties being built in the 
United Kingdom during 2016.
• Working with the Royal Society of Arts to implement their Great 
Recovery Project’s ‘tear down, design up’ approach for buildings. 
This will involve analysis and virtual tear down of key demolition/
strip out projects, to enable lessons to be learnt around 
designing for circularity measures in future projects.
• Standards/committee involvement: 
 -  The committee for the Designing Out Waste standard  
BS: 8895-1;
 -  The development committee for a circular economy standard 
with the British Standards Institute (BSI);
 -  The Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100 programme;
 -  The UK Contractors Group (UKCG) Circular Economy, Materials 
and Carbon group (chair of the Carbon group).
BAM International brings crystal clear water  
to Kalambazite
Construction and renovation work have an impact on local 
communities and are sometimes a thing of hindrance. This 
requires a constant focus on everything BAM does to 
minimise negative impacts and create value for local 
communities by implementing community engagement 
programmes. BAM’s community engagement improves jobs 
and education in its environment, contributing to society and 
focus on leaving behind something extra. On BAM 
International’s Laela-Sumbawanga road project, one such 
extra was a new spring well for the Kalambazite village.
The BAM/Aarsleff project team was tipped off by the village 
chief that the existing well was low, which forced the women 
of Kalambazite to spend hours each day waiting in line before 
they could fill their buckets. And so a CSR initiative was 
added to the joint arrangement’s project plan to build a new 
spring well with better discharge and also a proper area for 
collecting water. When the well was taken into use, everyone 
was happy to see crystal clear water coming out of the 
ground and to hear the satisfied comments of the women. 
Now they no longer have to walk long distances and spend 
hours standing in line.2015  – 71Asphalt
Asphalt production is typically natural resource and energy 
intensive. In 1998, BAM started with the development of Low 
Energy Asphalt Beton (LEAB), an innovative type of asphalt that 
uses less energy, less scarce natural resources and has lower CO2 
emissions than conventional asphalt. In order to investigate the 
potential of this new type of asphalt to create value for society, 
BAM commissioned a True Price study. The study indicated that 
placing LEAB instead of conventional stone mastic (matrix) asphalt 
(STAB) creates an estimated €257,000 lower negative impact on the 
environment per kilometre of highway. This equals the monetised 
environmental externalities (often referred to as ‘environmental 
cost’) of energy use of about 120 Dutch households per year. To 
calculate the true price, the main environmental impacts of asphalt 
production were measured and translated into societal costs. The 
results show that the production, use and end-of-life treatment of 
LEAB asphalt is associated with 30 per cent lower environmental 
costs than conventional asphalt. Coincidentally this equals the 
reduction in energy and CO2 reduction, but is built up of other 
factors. This makes LEAB an undeniable proposition for, among 
other things, government procurers, since it has the same quality, 
an equal or lower market price and a better environmental 
performance than conventional asphalt.
The study provided BAM insight into the size of environmental 
impacts occurring in the asphalt production chain, and made those 
impacts comparable. As shown in > figure 45, energy use, material 
use and ecotoxicity are the largest remaining environmental 
externalities for LEAB. True Price methods support better decision-
making. The results help 
BAM to steer future 
innovations and prove that 
sustainable innovations, 
such as LEAB, can create 
value to society without 
causing additional financial 
costs.
BAM Infra experiments with horizontal  
recycling of asphalt
As part of the LE2AP (low energy and emission asphalt 
pavements) research project, BAM Infra is experimenting 
with horizontal repavement of roads. This should lead to a 
process in which a worn road section is converted into new 
asphalt on site, without compromising to quality. Horizontal 
means that all layers from bottom to top are reused and after 
reprocessing come back in the same application. Ultimately, 
a worn section is then completely reused. So far, reclaimed 
asphalt is only reused in intermediate layers. The top layer is 
always paved with new materials and therefore the total 
recycling rate moves between 50 and 60 per cent. The first 
one-kilometre pilot section is planned for 2016.
European Commission approves BAM innovation 
programme REnnovates
As part of Horizon 2020, BAM’s innovation programme 
REnnovates has been approved by the European Commission. 
BAM’s project team ‘De Stroomversnelling’ is further 
increasing insight in the energy requirement and supply of its 
renovated zero-energy bill (Nul-Op-De-Meter) houses. 
Reliable energy supply in times of high peak demand or 
supply is a major challenge. The REnnovates innovation 
project aims to reduce the impact of adding solar power to 
the grid by integrating batteries and the use of smart 
controls. This should result in a new service that BAM can 
offer to network operators. BAM is the lead in the consortium 
which consists of Mostostal, Mondragon, Stedin, Vito, 
Enervalis, Belfius, MassiveCell Technologies and KEO. 
The  consortium will receive a total grant of €5 million.72 – 2015Restoration of the Grade II-listed 
Chiswick Bridge, London. 
BAM Nuttall.
2015  – 73Equals the yearly environmental cost of energy use for 119 households
170,000
34,000
17,000
12,000
12,000Energy saving
Ecotoxicity
Materials saving
CO2-eq saving
Other
257,000Net positive impact
€1
€
€
€
€
€
Measure the environmental
impacts of producing LEAB and conventional asphalt
Water and soil pollution Air pollutionGlobal warmingLand use
Water useMaterials useEnergy use
2 Calculate costs of each impact to society
The OpenIJ consortium (BAM, PGGM, 
VolkerWessels and DIF) has won the 
contract to design, construct, finance 
and maintain a new sea lock at 
IJmuiden to improve the accessibility 
of the port of Amsterdam. The new 
lock will be 70 metres wide, 500 
metres long and 18 metres deep.  
The client is Rijkswaterstaat. 
Construction activities will be  
carried out by a BAM Infra and 
VolkerWessels joint arrangement. 
The work will commence early 2016 
with the new lock available for 
shipping at the end of 2019. 
BAM PPP, BAM Infra.74 – 2015Equals the yearly environmental cost of energy use for 119 households
170,000
34,000
17,000
12,000
12,000Energy saving
Ecotoxicity
Materials saving
CO2-eq saving
Other
257,000Net positive impact
€1
€
€
€
€
€
Measure the environmental
impacts of producing LEAB and conventional asphalt
Water and soil pollution Air pollutionGlobal warmingLand use
Water useMaterials useEnergy use
2 Calculate costs of each impact to society
Using LEAB instead of STAB creates a positive environmental impact of €257,000 per kilometre highway.How was this calculated? 44
45
Notes:
-  Only production, transport and end-of-life treatment is taken into account, not the placement and use phase
-  7,500 ton asphalt per km highway (width: 30m, asphalt density: 2,500 kg/m3, thickness lower/middle layer: 40/60 mm)
-  Average electricity and gas use of a Dutch household: resp. 3,340 kWh/yr and 1,525m3/yr (RVO, 2014)
-  Compared LEAB ‘bin base 30/45 60% PR limestone’ to STAB ‘(50%) Natural Gas Average’2015  – 75Sustainable timber
In 2007, BAM signed a covenant with FSC Netherlands committing 
to using only certified timber to support forest conservation and 
biodiversity. BAM’s experience has been that it is difficult for some 
suppliers to provide information on the amount of non-FSC 
certified timber in products which are not entirely made from 
timber (e.g. doors and window frames). Working with FSC 
Netherlands, BAM’s suppliers have been encouraged to improve 
the  measurement and reporting of certified timber and in 2011 
BAM developed a simplified system to record supplier data.
BAM requests information from its suppliers twice a year. BAM asks 
its suppliers to report on categories of timber which represented an 
estimated 85 per cent of all timber usage in the Netherlands for all 
construction works performed directly by BAM. The data used in 
this analysis therefore does not include any timber consumption for 
subcontracted projects. BAM approached its top Dutch timber 
product suppliers to report the amount of certified timber used in 
products supplied to BAM during 2015. The volume represented by 
the suppliers that responded, which forms the basis for the 
estimation, decreased compared to prior years (2014: 78 per cent; 
2015: 34 per cent). Based on their responses BAM estimates that 
the percentage certified wood in timber sourced from these 
suppliers was 98 per cent. Of this 98 per cent, 16 per cent was PEFC 
and 82 per cent was FSC certified. This compared to 84 per cent 
FSC in 2014, 77 per cent in 2013, 66 per cent in 2012, 44 per cent in 
2011, 28 per cent in 2010 and 17 per cent in 2009.
In the United Kingdom, the source of certified sustainable timber 
from both FSC and PEFC sources is recorded in BAM’s on-line data 
monitoring system BAM SMART. In 2015, 99 per cent of timber in 
the United Kingdom was from verified legal and sustainable 
sources, of which 90 per cent (2014: 85 per cent) was delivered with 
full FSC or PEFC Chain of Custody certification or reused from other 
sites.
2011
44%2010
28%2012
66%2013
77%2015
82%
FSC certified timber in the Netherlands 462014
84%BAM successfully applies self-healing concrete
BAM Bouw en Techniek and the Dutch Central Government 
Real Estate Agency in collaboration with Delft University of 
Technology (TU Delft) have successfully applied self-healing 
concrete to repair cracks in the floor of a parking garage. 
The Central Government Real Estate Agency commissioned 
the treatment of several floor areas with this innovative 
impregnation at its property of the National Tax Office in 
Apeldoorn. Self-healing concrete was developed by 
TU  Delft. By embedding calcite-precipitating bacteria in the 
concrete mixture, it is possible to create concrete that has 
self-healing capacities. The bacteria are activated and start 
to produce limestone as soon as they come into contact 
with water, causing cracks to be closed.
TU Delft is further researching how the self-healing 
capacity of concrete structures can be improved by using 
calcite-precipitating bacteria and what conditions are 
necessary for these bacteria to thrive. Traditional repair 
methods of the parking garage through concrete injection 
would take many weeks, so the garage would be 
unavailable for one or more longer periods. The treatment 
with the use of self-healing impregnation is performed in 
one weekend. While the bacteria do their work to repair the 
cracks, the garage is fully available for vehicles. Moreover, 
this biological form of concrete repair is more sustainable 
than traditional methods.76 – 20153.4 Outlook
Economic growth in BAM’s home countries and international 
remains vulnerable. In general the market developments show a 
cautious positive trend, however not all markets benefit from this 
yet. The prospects for Dutch non-residential construction remains 
subdued due to oversupply of offices and retail space. In Belgium 
the uncertainty about government still exists, which will have 
effect on civil engineering markets. BAM’s international markets 
are impacted by lower activities in oil and gas.
BAM started the financial year 2016 with an order book of 
€11.5 billion (2015: €10.3 billion), of which €5.9 billion will be 
carried out this year. This means that approximately 81 per cent 
of the revenue for 2016 is already in hand (2015: 79 per cent). 
The quality of the order book is gradually improving due to the 
implementation of BAM’s stage gate tendering procedure which 
was part of the Back in Shape programme.
The PPP market shows a mixed picture; the market opportunities in 
the United Kingdom remain limited, although civil engineering 
prospects in Germany look promising. BAM PPP is currently working 
several active bids which will provide revenue in most of our home 
markets for the sector Construction and mechanical and electrical 
services as well as for the Civil engineering sector. BAM will also this 
year continue to transfer PPP contracts to the PGGM joint venture. 
BAM expects that three external forces will shape the prospects for 
the construction industry in the coming years. The economic 
growth, currently vulnerable, will have a low to modest positive 
impact on construction volumes. Mega trends such as urbanisation 
and energy efficiency are creating areas of higher growth. 
Digitalisation is increasingly transforming the construction industry 
and the built environment. Against this background the main focus 
of the updated strategy for 2016-2020 – ‘Building the present, 
creating the future’ – is to continue to restore profitability 
and improve capital efficiency. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands,
17 February 2016
Executive Board2015  – 77January
BAM PPP receives the OHSAS 18001 compliance 
certificate. With certification BAM PPP underlines 
BAM’s safety principles and the importance of health 
and safety.
February
BAM Beheer en Onderhoud Regio Zuidwest achieves  
in collaboration with BAM Advies & Engineering the 
BREEAM In-Use Very Good certification for Monarch I 
in The Hague. This project was already awarded a 
BREEAM Excellent ‘New Construction’ certificate and is 
one of the first projects in the Netherlands with both 
the New Construction and In-Use certificates.
March
The Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable 
Development (VBDO) announces BAM as one of the 
winners of its annual study of sustainable and 
responsible supply chain management of European 
listed companies. 
April
Building Magazine recognises two of BAM Construct 
UK’s sustainability advisors, Hanna Hayward and 
Anthony Heaton, for their commitment and talent in 
terms of improving the sustainability of the built 
environment. 
May
As part of the Horizon 2020 programme BAM’s 
innovation programme REnnovates is approved by the 
European Commission. BAM’s project team ‘De 
Stroomversnelling’ is further increasing insight in the 
energy requirement and supply of its renovated 
zero-energy homes.
June
BAM Bouw en Techniek signs the contract to install a 
large park with solar panels on Dunea’s production 
location in Scheveningen. The solar panels will 
generate the equivalent to the energy consumption of 
400 households per year.Sustainable 20156
25
5
1
7
29
78 – 2015City hall, Herstal, Belgium, designed 
by Frederic Haesevoets Architecture. 
BAM Belgium (Galère).
July
The Public Health Agency (PHA) commended 
GRAHAM-BAM Healthcare Partnership, contractors 
on the new construction phase of the Ulster Hospital 
in Northern Ireland, for promoting the ‘Workplace 
28 Day Stop Smoking Challenge’ through their health 
and wellbeing initiatives, and congratulated more 
than 30 staff who took part.
August
BAM Nuttall teams up with leading PPE supplier 
OnSite Support to create a range of properly fitting 
PPE designed especially for women.
October
The approach to safe working of BAM Construct UK 
at the North West Cambridge Development is rated 
as ‘exceptional’ by independent inspectors of the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme (CCS).
November 
BAM is identified as a global leader for its actions and 
strategies in response to climate change and has been 
awarded a position on The Climate ‘A’ List by CDP, the 
international not-for-profit that drives sustainable 
economies.
November 
For the sixth consecutive year, BAM is awarded with 
a top 20 position on the Transparency Benchmark 
(Transparantiebenchmark) of the Dutch Ministry of 
Economic Affairs, and is declared one of the leaders. 
November
Following completion of the BBM.0030 Crossrail 
Western Tunnels and Caverns project, the project is 
awarded an excellent rating under the Civil 
Engineering, Environment, Quality, Assessment and 
Award Scheme (CEEQUAL) after achieving a score of 
90.1 per cent.
December
BAM Ireland – as part of the Construction Industry 
Federation (CIF) – joines forces with the Peter 
McVerry Trust to refurbish 12 homes for the 
homeless.
Sustainable 20158
4
20
4
19
24
18
2015  – 794. Governance80 – 20154.1 Corporate governance
Corporate governance
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are responsible 
for the company’s corporate governance structure and for 
compliance with that structure. The main aspects of this 
corporate governance structure are set out in the annual report 
each year and are published on the company’s website. The 
Supervisory Board and the Executive Board subscribe to the 
principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch corporate 
governance code (hereafter: ‘the Code’). A more detailed 
explanation of how the company complies with the  Code is 
given below. The full text of the Code can be found at  
www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl.
Executive Board
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board share the principle 
that the Executive Board, apart from looking after the day-to-day 
management of the company, is also responsible for formulating 
and achieving corporate objectives, for corporate strategy with its 
associated risk profile and for corporate social responsibility. The 
Executive Board accounts for its activities to the Supervisory 
Board and to the General Meeting. In performing its duties, the 
Executive Board is guided by the interests of the company and the 
related enterprise, weighing the justifiable interests of the various 
stakeholders against each other. The Code’s best practice 
provisions evolving from this principle are supported.
The company’s Executive Board shall consist of at least two 
members. The members of the Executive Board jointly manage 
the company and are jointly and severally liable for that 
management. Subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, 
the members of the Executive Board each have their personal 
responsibilities. The Chairman (CEO) chairs the Executive Board 
and is responsible for BAM International and the PPP activities as 
well as the majority of the staff functions. The Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) is specifically charged with financial tasks and is 
responsible for the staff functions finance, risk management, 
ICT and – together with the Chairman – for investor relations. 
The Chief Operational Officer (COO) manages the operating 
companies that are entrusted to his supervision.
The Executive Board ensures proper provision of information to 
the Supervisory Board. In the Annual Report, the Executive Board 
describes the principal risks related to the company’s strategy,  
the organisation and operation of internal risk management and 
control systems in relation to the principal risks during the 
financial year and any significant shortcomings in the internal risk 
management and control systems that were identified during the 
financial year, any significant changes that were made and any 
significant improvements that are planned.The Group has implemented general risk management measures 
by means of standards and values that have been made explicit, 
internal procedures and instructions and a system of budgeting, 
reporting as well as internal (and external) control. Besides 
general risk management measures, the Group has also 
implemented specific measures focused primarily on risks relating 
to market, reputation, safety, projects, currency, credit, debtors, 
interest and liquidity positions. These risks are discussed in 
greater detail on page 24 and page 36 of this report, along with 
the risk management measures that the Group has taken. The risk 
section in this report contains a statement by the Executive Board 
on the risks of financial reporting, as referred to in best practice 
provision II.1.5 of the Code.
The Executive Board is subject to a set of rules approved by the 
Supervisory Board, laying down the details of how the Executive 
Board operates and its relationship with the Supervisory Board, 
the shareholders and the Central Works Council. The Executive 
Board rules have been published on the company’s website.
The company also operates a code of conduct and a whistle-
blowers’ scheme, both of which are published on the company’s 
website. 
A mitigated two-tier regime applies to the company. Members 
of the Executive Board are appointed by the General Meeting. 
The Supervisory Board has the right to make a (binding) proposal 
as regards nominees for appointment. However, the General 
Meeting can render a proposal non-binding, in line with the 
company’s Articles of Association, in which case the General 
Meeting is then free to fill the vacant seat on the Executive Board 
as it deems fit, in accordance with the formalities stated in the 
company’s Articles of Association. Decisions by the General 
Meeting regarding candidates proposed by the Supervisory Board 
for membership of the Executive Board require a simple majority 
of the votes cast.
 
Decisions by the General Meeting about candidates for 
membership of the Executive Board who are not proposed by the 
Supervisory Board require an absolute majority of the votes cast, 
but that majority must represent at least one third of the issued 
capital. The General Meeting can suspend or dismiss members of 
the Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board has the power to suspend members of the 
Executive Board. Decisions to suspend or dismiss a member of the 
Executive Board can only be taken by an absolute majority of the 
votes, providing that majority represents at least one third of the 
issued capital, unless the proposal to suspend or dismiss is put 
forward by the Supervisory Board, in which case the decision can 
be taken by an absolute majority of the votes without the 
requirement for a quorum. The Supervisory Board appoints one of 
2015  – 81the members of the Executive Board as Chairman and can appoint 
one of the members of the Executive Board as Vice-Chairman.
Pursuant to the Code, members of the Executive Board are 
appointed for a period of no more than four years. They retire 
after the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting, to be 
held in the fourth year after the year in which they were 
appointed. Members of the Executive Board can be re-appointed 
for a further period of four years. Information about the term of 
the agreements of members of the Executive Board is available in 
the remuneration report.
The main elements of the contracts with members of the 
Executive Board are published on the company’s website, in 
accordance with the Code. The company follows the Code’s 
provisions relating to the amount of the remuneration payable to 
members of the Executive Board and the composition of the 
remuneration package as well as the disclosure of these details are 
respected. The Supervisory Board draws up a proposal – prepared 
by the Remuneration Committee – regarding the company’s 
remuneration policy. This remuneration policy is submitted for 
adoption to the General Meeting. The Supervisory Board also 
annually composes a remuneration report, once again prepared 
by the Remuneration Committee. The remuneration report 
confirms the manner in which the remuneration policy has been 
adhered to in practice during the financial year. It also contains 
details of the total remuneration of the members of the Executive 
Board, subdivided into the various elements, and a summary of 
the remuneration policy as adopted by the shareholders.
As part of the report by the Supervisory Board, the remuneration 
report is included in the Annual Report and is also published on 
the company’s website. The Supervisory Board determines the 
remuneration of the members of the Executive Board, within the 
framework of the remuneration policy, based on a 
recommendation by the Remuneration Committee.
 
The variable part of the remuneration for members of the 
Executive Board is linked to predefined objectives that are 
assessable and that can be influenced, with a reasonable balance 
between short-term and long-term focus. The Supervisory Board 
analyses the possible results of the variable remuneration 
components and the consequences for the remuneration of the 
members of the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board 
determines the level and structure of this remuneration on the 
basis of scenario analyses, taking into account pay differentials 
within the Group, and in doing so considers the results, share price 
performance and non-financial indicators which are relevant to 
the Group’s long-term objectives. The risks to which variable 
remuneration may expose the enterprise are taking into account. 
In addition to the annual variable short- term component, the 
remuneration package of members of the Executive Board includes a remuneration plan that rewards long-term 
improvements.
In the information on variable remuneration to be stated in the 
remuneration report, the company strives for transparency. 
However, the company will not reveal information that it 
considers competitive sensitive. In cases where the variable 
remuneration is awarded on the basis of inaccurate (financial) 
data, the Supervisory Board can adjust the variable remuneration 
accordingly and the company is entitled to reclaim (any part of) 
the variable remuneration paid to a member of the Executive 
Board on the basis of incorrect (financial) information.
The Supervisory Board also has the power to amend the existing 
conditional awards of the variable remuneration by quantified 
performance criteria if, in its opinion, applying the award without 
amendment would have an unreasonable or unintended outcome. 
These matters have all been incorporated into the agreements 
with members of the Executive Board since the introduction of 
the Code.
The payment to members of the Executive Board if they are 
dismissed does not exceed one year’s base salary.
The company has a long-term benefit plan for members of the 
Executive Board and currently a group of maximum 15 senior 
executives in the form of a Performance Share Plan. The Code’s 
recommendations with regard to this plan are adhered to. More 
information on the plan is available in the Remuneration Report 
page 99). 
As a principle, the company does not provide any personal loans 
or guarantees to members of the Executive Board, managers or 
any other employees. The Group has the usual indemnity and 
insurance arrangements in relation to normal company business, 
and these arrangements cover members of the Supervisory Board, 
Executive Board, managers and other employees.
The Code’s principles and best practice provisions relating to 
conflicts of interest are adhered to. Any form or appearance of 
conflicting interests between the company and members of the 
Executive Board must be avoided. Decisions to enter into 
transactions that might lead to a conflict of interest on the part 
of a member of the Executive Board and that are of material 
importance to the company and/or the Executive Board member 
in question must be approved by the Supervisory Board. The 
Executive Board’s rules set out in detail what action should be 
taken in the event of possible conflicts of interest. These rules 
govern such matters as what situations might constitute conflicts 
of interest, the manner in which members of the Executive Board 
are to report conflicts of interest, the withdrawal of the Executive 
Board member concerned during participation in discussions and 82 – 2015Deventer’s new City Hall project 
blends into the heart of the city’s 
medieval centre. The building 
provides a passage through the core 
of the city blocks connecting different 
parts of the Deventer inner city.  
Design: Neutelings Riedijk Architects. 
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed.
in relevant decisions and the Supervisory Board’s approval 
procedure.
Supervisory Board
The duty of the Supervisory Board is to supervise the Executive 
Board’s policies and the general affairs of the company and its 
affiliated enterprise. The role of the Supervisory Board is also to 
assist the Executive Board by providing advice. As the Executive 
Board, the Supervisory Board is guided by the interests of the 
company and the related enterprise, weighing the justifiable 
interests of the various stakeholders against each other. The 
Supervisory Board also takes into account corporate social 
responsibility issues in its assessments. The principles and best 
practice provisions relating to the Supervisory Board are 
adhered to.
In its periodic meetings with the Executive Board, the Supervisory 
Board discusses a number of subjects, including the general state 
of affairs (e.g. safety, order book, major tenders, special projects, 
problem areas, major claims and legal proceedings) and financial 
reporting based on the operational plan for the year in question 
(half-yearly and annual reports and interim statements, balance 
sheet and income statement, cash flow statements, capital 
investments and warranties).The agenda for Supervisory Board meetings also includes subjects 
such as major investments (both regarding acquisitions and 
disposals as well as fixed assets), management development, 
human resources, corporate social responsibility issues that are 
relevant for the company, the relationship with shareholders, the 
dividend proposal, interim statements and half-yearly reports, 
the auditor’s report, the independent auditor’s management 
letter and follow-up actions to that management letter, setting 
the operational plan with the operational and financial goals for 
the next financial year (set once a year) and approval of the 
strategy and the related parameter conditions (every third year).
 
At least once a year, the Supervisory Board discusses the strategy 
and the principal risks connected to the business, the Executive 
Board’s assessment of the organisation and operation of the 
internal risk management and control systems, as well as any 
significant changes to those systems. A statement that these 
discussions have taken place is included in the report by the 
Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is subject to a set of 
rules laying down the details of how it operates and its 
relationship with the Executive Board, the shareholders and the 
Central Works Council. The Supervisory Board’s rules can be found 
on the company’s website.2015  – 83The Supervisory Board shall consist of at least five members. The 
Supervisory Board currently consists of six members, which is a 
number that the Supervisory Board considers appropriate in 
today’s circumstances, especially given the size and international 
nature of the Group. The members of the Supervisory Board are 
appointed by the General Meeting on the recommendation of the 
Supervisory Board, which recommendation is being made on the 
basis of the profile. The General Meeting and the Works Council 
are entitled to recommend candidates for inclusion in the 
proposal made by the Supervisory Board.
The General Meeting can reject candidates put forward by the 
Supervisory Board, in which case the Supervisory Board must 
draw up a new proposal. The Works Council has an extended right 
of recommendation in respect of one third of the membership of 
the Supervisory Board. If the Supervisory Board rejects the 
recommended candidate or candidates, the Board and the Works 
Council consult with each other and the Works Council will make a 
new recommendation. If the Supervisory Board and the Works 
Council fail to reach agreement, then the matter is submitted to 
the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal for a 
ruling. If the Supervisory Board adopts the Works Council’s 
recommendation, the General Meeting may still reject it. The 
General Meeting may dismiss the entire Supervisory Board once the Works Council has had the opportunity to give its opinion. 
The General Meeting determines the Supervisory Board members’ 
remuneration. In relation to the independence of Supervisory 
Board members, as detailed in best practice provision III.2.1, all of 
the current members of the Supervisory Board qualify as being 
independent in accordance with the meaning of the Code.
The Supervisory Board has created a profile, which was updated 
in 2015 following the new Dutch law on management and 
supervision. The profile is available for shareholders to examine at 
the company’s office and it is also published on the company’s 
website. The composition of the Supervisory Board must be 
balanced and in line with this profile.
 
The members of the Supervisory Board must have the experience 
needed to perform well in a large multinational construction 
company. Each member must be capable of assessing the main 
aspects of the overall policy and of behaving in a critical and 
independent manner with regard to the other members of the 
Supervisory Board and the members of the Executive Board. The 
members of the Supervisory Board must carry out the tasks of the 
Supervisory Board as specified by law and by the company’s 
Articles of Association and they must be capable of giving the 
Executive Board solicited and unsolicited advice.
Redevelopment and multi-annual 
management and maintenance of the refugee 
centre in Ter Apel (in the province Groningen, 
in the north of the Netherlands) for the Dutch 
Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum 
Seekers (COA). The contract includes the 
construction of 258 residential units, of which 
sixteen have disabled access, on an area of 
12 hectares. The refugee centre will provide 
2,000 shelters. The residential and services 
buildings are equipped with photovoltaic 
panels to create in principle an energy neutral 
site. Architect: De Zwarte Hond. BAM Bouw 
en Vastgoed.84 – 2015Other, specific criteria applied by the Supervisory Board to its 
composition are a general, broad-based understanding of 
business, knowledge of the construction industry, experience in 
the management of large, preferably international companies and 
expertise relating to issues with a social dimension and concerning 
society at large.
The Supervisory Board appoints one of its members as Chairman 
and another to be Vice-Chairman. Among the members of the 
Supervisory Board is a financial expert with experience in both the 
financial and accounting disciplines in a large legal entity. The 
company will be responsible for an introduction programme for 
persons appointed to the Supervisory Board for the first time as 
referred to in best practice provision III.3.3. This provision is also 
fulfilled by arranging working visits to the Group’s operating 
companies and through presentations by operating company 
managers to the Supervisory Board. Principles and best practice 
provisions relating to conflicts of interest are adhered to. The rules 
with regard to such conflicts in connection with the Executive 
Board apply equally to the members of the Supervisory Board. 
The Supervisory Board rules set out in detail what action should 
be taken in the event of possible conflicts of interest.
The company has prepared rules regarding the ownership of and 
transactions in securities of other listed companies by members of 
the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. These rules are 
included in the BAM rules on ownership of and transactions in 
shares. In order to comply with these rules, a so-called ‘stop list’ 
has been compiled, containing the names of listed competitors, 
suppliers and customers who operate in the same or in an 
associated sector as the company. Possession of and executing 
transactions in securities of these companies is prohibited for 
members of the Supervisory Board and Executive Board. The list 
will be reviewed and – if prudent – amended annually by the 
Supervisory Board. The company does not issue any personal 
loans or guarantees to members of the Supervisory Board. The 
Group has taken out the usual professional indemnity insurance 
for, among others, members of the Supervisory Board.
 
Supervisory Board Committees
The Supervisory Board has three permanent committees, being 
an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a 
Nomination Committee. The rules and the composition of these 
committees can be found on the company’s website. The 
composition and role of these committees are in line with the 
relevant provisions of the Code. It is the task of the committees to 
support and advise the Supervisory Board concerning the items 
that are under the committees’ responsibility and to prepare the 
Supervisory Board’s decisions regarding those items. The 
Supervisory Board as a whole remains responsible for the way in 
which it performs its tasks and for the preparatory work carried 
out by the committees. The committees submit reports on all 
their meetings to the Supervisory Board.The Audit Committee’s regular assessments include:
• The internal risk management and control systems;
• The provision of financial information by the company, including 
the process through which this information is generated and 
published;
• Recommendations by the independent auditor and the actions 
taken as a result thereof;
• The audit process and the audit plan;
• The relationship with the independent auditor;
• Governance and compliance;
• Taxation;
• Impairment review;
• Valuation of real estate;
• The application of ICT;
• Group financing;
• Performance of the internal audit function;
• The financial and administrative organisation.
The tasks of the Remuneration Committee include making 
proposals to the Supervisory Board with regard to the company 
remuneration policy, as well as the remuneration structure, the 
level of remuneration and the terms and conditions of employment 
of members of the Executive Board and the remuneration of the 
members of the Supervisory Board. The Committee also consults 
the Chairman of the Executive Board about the policy on terms and 
conditions of employment for operating company managers and 
executives of equivalent rank. The Remuneration Committee also 
drafts a remuneration report on the way in which remuneration 
policy has been implemented in practice.
 
The Nomination Committee makes proposals to the Supervisory 
Board with regard to:
• Selection criteria and appointment procedures with regard to 
members of the Supervisory Board and members of the 
Executive Board;
• The size and composition of the Supervisory Board and the 
Executive Board and a profile of the Supervisory Board;
• Assessment of the performance of individual members of the 
Executive Board and process for the self-assessment of the 
Supervisory Board;
• (Re-)appointment of members of the Supervisory Board and 
members of the Executive Board;
• An Executive Board member’s acceptance of membership of the 
Supervisory Board of another listed company;
• Possible conflicts of interest arising in connection with the 
acceptance of other positions by members of the Supervisory 
Board.
The Committee also monitors the Executive Board’s policy on 
selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior 
management and discusses management development and 
succession planning especially in relation to senior management 
positions.2015  – 85The Sluiskil Tunnel in Terneuzen,  
the Netherlands, is a 1,600 metre 
twin bored tunnel with a diameter 
of approximately 11 metre and  
on both sides of the Channel from 
Gent to Terneuzen ramps of about 
300 metres. BAM Infra and Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau (in joint 
arrangement with Mobilis and 
Croon).86 – 2015Shareholders
The company adheres to the principles and best practice 
provisions in chapter IV of the Code with regard to the 
shareholders and the General Meeting. No depositary receipts for 
shares in the company have been issued with the company’s 
cooperation. Royal BAM Group does not have any provisions 
limiting voting rights. One vote may be cast for every share held. 
The company’s capital consists of ordinary shares and Class B and F 
preference shares (not issued at present). The ordinary shares are 
listed on NYSE Euronext in Amsterdam. Ordinary share options are 
also traded on the Amsterdam option exchange of NYSE Liffe.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board believe it to be 
important that as many shareholders as possible take part in the 
decision-making process in shareholders’ meetings. Notices 
convening shareholders’ meetings, agendas and documentation 
to be discussed are published no later than 42 days prior to the 
meeting and placed on the company’s website. The website also 
includes an anonymous list, broken down by agenda item, of the 
votes cast by proxy received by the company prior to the meeting. 
Remote voting and voting by proxy also play a role in increasing 
shareholder participation. The Act of Parliament to promote the 
use of electronic communication media enables shareholders to 
participate in meetings of shareholders and to cast their votes at 
such meetings without being physically present. The company has 
incorporated the facilities offered by law for using electronic 
communication media into the Articles of Association. The 
company considers that the manner in which shareholders take 
part in their meetings and cast votes at such meetings requires a 
meticulous procedure. The use of electronic means of 
communication therefore depends greatly on the degree of 
certainty that these means of communication will work properly.
In addition, voting by proxy continues to provide shareholders 
with a good mechanism for allowing their voice to be heard in 
meetings in which they are unable to attend, so that the company 
can take notice of their views. When shareholders’ meetings are 
convened, the company invites shareholders to use their option to 
vote by proxy, and ensures that voting instruction forms can be 
obtained and that these forms are also available electronically.
Shareholders are also advised of their option to give a proxy 
electronically. The company offers its shareholders the 
opportunity to give a proxy, with voting instructions, to an 
independent third party before the meeting takes place. In 
addition the company offers shareholders the possibility of voting 
in advance of the meeting. As a rule, voting takes place 
electronically at the meeting itself.
The company invites shareholders to submit any questions to the 
company prior to the meeting, which will then be answered by the 
company at the meeting.Prior approval from the General Meeting is required for decisions 
concerning any important changes in the identity or nature of the 
company or the business, including the entire or near-entire 
transfer of ownership of the business, entry into long-term 
partnerships that have a significant effect on the company and 
acquiring or disposing of a participating interest worth at least a 
third of the amount of the assets recognised on the consolidated 
balance sheet. In the event that a serious private bid has been 
announced for part of the business or a participating interest, and 
that bid is worth at least a third of the amount of the assets 
recognised on the consolidated balance sheet, the Executive 
Board will publicly announce its point of view in respect of the bid, 
together with its reasons, as soon as possible.
Resolutions to amend the company’s Articles of Association may 
be adopted by the General Meeting by an absolute majority of the 
votes cast in response to a proposal by the Executive Board with 
the approval of the Supervisory Board. Material amendments to 
the Articles of Association will each be submitted separately to 
the General Meeting.
Shareholders are entitled to put items on the agenda of 
shareholders’ meetings. Shareholders who on their own or jointly 
represent at least:
(i) 1.0 per cent of the issued capital, or
(ii)  shares worth €50 million, can place items on the agenda of 
the General Meeting if the company receives a written request 
to that effect (‘written’ can mean an electronic message), 
including reasons to substantiate the request, not later than 
sixty days before the day of the meeting.
In addition, shareholders who represent at least 10 per cent of the 
company’s issued capital are entitled to call a shareholders’ 
meeting.
Each year the General Meeting is asked to authorise the Executive 
Board – subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board – to issue 
shares or share options. This authorisation is limited in time to a 
period of eighteen months. It is also limited in scope in respect of 
ordinary shares and Class F preference shares to 10 per cent of the 
issued capital, plus an additional 10 per cent, which additional 
10 per cent may be used exclusively for mergers, acquisitions or 
strategic partnerships by the company or its operating companies. 
In addition the General Meeting is requested – again subject to 
the approval of the Supervisory Board – to exclude or limit 
pre-emptive rights to issued shares and to exclude or limit the 
issuing of ordinary share options.
Also each year the General Meeting is asked to authorise the 
Executive Board for a period of eighteen months to repurchase 
shares in the company, within the limitations imposed by the law 
and the Articles of Association. Every request for the granting of 
such an authorisation is put separately on the agenda. The 2015  – 87company’s policy on reserves and dividends and a proposal to pay 
a dividend are discussed as separate agenda items at the General 
Meeting.
A proposal for approval or authorisation by the General Meeting 
will be accompanied by a written explanation including all 
relevant information. The agenda for shareholders’ meetings will 
state which of the agenda items are for discussion and which 
items will be put to a vote.
Reports on shareholders’ meetings are provided to shareholders, 
as stipulated in the Code. Within fifteen calendar days after each 
shareholders’ meeting, the results of the votes per agenda item are 
published on the company’s website. As regards the provision of 
information as stated in Principle IV.3 of the Code, the Supervisory 
Board and the Executive Board endorse the importance of 
providing transparent and equal information. The company 
endeavors to do so, subject to exceptions under the law.
Press and analysts
All press and analysts’ meetings and conference calls in 
connection with the publication of the annual and half-year results 
and interim statements are open to everyone via the internet or 
by telephone. Shareholders’ meetings are open to the press and 
via webcast. All dates and locations of roadshows, seminars and 
the like are published on the company’s website.
Financial presentations given to third parties are published on the 
company’s website in case there is a material difference between 
these and previously published presentations. For six weeks prior 
to the publication of each annual report and three weeks prior to 
the publication of each interim statement and half-yearly report, 
the company will be extremely reticent about conducting any 
conversations with investors, analysts or members of the press 
about the overall course of business at the company. The 
company does not review analysts’ reports or valuations by 
analysts in advance, nor add comments or correct them, except 
for matters of fact.
The company does not pay any fees to parties for carrying out 
investigations for analysts’ reports, nor for writing or publishing 
such reports, with the exception of credit rating firms. As a rule, 
the Chairman and/or the Chief Financial Officer, with the 
assistance of the Investor Relations Manager or the Public 
Relations Director, will speak to investors, analysts or the press. 
These directors and officers are fully up to date regarding all 
relevant information – whether or not it is already known on the 
market – and they ensure that the information is provided in a 
clear and unambiguous manner. Should any price-sensitive 
information be provided by mistake during any contact with 
shareholders, investors, analysts or the press, a press release will 
be issued immediately.The company has a general policy on bilateral contacts with 
shareholders, investors, analysts and the press. This policy has 
been published on the company’s website.
Anti-takeover measures
The Executive Board can invoke a response period as specified in 
best practice provision II.1.9 of the Code. The Supervisory Board 
will be involved closely and in good time in the process concerning 
any offer for shares in the company, and the Executive Board and 
the Supervisory Board will immediately discuss any request from a 
competing third-party bidder to examine company information.
As regards the protective provisions against undesirable 
developments that might affect the independence, continuity 
and/or identity of the Group, the company has the facility for 
issuing Class B preference shares.
A call option was issued to Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep 
(BAM Group Stock Management Foundation) in 1993 for Class B 
preference shares. The company gave this foundation the right of 
investigation in 2008. More information relating to protective 
measures is provided on pages 107-108 of the Integrated Report.
Financial reporting and the role of the auditor
The principles and best practice provisions relating to financial 
reporting are adhered to. The Executive Board is responsible for 
the quality and completeness of the financial reports that are 
published. The Supervisory Board ensures that the Executive 
Board carries out this responsibility.
 
The principles and best practice provisions regarding the role, 
appointment, remuneration and assessment of the performance 
of the independent auditor are also supported. The independent 
auditor will be present at the Annual General Meeting to answer 
questions from shareholders about the financial statements.
The Audit Committee assesses the functioning of the internal 
audit departement and management systems each year. Within 
the Royal BAM Group internal auditing has been established by 
means of an operational audit function. The main risks the 
company faces are related to the project business it is involved in. 
In order to mitigate these project-related risks at an early stage, 
operational audit is an important and powerful tool. The 
operational audit function within BAM was established in 2013 
and has been further developed ever since. 
The independent auditor attends the meetings of the Supervisory 
Board at which the financial statements and the half-yearly figures 
are discussed. The independent auditor reports the same 
information from his findings with respect to the financial 
statements to both the Executive Board and the Supervisory 
Board. The independent auditor is also present when the Audit 88 – 2015Committee discusses the financial statements, the half-yearly 
figures and the interim statements. The independent auditor may 
also attend other meetings of the Audit Committee, subject to 
asking the Chairman of the Audit Committee for permission to 
attend in advance.
The independent auditor receives the financial information on 
which the annual and half-yearly figures and interim statements 
are based and is given the opportunity to respond to that 
information. The partner in the independent audit company who 
performs the required audits is allowed to audit the Group’s 
financial statements for a maximum of seven consecutive years.
CSR responsibility and delegation
The Executive Board defines the CSR Policy in consultation with the 
Director Corporate Social Responsibility and the management 
teams of the operating companies. Meetings with senior 
management are used to define sustainability issues and reach 
agreement on prioritising objectives, monitoring activities, and 
reporting results. Critical concerns are reported to the Executive 
Board at least in quarterly reports, or whenever more urgency is 
required. The Executive Board communicates to the Supervisory 
Board according planned reporting cycles, or whenever more 
urgency is required. Safety ambitions, the reduction of CO2 
emissions, and strict waste management, along with business 
integrity, apply to all BAM operating companies. In addition, each 
operating company measures KPIs addressing issues of relevance to 
its own business. For example, increasing the number of women in the workforce, especially in senior roles, is a specific area of focus in 
the Netherlands. Each operating company has a management team 
member who has the responsibility for CSR. The operating 
companies report progress quarterly to the Executive Board and 
the Director CSR together with details of actions taken to support 
the Group’s business objectives. They interpret BAM’s objectives 
based on their unique operating conditions. CSR is part of how 
managers and employees do their day-to-day jobs. It is addressed, 
for example, at regular work discussions and performance reviews. 
In this way, implementing sustainability is shared across all levels of 
the Group, from BAM’s Executive Board to its local champions.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are convinced that 
Royal BAM Group’s corporate governance is up to standards.
The corporate governance structure described above was 
discussed with the shareholders during the General Meeting on 
21 April 2009. The company will submit any substantial changes in 
the main features of the corporate governance structure to the 
General Meeting for discussion purposes.
BIM model for the Haags Startstation 
Erasmuslijn (HSE), the new stop at 
The Hague Central Station for the 
metro line connection with 
Rotterdam. BAM Infra.2015  – 8945 rental properties, Veemarkt 
(former cattle market), Utrecht,  
the Netherlands.  
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed  
(AM en BAM Woningbouw).90 – 20154.2 Report of the Supervisory Board to shareholders
The year under review was one of transformation. The execution of 
the Back in Shape programme, developed to face further headwind 
and ensure that the company is ready for future growth, started 
expeditiously in the second half of 2014 and was further rolled out in 
2015. The Supervisory Board acknowledges with satisfaction that 
the goals set in the third quarter of 2014 have been achieved by the 
end of 2015; the cost base of the company has been reduced with 
€105 million on an annual basis, the trade working capital has been 
reduced to -8.1 per cent of revenue and in 2015 assets have been 
sold for a total amount of €95 million. The cost reduction has almost 
completely been achieved by adjusting and simplifying the 
organisational structure, allowing the Group to operate much more 
as one firm, capturing the synergy potential based on the special 
capabilities available in the Group. The establishment of a 
Management Board including management of the operating 
companies will help in developing and implementing a common 
strategy and aligned policies for the Group.
In addition a carefully crafted stage gate tendering process has been 
introduced and implemented throughout the organisation. 
Supported by digital tools and accumulated business data, tenders 
are being followed and strict controls and checks have been 
implemented. This will lead to a better approach on tendering and 
therefore reducing risks in project execution. 
The Executive Board, together with the Management Board and the 
rest of the organisation have vigorously pursued the goals set and 
the outcome offers confidence for the future. However, given the 
late cyclical character of the construction industry and the (albeit 
shrinking) backlog of projects with low margins and high risks taken 
on in the recent economic crisis, caution is still necessary. 
In order to prepare the company further for the future, the strategy 
has been reviewed, leading to a corporate strategy to be announced 
in February 2016. Global technological developments, market 
trends and the economic outlook have been included in a 
programme that will allow Royal BAM Group to add value for  
its stakeholders. 
The above topics and other work performed by the Supervisory 
Board are addressed in more detail in this report.
The Supervisory Board’s activities
Strategy and operational plan
In the Group strategy 2013-2015, which was formulated in 2012, 
the central focus is on achieving operational improvement and 
targeted growth initiatives in services, multidisciplinary projects 
and international niche markets, all geared towards positioning  
BAM as a ‘best in class’ construction company.In 2015 this strategy was reviewed taking into account the 
continuing economic crisis, developments in the construction 
industry and market and the new operating model that was 
developed in 2014. The measures taken as part of the Back in Shape 
programme will support the new strategy to be announced in 2016. 
The Supervisory Board was involved closely in the process and has 
held several dedicated meetings and discussions on the subject. 
The Supervisory Board also approved the 2016 Operational Plan, 
which sets out the Group’s financial targets, the strategy aimed at 
achieving these targets and the parameters used for this strategy. 
This operational plan takes into account the new group strategy  
as much as possible. The consequences of this new strategy for  
the individual operating companies will be further included in  
the 2017 Operational Plan. 
Healty order-intake
The need to avoid major loss-making projects and reduce the 
financial consequences these projects may have remained one of 
the main items of discussion between the Supervisory Board and the 
Executive Board. A material part of the Back in Shape programme is 
geared towards improved project control. For this reason the new 
stage gate tendering process with stage gate controls has become 
the backbone of this control mechanism. In addition the Operational 
Audit function was further strengthened with the appointment of  
a dedicated and experienced director. The Management Board 
established in 2014 has also contributed to improved project  
control by sharing knowledge and best practices and identifying  
and implementing operational improvements. The introduction  
of more centrally organised management and control functions  
and increased attention to governance and compliance forms  
the final pillar of the efforts taken. 
Based on an updated authorisation schedule, a number of very large 
projects in the tender stage have been presented to the Supervisory 
Board in (extraordinary) meetings, allowing critical input and 
approval. The projects presented in these meetings were reviewed 
in detail.
Financial position
During the financial year, the Supervisory Board and the Executive 
Board regularly discussed the Group’s financial position and the way 
in which the Group should be financed. The Supervisory Board also 
exchanged views on several occasions with the Executive Board 
regarding the working capital, cash flow and the liquidity 
performance in relation to the current financing covenants,  
the Group’s solvency level and the Group’s financing requirement 
for the longer term.2015  – 91Late 2015 the company has extended its credit facilities with one 
year, leading to a subordinated loan of €108 million, available until 
30 July 2018 and a revolving credit facility of €412.5 million, 
available until 30 January 2018. The Supervisory Board is pleased to 
note that the Group remained well within the agreed financing 
covenants.
The financial position of the company has been improved in 2015 on 
the back of the successful execution of the Back in Shape 
programme. 
Risk profile
The Supervisory Board’s regular meetings included a discussion 
on the course of business and prospects for both the Group as a 
whole and for the respective segments and individual operating 
companies. These discussions covered the main risks involved in 
the business, the internal management and control systems and 
the assessment of these systems by the Executive Board. The 
implications of the matters addressed in these meetings are 
discussed elsewhere in the Report, including on page 24 and 
onwards.
The Supervisory Board has noted that the Group has internal risk 
management and internal control systems, financial reporting 
manuals and procedures for drawing up financial reports, as well as 
an established monitoring and reporting system. The Supervisory 
Board also established that the Executive Board has further 
improved its ability to monitor the operational activities of the 
Group. The establishment of a new organisational structure in 
2014, leading to the reduction from 26 to 10 operating companies 
in two business lines and the establishment of a Management 
Board, all contributed to increased transparency and awareness in 
a more efficient and effective BAM organisation with uniformed 
systems and procedures. Problematic projects are being 
monitored even closer with regular updates on operational and 
financial progress.
Over the past years, the risk management of the Group has been 
strengthened. The Supervisory Board obtained information from 
the corporate risk manager and the director of operational audit 
about their activities and the progress that has been made. Both 
functions have been strengthened as part of the Back in Shape 
programme in order to further support the goal to reduce risks 
and improve control in the project business.
The financial audit process is carried out by an independent audit 
firm that is assisted by the executive officers of the Group and by 
the Group systems. Also during 2015, the collaboration between 
PricewaterhouseCoopers and the BAM employees involved in the 
audit was constructive and satisfactory. Corporate Social Responsibility
The Supervisory Board discussed the importance of and approach 
towards corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) with the Executive 
Board and agreed with the list of CSR factors identified by the 
Executive Board as being most relevant for BAM. One of these 
aspects concerns integrity. Following the introduction of a new 
Group-wide Code of Conduct in 2014, which is supported by 
dedicated management attention and individual e-learning tools, 
the company is now in the process of revitalising its compliance 
framework. Enabling employees to report misconduct will be 
further supported by the introduction of an anonymous reporting 
portal in 2016 and an improved reporting system. 
The Supervisory Board was pleased to note that the Group 
continues to excel in CSR. Royal BAM Group has been identified as 
a global leader for its actions and strategies in response to 
climate change and has been awarded a position on The Climate 
A List by CDP, the international not-for-profit organisation that 
drives sustainable economies. 113 companies appear on this  
A list, which has been produced at the request of 822 investors 
who represent more than a third of the world’s invested capital.
The Supervisory Board approved the company’s approach on 
corporate social responsibility and the targets set in this respect. 
Also the pro-active consultation of partners, clients and suppliers 
in the stakeholders dialogues is supported and stimulated by the 
Supervisory Board.
Safety
Safety continued to be a focus area for the Supervisory Board  
and the company. Safety performance again improved last year 
(from 5.0 (IF) in 2014 to 4.5 (IF) in 2015). BAM regrettably had to 
record two fatal incidents on the Group’s projects, which were 
evaluated elaborately in the meetings with the Executive Board. 
Together with the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board 
considers the achievement of a higher safety level to be an 
important challenge for the Group. The Supervisory Board fully 
supports and encourages the Executive Board’s approach to 
further increase management’s dedication to safety.
Other activities
Each of the Supervisory Board’s meetings featured a report on 
what had been discussed in meetings of the Board’s committees. 
In addition, the Executive Board reported in each case on the 
state of affairs, the financial situation and market developments 
for the operating companies and the risks they face, each report 
being based on the operational plan for the relevant financial 
year. Other matters discussed in 2015 included the Annual Report 
and financial statement for 2014, the half-yearly report and 
interim statement for 2015, the reserve and dividend policy and 
the dividend proposal for 2014, corporate governance, the 
various effects of International Financial Reporting Standards 92 – 2015Reversing rail track, Elst, 
the Netherlands. BAM Infra.
(IFRS) on the Group’s financial reports, management 
development and the quality of management, and the most 
important claims as well as legal proceedings involving parts of 
the Group.
During the annual visit to a number of the Group’s operating 
companies over several days in September 2015, the Supervisory 
Board and the Executive Board exchanged views with the 
management teams of the Dutch operating companies. The 
directors gave presentations on their companies, their markets 
and the challenges they currently face. The Supervisory Board 
also met with a number of employees throughout the company. 
In 2015 a delegation of the Supervisory Board met with the 
Central Works Council on several occasions in order to discuss the 
position of the employees in general and more specifically the 
consequences of the Back in Shape programme. In addition the 
annual meeting of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board 
with the Central Works Council was held on 19 August 2015.
Performance of the Supervisory Board
In 2015 the Supervisory Board assessed its performance with the 
support of an external expert who held extensive meetings with 
each individual Supervisory Board member as well as the members of the Executive Board. The expert has laid down his 
observations and recommendations as well as the input from the 
individual members of the Supervisory Board in a report that was 
presented to and reviewed by the Supervisory Board. Based on 
this thorough process the Supervisory Board concluded that the 
individual members of the Board, as well as the Board as a whole, 
are functioning satisfactory.
The observations and recommendations, among other things, 
regarded the importance to periodically monitor and review  
the profile of the Supervisory Board in order to ensure sufficient 
attention to diversity, international background and expertise  
in the industry in which BAM is active. After having focused in  
the past period on operational excellence, cash and costs, the 
Supervisory Board noted the importance to pay more attention 
to management development. Finally the Supervisory Board 
recognised the value of ample time for deliberations in executive 
sessions. 
Remuneration
The Supervisory Board has approved the remuneration report 
prepared by the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration 
report is included on pages 99-105 of the report as part of the 
Report by the Supervisory Board. Following a review with 2015  – 93external support of the total remuneration package for senior 
management, including the Executive Board, the remuneration 
policy has been amended. The amended remuneration policy was 
approved by the General Meeting in 2015 and is explained in 
more detail on pages 99 of the report and further.
Meetings
In the year under review, the Supervisory Board met on eight 
occasions in the presence of the Executive Board. Six of these 
meetings were regular meetings. The other meetings were held 
to discuss and approve large projects and to discuss the progress 
of the strategy update process. The general attendance at the 
meetings in 2015 was 98 per cent. 
The Supervisory Board also met without the Executive Board 
being present. These meetings were primarily devoted to the 
functioning of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. 
In addition, the Supervisory Board discussed internally its position 
and view on a number of strategic and organisational matters, 
as well as the remuneration of the Executive Board, including the 
determination of the variable portion of that remuneration. The Supervisory Board’s committees
The Supervisory Board has three permanent committees, being 
an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a 
Nomination Committee. It is the task of these committees to 
support and advise the Supervisory Board concerning items 
under the committees’ responsibility and to prepare the 
Supervisory Board’s decisions regarding those items. The 
Supervisory Board as a whole remains responsible for the way in 
which it performs its tasks and for the preparatory work carried 
out by the committees. The committees submitted reports on 
their meetings to the Supervisory Board.
The Audit Committee
In the financial year the Audit Committee was composed of 
Messrs Scheffers (Chairman), Hansen and Wester.
The composition of the Audit Committee is in line with the 
provisions of the Dutch corporate governance code. The Audit 
Committee supports the Supervisory Board in the performance 
of its tasks, especially as regards financial and accounting 
matters. 
National Graphene Institute at the  
University of Manchester.  
Architect: Jestico+Whites.  
Contractor: BAM Construct UK.94 – 2015The Committee met four times over the past financial year. 
The independent auditor was present at all of these meetings. 
The Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer of the Executive 
Board also attended all the Audit Committee’s meetings. The 
Committee resolved that the director operational audit will also 
attend every meeting. 
In addition to its regular tasks and responsibilities, the Audit 
Committee addressed the following specific matters in 2015:
• audit plan for 2015;
• the 2016 operational plan;
• the operational audit charter;
• material legal proceedings;
• development of working capital;
• development of cash;
• key projects;
• transition of audit responsibilities to the new independent 
auditor in 2016.
In 2015 special attention was also given to the execution of the 
Back in Shape programme and the introduction of the stage gate 
tender procedure. 
The Audit Committee was briefed by the independent auditor on 
relevant developments in the audit profession, especially those 
related to the changed independent auditors and assurance 
report. The transition of audit responsibilities to EY as per 2016 
was discussed with both the current and the new auditor. As part 
of this transition process, the new auditor attended one of the 
meetings of the Audit Committee. The committee met with the 
independent auditor on one occasion without the Executive 
Board being present and reported to the Supervisory Board on 
the relationship with the independent auditor. The Audit 
Committee believes that the relationship with the independent 
auditor is sound. 
Remuneration Committee
In the financial year, the Remuneration Committee was 
composed of Mrs Mahieu (Chairwoman), Mr Elverding and 
Mr Noy. The composition of the Remuneration Committee is in 
line with the provisions of the Dutch corporate governance code.
One of the tasks of the Remuneration Committee is to make 
proposals to the Supervisory Board with regard to the 
remuneration policy, the terms of employment of members of 
the Executive Board and the remuneration of the members of the 
Supervisory Board and Executive Board. 
Early 2015 the Remuneration Committee evaluated the current 
remuneration policy of the Executive Board with the assistance of 
an external advisor as a result of which a proposal for amendment 
of this policy was submitted for approval to the Supervisory Board and, subsequently, the general meeting in 2015. 
More  information on the remuneration policy can be found in the 
remuneration report. 
The Committee submitted a proposal to the Supervisory Board 
relating to the remuneration of members of the Executive Board 
and criteria for the variable remuneration. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee prepared a remuneration report on 
the way the remuneration policy has been implemented in 
practice. Also the developments with regard to the different 
pension schemes in the company were reviewed. In the financial 
year, the Committee consulted the Chairman of the Executive 
Board about the policy on terms and conditions of employment 
for directors of operating companies and executive officers of 
equivalent rank, and the Committee was also involved in the 
development of the new performance share plan.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the past 
financial year. The Chairman of the Executive Board was present 
during parts of these meetings. The Committee members 
consulted with each other a number of times outside the context 
of a formal meeting. In addition a number of teleconferences 
were held. The Committee held individual performance 
evaluation interviews with the members of the Executive Board 
as part of the assessment of the Executive Board.
Nomination Committee
During the financial year, the Selection and Appointment 
Committee was renamed Nomination Committee in order to 
align the name with practices in the market. The committee was 
composed of Mr Elverding (Chairman), Mrs Mahieu and Mr Noy. 
One of the tasks of the Nomination Committee is to make 
proposals to the Supervisory Board regarding selection criteria 
and appointment procedures, and regarding the size, 
composition, appointments and reappointments to and 
assessment of the performance of the Supervisory Board and the 
Executive Board. The Committee also monitors the Executive 
Board’s policy on selection criteria and appointment procedures 
for senior management and holds annual appraisals with the 
individual members of the Executive Board. 
The Nomination Committee met three times in the past financial 
year. The end of the terms of Mr Elverding, Mr Wester and 
Mrs Mahieu at the annual General Meeting in 2015 were discussed 
and a proposal for reappointment was submitted to 
the Supervisory Board. 2015  – 95Composition of the Supervisory Board
During the financial year, the Supervisory Board was composed  
of six members. According to schedule, there were three 
re-appointments.
Diversity
The Supervisory Board has five male members and one female 
member (16.7%). One member of the Supervisory Board has the 
Belgian nationality. The Executive Board, whose members all have 
the Dutch nationality, has two male members and one female 
member (33.3%). As such the Group complies with the diversity 
targets set by law as far as the Executive Board is concerned but 
has not yet reached the desired target figure in the Supervisory 
Board. 
Both the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board agree with the 
importance of diversity in the Group’s managerial bodies. In order 
to further emphasise this, the profile of the Supervisory Board, 
which was last discussed with the shareholders in the General 
Meeting in 2009, was updated in 2015 and a 30 per cent target for 
female board members was included. The new profile was 
discussed with the Central Works Council and the General Meeting 
after which it was formally adopted by the Supervisory Board. 
Independence
In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the requirements of the 
Dutch corporate governance code with regard to independence 
have been met. In 2015 the Supervisory Board members did not 
have any other relationships of a business nature with the 
company. None of the Supervisory Board members had more than 
five memberships of Supervisory Boards at Dutch listed 
companies or other large institutions. 
With regard to the selection process for the new independent 
auditor Mrs Mahieu refrained from participating in the discussion 
and decision-making given her affiliation with a member of the 
board of one of the candidate parties. Other than that, the 
Supervisory Board is not aware of any conflicts of interest 
between the company and members of the Supervisory Board, 
or between the company and natural persons or legal entities that 
hold at least 10 per cent of the shares in the company.Composition of the Executive Board
During the financial year, the Executive Board was composed of 
three members. There were no mandatory re-appointments.
The Supervisory Board concluded that none of the members of 
the Executive Board holds more than two Supervisory Board 
positions of large corporations and no position of chair of a 
supervisory body was held. This is in line with the Management 
and Supervision (Public and Private Companies) Act and the Code.
The Supervisory Board has no evidence of any conflicts of interest 
between the company and members of the Executive Board.
Shareholders and investor relations
The Annual General Meeting was prepared and the meeting was 
evaluated afterwards. The Supervisory Board was very pleased 
with the constructive dialogue with shareholders at the meeting 
but noted a low level of attendance, which will be given extra 
attention in the next year. 
The Supervisory Board reviews the Group’s investor relations 
activities and shareholder base on a regular basis. With regard to 
contact with shareholders, the Supervisory Board believes that 
this contact should primarily take place in shareholders’ 
meetings. However, it is recognised that contact between the 
company and shareholders outside of shareholders’ meetings 
can also be important – for both the company and the 
shareholders. The Supervisory Board will ensure that the 
company accepts shareholders’ requests for talks in those cases 
where talks are considered important. The company itself can 
also take the initiative and request talks with a shareholder. 
The company has a general policy on bilateral contacts with 
shareholders, investors, analysts and the press. This policy is 
published on the company’s website.
BAM proposes a dividend of 2 eurocents per ordinary share, in line 
with its dividend policy to pay out 30 to 50 per cent of the net 
result for the year. This will be paid in cash, with a scrip alternative. 
In 2014 BAM reported a negative net result for the year and hence 
paid no dividend.96 – 2015Independent auditor
During its review of the 2014 full year results and the 2015 half 
year results, the Supervisory Board met with the independent 
auditor to discuss his report. The Board established that the 
independent auditor had received the financial information on 
which the interim statements, the half year results, the annual 
results and other financial reports were based. The independent 
auditor also had been given the opportunity to discuss the 
information provided with BAM officers and the Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board has taken note of the reports and 
management letters as prepared by the independent auditor. 
These documents were discussed with the independent auditor 
and the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board also discussed the 
follow-up to the independent auditor’s findings with the Executive 
Board.
The independent auditor attended the General Meeting of 
22 April 2015 and was available to answer any questions.As part of its consideration of this report and the 2015 financial 
statements, the Supervisory Board assessed the relationship with 
the independent auditor, based on reports from the Executive 
Board and the Audit Committee. 
In order to comply with upcoming legislation that required stock 
listed companies as of 1 January 2016 to change its independent 
auditor periodically, the Supervisory Board nominated Ernst & 
Young Accountants LLP as independent auditor for the financial 
years 2016, 2017 and 2018, which was approved by the General 
Meeting on 22 April 2015.
Building 345C (DTU Nanotech) for DTU, 
Technical University of Denmark at 
Lyngby, is dedicated to micro and 
nanotechnology research, education, 
and innovation at the highest 
international level.  
Architect: Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter 
ApS.  
BAM Danmark.2015  – 97Corporate governance
The company’s corporate governance structure and its 
compliance with that structure were discussed with the 
shareholders in the General Meeting on 21 April 2009. 
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board reviewed the 
corporate governance structure during the financial year and 
decided that there was no reason to change it, other than the 
amendment of the profile of the Supervisory Board in order to 
clearly reflect the company’s dedication to diversity.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are convinced that 
Royal BAM Group’s corporate governance is up to standard. Please 
refer to the corporate governance statement from page 81 of the 
Integrated Report concerning the company’s compliance with the 
Code.
The 2015 financial statements, duly prepared by the Executive 
Board, will be submitted to the General Meeting for adoption. 
The financial statements have been audited by the independent 
auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.; the 
unqualified auditor’s report is included on page 199 of the Report. 
The Supervisory Board has discussed the financial statements with 
the Executive Board in the presence of the independent auditor 
and agrees with them. The Supervisory Board is of the opinion 
that the financial statements, the report by the Supervisory Board 
and the report by the Executive Board provide a solid basis on 
which to hold the Executive Board accountable for the 
management policies pursued and the Supervisory Board 
accountable for its supervision of the management policies 
pursued. The members of the Supervisory Board have signed the 
financial statements in accordance with their statutory obligations 
under Article 2:101, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The Supervisory Board believes that this report is presented in 
accordance with the International Integrated Reporting 
Framework.Final comments
Looking back on the financial year 2015, the Supervisory Board 
acknowledges and appreciates the substantial steps being made 
in order to make the company more resilient and successful. The 
vigorous execution of the Back in Shape programme, including 
the unavoidable restructuring measures that form an inseparable 
parts of it, has stretched the organisation as well as its employees. 
Partly the results of these joint efforts will only become visible in 
the years to come. The Supervisory Board is grateful for the 
contribution of each individual employee to the major efforts that 
have been made. 
Although the economic markets in Europe and abroad have 
improved in 2015, the construction market remains difficult due 
to the late cyclical nature of this industry. Also the imbalance in 
the distribution of risks and opportunities between contractors 
and clients remains worrying. The – albeit shrinking – backlog of 
projects taken on in the economic crisis requires continued 
attention and monitoring. With the publication of the new 
company strategy for the period 2016-2020 in February 2016, the 
Supervisory Board feels that a clear path has been set to further 
improve the competitive position and performance of 
the company.98 – 20154.3 Remuneration report
The following remuneration report from the Supervisory Board 
describes how the remuneration policy has been put into practice 
during the past financial year. The report includes summaries of 
information concerning remuneration received in 2015 and also 
contains a summary of the remuneration policy for the coming 
financial year and subsequent years.
Remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee is a permanent committee of the 
Supervisory Board and shall consist of at least two members of the 
Supervisory Board. The Remuneration Committee is subject to rules 
established by the Supervisory Board. At the end of the year under 
review it consisted of Mrs Mahieu (Chairwoman), Mr Elverding and 
Mr Noy and met three times during the past financial year. The 
composition of the Remuneration Committee is in line with the 
provisions of the Code. The Committee members consulted with 
each other a number of times outside the context of a formal 
meeting.
The Remuneration Committee used the services of external 
remuneration advisers (Hay group) in 2015 to benchmark the 
remuneration level. As a result the salaries were not modified in 
2015, but a new long-term incentive plan has been introduced and 
the performance measures for the short-term incentive have been 
expanded, which changes were adopted in the annual general 
meeting of 22 April 2015 with effect as of 1 January 2015.
A summary of the remuneration of the individual members of the 
Executive Board can be found in > tables 48 and 51. No other 
compensation was awarded to members of the Executive Board 
in the financial year other than the compensation indicated in 
> tables 48 and 51. 
Annual variable remuneration and long-term remuneration for the 
members of the Executive Board
The members of the Executive Board were awarded 56.5 per cent 
annual variable remuneration in relation to the financial and 
non-financial targets from the short-term incentive plan. The 
targets related to performance on BAM Group’s financial priorities 
as well as on safety.
The phantom share plan was discontinued and replaced by a 
performance-based share plan, which was adopted by the annual 
general meeting on 22 April 2015. The conditional performance 
shares granted to the members of the Executive Board in 2015 are 
stated in > table 52.
The company has not awarded any options to members of the 
Executive Board, members of operating company management 
teams or employees. The remuneration of the Executive Board members is not affected by a change of control at the company. 
No loans were issued to members of the Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board did not see any reason during the financial 
year to use its extraordinary powers to adjust or reclaim variable or 
long-term remuneration that had already been awarded.
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members
The annual remuneration for the members of the Supervisory 
Board, in accordance with the policy adopted at the General 
Meeting on 7 May 2008, is €50,000 for the Chairman, €45,000 for 
the Vice-Chairman and €40,000 for the other members of the 
Board, with an additional remuneration of €5,000 for each member 
who is on one or more Committees set up by the Supervisory 
Board. The Chairman and the other members of the Supervisory 
Board receive an annual fixed expenses allowance of €3,280 and 
€1,640 respectively. The remuneration and fixed expenses 
allowance are paid on quarterly basis. 
The company has not awarded any options or shares to members of 
the Supervisory Board. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board 
members is not affected by the company’s results, nor by any 
change of control at the company. No loans were issued to 
members of the Supervisory Board.
Remuneration policy 
The Supervisory Board draws up the company’s remuneration 
policy based on advice from its Remuneration Committee. The 
General Meeting adopts the remuneration policy. Once the 
remuneration policy has been adopted, the Supervisory Board 
determines the remuneration for the individual members of the 
Executive Board, again on the basis of recommendations by its 
Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee’s 
regulations are published on BAM’s website. The members of the 
Executive Board received remuneration in the past financial year 
in line with the remuneration policy adopted by the General 
Meeting on 22 April 2015 after a review of the remuneration 
policy for the Executive Board in light of the Back in Shape 
programme and by taking into account developments in market 
best practices since the previous update.
Design principles
The remuneration policy is geared to attract and retain qualified 
people and motivating them to achieve Royal BAM Group’s 
objectives. Particular emphasis is placed on experience with the 
Group’s (international) activities and the necessary management 
qualities. In the design of the policy and in determining the 
remuneration levels of the members of the Executive Board, the 
Supervisory Board has benchmarked the several remuneration 
elements against market standards. Also the internal pay 2015  – 99differentials have been taken into account, as well as scenario 
analyses which have been used to determine possible outcomes 
of the variable remuneration elements, including the maximum 
value of the long-term incentive. The remuneration structure and 
elements take into account that risk-taking beyond the risk profile 
of the company should not be encouraged.
The policy is also aimed to stimulate profitable growth and 
long-term value creation, to motivate individuals and to increase 
the attractiveness of the company to highly qualified executives, 
including those from other industries, so as to interest them in 
Royal BAM Group as an employer. The remuneration level and 
structure are partly based on the development of results, as well 
as other developments that are relevant to the company, 
including non-financial indicators which are relevant for the 
company’s long-term objectives.
In order to achieve these design principles, remuneration is set at a 
competitive level for the relevant national general remuneration 
market for directors and other senior managers of large companies. 
The Supervisory Board will regularly review the remuneration 
package to ensure that it complies with the assumptions underlying 
the remuneration policy. The remuneration policy will also be 
evaluated regularly; changes in the policy will be put forward for 
adoption at the General Meeting.
Remuneration level
The Supervisory Board uses external benchmark information to 
assess market comparability of the remuneration levels. Beginning 
2015 the previous peer group, consisting of 28 companies, has 
been reviewed with the assistance of Hay Group and taking into 
account the ISS criteria. Based on industry, ownership structure, 
geographical business scope and size parameters, a new peer 
group of 17 companies has been selected. Remuneration levels 
are aimed at the median of this peer group. The Supervisory Board 
also took notice of the fact that over the last five years the base 
salary of the members of the Executive Board has only been 
slightly increased once (1.75 per cent correction of inflation). In 
addition no STI has been paid during the last two years, while in 
the previous three years pay-out was very restricted.  The 2015 incentive levels are presented in the > table below: 
Remuneration level 2015  
STI (% of base salary)
CEO 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
Members 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
LTI (% of base salary)*
CEO 70%
Members 60%
Share ownership guidelines
CEO 1 times gross base salary
Members 0.75 times gross base salary
* Award value
Remuneration package
The remuneration of the Executive Board consists of four 
elements:
a. Fixed salary;
b. Short-term incentive (STI);
c. Long-term incentive (LTI); 
d. Pension provisions and other secondary conditions of 
employment.
Ad a.  Fixed salary
The Supervisory Board determines the development of the annual 
salary of the individual member of the Executive Board. The 
annual evaluation and change in salary generally take place per 
1 January of each year. The evaluation considers personal 
performance, the results of the past year, the extent to which the 
current salary deviates from the benchmark and general changes 
in the market.
Variable remuneration
To enhance alignment of the remuneration policy with the Back 
in Shape programme and market best practices, the STI and LTI 
plans of the Executive Board have been amended. In addition the 
new LTI plan has been cascaded down to currently a maximum of 
15 senior executive positions below the Executive Board. 
Ad b.  Short-term incentive
To ensure continued alignment between the short-term incentive 
and BAM Group’s strategy, greater flexibility with respect to the STI 
metrics is important to enable adequate responses to the challenges 
BAM  Group is facing. The Remuneration Committee annually selects 
two (2) to three (3) financial metrics for the STI of the members of 
the Executive Board. It also determines their relative weighting. 100 – 2015The financial metrics will be chosen from the following list: 
1.  Profit before tax 5.  Cash conversion 
2.  Operational result (EBIT) 6.  Cost reduction
3.  Working capital 7.  Divestments
4.  Cash flow
The selected metrics link remuneration with a focus on BAM 
Group’s financial priorities. As specific targets for each of the 
metrics may qualify as sensitive information, these will in principle 
not be disclosed.
Two thirds of the STI are based on financial criteria (as outlined 
above) and the remaining one third is linked to non-financial 
performance targets. Performance incentive zones are defined for 
each of the targets. Pay-out gradually increases with performance, 
starting with a pay-out of 35 per cent of the target opportunity at 
threshold performance and potentially going up to 75 per cent 
pay-out at maximum performance per individual target. Below 
threshold there will be zero pay-out. The Supervisory Board sets 
the performance ranges (i.e. threshold, at target and maximum 
performance levels) and corresponding payout levels, with the 
constraint that the STI payout will not exceed 75 per cent of base 
salary. For more details, see the > graph below.
Payout
Performance incentive zone
75%
55%
35%
Threshold MaximumPerformance 
level Target
100%
STI payoutIn cases where the variable remuneration is awarded on the basis 
of inaccurate (financial) data, the Supervisory Board has the right 
to adjust the variable remuneration accordingly, and the company 
is entitled to reclaim (any part of) the variable remuneration paid 
to a member of the Executive Board on the basis of incorrect 
(financial) information.
In the case of new awards of variable remuneration to members of 
the Executive Board, based on quantified performance criteria, 
the Supervisory Board has the right to amend the awards in 
relation to the level of previous years if it considers that this would 
otherwise lead to an unreasonable outcome.
The Supervisory Board also has the power to amend the existing 
conditional awards of variable remuneration based on quantifiable 
performance criteria if, in its opinion, applying the criteria without 
amendment would have an unreasonable and unintended 
outcome. These matters have been incorporated into the 
employment and management agreements of Executive Board.
Ad c.  Long-term incentive
In 2015 the previous phantom share plan has been replaced by a 
performance share plan. The performance shares are conditionally 
awarded subject to performance testing after three years. The 
number of performance shares at grant date is calculated by 
dividing the award value by the average closing price of BAM 
Group shares on Euronext Amsterdam based on the five-days 
average closing price after AGM. The maximum value at the 
moment of vesting of the LTI is capped at 2.5 times the award 
value in order to avoid inappropriate payouts. 
There are two financial performance measures, being total 
shareholder return and ROCE and one non-financial measure 
related to sustainability. Realised performance results in a vesting 
percentage for each of the three (3) performance targets, each 
determining one third of the vesting of the conditionally granted 
shares. The TSR measure will also operate as a ‘circuit breaker’ for 
the vesting part linked to the other two criteria. When BAM Group 
ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the other 
parts will not pay out regardless of the performance in this area. 
Minimum share ownership requirements; for the CEO this 
amounts to 100 per cent of base salary and for the other members 
of the Executive Board this amounts to 75 per cent of base salary. 
In accordance with the code the three-year vesting period will be 
followed by a two-year lock-up period. Participants are not 
allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year lock-up 
period has lapsed and the above minimum share ownership 
requirements are met, with the exception of any sale of shares 
during the lock-up period required to meet any tax obligations 
and social security premiums (including any other duties and 
levies) as a consequence of this performance share plan.472015  – 101Long-term incentive plan 2015
Financial vs. non-financial 
(personal) measuresFinancial: 66.7 per cent
Non-financial: 33.3 per cent
Weight (% of total value at grant) 
and type of measures TSR: 33.3 per cent
ROCE: 33.3 per cent
Sustainability:  33.3 per cent
Payment mechanism Conditional performance shares
Stimulating share ownership Two-year additional holding 
period plus minimum share 
ownership requirements 
TSR is defined as the share price increase, including dividends. 
TSR is measured over a three (3) year period based on a three (3) 
month average period before grant and vesting date. The relative 
position within the peer group determines the vesting percentage. 
The TSR peer group comprises of Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, Carillion, 
Heijmans, Hochtief, Eiffage, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci, YIT (and 
BAM). The composition of the TSR peer group is being evaluated 
on a periodic basis, among other things, in light of corporate 
events.
Realised performance against those targets is assessed by using 
performance incentive zones. For excellent performance, the 
number of performance shares per individual target that may vest 
may amount to a maximum of 150  per cent  of the ‘at target’ 
number of performance shares. This percentage may be reduced to 
zero (0) (on a sliding scale) for non-achievement of the individual 
targets. The performance incentive zones are presented in the 
tables below:
Relative TSR ROCE Sustainability
TSR ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below treshold 0% Below treshold 0%
6 25%
Notes:
1)  Vesting is expressed as a percentage of the conditionally granted number of shares.
2)  If TSR would be at position 10 or 11, no vesting can occur for the other parts.7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of 
the number of performance shares that will vest and the share 
price at the moment of vesting – that will become unconditional 
to a participant will at vesting never exceed two and a half (2.5) 
times the award value. 
The authority to implement the long-term incentive plan is vested 
in the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has the right to 
change or terminate the scheme at any time. If the Supervisory 
Board decides to terminate or make material changes to the 
long-term incentive plan, the next General Meeting will be asked 
to adopt a resolution to that effect. Upon a decision of the 
Supervisory Board, following a proposal from the Remuneration 
Committee, the company has the discretionary power to fully or 
partially reclaim from the participant who is member of the 
Executive Board the conditionally awarded performance shares as 
well as vested shares (or any benefit resulting therefrom) where 
those have been awarded on the basis of incorrect information 
concerning (i) the achievement of the performance conditions 
concerned or (ii) events or conditions on which the shares were 
conditionally awarded. 
In case of announcement of a public offer for shares in the 
Company as referred to in Article 5 of the Takeover Decree (Besluit 
openbare biedingen Wft), the provisions of Article 2:135 (7) of the 
Civil Code shall apply. In accordance with this article, the company 
(based upon a resolution of the Supervisory Board, following a 
proposal of the Remuneration Committee) is entitled to reclaim 
from a member of the Executive Board payment in kind or in cash 
of any increase in value referred to therein. 
At the request of the Supervisory Board, the company’s 
independent auditor will check the calculations carried out and 
conclusions reached in connection with the long-term incentive 
plan, in which case the independent auditor’s assessment will be 
binding.102 – 2015Ad d.   Pension provisions and other secondary conditions of employment
With respect to pensions, sector regulations are being adopted 
wherever possible, with surplus schemes based on defined 
contributions and contributions from the participants. Members 
of the Executive Board are subject to a pension scheme and 
transitional arrangements as applicable within the Group from 
1 January 2006 for all comparable employees following the 
introduction of the Act of Parliament concerning early retirement, 
pre-pension and life-course savings schemes (wet VPL). The costs 
of trend-based indexation of underlying pension rights have been 
included in the pension contributions with effect from 2009. The 
company does not have any early retirement schemes. Due to the 
nature of the management services agreement no pension 
arrangements were made with regard to Mr Bax, who instead will 
receive a contribution for his personal pension arrangements.
As for all the other employees, the Group has a competitive 
package of secondary conditions of employment for the members 
of the Executive Board. This package includes such matters as 
healthcare and disability insurance, personal accident insurance, 
a car scheme and reimbursement of personal expenses. 
The Group does not give loans, warrants and the like to members 
of the Executive Board or to other employees, except for the 
arrangements set out below.
Current and former members of the Supervisory Board and 
current and former members of the Executive Board are covered 
by the indemnity, under the Articles of Association, against claims 
made against them in respect of actions or omissions in the 
performance of the duties of their position, unless said actions or 
omissions constituted willful, deliberately reckless or seriously 
culpable conduct and / or consisted of traffic offences. This facility 
also applies to all employees and former employees of BAM. The 
company has taken out directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
under standard market terms and conditions for the members of 
the Supervisory Board, the members of the Executive Board, the 
members of the operating company management teams and all 
other directors and officers in BAM.
Period of appointment and contracts of employment
Members of the Executive Board are appointed for a period of four 
years. The employment agreement of Mr R.P. van Wingerden has 
been entered into for an indefinite period. The employment 
agreement of Mrs T. Menssen and the management services 
agreement of Mr E.J. Bax have been entered into for a period of 
four years. The members of the Executive Board have a notice 
period of six months for the company and three months for the 
members. The company regards a notice period of three months 
suitable for a member of the Executive Board.
The relationship between the members of the Executive Board 
and the company changed as of 1 January 2013 with the introduction of the Management and Supervision (Public and 
Private Companies) Act (Wet bestuur en toezicht). As such, the 
employment relationship between new members of the Executive 
Board and the company will not be classified as a contract of 
employment. As of the above-mentioned date new Executive 
Board members are being appointed by means of a management 
services agreement. This is the case for Mr Bax with whom a 
management services agreement has been negotiated. It is the 
intention of the Supervisory Board to also change the current 
employment contracts of the other members of the Executive 
Board into management services contracts in the course of 2016.
If the company terminates the (employment or assignment) 
contract of a member of the Executive Board, the maximum 
severance payment will be one year’s base salary. If this maximum 
of one year’s salary would be manifestly unreasonable for a 
member who is dismissed during his or her first term of 
appointment, such Board member will be eligible for severance 
pay not exceeding twice the annual salary.
The company has no other remuneration provisions, beyond the 
remuneration package mentioned above, nor are there any other 
rights to one-time payments.
Securities rules
The company has rules relating to the possession of and trading in 
securities. These rules are published on the company’s website 
and also include regulations for members of the Executive Board 
and the Supervisory Board relating to the possession of and 
trading in securities other than those issued by the company. 
To this effect the Supervisory Board has established a so-called 
‘stop-list’, meaning that it shall be prohibited to execute 
transactions in the securities of the companies included in this list. 
This list will be evaluated periodically and shall apply for the 
members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board. 
This prohibition does not apply to securities that are included in 
investment funds nor to securities that are being administered by 
an independent financial firm. The stop-list is being evaluated 
annually.
Remuneration policy for 2016 and subsequent years
The remuneration policy described above will remain in effect in 
the financial year 2016 and subsequent years. No material changes 
in the remuneration policy are planned in the coming period.
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 17 February 2016
Supervisory Board2015  – 103Executive Board remuneration 
Fixed annual salary, annual variable remuneration, pension premiums and other benefits
(x €1,000)
Gross salaryOther
short-term
benefitsPost-
employment
benefitsOther 
benefits Crisis levy
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
R.P. van Wingerden ¹ 620 508 350 - 46 64 379 8 - 54 
T. Menssen 470 470 265 - 38 30 274 8 - 48 
E.J. Bax ² 470 313 265 - 52 35 111 - - 34 
1 Appointed as Chairman of the Executive Board with effect from 1 October 2014
2 Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 May 2014
Long-term remuneration plan 
Unconditional Phantom Share Plan 2012-2015 1 
(value in €)
At the award date At the vesting date
Number Value NumberTSR-
performanceGraduated 
scaleVested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden 88,459 230,000 88,030 0.3% 35% 30,811 158,058
T. Menssen  -  -  - - - -
E.J. Bax  -  -  - - - -
1 Award has become unconditional on 4 May 2015; lock-up period up to and including 4 May 2017.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2015 (€5.130) and on the number of vested shares three years after the award.  
The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for the year 2013, 2014 and 2015.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual gross salary of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.
Conditional phantom shares plan 2013-2016 1 
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2015
number value number value 2TSR-
performancegraduated 
scale 
R.P. van Wingerden  69,272  235,000  70,259  162,193 7.6% 45%
T. Menssen  69,272  235,000  70,259  162,193 7.6% 45%
E.J. Bax  -  -  -  - 7.6% 45%
1 Award on 3 May 2013; award becomes unconditional on 3 May 2016; lock-up period up to and including 3 May 2018.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2015 (€5.130) and on the number of conditional phantom shares  
that become unconditional three years after the award.  
The TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for 2015. The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average  
for the year 2013, 2014 and 2015.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual gross salary of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.48
49
50104 – 2015Conditional phantom shares plan 2014-2017 1
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2015
number value number value 2TSR-
performancegraduated
scale 
R.P. van Wingerden  60,072  235,000  60,072  138,676 7.7% 45%
T. Menssen  60,072  235,000  60,072  138,676 7.7% 45%
E.J. Bax  60,072  235,000  54,064  124,807 7.7% 45%
1 Award on 1 May 2014; award becomes unconditional on 1 May 2017; lock-up period up to and including 4 May 2019.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2015 (€5,130) and on the number of conditional phantom shares  
that become unconditional three years after the award.  
The TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for 2014. The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average  
for the year 2014, 2015 and 2016.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual gross salary of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout. 
Conditional performance share plan 2015-2017 1
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2015
number value number value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  114,319  434,000  114,319  586,456 
T. Menssen  74,281  282,000  74,281  381,061 
E.J. Bax  74,281  282,000  74,281  381,061 
1 Award on 30 April 2015; award becomes unconditional if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2015 (€5.130) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional phantom shares  
that become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price  
at the vesting date – that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half (2.5) times the award value.
Appointment and contractual arrangements
Year of 
employmentDate of 
appointmentPeriod of 
appointmentNotice  
period  
for the 
CompanyNotice  
period for  
the Executive 
Board member Severance
R.P. van Wingerden 1988 7 May 2008 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s salary
T. Menssen 2012 1 October 2012 14 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s salary
E.J. Bax 2014 1 May 2014 14 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s salary
1  First appointment.51
52
532015  – 105The members of the Executive Board as required by section 5:25c, 
paragraph 2, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision 
confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
• The 2015 financial statements included in this report give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
 • The management report included in this report gives a true and 
fair view of the position of the company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole as at 31 December 
2015, and of the development and performance of the business 
for the financial year then ended;
• The management report includes a description of the general 
risks and uncertainties that the company faces.
 4.4  Declaration in accordance with the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
Heilijgers has transformed the 
former office of housing corporation  
De Key into 40 studios and 
apartments under the name KliQ 
Living in the New West district of the 
City of Amsterdam. 106 – 20154.5 Decision on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive
The following information and explanations relate to the provisions 
of the Decree of 5 April 2006 implementing Article 10 of Directive 
number 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 
the European Union dated 21 April 2004.
Capital structure
> Table 59 may be used as a reference for the company’s capital 
structure. No rights apart from those arising under statute are 
attached to the shares into which the company’s capital is divided, 
apart from the scheme specified in Article 31 of the Articles of 
Association concerning the application of the profit in relation to 
Class B and Class F preference shares.
A brief summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association is 
provided below. From the profit realised in any financial year, an 
amount will first be distributed, where possible, on the Class B 
cumulative preference shares, calculated by applying the 
percentage stated below to the amount that must be paid up on 
those shares as at the start of the financial year for which the 
distribution is made. The percentage referred to above will be equal 
to the average of the Euribor rates for money market loans with a 
maturity of twelve months – weighted according to the number of 
days for which these rates prevailed – during the financial year for 
which the distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor 
refers to the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and 
published by the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of Article 31(6) of the Articles of 
Association, equal to an amount calculated by applying a 
percentage to the nominal amount of the financing preference 
share concerned at the start of that financial year, plus the amount 
of share premium paid in on the financing preference share issued 
in the series concerned at the time of initial issue of the financing 
preference shares of that series, less the amount paid out on each 
financing preference share concerned and charged to the share 
premium reserve formed at the time of issue of the financing 
preference shares of that series prior to that financial year. If and to 
the extent that a distribution has been made on the financing 
preference shares concerned in the course of the year and charged 
to the share premium reserve formed at the time of issue of the 
financing preference shares of the series concerned, or partial 
repayment has been made on such shares, the amount of the 
distribution will be reduced pro rata over the period concerned 
according to the amount of the distribution charged to the share 
premium reserve and/or the repayment with respect to the amount 
referred to in the preceding sentence.
The calculation of the dividend percentage for the financing 
preference shares of a certain series will be made for each of the 
series of financing preference shares referred to below, in the 
manner set forth for the series concerned.Series FP1 to FP4
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the arithmetic 
mean of the yield to maturity on euro government loans issued by 
the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining term matching as 
closely as possible the term of the series concerned, as published in 
the Euronext Prices Lists, plus two percentage points.
Series FP5 to FP8
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the Euribor 
rates for money market loans with a maturity of 12 months – 
weighted according to the number of days for which these rates 
prevailed – during the financial year for which the distribution is 
made, plus two percentage points.
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an amount 
of no more than 300 basis points.
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and FP7: 
seven years and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a period 
expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance with the 
rules laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles of 
Association.
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal 
by the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. 
The part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of 
the General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further 
dividends will be distributed on the preference shares and with due 
consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the Articles of 
Association.
Please note that, as at the balance sheet date, neither preference 
shares B nor preference shares F have been issued.
Limits on the transfer of shares
The company has no limitation, under the Articles of Association or 
by contract, on the transfer of shares or depositary receipts issued 
with the company’s cooperation, apart from the restriction on the 
transfer of preference shares contained in the Articles of 
Association. Article 13 of the company’s Articles of Association 
stipulates that approval is required from the company’s Executive 
Board for the transfer of Class B preference shares. The scheme is 
included in order to offer the company the facility – because of the 
specific purpose of issuing these shares, namely the acquisition of 
finance or achieving protection – of offering the holders of these 
shares an alternative in the event that they wish to dispose of their 
shares.
 
As regards the Class B preference shares, the company and 
Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (BAM Group Stock 
Management Foundation) have agreed that the company will not 2015  – 107proceed to issue these shares or to grant any rights to purchase 
them to anyone other than the said foundation without the 
foundation’s permission. The foundation will not dispose of or 
encumber any Class B preference shares, nor renounce the voting 
rights relating to them, without permission from the company. 
Please refer to page 209 onward of the report with regard to the 
reasons behind protecting the company and the manner in which 
this is done.
Substantial interests
The company is aware of the following interests in its equity, which 
are now reported under the provisions concerning the reporting of 
controlling interests under the Disclosure of the Financial 
Supervision Act. See > table 61.
Special control rights
The shares into which the company’s equity is divided are not 
subject to any special control rights.
Employee share plan or employee option plan
The company does not have any employee share or employee 
option plans. Since this year a long term incentive plan based on 
performance shares has been introduced for the members of the 
Executive Board, which replaces the previous long term incentive 
plan which was based on phantom shares. The new long term 
incentive plan is cascaded down to a maximum number of 
15 senior  executive positions below the Executive Board.
Voting rights
Each share in the company provides entitlement to the casting of 
one vote at shareholders’ meetings. There are no restrictions on 
the exercising of voting rights. The company’s Articles of 
Association contain the usual provisions in relation to intimation for 
the purpose of being acknowledged as a proxy at shareholders’ 
meetings. Where the company’s Articles of Association mention 
holders of depositary receipts or depositary receipt holders, 
whether named or bearer, this is understood to mean holders of 
depositary receipts issued with the company’s cooperation and also 
individuals who, under the terms of Articles 88 or 89, Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code, have the rights accorded to holders of depositary 
receipts for shares issued with the company’s cooperation.
Shareholders’ agreements
The company is not aware of any agreements involving one of the 
company’s shareholders and which might provide reasons for:
(i)   restricting the transfer of shares or of depositary receipts 
issued with the company’s cooperation, or
(ii) restricting the voting rights.Appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board and 
members of the Executive Board
The company is obliged by law to operate a mitigated two-tier 
structure. The General Meeting appoints the members of the 
Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation from the 
Supervisory Board. The General Meeting also appoints the 
members of the Executive Board, with the Supervisory Board 
having the right of recommendation. The section headed 
Corporate governance on page 80 onwards of the report by the 
Executive Board provides a more detailed explanation of the 
appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board 
and members of the Executive Board.
Powers of the Executive Board
The company is managed by an Executive Board. The Executive 
Board’s powers are those arising from legislation and regulations. 
A more detailed description of the Executive Board’s duties can be 
found on page 80 onwards of the Executive Board’s report, in the 
section headed Corporate governance. The Executive Board was 
authorised by the General Meeting held on 22 April 2015 to issue 
ordinary shares and Class F preference shares and/or to grant options 
to purchase these shares, subject to approval from the Supervisory 
Board. This authorisation is limited in duration to eighteen months. 
It is also limited in scope to 10 per cent of the issued capital, plus an 
additional 10 per cent, which additional 10 per cent may be used 
exclusively for mergers, acquisitions or strategic partnerships by the 
company or by operating companies. The General Meeting held on 
22 April 2015 granted authority to the Executive Board for a period 
of eighteen months to repurchase shares in the company, within the 
limitations imposed by the law and the Articles of Association and 
subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. In principle, the 
General Meeting is asked to grant these authorisations every year. 
Resolutions to amend the Articles of Association, or to dissolve the 
company may only be passed by the General Meeting on the basis of 
a proposal put forward by the Executive Board and approved by the 
Supervisory Board.
Change of control provisions in important agreements
The Group’s most important financial rules state that in the event 
of a change of control (including in the event that more than 50 per 
cent of the shares in BAM are deemed to be held by one party), the 
banks may terminate further financing and the Group can be 
obliged to repay outstanding loans under these arrangements and 
to extend the capital base provided for outstanding bank 
guarantees. A change of control clause is not unusual in important 
collaboration agreements over a longer period, where the parties 
include parts of the Group. Partly because of the total size of the 
Group, these clauses are not considered significant within the 
meaning of the Decree on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive.
Change of control clauses in contracts of employment
No agreement has been concluded with directors or employees 
of the company providing for a severance payment on termination 
of employment resulting from a public bid for the company. 108 – 2015Biographies of the Supervisory Board members
P.A.F.W. Elverding (1948), Chairman
Mr Elverding graduated from the University 
of Amsterdam. After completing his law 
degree in 1972, Mr Elverding began his 
career in the health care sector. He then 
went on to work at Akzo Chemie Nederland 
and De Bijenkorf in various human 
resources positions. In 1981, he joined the 
management team of De Bijenkorf, 
assuming responsibility for human 
resources. In 1985, Mr Elverding joined DSM, serving in various 
management positions in different parts of the DSM Group with 
responsibility for human resources and general affairs. He was 
appointed to the DSM Executive Board in 1995 and became 
Chairman of the Executive Board in 1999. Mr Elverding retired in 
2007. Mr Elverding is a Dutch national. He does not own any shares 
in the Company’s capital. 
Other offices:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Q-Park; 
Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board at SHV Holdings; member 
of the Supervisory Board of Royal FrieslandCampina; member of the 
Board of Stichting Instituut GAK. 
Mr Elverding was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
in November 2011 as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. 
H.S. Scheffers (1948), Vice-Chairman
Mr Scheffers was trained as a chartered 
accountant. He was employed from 1974 
until 1993 at Koninklijke Bunge, where he 
successively held the positions of internal 
auditor, European controller and President 
Northern Europe. He was subsequently 
employed as an Executive Board member 
at LeasePlan Corporation from 1993 until 
1999. He joined SHV Holdings in 1999, 
where he was CFO on the Executive Board until he retired in 2007. 
Mr Scheffers is a Dutch national. He does not own any shares in the 
company’s capital. 
Other offices:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aalberts 
Industries; Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Flint Holding; 
member of the Supervisory Board of Heineken; member of the 
Board of Directors of Stichting Administratiekantoor Aandelen 
KAS BANK. 
Mr Scheffers was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2009, 
reappointed in 2013 and in November 2011 appointed as Vice-
Chairman of the Supervisory Board.J.-P. Hansen (1948) 
Baron Hansen graduated from Luik 
University as an electromechanical 
engineer. After two years working for the 
Belgian government, he continued his 
career in the electricity and gas sector. 
From 1992 to 1999 and again from 2005 to 
2010 Mr Hansen was CEO of Electrabel. 
From 1999 to 2004 he was Chairman of the 
Executive Board of the company. He held 
the position of member of the Executive Board of ENGIE until 
February 2013. Currently Mr Hansen is advisor and Chairman of the 
Energy Policy Committee of ENGIE. Mr Hansen is a Belgian national 
and holds no shares in the capital of the company. 
Other offices:  member of the Board of CMB (Compagnie Maritime 
Belge) and Chairman of the Walloon Public Service for Employment 
and Training (Forem). He is professor of economics at the University 
of Louvain.
Mr Hansen was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2013. 
Mrs C.M.C. Mahieu (1959) 
Mrs Mahieu studied economics at the 
University of Amsterdam, where she 
graduated in 1984. She began her career at 
Royal Dutch Shell, where she held various 
management positions dealing with human 
resources, communication and corporate 
strategy. After several years as a consultant, 
Mrs Mahieu joined Royal Philips Electronics 
as Senior Vice-President Corporate Human 
Resources in 2003. She took up her current position as Executive 
Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources at Aegon in 
September 2010. She is also a member of Aegon’s Group 
Management Committee. Mrs Mahieu is a Dutch national.  
She does not own any shares in the company’s capital. 
Mrs Mahieu holds no other offices.
Mrs Mahieu was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011.4.6  Supervisory Board and Executive Board
2015  – 109K.S. Wester (1946) 
Mr Wester studied civil engineering at Delft 
University of Technology. After graduating 
in 1969, he worked briefly for Fugro as a 
geotechnical engineer, after having 
performed military service. He then 
commenced employment at Costain 
Blankevoort and later at Ballast Nedam, 
working in the United Kingdom, the United 
Arab Emirates and Kuwait. In 1981, he 
returned to Fugro, where he held various management positions 
before being appointed to the Fugro Executive Board as a member 
under the Articles of Association in 1996 and going on to become 
Chairman of the Executive Board in 2005 (a position he held until 
his retirement in 2012). Mr Wester is a Dutch national and does not 
own any shares in the company. 
Other offices:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board ACTA, Chairman 
of the Supervisory Board of Iv-Groep. 
Mr Wester was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011.H.L.J. Noy (1951) 
Mr Noy completed his studies at Eindhoven 
University of Technology at the end of 
1974. Mr Noy worked for ARCADIS 
throughout his entire career. Starting in 
1975, he occupied various positions within 
the company, which at that time still 
operated under the name Heidemij. From 
1989 to 1994, he was a member of the 
Management Board of the consultancy 
division in the Netherlands, the last two years as Chairman of the 
Board. In 1994, Mr Noy was appointed as a member of the 
Executive Board and in 2000 as CEO and Chairman of the Executive 
Board of ARCADIS NV until he stepped down in May 2012.  
Mr Noy is a Dutch national and does not own any shares in the 
company’s capital. 
Other offices: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Fugro; Chairman 
of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor TKH Group; member 
of the Board of Stichting ING Aandelen; extraordinary member of 
the Dutch Safety Board. 
Mr Noy was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2012.
Retirement schedule for the Supervisory Board
As of January 2016Year of 
appointmentYear of 
re-appointmentYear of 
retirementCurrent 
term 1
P.A.F.W. Elverding 2011 2019 2023 2
H.S. Scheffers 2009 2013 2021 2
J.-P. Hansen 2013 2017 2025 1
C.M.C. Mahieu 2011 2019 2023 2
H.L.J. Noy 2012 2016 2024 1
K.S. Wester 2011 2019 2023 2
1  Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed/reappointed for a maximum of four years.54
110 – 2015Biographies of the Executive Board
Rob (R.P.) van Wingerden (1961), CEO
Mr Van Wingerden graduated as a civil 
engineer from Delft University of 
Technology in 1988. He joined the Group as 
a project surveyor in 1988 and 
subsequently worked in a variety of 
(project) management roles for operating 
companies in the Netherlands and 
elsewhere (including Taiwan and Hong 
Kong). He completed his MBA cum laude at 
Twente School of Management in 1994. During this period he 
attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business 
School in Boston. He was appointed Director of HBG Bouw en 
Vastgoed in 2000, became Director at BAM Utiliteitsbouw in 2002 
and was appointed Chairman of the Board of BAM Woningbouw in 
2005. Mr Van Wingerden has been a member of the Executive 
Board of Royal BAM Group since 2008. In October 2014 he was 
promoted to the position of CEO and Chairman of the Executive 
Board. He is a Dutch national and does not hold any shares in the 
company’s capital. 
Other offices: member of the Board of Governors of the Dutch 
Construction and Infrastructure Federation (Bouwend Nederland); 
member of the independent construction industry platform 
Vernieuwing Bouw; member of the Supervisory Board of Royal 
Saan; member of the Board of Nationaal Renovatie Platform, 
member of the Advisory of DIMI (Delft Infrastructures & Mobility 
Initiative).
Thessa (T.) Menssen (1967), CFO 
Mrs Menssen graduated from the University 
of Technology Eindhoven in 1990 with a 
degree in mechanical engineering. She then 
received a master’s degree in business 
administration from the Technical 
University of Twente. In 1992 Mrs Menssen 
joined Unilever, she held various 
management positions until 2006. In 2006 
Mrs Menssen was appointed member of the 
Executive Board of Havenbedrijf Rotterdam (Rotterdam Port 
Authority), first as CFO and from 2010 as COO. Mrs Menssen has 
been a member of the Executive Board of Royal BAM since October 
2012 and CFO since January 2013. She is a Dutch national and does 
not hold any shares in the company’s capital. 
Other offices:  member of the Supervisory Board of PostNL; member 
of the Supervisory Board of the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra; 
member of the Monitoring Committee of Talent naar de Top.Erik (E.J.) Bax (1957), COO
Mr Bax studied engineering, building & 
construction at the institute of technology 
in Tilburg and secured an MBA at Erasmus 
University Rotterdam and Georgia State 
University in Atlanta, USA. He joined the 
international leader for production and 
distribution of building materials CRH in 
1984 and undertook various operational 
and commercial positions at different 
business units of CRH. He then fulfilled a number of positions in 
CRH’s senior management, as of 2010 he was Managing Director 
CRH Europe Products & Distribution. Mr Bax has been a member of 
the Executive Board of Royal BAM Group since May 2014 and COO 
since October 2014. He is a Dutch national and does not hold any 
shares in the company’s capital.
2015  – 1115. Financial statements112 – 2015Consolidated financial statements
114 Consolidated income statement
115 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
116 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
117 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
118 Consolidated statement of cash flows
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
119 1.General information
119 2.Summary of significant accounting policies
135 3.Financial risk management
140 4.Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties
142 5.Segment information
145 6.Projects
147 7.Property, plant and equipment
148 8.Intangible assets
150 9.PPP receivables
150 10. Investments
154 11. Other financial assets
155 12. Inventories
156 13. Trade and other receivables
157 14. Cash and cash equivalents
158 15. Share capital
159 16. Reserves
160 17. Capital base
160 18. Borrowings
165 19. Derivative financial instruments
166 20. Employee benefits
172 21. Provisions
173 22. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
175 23. Trade and other payables
175 24. Employee benefit expenses
176 25. Impairment charges
176 26. Exceptional items
176 27. Audit fees
177 28. Finance income and expense
177 29. Income tax
178 30. Earnings per share
179 31. Dividends per share
179 32. Contingencies
180 33. Commitments
181 34. Business combinations
181 35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
182 36. Related parties
184 37. Share-based payments
187 38. Joint operations
188 39. Service concession arrangements
189 40. Government grants
189 41. Research and development
189 42. Events after the reporting period
Company financial statements
190 Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
190 Company income statement
191 Notes to the company financial statementsContents2015  – 113The notes on pages 119 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated income statement
(x €1,000)
Notes 2015 2014
Continuing operations
Revenue 5  7,422,942  7,314,020 
Raw materials and consumables used  (1,502,663)  (1,400,664)
Subcontracted work and other external charges  (4,200,698)  (4,081,952)
Employee benefit expenses 24  (1,358,434)  (1,490,561)
Depreciation and amortisation charges 7,8  (70,527)  (82,802)
Impairment charges 25  (41,126)  (67,618)
Other operating expenses  (265,003)  (295,674)
Exchange rate differences  4,817  525 
 (7,433,634)  (7,418,746)
  
Operating result  (10,692)  (104,726)
Finance income 28  34,495  45,969 
Finance expense 28  (23,490)  (33,900)
 11,005  12,069 
Share of result of investments 10  10,988  18,457 
Share of impairment charges in investments 10,25  2,040  (48,240)
 13,028  (29,783)
  
Result before tax  13,341  (122,440)
Income tax 29  (2,309)  15,499 
Result for the year from continuing operations  11,032  (106,941)
Discontinued operations
Result for the year from discontinued operations  -  - 
  
Net result  11,032  (106,941)
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company  10,180  (108,172)
Non-controlling interests  852  1,231 
 11,032  (106,941)
Earnings per share 
(x €1)
Basic 30
Continuing operations  0.04  (0.40)
Discontinued operations  -  - 
 0.04  (0.40)
Diluted 30
Continuing operations  0.04  (0.40)
Discontinued operations  -  - 
 0.04  (0.40)114 – 2015The notes on pages 119 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2015 2014
Net result  11,032  (106,941)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to the income statement, net of tax
Cash flow hedges 19 4,774  (7,926)
Cash flow hedges of investments in joint ventures (643)  45,548 
Exchange rate differences  26,344  25,292 
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement, net of tax
Remeasurements of post- employment benefit obligations 20  37,096  (49,463)
Other comprehensive income  67,571  13,451 
  
Total comprehensive income  78,603  (93,490)
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company  77,543  (94,146)
Non- controlling interests  1,060  656 
78,603  (93,490)
Total comprehensive income attributable to the shareholders of the Company arises from:
Continuing operations  77,543  (94,146)
Discontinued operations  - -
77,543  (94,146)Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(x €1,000)2015  – 115The notes on pages 119 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
(x €1,000)
Notes 2015 2014
Non- current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7  292,159 315,780
Intangible assets 8  416,052 409,250
PPP receivables 9  279,074 303,978
Investments 10  94,052 94,607
Other financial assets 11  98,488 84,885
Derivative financial instruments 19  979 229
Employee benefits 20  74,684 17,786
Deferred tax assets 22  251,715 242,492
 1,507,203 1,469,007
Current assets
Inventories 12  758,738 843,123
Trade and other receivables 13  1,891,776 1,878,677
Income tax receivable  9,306 10,428
Derivative financial instruments 19  6,200 3,376
Cash and cash equivalents 14  637,212 624,330
 3,303,232 3,359,934
Assets held for sale 35  41,814 127,043
Total assets  4,852,249 4,955,984
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company
Share capital 15  839,311 839,311
Reserves 16  (330,087) (397,450)
Retained earnings  392,923 385,533
 902,147 827,394
Non- controlling interests  3,638 3,322
Total equity  905,785 830,716
Non- current liabilities
Borrowings 18  511,863 538,792
Derivative financial instruments 19  33,939 47,712
Employee benefits 20  151,731 187,207
Provisions 21  84,933 114,638
Deferred tax liabilities 22  30,959 25,906
 813,425 914,255
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18  85,459 125,333
Trade and other payables 23  2,895,821 2,853,406
Derivative financial instruments 19  16,749 8,269
Provisions 21  65,258 72,112
Income tax payable  23,290 23,127
 3,086,577 3,082,247
Liabilities held for sale 35  46,462 128,766
 3,133,039 3,211,013
  
Total equity and liabilities  4,852,249 4,955,984
Capital base 17  1,026,482 951,894116 – 2015The notes on pages 119 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated statement of changes in equity
(x € 1,000)
Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
NotesShare
capital ReservesRetained
earnings TotalNon-
controlling 
interests Total
equity
As at 1 January 2014 833,268 (411,476) 507,322 929,114 3,549 932,663
Cash flow hedges 19 - 37,972 - 37,972 (350) 37,622
Remeasurements of post- 
employment benefit obligations 20 - (49,157) - (49,157) (306) (49,463)
Exchange rate differences - 25,211 - 25,211 81 25,292
Other comprehensive income,  
net of tax - 14,026 - 14,026 (575) 13,451
Net result - - (108,172) (108,172) 1,231 (106,941)
Total comprehensive income - 14,026 (108,172) (94,146) 656 (93,490)
Issuance of ordinary shares - - - - 24 24
Dividends 31 6,043 - (13,471) (7,428) (907) (8,335)
Other movements - - (146) (146) - (146)
6,043 - (13,617) (7,574) (883) (8,457)
      
As at 31 December 2014 839,311 (397,450) 385,533 827,394 3,322 830,716
Cash flow hedges 19  -  4,094  -  4,094  37  4,131 
Remeasurements of post- 
employment benefit obligations 20  -  37,026  -  37,026  70  37,096 
Exchange rate differences  -  26,243  -  26,243  101  26,344 
Other comprehensive income,  
net of tax  -  67,363  -  67,363  208  67,571 
Net result  -  -  10,180  10,180  852  11,032 
Total comprehensive income  -  67,363  10,180  77,543  1,060  78,603 
Dividends  -  -  -  -  (743)  (743)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 15 - - (3,092) (3,092) - (3,092)
Share-based payments 37 - - 302 302 - 302
Other movements  -  - - -  (1) (1)
 -  -  (2,790)  (2,790)  (744)  (3,534)
      
As at 31 December 2015  839,311  (330,087)  392,923  902,147  3,638  905,785 2015  – 117Consolidated statement of cash flows
(x € 1,000)
The notes on pages 119 to 189 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2015 2014
Net result  11,032 (106,941)
Adjustments for:
- Income tax 29  2,309 (15,499)
- Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7  66,470 79,586
- Amortisation of intangible assets 8  4,057 3,216
- Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7,25  1,452 1,200
- Impairment of non-current receivables 11,25 (949) 11,446
- Impairment of intangible assets 8,25  3,298 511
- Impairment of inventories 12,25  37,325 54,461
- Share of impairment charges in investments 10,25  (2,040) 48,240
- Result on sale of subsidiaries  - (1,238)
- Result on sale of PPP projects 35  (5,207) (24,500)
- Result on sale of property, plant and equipment  (4,594) (5,502)
- Share of result of investments 10  (10,988) (18,457)
- Finance income 28  (34,495) (45,969)
- Finance expense 28  23,490 33,900
Changes in provisions 20,21  (69,606) (11,738)
Changes in working capital (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 88,293 189,516
Cash flow from operations 109,847 192,232
Interest paid  (38,274) (47,002)
Income tax paid  (10,023) (10,280)
Net cash flow from ordinary operations 61,550 134,950
Investments in PPP receivables 9  (218,514) (248,693)
Repayments of PPP receivables 9  63,820 33,046
Net cash flow from operating activities  (93,144) (80,697)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  - (689)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 7  (64,644) (56,336)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7  27,567 21,943
Purchases of intangible assets 8  (6,391) (2,945)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 8  918 -
Investments in non-current receivables 11  (14,899) (72,572)
Repayments of non-current receivables 11  3,759 42,199
Investments in other financial assets 10,11  (17,433) (9,011)
Proceeds from disposal of other financial assets 10,11  837 19,806
Proceeds from sale of PPP projects 35  35,000 108,900
Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries  - 10,234
Interest received  34,905 46,169
Dividends received from investments 10  13,321 11,470
Net cash flow from investing activities 12,940 119,168
Proceeds from borrowings 18  214,239 318,391
Repayments of borrowings 18  (130,131) (275,302)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 31  - (7,428)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (743) (907)
Net cash flow from financing activities  83,365 34,754
Change in cash and cash equivalents 3,161 73,225
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 14  624,330 548,131
Change in cash and cash equivalents assets and liabilities held for sale 35  (421) (5,722)
Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 10,139 8,696
Net cash position at end of year 14  637,209 624,330118 – 2015Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. General information
Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’), its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) and its share in joint operations 
offers its clients a substantial package of products and services in the sectors Construction and mechanical and 
electrical services, Civil engineering, Property and Public Private Partnerships (‘PPP’). The Group is mainly active in the 
Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. The Group is also involved in specialist construction 
and civil engineering projects in niche markets worldwide.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam, with its registered seat and 
head office in Bunnik, the Netherlands. 
On 17 February 2016 the Executive Board authorised the financial statements for issue. The financial statements as 
presented in this report are subject to the adoption by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 20 April 2016.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out 
below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.  
2.1  Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union and also comply with the financial reporting 
requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, as far as applicable. As the financial data of 
the Company are included in the consolidated financial statements, the income statement in the company financial 
statements is presented in condensed form in accordance with section 402, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, unless otherwise 
stated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates 
are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
2.1.1  Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a) Application of new and revised standards
The Group has applied the amendments for the first time for their annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2015 
in connection with the ‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2010-2012 Cycle’ and ‘2011 – 2013 Cycle’ and ‘Defined Benefit 
Plans: Employee Contributions – Amendments to IAS 19’. 
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current period or any prior period and is not likely 
to affect future periods. 2015  – 119(b) New standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods 
beginning after 1 January 2015 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None 
of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except the 
following set out below:
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and 
financial liabilities and introduces new rules for hedge accounting. In July 2014, the IASB made further changes to the 
classification and measurement rules and also introduced a new impairment model. These latest amendments now 
complete the new financial instruments standard. 
Following the changes approved by the IASB in July 2014, the Group does not expect any impact from the new 
classification, measurement and derecognition rules on the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities. 
The new hedging rules align hedge accounting more closely with the Group’s risk management practices. As a general 
rule it will be easier to apply hedge accounting going forward as the standard introduces a more principles-based 
approach. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation. 
The new impairment model is an expected credit loss (ECL) model which may result in the earlier recognition of credit 
losses. 
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. 
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS 9.
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for 
reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of 
revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer 
obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or 
service. The standard replaces IAS 18, ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11, ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. The 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is permitted. The 
Group intends to prepare a detailed impact analysis in 2016 to identify the effect of this standard on its financial 
statements and plans to implement this standard on the required date. 
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ was issued by the IASB on 13 January 2016. Under existing rules, lessees generally account for lease 
transactions either off-balance if the lease is classified as operating lease or on balance if the lease is classified as finance 
lease. IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise nearly all leases on balance which will reflect their right to use an asset for a 
period of time and the associated liability to pay rentals. The lessor’s accounting’ model largely remains unchanged. The 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier adoption permitted if IFRS 15, 
‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ also has been applied. As disclosed in note 33.2, the Group has several 
operating lease contracts for buildings, equipment and company cars for which the accounting will in principle change 
from off balance to on balance. The Group intends to prepare a detailed impact analysis in 2016 to identify the effect of 
this standard on its financial statements and plans to implement this standard on the required date. 
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material 
impact on the Group.
2.2  Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.120 – 2015The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the 
acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset 
or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition 
date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at 
fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held 
equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such 
remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is 
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income. 
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for 
within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case 
of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated. When necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to 
conform with the Group’s accounting policies.
(b) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions 
– that is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any 
consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in 
equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
 
(c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date 
when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income statement. The fair value is the 
initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint 
venture  or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of 
that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean 
that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the profit or loss.
(d) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, accompanying a shareholding 
of between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting rights or based on the representation on the board of directors. 
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the 
investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s 
share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The Group’s investment in associates includes 
goodwill identified on acquisition. 2015  – 121If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of 
the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement, where 
appropriate.
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-
acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a 
corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate 
equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise 
further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the 
associate is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the 
recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Group’s 
financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. Unrealised losses are 
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of 
associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
(e) Joint arrangements
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint operations depending on the 
contractual rights and obligations. 
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement 
have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. The parties to the arrangement have agreed contractually that 
control is shared and decisions regarding relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties which have joint 
control of the joint venture. 
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint 
ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition 
profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture 
equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form 
part of the Group’s net investment in the joint ventures), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has 
incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s 
interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the 
arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the joint operation. The Group 
recognises its share in the joint operations’ individual revenues and expenses, assets and liabilities and combines it on a 
line-by-line basis with corresponding items in the Group’s financial statements.
2.3  Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Board. 
The Executive Board considers the business from a sector perspective and identifies Construction and mechanical and 
electrical services, Civil engineering, Property and PPP as operating segments.122 – 20152.4  Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in ‘euro’ (€), which is the Group’s presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from 
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement within ‘exchange rate differences’, 
except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges. 
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the 
presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
• all resulting exchange rate differences are recognised separately in equity in ‘other comprehensive income’.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. Exchange rate differences arising are recognised in ‘other 
comprehensive income’.
 
(d) Exchange rates
The following exchange rates of the euro against the pound sterling (£) have been used in the preparation of these 
financial statements:
2015 2014
Closing exchange rate
Pound sterling  0.73681 0.78247
Average exchange rate
Pound sterling  0.72653 0.805022015  – 1232.5  Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the 
item can be measured reliably. Other costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which 
they are incurred.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost 
to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Land improvements 10%-25%
Buildings 2%-10%
Equipment and installations 10%-25%
IT equipment 10%-25%
Furniture and fixtures 10%-25%
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting 
period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount (note 2.7).
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised 
within ‘other operating expenses’ in the income statement.
2.6  Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the 
Group’s interest in net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and 
the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs 
that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit to which the goodwill is allocated 
represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate a potential impairment. The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to the recoverable 
amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
(b) Non-integrated software
Non-integrated software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation on non-integrated software is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives (between 4 and 10 years).
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting 
period.124 – 2015(c) Other
Other intangible assets relate to market positions, including (brand) names and the management of acquired 
subsidiaries and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation on other 
intangible assets is calculated over their estimated useful lives.
The assets’ useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
2.7  Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation 
and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is 
recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash inflows (CGUs). Prior 
impairments of non-financial assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
2.8  Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through 
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case the asset (or disposal group) must be 
available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or 
disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the asset’s carrying amount and the fair value 
less costs to sell. Depreciation or amortisation of an asset ceases when it is classified as held for sale. Equity accounting 
ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, 
and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single co-ordinated 
plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued 
operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the component disposed of and that will not be recognised 
subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the income statement. Results and cash 
flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial statements so that 
the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the 
balance sheet date for the latest period presented.
2.9  Financial assets
2.9.1  Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The classification depends on the 
purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the category ‘loans and receivables’ and ‘derivative financial instruments’ 
(note 2.12). Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not 
quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after 
the end of the reporting period. These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise 
‘PPP receivables’, ‘other financial assets’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘retentions’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the 
balance sheet.2015  – 1252.9.2  Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date on which the Group commits to purchase or 
sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried 
at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at 
fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the 
rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
2.10  Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset 
and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must 
be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company 
or the counterparty.
2.11  Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or 
group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses 
are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the 
initial recognition of the asset (‘loss event’) and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the 
financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant 
financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter 
bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in 
the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
For loans and receivables, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. If a loan 
has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate 
determined under the contract.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to 
an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement.126 – 20152.12  Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative 
is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates the 
derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction (‘cash flow hedge’).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged 
items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group 
also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are 
used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 19. Movements 
on the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income are shown in note 16. The full fair value of a hedging derivative 
is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve months and as a 
current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within ‘finance 
income/expense’.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings 
is recognised in the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any 
cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction 
is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within ‘finance 
income/expense’.
2.13 Inventories
Land, building rights and property developments are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group 
capitalises interest on finance raised to facilitate the development of specific projects once development commences 
and until practical completion, based on the total actual finance cost incurred on the borrowings during the period. 
When properties are acquired for future redevelopment, interest on borrowings is recognised in the income statement 
until redevelopment commences.
Raw materials and finished goods are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the 
‘first-in, first-out (FIFO) method’. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, 
less applicable variable selling expenses.2015  – 1272.14  Construction contracts
A construction contract is defined as a contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset.
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be 
profitable, contract revenue is recognised over the period of the contract by reference to the stage of completion. 
Contract costs are recognised as expenses by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of 
the reporting period. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss 
is recognised as an expense immediately.
When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the 
extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in contract revenue to the extent that may 
have been agreed with the customer and are capable of being reliably measured.
The Group uses the ‘percentage-of-completion method‘ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given 
period. The stage of completion is measured by reference to the contract costs incurred up to the end of the reporting 
period as a percentage of total estimated costs for each contract. Costs incurred in the year in connection with future 
activity on a contract are excluded from contract costs in determining the stage of completion.
On the balance sheet, the Group reports the net contract position for each contract as either an asset or a liability. 
A contract represents an asset where costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) exceed progress 
billings; a contract represents a liability where the opposite is the case.
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually certain that a contract will be awarded, from which time 
further pre-contract costs are recognised as an asset and charged as an expense over the period of the contract. 
Amounts recovered in respect of pre-contract costs that have been written off are deferred and amortised over the life 
of the contract.
2.15  Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If 
collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current 
assets.
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
2.16  Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with 
banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. 
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within ‘borrowings’ in current liabilities.
2.17  Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of 
tax, from the proceeds.128 – 2015When share capital is repurchased in order to prevent dilution as a result of the share-based compensation plan, the 
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of tax, is deducted from equity. Repurchased shares 
(treasury shares) are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or re-issued 
subsequently, any amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the 
transaction is transferred to/from retained earnings.
2.18  Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, 
they  are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
 
2.19  Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried 
at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method (in case not 
attributable to property development projects).
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is 
probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. 
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
2.20  Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the 
tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income respectively directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to 
interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax 
authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if 
they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.2015  – 129Deferred income tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and joint arrangements, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. Generally the Group is unable to control the reversal of the temporary difference for associates. 
Only where there is an agreement in place that gives the Group the ability to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference not recognised.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in 
subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the temporary difference will 
reverse in the future and there is sufficient taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can be 
utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by 
the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention 
to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.21  Employee benefits
(a) Pension obligations
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. 
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient 
assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit 
plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, 
usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of 
the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of 
high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have 
terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no deep 
market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Current service costs of defined benefit plans are recognised immediately in the income statement, as part of 
‘employee benefit expenses’, and reflect the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service 
in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, 
contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are 
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.130 – 2015(b) Other post-employment obligations
Other post-employment obligations comprise jubilee benefits, retirement gifts, temporary leaves and similar 
arrangements and have a non-current nature. These obligations are stated at present value.
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or 
whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises 
termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those 
benefits; and (b) when the entity recognises costs for a restructuring and involves the payment of termination benefits. 
In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the 
number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the 
reporting period are discounted to their present value.
2.22 Share-based payments
(a) Performance Share Plan
The Group operates an equity-settled share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a 
corresponding credit entry of equity. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over 
which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. The total amount to be expensed is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the shares granted:
• Including a market performance condition based on the Company’s share price;
• excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions; and
• including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest 
based on the non-market vesting conditions and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original 
estimates, if any, in the income statement within ‘personnel expenses’, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the 
grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service 
commencement period and grant date.
These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the performance shares and are 
re-invested.
(b) Phantom Share Plan
The Group operates a cash-settled share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a 
corresponding credit entry of liabilities for the period until the date on which the Executive Board members are 
unconditionally entitled to payment. The valuation of the liability is re-assessed on every reporting date and on the 
settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement within ‘personnel 
expenses’.
Phantom shares become unconditional three years after the date of grant, while the percentage of phantom shares 
that become unconditional depends on the market performance condition based on the Company’s share price.2015  – 131These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the phantom shares and are 
re-invested.
Upon vesting date, unconditional phantom shares are locked up for another two years. Cash distribution takes place at 
the end of the lock-up period. 
2.23  Provisions
Provisions for warranties, restructuring costs, rental guarantees and associates and joint ventures are recognised when: 
(a) the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; (b) it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and (c) the amount has been reliably estimated. 
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using 
a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan has been approved, and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced publicly. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and 
employee termination payments. Future operating losses are not recognised.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment (including separately presented goodwill 
and other uninsured receivables), further losses will not be recognised, unless the Group has provided securities to the 
associate or joint venture, committed to liabilities or payment on behalf of the associate and joint venture. In that case, 
the excess will be provided for. 
2.24  Revenue recognition
(a) Construction contracts
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be 
profitable, contract revenue is recognised over the period of the contract by reference to the stage of completion. 
The outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
• Total contract revenue can be measured reliably;
• it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group;
• both the contract costs to complete and the stage of contract completion at the end of the reporting period can be 
measured reliably; and
• the contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract 
costs incurred can be compared with prior estimates.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of 
the reporting period. The stage of completion is measured by dividing the actual costs by the total forecasted costs.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately.
When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the 
extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in contract revenue to the extent that may 
have been agreed with the customer and are capable of being reliably measured.132 – 2015The Group uses the ‘percentage-of-completion method‘ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given 
period. The stage of completion is measured by reference to the contract costs incurred up to the end of the reporting 
period as a percentage of total estimated costs for each contract. Costs incurred in the year in connection with future 
activity on a contract are excluded from contract costs in determining the stage of completion.
(b) Property development
Sale of property development are recognised in respect of contracts exchanged during the year, provided that no 
material conditions remain outstanding on the balance sheet date and all conditions are fully satisfied by the date on 
which the contract is signed. Rental income from incidental operations in connection with property development is 
recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis.
Known and expected losses are recognised as an expense immediately on completing a development once such losses 
are foreseen. The profit on disposal of property developments is determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the reporting period including additions in 
the period and any residual commitments.
When the buyer is able to specify the major structural elements of the design of property development before 
construction begins and/or specify major structural changes once construction is in progress (whether it exercises that 
ability or not), revenue is recognised in accordance with construction contracts.
When the Group transfers control and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in its 
current state as construction progresses to the buyer, revenue is recognised in accordance with ‘construction 
contracts’. This may be the case in house-building projects as from the moment that the land and buildings, if any, have 
been legally transferred to the buyer.
(c) Service concession arrangements 
Revenue in connection with service concession arrangements comprises construction and exploitation activities. 
Revenue from construction activities is recognised in conformity with the revenue recognition principles of 
construction contracts. Revenue from exploitation activities depends on the availability of the underlying asset 
(PPP receivables). Due to the nature of the contractual arrangements the projected cash flows can be estimated  
with a high degree of certainty.
In case the concession payments depend on the availability of the underlying asset, revenue consists of:
• The fair value of the contractually agreed upon services rendered; and
• the interest income related to the capital expenditure in the project. 
Revenue is recognised in the period in which the related services are rendered. Interest is recognised in the income 
statement within ‘finance income’ in the period to which it relates.
d) Services and other
Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to stage of 
completion of the specific transaction and assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the 
total services to be provided.
Sales of goods are recognised upon delivery to the customer and there is no unfulfilled obligation that could affect the 
customer’s acceptance of the products.
When the outcome of a transaction cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the 
expenses recognised that are recoverable.
Other revenue includes, among other items, rental income under an operating lease and (sub)lease of property, plant 
and/or equipment. When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet 
based on the nature of the asset. Lease income on operating leases is recognised over the term of the lease on a 
straight-line basis.2015  – 1332.25  Interest income
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method. When a loan and receivable is impaired, the Group 
reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the 
original effective interest rate of the instrument and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Interest 
income on impaired loan and receivables is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
2.26  Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group leases certain property, plant and/or equipment. Leases of property, plant and/or equipment where the 
Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are 
capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of 
the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of 
finance charges, are included in ‘borrowings’. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income 
statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability for each period. The property, plant and/or equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the 
shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
2.27  Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the 
conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be reviewed.
Government grants that are receivable as a compensation for expenses or losses already incurred are recognised in the 
income statement in the period in which they become receivable.
2.28  Research and development
Research and development costs, which predominantly relate to projects, are considered to be part of contract costs. 
Other research and development costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
2.29  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further 
understanding of the financial performance of the Group. There are material items of income and expense that have 
been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.134 – 20152.30  Statement of cash flows
The statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method. The net cash position in the statement of cash 
flows consists of cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts. 
Cash flows in foreign exchange currencies are converted using the average exchange rate. Exchange rate differences 
on the net cash position are separately presented in the statement of cash flows. Payments in connection with interest 
and income tax are included in the cash flow from operations. Cash flows in connection with PPP receivables are 
included in the cash flow from operating activities. Paid dividend is included in cash flows from financing activities. The 
purchase price of acquisitions of subsidiaries are included in the cash flow from investing activities as far as payments 
have taken place. Cash and cash equivalents in the subsidiaries are deducted from the purchase price.
Non-cash transactions are not included in the statement of cash flows.
3.  Financial risk management
3.1  Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate 
risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are not exceptional or different in nature from those that 
are customary in the industry. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of 
financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group 
uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by group treasury under policies approved by the Executive Board. Group treasury 
identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close collaboration with the group companies. The Executive Board 
provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as 
foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial 
instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
A substantial part of the Group’s activities takes place in the United Kingdom and, to a limited extent, in other 
non-euro countries. The Group’s results and shareholders’ equity are therefore affected by foreign exchange rates. 
Generally, the Group is active in these non-euro countries through local subsidiaries. The exchange risk is therefore 
limited, because transactions are denominated largely in the functional currencies of the subsidiaries. The  associated 
translation risk is not hedged. 
A limited number of group companies are active in markets where contracts are denominated in a different currency 
than their functional currency. Group policy is that costs and revenues from these projects are mainly expressed in the 
same currency, thus limiting foreign exchange risks. The Group hedges the residual exchange risk on a project-by-
project basis, using forward exchange contracts. This involves hedging of unconditional project related exchange risks 
in excess of €1 million as soon as these occur. The Group reports these hedges by means of hedge accounting. 
Additional exchange risks in the tender stage and arising from contractual amendments are assessed on a case-by-case 
basis. 
Procedures have been established for proper recording of hedge transactions. Systems are in place to ensure the 
regular performance and analysis of the requisite hedge effectiveness measurements for hedge accounting. 2015  – 135With regard to financial instruments, the Group predominantly faces an exchange rate risk for current account 
balances in British pound sterling. This risk is covered by forward exchange contracts. The residual effect of the 
exchange rate risk with regard to financial instruments in pound sterling and other currencies on the Group’s result and 
equity, is limited. 
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk is associated with interest-bearing receivables and cash and cash equivalents, on the one 
hand and interest-bearing borrowings, on the other. If the interest is variable, it presents the Group with a cash flow 
interest rate risk. If the interest rate is fixed, there is a fair value interest rate risk. 
The Group mitigates the cash flow interest rate risk to the extent possible through the use of interest rate swaps, under 
which interest liabilities based on a variable rate are converted into fixed rates. The Group does not use interest rate 
swaps under which fixed-rate interest liabilities are converted into variable rates in order to hedge the fair value 
interest rate risk. 
The analysis of the cash flow interest rate risk takes into account cash and cash equivalents, the debt position and the 
usual fluctuations in the Group’s working capital requirements. In addition, alternatives are being studied and hedges 
are being considered. Under Group policy, cash flow interest rate risks with regard to long-term borrowings (mainly 
subordinated and PPP loans) are largely hedged by interest swaps. As a result, the Group is not entirely insensitive to 
movements in interest rates. At year-end 2015, 83 per cent (2014: 80 per cent) of the interest on the Group’s debt 
position was fixed. The part not covered consists almost entirely of project financing. 
If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been an average of 100 basis points higher or lower during 2015, the 
Group’s net result after tax (assuming that all other variables remained equal) would have been approximately 
€0.3 million lower or approximately €2.1 million higher (2014: approximately € 0.1 million lower or approximately 
€1.5 million higher). If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been an average of 100 basis points higher or lower 
during 2015, the Group’s fair value cash flow hedge reserves in Group equity (assuming that all other variables 
remained equal) would have been approximately €24 million higher or approximately €24 million lower 
(2014:  approximately € 25 million higher or approximately € 25 million lower). 
(iii) Price risk
The price risk run by the Group relates to the procurement of land and materials and subcontracting of work and 
consists of the difference between the market price at the point of tendering or offering on a contract and the market 
price at the time of actual performance. 
The Group’s policy is to agree a price indexation reimbursement clause with the customer at the point of tendering or 
offering on major projects. The Group also endeavours to manage the price risk by using framework contracts, 
suppliers’ quotations and high-value sources of information. If the Group is awarded a project and no price indexation 
reimbursement clause is agreed with the customer, the costs of land and materials, as well as the costs for 
subcontractors, are fixed at an early stage by establishing prices and conditions in advance with the main suppliers and 
subcontractors. 
While it is impossible to exclude the impact of price fluctuations altogether, the Group takes the view that its current 
policy reflects the optimum economic balance between decisiveness and predictability. The Group occasionally uses 
financial instruments to hedge the (residual) price risks. 
(b) Credit risk
The Group has credit risks with regard to financial assets including ‘PPP receivables’, ‘non-current receivables’, 
‘derivative financial instruments’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘retentions’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’. 
‘PPP receivables’ and a substantial part of the ‘trade receivables – net’ consist of contracts with governments or 
government bodies. Therefore, credit risk inherent in these contracts is limited. Furthermore, a significant part of 136 – 2015‘trade receivables – net’ is based on contracts involving prepayments or payments proportionate to progress of the 
work, which limits the credit risks, in principle, to the balances outstanding. 
The credit risk arising from ‘PPP receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ is monitored by the relevant subsidiaries. 
Clients’ creditworthiness is analysed in advance and then monitored during the performance of the project. This 
involves taking account of the client’s financial position, previous collaborations and other factors. Group policy is 
designed to mitigate these credit risks through the use of various instruments, including retaining ownership until 
payment has been received, prepayments and the use of bank guarantees. 
The Group’s ‘cash and cash equivalents’ are held in various banks. The Group limits the associated credit risk as a result 
of the Group’s policy to work only with respectable banks and financial institutions. This involves ‘cash and cash 
equivalents’ in excess of €10 million being held at banks and financial institutions with a minimum rating of ‘A’. 
The Group’s policy aims to minimise any concentration of credit risks involving ‘cash and cash equivalents’.
The carrying amounts of the financial assets exposed to a credit risk are as follows:
Notes 2015 2014
Non-current assets
PPP receivables 9 279,074  303,978 
Non-current receivables 11 96,108  82,320 
Derivative financial instruments 19 979  229 
Current assets
Trade receivables – net 13 806,492 840,436
Retentions 13 126,142  94,002 
PPP receivables 9 5,263  3,948 
Other financial assets 11 6,726  6,039 
Derivative financial instruments 19 6,200  3,376 
Cash and cash equivalents 14 637,212  624,330 
1,964,196  1,958,658 
Non-current receivables predominantly concern loans granted to associates and joint ventures active in the sector 
Property. These loans are in general not past due at the balance sheet date. Triggering events for impairments are 
identified based on the financial position of these associates and joint ventures, which also include the value of the 
underlying property development positions. For a part of these loans property developments positions are held as 
securities generally subordinated to the providers of the external financing. 
Impairments are included in ‘non-current receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ (notes 11 and 13). None of the other 
assets were overdue at year-end 2015 or subject to impairment. The maximum credit risk relating to financial 
instruments equals the carrying amount of the financial instrument concerned.
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risks may occur if the procurement and performance of new projects stagnate and less payments (and 
prepayments) are received, or if investments in land or property development would have a significant effect on the 
available financing resources and/or operational cash flows. 
The size of individual transactions can cause relatively large short-term fluctuations in the liquidity position. The Group 
has sufficient credit and current account facilities to manage these fluctuations. 
Partly to manage liquidity risks, subsidiaries prepare monthly detailed cash flow projections for the ensuing twelve 
months. The analysis of the liquidity risk takes into account the amount of cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities 2015  – 137and the usual fluctuations in the Group’s working capital requirements. This provides the Group with sufficient 
opportunities to use its available liquidities and credit facilities as flexible as possible and to indicate any shortfalls in a 
timely manner. 
The first possible expected contractual cash outflows from financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments as at 
the end of the year and settled on a net basis, consist of (contractual) repayments and (estimated) interest payments. 
The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is as follows:
Carrying 
amountContractual
 cash flows < 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years
2015
Subordinated loan  124,335  142,242  7,138  135,104  - 
Non-recourse PPP loans  194,787  250,975  13,368  56,836  180,771 
Non-recourse property financing  116,034 128,974  25,232  103,742  - 
Other non-recourse financing  7,921 8,223  1,577  6,611  35 
Recourse PPP loans  52,771  54,865  8,634  46,231  - 
Recourse property financing  80,083  83,894  36,948  46,866  80 
Other recourse financing  6,937  8,227  225  4,397 3,605
Finance lease liabilities  14,451  14,387  4,585  9,802 -
Derivative financial instruments  
(forward exchange contracts)  (7,179)  (259,286)  (254,502)  (4,784)  - 
Derivative financial instruments  
(forward exchange contracts)  20,167  265,139 246,833  18,306  - 
Derivative financial instruments  
(interest rate swaps)  30,521 44,590 9,256  22,881  12,453 
Bank overdrafts  3  3  3  -  - 
Other current liabilities  907,012  907,012  907,012  -  - 
 1,547,843  1,649,245  1,006,309  445,992  196,944 
2014
Subordinated loan 124,500 145,054 7,763 137,291 -
Non-recourse PPP loans 205,985 304,683 141,319 35,748 127,616
Non-recourse property financing 160,578 170,608 66,631 103,111 866
Other non-recourse financing 9,351 10,403 1,299 4,357 4,747
Recourse PPP loans 63,760 69,291 26,447 36,171 6,673
Recourse property financing 70,695 74,301 33,269 40,796 236
Other recourse financing 6,937 8,305 944 3,556 3,805
Finance lease liabilities 22,319 23,069 9,539 13,242 288
Derivative financial instruments  
(forward exchange contracts) (3,605) (388,848) (270,802) (118,046) -
Derivative financial instruments  
(forward exchange contracts) 11,821 384,607 271,078 113,529 -
Derivative financial instruments  
(interest rate swaps) 44,160 65,391 12,557 28,486 24,348
Other current liabilities 820,637 820,637 820,637 - -
1,537,138 1,687,501 1,120,681 398,241 168,579
The expected cash outflows are offset by the cash inflows from operations and (re-)financing. In addition, the 
Group  has committed syndicated and bilateral credit facilities of €500 million (2014: €500 million) respectively  
€153 million (2014: €153 million) available.138 – 20153.2  Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in 
order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s aim is for a financing structure that ensures continuing operations and minimises cost of equity. For this, 
flexibility and access to the financial markets are important conditions. As usual within the industry, the Group 
monitors its financing structure using a capital ratio, among other factors. 
Capital ratio is calculated as the capital base divided by total assets. The Group’s capital base consists of equity 
attributable to the shareholders of the Company and the subordinated loan (notes 17 and 18). At year-end 2015, the 
capital ratio was 21.2  per cent (2014: 19.2  per cent).
3.3  Financial instruments by categories
The Group has three categories of financial instruments. A significant number of these are inherent to the Group’s 
business activities and are presented in various other balance sheet items. The following summary indicates the values 
for which financial instruments are included for each relevant balance sheet item:
Financial instruments
NotesLoans and 
receivablesFinancial 
liabilities HedgingNon-financial 
instruments Total
2015
PPP receivables 9  279,074  -  -  -  279,074 
Other financial assets 11  98,488  -  -  -  98,488 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  7,179  -  7,179 
Trade and other receivables 13  945,891  -  -  945,885  1,891,776 
Cash and cash equivalents 14  637,212  -  -  -  637,212 
Borrowings 18  -  597,322  -  -  597,322 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  50,688  -  50,688 
Trade and other payables 23  -  907,012   1,988,809  2,895,821 
 1,960,665  1,504,334  57,867  2,934,694  6,457,560 
2014
PPP receivables 9  303,978  -  -  -  303,978 
Other financial assets 11  84,885  -  -  -  84,885 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  3,605  -  3,605 
Trade and other receivables 13  946,508  -  -  932,169  1,878,677 
Cash and cash equivalents 14  624,330  -  -  -  624,330 
 
Borrowings 18  -  664,125  -  -  664,125 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  55,981  -  55,981 
Trade and other payables 23  -  820,637  -  2,032,769  2,853,406 
 1,959,701  1,484,762  59,586  2,964,938  6,468,987 
Of the sum of the balance sheet items of €6.5 billion at year-end 2015 (2014: €6.5 billion), 55 per cent  
(2014: 53 per cent) qualifies as financial instruments. 2015  – 1393.4  Fair value estimation 
The fair value of financial instruments not quoted in an active market is measured using valuation techniques. The 
Group uses various techniques and makes assumptions based on market conditions on balance sheet date. The 
valuation also includes (changes in) the credit risk of the counter party and the credit risk of the Group in conformity 
with IFRS 13. 
One of these techniques is the calculation of the net present value of the expected cash flows (discounted cash flow 
projections). The fair value of the interest rate swaps is calculated as the net present value of the expected future cash 
flows. The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is measured based on the ‘forward’ currency exchange rates on 
balance sheet date. In addition, valuations from bankers are requested for interest rate swaps. 
Financial instruments valued at fair value consist of only interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. In line 
with the current accounting policies the derivatives are classified as ‘level 2’. 
It is assumed that the nominal value (less estimated adjustments) of ‘borrowings’ (current part), ‘trade and other 
receivables’ and ‘trade and other payables’ approximate to their fair value.
3.5  Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
A master netting agreement is applicable to a part of ‘cash and cash equivalents’. At 31 December 2015 a positive 
balance of €437 million has been offset against a negative balance of €111 million (2014: positive balance of  
€708 million offset against a negative balance of €377 million).
4.  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, 
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
The critical judgements including those involving estimations assumptions concerning the future, that the Group has 
made in the process of applying the accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements are addressed below. 
(a) Contract revenue and costs 
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be 
profitable, contract revenue and costs are recognised over the period of the contract by reference to the stage of 
completion using the ‘percentage-of-completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a 
given period. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is 
recognised as an expense immediately.
In determining the stage of completion the Group has efficient, coordinated systems for cost estimating, forecasting 
and revenue and costs reporting. The system also requires a consistent judgment (forecast) of the final outcome of the 
project, including variance analyses of divergences compared with earlier assessment dates. Estimates are an inherent 
part of this assessment and actual future outcome may deviate from the estimated outcome, specifically for major and 
complex construction contracts. However, historical experience has also shown that estimates are, on the whole, 
sufficiently reliable.140 – 2015(b) Claims receivable
In the normal course of business the Group recognises amounts receivable in connection with claims for completed 
work due from the principal and/or insurance claims as reimbursement for certain loss events on projects. Project 
related claims on principals are recognised when it is probable that the claim amount will be received. Insurance 
claims can be recognised only if it is virtually certain that the amount recognised will be received.
(c) Income tax 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the 
provision for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is 
uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional 
taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially 
recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such 
determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax 
benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Estimates are an inherent part of this process and they may differ 
from the actual future outcome.
(d) Pension obligations 
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis 
using a number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the 
discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be 
used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension 
obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality 
corporate bonds (AA) that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to 
maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions. Additional information 
is disclosed in note 20.
(e) Impairment of land and building rights and property development
The valuation of land and building rights and property development is based on the outcome of the related 
calculations of the land’s net realisable value. These calculations are based on assumptions relating to the future 
market developments, decisions of governmental bodies, interest rates and future cost and price increases. In most 
cases the Group uses external valuations to determine the net realisable value. Partly because estimates relate to 
projects with a duration varying from one year to more than thirty years, significant changes in these assumptions 
might result in an impairment.
(f) Impairment of goodwill 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined 
based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations are determined using discounted cash flow projections and 
require estimates in connection with the future development of revenues, profit before tax margins and the 
determination of appropriate discount rates. An impairment may arise in case the actual future cash flows are less than 
expected.2015  – 1415. Segment information
The segment information reported to the Executive Board is measured in a manner consistent with the financial statements. 
Revenue and results
Construction 
and
M&E servicesCivil 
engineering Property PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2015
Construction contracts  2,875,896  3,769,595  295,610  163,200  -  7,104,301 
Property development  -  -  167,883  -  -  167,883 
Service concession arrangements  74,803  -  -  22,178  -  96,981 
Services and other  23,540  16,375  10,796  -  3,066  53,777 
Revenue from external customers  2,974,239  3,785,970  474,289  185,378  3,066  7,422,942 
Sector revenue  291,239  139,723  -  -  (430,962)  - 
Revenue  3,265,478  3,925,693  474,289  185,378  (427,896)  7,422,942 
Operating result  (21,788)  43,824  (18,656)  3,275  (17,347)  (10,692)
Finance result  3,877  5,209  (7,543)  12,067  (2,605)  11,005 
Share of result of investments  1,269  1,446  7,283  3,030  -  13,028 
Result before tax  (16,642)  50,479  (18,916)  18,372  (19,952)  13,341 
Income tax  (2,309)
Net result  11,032 
2014
Construction contracts  2,715,380  3,761,839  249,828  235,766  -  6,962,813 
Property development  -  8,921  215,138  -  -  224,059 
Service concession arrangements  60,201  -  -  21,725  -  81,926 
Services and other  17,990  12,055  12,264  -  2,913  45,222 
Revenue from external customers  2,793,571  3,782,815  477,230  257,491  2,913  7,314,020 
Sector revenue  222,600  165,989  -  -  (388,589)  - 
Revenue  3,016,171  3,948,804  477,230  257,491  (385,676)  7,314,020 
Operating result  (36,326)  (23,239)  (54,734)  23,481  (13,908)  (104,726)
Finance result  6,030  4,107  (6,493)  13,918  (5,493)  12,069 
Share of result of investments  21  4,626  (14,504)  (19,820)  (106)  (29,783)
Result before tax  (30,275)  (14,506)  (75,731)  17,579  (19,507)  (122,440)
Income tax  15,499 
Net result  (106,941)
1 Including non-operating segments142 – 2015Balance sheet disclosures
Construction 
and
M&E servicesCivil 
engineering Property PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2015
Assets  1,571,753  2,330,648  956,521  503,632  (604,357)  4,758,197 
Investments  2,952  9,401  70,866  8,796  2,037  94,052 
Total assets  1,574,705  2,340,049  1,027,387  512,428  (602,320)  4,852,249 
Liabilities  1,210,368  1,766,965  1,239,327  358,162  (628,358)  3,946,464 
Total equity  -  -  -  -  905,785  905,785 
Total equity and liabilities  1,210,368  1,766,965  1,239,327  358,162  277,427  4,852,249 
2014
Assets  1,460,675  2,312,193  1,041,893  604,631  (558,015)  4,861,377 
Investments  1,927  9,979  73,888  7,144  1,669  94,607 
Total assets  1,462,602  2,322,172  1,115,781  611,775  (556,346)  4,955,984 
Liabilities  1,125,462  1,812,914  1,315,086  482,908  (611,102)  4,125,268 
Total equity  -  -  -  -  830,716  830,716 
Total equity and liabilities  1,125,462  1,812,914  1,315,086  482,908  219,614  4,955,984 
1 Including non-operating segments
Other disclosuresConstruction 
and
M&E servicesCivil 
engineering Property PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2015
Additions to property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets  13,583  48,352  196  3  8,901  71,035 
Depreciation and amortisation charges  15,438  49,793  788  9  4,499  70,527 
Impairment charges  500  3,487  36,376  -  763  41,126 
Share of impairment charges in investments  -  -  (2,040)  -  -  (2,040)
Average number of FTE  7,110  14,274  193  95  244  21,916 
Number of FTE at year-end  7,099  13,658  189  90  212  21,248 
2014
Additions to property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets  14,540  40,968  652  8  3,113  59,281 
Depreciation and amortisation charges  17,399  60,256  1,308  51  3,788  82,802 
Impairment charges  1,000  511 66,107  -  - 67,618
Share of impairment charges in investments  -  - 27,247  20,993  - 48,240
Average number of FTE 7,396 15,383 155 103 288 23,325
Number of FTE at year-end 7,214 15,383 146 98 296 23,137
1 Including non-operating segments2015  – 143Revenues from external customers by country, based on the location of the projects
Construction 
and
M&E servicesCivil 
engineering Property PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2015
Netherlands  1,226,712  1,096,102  339,548  89,304  (276,413)  2,475,253 
United Kingdom  1,193,422  1,138,539  55,414  16,709  (20,808)  2,383,276 
Belgium  266,243  521,799  78,775  691  (32,503)  835,005 
Germany  512,022  285,425  -  4,291  (3,487)  798,251 
Ireland  -  279,156  552  74,383  (94,163)  259,928 
Other countries  67,079 604,672  -  - (522)  671,229 
 3,265,478  3,925,693  474,289  185,378  (427,896)  7,422,942 
2014
Netherlands  1,164,625  1,271,872  322,429  119,513  (226,639)  2,651,800 
United Kingdom  1,041,935  1,113,928  77,710  16,029  (29,096)  2,220,506 
Belgium  269,786 589,958  73,997  25,372  (41,561)  917,552 
Germany  493,098  289,477  -  3,436  1,206  787,217 
Ireland  -  284,041  3,094  93,141  (85,921)  294,355 
Other countries  46,727  399,528  -  -  (3,665)  442,590 
 3,016,171  3,948,804  477,230  257,491  (385,676)  7,314,020 
1 Including non-operating segments
Revenues from the individual countries included in ‘other countries’ are not material.
Total assets and capital expenditures in connection with property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  
by country are stated below:
Total assets 2015 2014
Netherlands  2,171,428  2,262,260 
United Kingdom  1,051,901  899,941 
Belgium  557,575  614,477 
Germany  536,912  530,099 
Ireland  234,612  253,938 
Other countries  829,279  871,031 
Other including eliminations  (529,458)  (475,762)
 4,852,249  4,955,984 
Capital expenditures 2015 2014
Netherlands  37,633  27,276 
United Kingdom  8,103  5,525 
Belgium  4,408  7,521 
Germany  11,012  10,116 
Ireland  736  488 
Other countries  9,143  8,355 
 71,035  59,281 144 – 20156. Projects
Construction contracts and property development
A major part of the Group’s activities concerns construction contracts and property development which are reflected 
in various balance sheet items. An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to construction contracts and 
property development is stated below:
Construction 
contractsProperty
development Total
2015
Land and building rights  -  429,299  429,299 
Property development  -  310,912  310,912 
Amounts due from customers  417,859  7,831  425,690 
Assets  417,859  748,042  1,165,901 
Non-recourse property financing  -  (116,034)  (116,034)
Recourse property financing  -  (80,083)  (80,083)
Amounts due to customers  (669,297)  (45,131)  (714,428)
Liabilities  (669,297)  (241,248)  (910,545)
   
As at 31 December  (251,438)  506,794  255,356 
2014
Land and building rights - 420,330 420,330
Property development - 402,446 402,446
Amounts due from customers 366,959 55,531 422,490
Assets 366,959 878,307 1,245,266
Non-recourse property financing - (160,578) (160,578)
Recourse property financing - (70,695) (70,695)
Amounts due to customers (665,071) (55,774) (720,845)
Liabilities (665,071) (287,047) (952,118)
   
As at 31 December (298,112) 591,260 293,1482015  – 145The breakdown of the balance sheet items ‘amounts due from customers’ and ‘amounts due to customers’ is as follows:
Construction 
contractsProperty
development Total
2015
Costs incurred plus recognised results  12,734,666  143,952  12,878,618 
Progress billings  (12,316,807)  (136,121)  (12,452,928)
Amounts due from customers  417,859  7,831  425,690 
Costs incurred plus recognised results  7,856,248  561,038  8,417,286 
Progress billings  (8,525,545)  (606,169)  (9,131,714)
Amounts due to customers  (669,297)  (45,131)  (714,428)
2014
Costs incurred plus recognised results 13,303,614 180,598 13,484,212
Progress billings (12,936,655) (125,067) (13,061,722)
Amounts due from customers 366,959 55,531 422,490
Costs incurred plus recognised results 8,615,849 484,742 9,100,591
Progress billings (9,280,920) (540,516) (9,821,436)
Amounts due to customers (665,071) (55,774) (720,845)
As at 31 December 2015 advance payments in connection with construction contracts and property development 
amount to €245 million (2014: €287 million) respectively €4 million (2014: €3 million).
PPP
The joint venture BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (‘joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM’) invests in PPP 
markets for social and transport infrastructure in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany  
and Switzerland. BAM PPP continues to be fully responsible for issuing new project tenders, rendering services with 
regard to asset management for the joint venture and representing the joint venture in transactions. PGGM provides 
the majority of capital required for existing projects.
An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to PPP projects is stated below:
Non-current Current Total
2015
PPP receivables  279,074  5,263  284,337 
(Non-) recourse PPP loans  (233,035)  (14,523)  (247,558)
 46,039  (9,260)  36,779 
Net assets and liabilities  (9,269)  3,976  (5,293)
As at 31 December  36,770  (5,284)  31,486 
2014
PPP receivables 303,978 3,948 307,926
(Non-) recourse PPP loans (239,227) (30,518) (269,745)
64,751 (26,570) 38,181
Net assets and liabilities (9,172) 772 (8,400)
As at 31 December 55,579 (25,798) 29,781146 – 20157. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildingsPlant and
equipmentConstruction
 in progressOther
assets Total
As at 1 January 2014
Cost 206,157 599,417 11,501 125,657 942,732
Accumulated depreciation (91,523) (404,456) - (90,329) (586,308)
114,634 194,961 11,501 35,328 356,424
Additions 11,269 29,266 1,008 14,793 56,336
Acquisition of subsidiaries 202 454 - 33 689
Disposals (6,037) (9,343) (348) (1,607) (17,335)
Reclassifications 607 7,672 (10,201) 535 (1,387)
Impairment charges (1,200) - - - (1,200)
Depreciation charges (6,725) (56,775) - (16,086) (79,586)
Exchange rate differences 352 1,090 9 388 1,839
113,102 167,325 1,969 33,384 315,780
As at 31 December 2014
Cost 207,469 581,748 1,969 131,622 922,808
Accumulated depreciation (94,367) (414,423) - (98,238) (607,028)
113,102 167,325 1,969 33,384 315,780
Additions  12,663  30,387  6,721  14,873  64,644 
Disposals  (8,304)  (10,886)  (1)  (3,782)  (22,973)
Reclassifications  (784) 1,536  (446)  406 712
Impairment charges  (1,263)  (189)  -  -  (1,452)
Depreciation charges  (6,765)  (45,724)  -  (13,981)  (66,470)
Exchange rate differences  319  1,253  4  342  1,918 
 108,968  143,702  8,247  31,242  292,159 
 
As at 31 December 2015  
Cost  201,710  540,834  8,247  115,172  865,963 
Accumulated depreciation  (92,742)  (397,132)  -  (83,930)  (573,804)
 108,968  143,702  8,247  31,242  292,159 
Asset construction in progress mainly comprises plant and equipment.
The fair value of property, plant and equipment at year-end 2015 is € 374 million (2014: € 413 million).
Property, plant and equipment is not pledged as a security for borrowings, except for leased assets under finance lease 
agreements. 
Property, plant and equipment includes the following carrying amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2015 2014
Land and buildings  6,000 6,000
Furnitures, fixtures and equipment  11,536 20,649
Other assets  23 8
 17,559 26,6572015  – 1478. Intangible assets
GoodwillNon-
integrated
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2014
Cost 688,996 13,566 25,246 727,808
Accumulated amortisation (295,679) (9,081) (19,765) (324,525)
393,317 4,485 5,481 403,283
Additions  504  2,258  183  2,945 
Disposals  (3,280)  -  (43)  (3,323)
Reclassifications  -  -  508  508 
Impairment charges  -  -  (511)  (511)
Amortisation charges  -  (1,892)  (1,324)  (3,216)
Exchange rate differences  9,491  -  73  9,564 
 400,032  4,851  4,367  409,250 
As at 31 December 2014
Cost  697,435  15,526  25,285  738,246 
Accumulated amortisation  (297,403)  (10,675)  (20,918)  (328,996)
 400,032  4,851  4,367  409,250 
Additions  -  6,376  15  6,391 
Disposals  -  -  (918)  (918)
Reclassifications  -  (714)  -  (714)
Impairment charges  (3,298)  -  -  (3,298)
Amortisation charges  -  (3,328)  (729)  (4,057)
Exchange rate differences  9,399  (55)  54  9,398 
 406,133  7,130  2,789  416,052 
As at 31 December 2015
Cost  707,340  19,816  23,325  750,481 
Accumulated amortisation  (301,207)  (12,686)  (20,536)  (334,429)
 406,133  7,130  2,789  416,052 
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or 
groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. The organisational restructuring that the Group 
is implementing through its Back in Shape programme has resulted in the merger of a number of CGUs in the 
Netherlands and Belgium, all within the segment Civil engineering. This has effectively reduced the associated number 
of CGUs with two CGUs.
The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated within BAM’s reportable segments are as follows:
2015 2014
Construction and M&E services 160,931 156,681
Civil engineering 229,232 227,381
Property 15,970 15,970
406,133 400,032148 – 2015The increase of goodwill relates to the increase of the exchange rate of the British pound sterling compared to the prior 
year with an effect of approximately €9 million compensated by the goodwill impairment charge of approximately 
€3 million.
The impairment charge of €3.3 million arose in two CGUs in Belgium following a decision to significantly reduce the 
activities of these operations as the Group saw insufficient opportunities for further development. No class of assets 
other than goodwill was impaired.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are 
indications that a particular CGU might be impaired. The recoverable amount of each CGU was determined based on 
value-in-use calculations. Value-in-use was determined using discounted cash flow projections that cover a period of 
five years and are based on the financial plans approved by management. The key assumptions for the value-in-use 
calculations are those regarding discount rate, revenue growth rate and profit before tax margin.
Goodwill relates to 16 CGUs, of which BAM Construct UK (€73 million) and BAM Nuttall (€88 million) are deemed 
significant in comparison with the Group’s total carrying amount of goodwill. For each of these CGUs the key 
assumptions rate used in the value-in-use calculations are as follows:
             BAM Construct UK              BAM Nuttall
2015 2014 2015 2014
Discount rate (post-tax) 8.3% 8.1% 8.3% 8.1%
Growth rate:
- In forecast period (average) 3.8% 4.0% (1.1%) 0.4%
- Beyond forecast period 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0%
Profit before tax margin
- In forecast period (average) 2.0% 2.1% 2.2% 2.2%
Growth rate used to estimate future performance in the forecast period is the average annual growth rate based on 
past performance and management’s expectations of BAM’s market development referenced to external sources of 
information. The profit before tax margin in the forecast period is the average margin as a percentage of revenue 
based on past performance and the expected recovery to a normalised margin deemed achievable by management in 
the concerning market segment.
For BAM Construct UK, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded carrying amount by 
approximately €314 million (2014: €298 million). The sensitivity analyses indicated that if the growth rate of BAM 
Construct UK is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis points or the discount 
rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in isolation, the carrying amount of this CGU 
would still exceed the recoverable amount with sufficient and reasonable headroom.
For BAM Nuttall, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded carrying amount by approximately 
€197 million (2014: €173 million). The sensitivity analyses indicated that if the growth rate of BAM Nuttall is reduced by 
50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis 
points in the forecast period, all changes taken in isolation, the carrying amount of this CGU would still exceed the 
recoverable amount with sufficient and reasonable headroom.
The sensitivity analyses indicated that if the growth rate is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is 
reduced by 50 basis points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in 
isolation, the recoverable amounts of the other CGUs would still be in excess of the carrying amounts with sufficient 
and reasonable headroom, except for one CGU in Belgium, representing a goodwill amount of €16 million, with a 
limited headroom.2015  – 1499. PPP receivables
2015 2014
As at 1 January  307,926 411,383
Receivables including interest issued  218,514 248,693
Disposals  (144,941) (207,899)
Progress billings  (63,820) (33,046)
Transfers to assets held for sale  (39,391) (117,401)
Exchange rate differences  6,049 6,196
As at 31 December  284,337 307,926
Analysis of PPP receivables: 2015 2014
Non-current  279,074 303,978
Current  5,263 3,948
 284,337 307,926
PPP receivables consist of the amounts receivable with regard to service concession arrangements in the Netherlands, 
Belgium, Germany, Ireland, United Kingdom and Switzerland (note 38). 
The decrease in receivables issued is related to the transfer of one project to assets held for sale and the divestment 
of two projects to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM partly compensated by progress on the construction of the 
PPP projects. 
The average duration of PPP receivables is 22 years (2014: 24 years). Approximately € 272 million of the non-current 
part has a duration of more than five years (2014: € 272 million). 
The interest rates on PPP receivables are virtually the same as the interest rates (after hedging) of the related non-
recourse PPP loans. The contractual interest percentages are fixed for the entire duration. The average interest rate  
on PPP receivables is 6.8 per cent (2014: 6.8 per cent). At year-end 2015, the fair value of the non-current part is 
approximately € 322 million (2014: approximately € 353 million). 
PPP receivables are pledged as a security for the corresponding (non-) recourse PPP loans included under ‘borrowings’. 
10. Investments 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2015 2014
Associates  24,914 26,433
Joint ventures   69,138 68,174
As at 31 December  94,052 94,607150 – 201510.1 Investment in associates
Set out below are the associates of the Group as at 31 December 2015 that are individually material to the Group.
Nature of investment in associates in 2015 and 2014:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation   % Interest
2015 2014
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv Exploitation of rail infrastructure Netherlands 10.54% 10.54%
Justinvest bv Lease and exploitation real estate Belgium 33.33% 33.33%
Rabot Invest nv Lease and exploitation real estate Belgium 25.00% 25.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the associates that are material to the Group, including 
reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements. This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of these associates adjusted 
for differences in the Group’s accounting policies and the associates.
          Infraspeed (Holdings) bv          Justinvest nv           Rabot Invest nv
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Current assets  108,558  106,995  13,355  12,957  8,376  7,831 
Non-current assets  861,161  889,175 170,617  179,685 91,528  96,259 
Current liabilities  (21,727)  (22,762) (12,368)  (12,085) (7,305)  (6,718)
Non-current liabilities  (893,153)  (923,936) (171,142)  (180,149) (91,987)  (96,775)
Net assets  54,839  49,472  462  408  612  597 
Revenue  50,923  48,330 578  568 920  913 
Net result  10,347  11,055  51  46  20  22 
Net assets  54,839  49,472  462  408  612  597 
Share in equity 10.54% 10.54% 33.33% 33.33% 25.00% 25.00%
Carrying amount  5,780  5,214  154  136  153  149 
Set out below are the aggregate information of associates that are not individually material to the Group. 
These  associates mainly comprise the Group’s share in structured entities for property development projects.
2015 2014
Share in net result 1,846  8,542 
Share in equity 5,196  6,141 
The Group’s share in the net result of associates includes a reversal of impairment amounting to € 1 million (2014:  nil).2015  – 151Reconciliation with the carrying amount of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements, is as follows:
2015 2014
Share in equity associates that are material to the Group  6,087  5,500 
Share in equity associates that are not individually material to the Group  5,196  6,141 
 11,283  11,641 
Recognised as provision for associates  122  969 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables  13,509  13,823 
 24,914  26,433 
Dividend received from associates amounts to € 5.8 million in 2015 (2014: € 3.8 million). Cash and cash equivalents of a 
number of associates are subject to restrictions. These restrictions mainly concerns the priority of loan repayments 
over dividend distribution.
10.2  Investment in joint ventures
Set out below is the joint venture of the Group as at 31 December 2015 that is individually material to the Group.
Nature of investment in the joint venture in 2015 and 2014:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation     % Share
2015 2014
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. Asset management Netherlands 50.00% 50.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the joint venture that is individually material to the Group, 
including reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the joint venture, as recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements. This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of  
the joint venture adjusted for differences in the Group’s accounting policies and the joint venture.
 BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A.
2015 2014
Current assets  89,712  81,315 
Non-current assets  1,028,237  787,233 
Current liabilities  (242,707)  (62,384)
Non-current liabilities  (1,034,736)  (970,911)
Net assets  (159,494)  (164,747)
Of which:
Cash and cash equivalents  75,003  50,258 
Current financial liabilities  (25,298)  (21,360)
Non-current financial liabilities  (1,028,129)  (970,911)
Revenue  41,093  40,458 
Net result  5,105  6,981 
Other comprehensive income  17,912  (30,615)152 – 2015Of which:
Finance income  62,073  46,180 
Finance expense  (57,576)  (43,097)
Income tax  (4,222)  (894)
Net assets  (159,494)  (164,748)
Share in profit rights 20% 20%
Carrying amount  (31,899)  (32,950)
Negative cash flow hedge reserve not recognised  9,126  10,046 
Share in equity  (22,773)  (22,904)
The Group’s share in the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM is based on its share in the members’ capital. Contractually,  
the Group has a 20 per cent share in profit rights. In addition, the Group bears the risks in the operational phase until 
completion of the projects which are acquired by the joint venture.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the joint venture, further losses will not be recognised, 
unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation. In 2015 € 1 million reversal (2014: €8 million) of losses was not 
recognised. At year-end 2015 unrecognised losses amounted to € 9 million (2014: €10 million).
Set out below are the aggregate information of joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group. 
2015 2014
Share in net result property development joint ventures  7,417  (19,362)
Share in net result other joint ventures  1,629  (21,455)
Share in equity property development joint ventures  21,912  8,551 
Share in equity other joint ventures  (47,605)  (49,262)
Revenue of property development joint ventures amounts to € 94 million (2014: €80 million) and property 
development recognised in the balance sheet amounts to €134 million (2014: € 149 million) of which an amount of 
€72 million (2014: €104 million) externally financed (share of the Group).
The Group’s share in the net result of joint ventures includes a reversal of impairment amounting to € 1 million 
(2014: €48 million charge).
Reconciliation with the carrying amount of the Group’s share in joint ventures, as recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements, is as follows:
2015 2014
Share in equity joint venture  BAM PPP/PGGM  (22,773)  (22,904)
Share in equity property development joint ventures  that are not individually  
material to the Group  21,912  8,551 
Share in equity other joint ventures  that are not individually material to the Group  (47,605)  (49,262)
 (48,466)  (63,615)
Recognised as provision joint ventures  21,151  34,306 
Recognised as impairment non-current receivables  96,453  97,483 
 69,138  68,174 
Dividend received from joint ventures amounts to € 7.5 million in 2015 (2014: €7.7 million).
The financial years of many joint ventures run from 1 December up to and including 30 November to ensure timely 
inclusion of the financial information in the Group’s financial statements.2015  – 15311. Other financial assets
NotesNon-current
receivables Other Total
As at 1 January 2014 127,891 4,027 131,918
Loans granted 72,572 - 72,572
Loan repayments (42,199) - (42,199)
Additions - 33 33
Disposals - (1,495) (1,495)
Impairment charges 25 (11,446) - (11,446)
Reclassifications (57,896) - (57,896)
Exchange rate differences (563) - (563)
88,359 2,565 90,924
Of which current: (6,039) - (6,039)
As at 31 December 2014 82,320 2,565 84,885
Loans granted 14,899  - 14,899
Loan repayments  (3,759)  -  (3,759)
Disposals  -  (75)  (75)
Reversal of impairment charges 25 949  - 949
Reclassifications 2,292  (110) 2,182
Exchange rate differences  94  -  94 
 102,834  2,380  105,214 
Of which current:  (6,726)  -  (6,726)
As at 31 December 2015  96,108  2,380  98,488 
The fair value of non-current receivables at year-end 2015 amounts to €124 million (2014: €109 million).  
The effective interest rate is 1.9 per cent (2014: 2.2 per cent).
Category ‘Other’ mainly comprises shares in (unlisted) investments over which the Group has no significant influence.154 – 201512. Inventories
2015 2014
Land and building rights  429,299  420,330 
Property development  310,912  402,446 
 740,211  822,776 
Raw materials  16,169  18,076 
Finished products  2,358  2,271 
 758,738  843,123 
Land and building rights are considered to be non-current by nature within the ordinary course of business. 
The majority of the investments in property development is considered to be current by nature.
Movements of cumulative impairments in the property portfolio is as follows:
Notes 2015 2014
As at 1 January  458,640  404,179 
Impairments charges 25  37,325  59,706 
Reversal of impairment charges 25  -  (5,245)
As at 31 December  495,965  458,640 
Property development includes the following completed and unsold property:
2015 2014
Unsold and finished propertyNumber/m² Carrying
amountNumber/m² Carrying
amount
Houses ¹  84  19,236  103  20,418 
Commercial property - rented  52,845  88,080  54,287  92,130 
Commercial property - unrented  26,712  21,954  28,265  45,409 
 129,270  157,957 
¹  Of which 64 houses (2014: 72 houses) rented in anticipation of sale
Other inventories were not subject to write-down in 2015 nor 2014.2015  – 15513. Trade and other receivables
Notes 2015 2014
Trade receivables  831,728  865,881 
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables  (25,236)  (25,445)
Trade receivables - net  806,492  840,436 
Amounts due from customers 6  425,690 422,490
Amounts due from related parties 36  5,353  9,349 
Retentions  126,142  94,002 
Amounts to be invoiced work completed  71,651  66,773 
Amounts to be invoiced work in progress  245,789 244,197
PPP receivables 9  5,263  3,948 
Other financial assets  7,994  8,122 
Other receivables  73,856 85,939
Prepayments  123,546  103,421 
 1,891,776  1,878,677 
Trade and other receivables are due within one year, except for approximately € 19 million (2014: € 21 million). The fair 
value of this non-current part is approximately € 18 million (2014: approximately € 21 million) using an effective interest 
rate of 0.4 per cent (2014: 0.4 per cent).
The concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited, as the Group’s customer base is large  
and geographically spread. As at 31 December 2015 a part of the trade receivables amounting to €173 million 
(2014: €166 million) is past due over one year but partly impaired. These overdue payments relate to a number of 
customers, predominantly in the public sector outside the Netherlands where a limited default risk exists. 
Simultaneously, the duration to reach final agreement, including legal proceedings, on invoiced variation orders and 
claims with these customers has further increased in the year. Management assessed that the provision for impairment, 
taking all facts and circumstances into account, is sufficient.
None of the other assets were subject to impairment.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 
2015 2014
Trade
receivablesProvision for 
impairmentTrade
receivablesProvision for 
impairment
Not past due  431,587  (104)  518,625 (501)
Up to 3 months  165,836  (1,484)  127,445 (2,684)
3 to 6 months  36,478  (957)  27,924 (1,174)
6 to 12 months  24,438  (1,135)  26,149 (4,054)
1 to 2 years  21,455  (1,152)  76,330 (9,161)
Over 2 years 151,934  (20,404)  89,408 (7,871)
831,728  (25,236)  865,881 (25,445)
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables  (25,236)  (25,445)  
Trade receivables - net  806,492  840,436 156 – 2015Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2015 2014
As at 1 January  25,445  16,588 
Provision for impairment  16,691  16,925 
Unused amounts reversed  (6,601)  (5,079)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (10,466)  (4,542)
Disposals  -  (406)
Reclassifications 155  1,929 
Exchange rate differences 12  30 
As at 31 December 25,236  25,445 
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘Other operating expenses’ in the 
income statement.
Retentions relate to amounts retained by customers on progress billings. In the United Kingdom and Germany in 
particular, it is common practice to retain a previously agreed percentage until completion of the project.
14. Cash and cash equivalents
2015 2014
Cash at bank and in hand 618,381  623,457 
Short-term bank deposits 18,831  873 
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 637,212  624,330 
Cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Group. The short-term bank deposits ultimately mature 7 March 
2016. Cash and cash equivalents include the Group’s share in cash of joint operations and in PPP entities as part  
of the conditions in project specific funding agreements and amount to € 181 million (2014: € 163 million) respectively 
€8 million (2014: € 21 million).
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand 
and short-term bank deposits, net of bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as 
reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows is reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statement of 
financial position as follows:
2015 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 637,212 624,330
Bank overdrafts (3)  -
Net cash position 637,209 624,330
The average effective interest on short-term bank deposits is 1.3 per cent (2014: 6.4 per cent). The deposits have an 
average remaining term to maturity of approximately 43 days (2014: approximately 17 days).2015  – 15715. Share capital
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of
 treasury
sharesNumber of 
ordinary 
shares
in issueOrdinary
sharesShare
premium Total
As at 1 January 2014  269,424,089  - 269,424,089 26,942 806,326 833,268
Dividends  1,574,868  - 1,574,868 157 5,886 6,043
As at 31 December 2014  270,998,957  - 270,998,957 27,099 812,212 839,311
Repurchase of ordinary shares  -  604,975  (604,975)  -  -  - 
As at 31 December 2015  270,998,957  604,975  270,393,982  27,099  812,212  839,311 
15.1  General
At year-end 2015, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2014: 400 million) and 
600 million preference shares (2014: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2014: €0.10 per share).  
All issued shares have been paid in full.
The Company granted Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (‘the Foundation’) a call option to acquire class B 
cumulative preference shares in the Company’s share capital on 17 May 1993. This option was granted up to such an 
amount as the Foundation might require, subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that would result in the total 
nominal amount of class B cumulative preference shares in issue and not held by the Company equalling no more than 
ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9 per cent) of the nominal amount of the issued share capital in the form of shares 
other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by the Company at the time of exercising of the right 
referred to above. The Executive Committee of the Foundation has the exclusive right to determine whether or not to 
exercise this right to acquire class B cumulative preference shares. Additional information has been disclosed in section 
Other information.
15.2  Ordinary shares
To prevent dilution as a result of the (equity-settled) share-based compensation plan introduced in 2015, 604,975  
of the Company’s own shares were repurchased on 10 December 2015 for a total consideration of €3.1 million,  
at a price of €5.11. 
In 2014, the number of issued ordinary shares increased by 1,574,868 due to dividend payment in shares. 158 – 201516. Reserves
HedgingRemeasure-
ments of post-
employment 
benefits Translation Total
As at 1 January 2014 (119,174) (213,420) (78,882) (411,476)
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment
 - Fair value of cash flow hedge 81,699 - - 81,699
 - Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge (26,239) - - (26,239)
Cash flow hedges
- Fair value movement (27,188) - - (27,188)
- Tax on fair value movement 9,700 - - 9,700
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations
- Movement in remeasurements - (59,697) - (59,697)
- Tax on movement in remeasurements - 10,540 - 10,540
Exchange rate differences - - 25,211 25,211
37,972 (49,157) 25,211 14,026
    
As at 31 December 2014 (81,202) (262,577) (53,671) (397,450)
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment
 - Fair value of cash flow hedge  3,809  -  -  3,809 
 - Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge  (952)  -  -  (952)
Cash flow hedges
- Fair value movement  1,303  -  -  1,303 
- Tax on fair value movement  (66)  -  -  (66)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations
- Movement in remeasurements - 47,579 - 47,579
- Tax on movement in remeasurements - (10,553) - (10,553)
Exchange rate differences  -  -  26,243  26,243 
 4,094  37,026  26,243  67,363 
    
As at 31 December 2015  (77,108)  (225,551)  (27,428)  (330,087)
Of the positive movement in the hedge reserve in 2015, €3 million is a consequence of disposals and settlements  
of existing contracts. In addition, the hedge reserve is positively affected with €1 million due to the fact that the 
long-term interest in 2015 is higher than in 2014. In 2015, the hedging reserve includes a negative amount of €5 million 
with regard to assets held for sale. 
The hedging reserve may be subsequently reclassified to the income statement. Based on the remaining duration of 
the derivative financial instruments, reclassification will take place between 1 and 30 years. An amount of €39 million 
(2014: €39 million) in the hedging reserve relates to joint ventures. 
The positive movement in the reserve for remeasurements of post-employments benefits is linked to adjustments in 
financial assumptions. This reserve will not be reclassified to the income statement.
The positive movement in the translation reserve in 2015 is linked to the increase in the value of the pound sterling, 
consistent with 2014. 2015  – 15917. Capital base
2015 2014
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company 902,147  827,394 
Subordinated loan 124,335  124,500 
1,026,482 951,894
18. Borrowings
2015 Non-current Current Total
Subordinated loan 1125,000 (665) 124,335
Non-recourse PPP loans 187,673  7,114 194,787
Non-recourse property financing  85,694  30,340 116,034
Other non-recourse financing  6,621  1,300  7,921
Recourse PPP loans  45,362  7,409  52,771
Recourse property financing  44,847  35,236  80,083
Finance lease liabilities  9,973  4,478  14,451
Other recourse financing  6,693 244  6,937
Bank overdrafts  -  3  3 
 511,863  85,459  597,322 
Up to 1 year  85,459 
1 to 5 years  398,448 
Over 5 years  113,415 
 597,322 
2014 Non-current Current Total
Subordinated loan 1 125,000  (500)  124,500 
Non-recourse PPP loans  200,221  5,764  205,985 
Non-recourse property financing  98,132  62,446  160,578 
Other non-recourse financing  7,844  1,507  9,351 
Recourse PPP loans  39,006  24,754  63,760 
Recourse property financing  48,324  22,371  70,695 
Finance lease liabilities  13,570  8,749  22,319 
Other recourse financing  6,695  242  6,937 
 538,792  125,333  664,125 
Up to 1 year  125,333 
1 to 5 years  466,441 
Over 5 years  72,351 
 664,125 
1  After deduction of amortised finance costs.160 – 201518.1 Subordinated loan
The principal sum of the subordinated loan amounts to €125 million (2014: €125 million) with a duration to 30 July 
2017. The loan has been extended in 2015 for one year to 30 July 2018 for an amount of €108 million. Interest 
payments are not subordinated. The subordinated loan has an interest rate that is based on the  Group’s recourse 
leverage ratio and is equal to Euribor plus a margin, which can vary between a minimum of 400 and a maximum of 
675 basis points until 30 July 2017, after which a minimum of 550 and a maximum of 825 basis points is applicable. 
At year-end 2015, the margin was 400 basis points (2014: 450 basis points).
To hedge the interest risk on the subordinated loan, interest rate swaps were contracted with a duration to 30 July 
2017. The interest rate swaps fix Euribor at 1.7 per cent (2014: 1.7 per cent). Including the margin and the amortised 
borrowing costs, the interest for the subordinated loan amounts to 6.3 per cent (2014: 6.5 per cent).
The subordinated loan will be contractually repaid in July 2017 for an amount of €17 million and in July 2018 for an 
amount of €108 million.
18.2  Committed syndicated credit facility
The committed revolving credit facility has a size of €500 million and a maturity date of 30 January 2018. As at 
30 January 2016 the level of the credit facility will be reduced to €442.5 million, and to € 412.5 million as at 30 January 
2017. The facility can be used for general corporate purposes, including the usual working capital financing. As a result 
of this flexible use, the level of draw-downs fluctuates throughout the year. At year-end 2015, the Group did not use 
the facility (2014: not used).
As at 30 June 2015 the Group did not use the facility (30 June 2014: €185 million). Variable interest rates apply to the 
draw-downs on this facility with a margin between 175 and 300 basis points. As at 31 December 2015 the margin was 
175 basis points (2014: 200 basis points).
18.3  Non-recourse PPP loans
These relate to PPP projects in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Ireland. Of the non-current part, 
approximately €110 million has a term to maturity of more than five years (2014: approximately €65 million). The 
average term to maturity of the PPP loans is 18 years (2014: 21 years).
The interest rate risk on the non-recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps. The average interest rate on PPP 
loans is 6.4 per cent (2014: 7.3 per cent). Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during 
the term of these loans.
The related PPP receivables amount to €256 million in total (2014: €308 million) and represent a security for lenders. 
These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions regarding interest 
coverage, solvency, among other things, are not met.
18.4  Non-recourse property financing
These loans are contracted to finance land for property development and ongoing property development projects. 
The average term of non-recourse property financing is approximately 2.1 years (2014: approximately 2.3 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor/Libor plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on 
market fluctuations during the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. 
The principal sum of these financing loans is €60 million (2014: €60 million).2015  – 161The carrying amount of the related assets is approximately €175 million at year-end 2015 (2014: approximately 
€200 million). The assets are pledged as a security for lenders. These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed 
qualitative and quantitative conditions relating to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
18.5  Recourse PPP loans
Equity bridge loans relating to PPP contracts are recognised under recourse PPP loans. The interest rate risk on the 
recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps.
Recourse PPP loans relate directly to the accompanying assets, but also have an additional security in the form of a 
guarantee provided by the Group, in several cases supplemented by a bank guarantee.
The average term to maturity of the recourse PPP loans is approximately 1.8 years (2014: approximately 1.8 years).
18.6  Recourse property financing
Recourse property financing is contracted to finance land and building rights and property development. 
The average term of recourse property financing is approximately 1.8 years (2014: approximately 1.6 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor/Libor plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on 
market fluctuations during the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) 
fixed. The principal sum of these financing loans is €42 million (2014: €43 million).
Recourse property financing relates directly to the accompanying assets, that constitute a security for lenders. 
The carrying amount of the accompanying assets amounts to approximately €115 million at year-end 2015 (2014: 
approximately €94 million). Additional securities exist in the form of a guarantee provided by the Group, in several 
cases supplemented by a bank guarantee. These loans will be repayable on demand if the agreed qualitative and 
quantitative conditions relating to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
18.7  Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities mainly consist of financing arrangements for buildings and equipment. The maturity of the 
finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2015 2014
Up to 1 year 4,684 9,330
1 to 5 years 10,433 14,121
Over 5 years - 195
15,117 23,646
Future finance charges on financial leases (666) (1,327)
Present value of financial lease liabilities 14,451 22,319
The present value of the finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2015 2014
1 to 5 years 9,973 13,404
Over 5 years - 166
9,973 13,570
Up to 1 year 4,478 8,749
14,451 22,319162 – 201518.8 Other financing
Other loans relate to financing of property, plant and equipment.
18.9  Bank overdrafts
In addition to the non-current committed syndicated credit facility (note 18.2), the Group holds €153 million in 
bilateral credit facilities (2014: €153 million). At year-end 2015 as well as 2014 these facilities were not utilised.
18.10  Covenants
With regard to the various finance arrangements, the Group is bound by terms and conditions, both qualitative and 
quantitative and including financial ratios, in line with the industry’s practice.
Terms and conditions for project financing, being (non-) recourse PPP loans, (non-) recourse property financing loans, 
are directly linked to the respective projects. A relevant ratio in property financing arrangements is the loan to value, 
i.e. the ratio between the financing arrangement and the value of the project. In PPP loans and recourse property 
financing arrangements the debt service cover ratio is applicable. This ratio relates the interest and repayment 
obligations to the project cash flow. No early payments were made in 2015 as a result of not adhering to the financing 
conditions of project related financing.
Terms and conditions for the subordinated loan and the committed syndicated credit facility are based on the Group as 
a whole, excluding non-recourse elements. The ratios for these financing arrangements (all recourse) are the leverage 
ratio, the interest cover, the solvency ratio and the guarantor covers. The Group complied with all ratios in 2015.
The set requirements and realisation of the recourse ratios described above, can be explained as follows:
Calculation Requirement 2015 2014
Leverage ratio Net borrowings/EBITDA ≤ 2.50  (2.55) (2.78)
Interest cover EBITDA/net interest expense ≥ 4.00  8.88 6.84
Solvency ratio Capital base/total assets ≥ 15% 29.3% 28.3%
Guarantor covers EBITDA share of guarantors ≥ 60% 72% 73%
Assets share of guarantors ≥ 70% 96% 91%
An increased recourse leverage ratio of a maximum of 2.75 is permitted under the terms and conditions and applies to 
the second and third quarters of the year. In addition, capital base (as part of the solvency ratio) is adjusted for the 
hedging reserve and remeasurements of post-employments benefits, among other things.
18.11  Other information
The Group’s subordinated loan is part of the capital base. Repayment obligations are subordinated to not subordinated 
obligations. The requested return of this loan relates to the margins of the debt capital market to a (very) limited 
extent only. The non-recourse PPP loans relate directly to the associated receivables from government bodies. 
Therefore, the interest rates are influenced marginally by market adjustments applying to companies. The terms of 
property loans are relatively short, as a consequence of which interest margins are in line with the markets. Therefore, 
the carrying amounts of the loans do not differ significantly from their fair values. 2015  – 163The effective interest rates are as follows:
2015 2014
Pound
sterlingPound
sterling Euro Euro
Subordinated loan 6.3% - 6.5% -
Committed syndicated credit facility 1.9% - 2.2% -
Non-recourse PPP loans 6.2% 6.9% 7.5% 6.8%
Non-recourse property  financing 2.9% 4.8% 2.9% 3.8%
Recourse PPP loans 3.6% - 4.2% -
Recourse property  financing 2.7% - 2.6% -
Finance lease liabilities 3.6% - 3.9% -
Other non-recourse financing 3.1% - 3.0% -
Other recourse financing 3.2% - 3.2% -
The Group contracted interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of borrowings to interest rate fluctuations and 
contractual changes in interest rates.
The Group’s unhedged position is as follows:
Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Total borrowings 85,459 398,448 113,415 597,322
Fixed interest rates (23,248) (53,378) (56,479) (133,105)
Hedged with interest rate swaps (25,336) (283,325) (55,438) (364,099)
As at 31 December 2015 36,875 61,745 1,498 100,118
Total borrowings  125,333  466,441  72,351  664,125 
Fixed interest rates  (43,494)  (153,063)  (13,558)  (210,115)
Hedged with interest rate swaps  (21,413)  (241,217)  (58,081)  (320,711)
As at 31 December 2014  60,426  72,161  712  133,299 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 
2015 2014
Euro  516,923  583,013 
Pound sterling  80,399  81,112 
 597,322  664,125 164 – 201519. Derivative financial instruments
 2015  2014
Assets Liabilities Fair value Assets Liabilities Fair value
Interest rate swaps  -  30,521  (30,521)  -  44,160  (44,160)
Forward exchange contracts  7,179  20,167  (12,988)  3,605  11,821  (8,216)
 7,179  50,688  (43,509)  3,605  55,981  (52,376)
Of which current:  6,200  16,749  (10,549)  3,376  8,269  (4,893)
19.1 Interest rate swaps
At year-end 2015, interest rate swaps are outstanding to hedge the interest rate risk on the subordinated loan, the 
(non-) recourse PPP loans and a number of property financing loans with a variable interest rate. Total borrowings 
amount to €597 million (2014: €664 million), of which an amount of €464 million (2014: €454 million) carries a variable 
interest rate. Of the borrowings with a variable interest rate an amount of €364 million (2014: €321 million) is hedged 
by interest rate swaps. All interest rate swaps are classified as hedge instruments. The fair value of the outstanding 
interest rate swaps amounts to €31 million negative (2014: €44 million negative). Except for one interest rate swaps 
(2014: two), the duration exceeds one year. The maximum duration of the derivative financial instruments is 27 years.
The fixed interest rates of these swaps vary from 0.6 per cent to 6.3 per cent at year-end 2015 (2014: between 0.6 per 
cent and 6.3 per cent). The variable interest rates of the corresponding loans are based on Euribor or Libor plus a 
margin.
At year-end 2015, all recognised derivative financial instruments provide an effective compensation for movements in 
cash flows from the hedged positions. Therefore, the movements in 2015 are accounted for in other comprehensive 
income. The fair value of outstanding derivative financial instruments which do not provide an effective compensation 
are accounted for in the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is disclosed in note 3.1 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
19.2  Forward foreign exchange contracts
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2015 were 
€251 million (2014: €369 million). The fair value amounts to €13.0 million negative (2014: €8.2 million negative).
 
The terms to maturity of these contracts are up to a maximum of 1 year for the amount of €234 million (2014: €263 
million), between 1 and 2 years for the amount of €17 million (2014: €95 million) and between 2 to 4 years nil 
(2014: €11 million).2015  – 16520.  Employee benefits
2015 2014
Defined benefit asset  74,684 17,786
Defined benefit liability  121,335 157,886
Other employee benefits obligations  30,396 29,321
 151,731 187,207
The Group operates defined benefit pension plans in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Ireland 
under broadly similar regulatory frameworks.
A further description of the post-employment benefit plans per country is as follows:
The Netherlands
In the Netherlands, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit schemes as well as defined contribution 
schemes.
The pension schemes in the Netherlands are subject to the regulations as stipulated in the Pension Act. As stipulated in 
the Pension Act the pension plans need to be fully funded and need to be operated outside the Company through a 
separate legal entity. Several multi-employer funds and insurers operate the various pension plans. The Group has no 
additional responsibilities for the governance of these schemes. 
The basic pension for every employee is covered by multi-employer funds in which also other companies participate 
based on legal obligations. These funds have an indexed average salary scheme and are therefore defined benefit 
schemes. Specifically, these are the industry pension funds for construction, metal & technology and railways. As these 
funds are not equipped to provide the required information on the Group’s proportionate share of pension liabilities 
and plan assets, the defined benefit plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. The Group is obliged to pay 
the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any excess payment and is not obliged to 
make up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The part exceeding the basic pension 
amount (top-up part), which is not covered by multi-employer funds, is covered by external insurance companies and 
relates to defined contribution schemes. 
At year-end 2015, the (twelve-month average) coverage rate of the industry pension fund for construction is 111  per 
cent (2014: 115 per cent). The industry pension fund for metal & technology has a coverage rate of 99 per cent at 
year-end 2015 (2014: 103 per cent). The coverage rate of the industry pension fund for railways is 109 per cent (2016: 
116 per cent). 
With effect from 2006, a defined benefit scheme is closed for new entrants. The build-up of future pension 
entitlements for these employees is covered by the multi-employer funds or external insurance companies. Defined 
benefit schemes are closed for future accumulation and index-linked to the industry pension fund for Construction. 
Future build-up is solely possible for the top-up pension scheme of BAM, which terminates in 2020; it is financed by the 
employer based on a percentage of the pensionable salaries of the employees.
In 2015, the Group decided, while taking into account the employee representation bodies, to decrease the BAM 
supplementary scheme, resulting in a net one-off gain amounting to €2.8 million. In addition, a group of active 
participants turned inactive during 2015 and were transferred to the part of the insurance contract not classified as a 
defined benefit scheme. This resulted in a settlement without a result impact.166 – 2015In the context of accountability for the Group’s pension policy (to be) implemented, with regard to, inter alia, 
supplements and investment performance, the Group has established an accountability committee, with 
representation from the Central Works Council (CWC) and the Socio-Economic Committee of the BAM pensioners 
Associations (SEC).
United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution plans.
Three defined benefit pension schemes are executed by separate trusts. They were closed to new participants in 2004 
and future accumulation in the schemes was closed at the end of October 2010. The Group is still responsible for 
making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits. The plan for supplementary 
contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds at 1 January 2012 and led to 
supplementary contributions in 2015 to the amount of approximately €36 million (2014: €25 million).
The Group replaced the closed defined benefit pension schemes with defined contribution schemes, which are 
executed by an outside insurance company. Following the closure of future accumulation in defined benefit pension 
schemes in 2010, employees who participated in these schemes were invited to participate in the defined contribution 
schemes.
In addition, several defined benefit schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes due to the fact that 
external parties administering them are not able to provide the required information. These schemes have limited 
numbers of members, however. The Group is obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group 
may not reclaim any excess payment and is not obliged to make up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of 
future premiums. The Group did not make any material contributions in 2014 nor 2015.
Belgium
In Belgium, the Group makes contributions to a relatively small defined benefit scheme that is executed by an external 
insurance company. The Group has also made arrangements for employees to participate in a defined contribution 
scheme.
Germany
In Germany, the Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme financed by the employer. 
The Group closed two schemes to new participants and since 2006, the Group operates a defined contribution 
scheme, into which employees have the opportunity to contribute on an individual basis. 
Ireland 
The Group has a defined benefit scheme in Ireland, executed by a company pension fund. The multi-employer pension 
scheme was fully converted from a defined benefit scheme to a defined contribution scheme with effect from 
1 January 2006.2015  – 167Movements in the defined benefit pension plans over the year is as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2015
Defined benefit liability  36,338  -  1,314  55,303  28,380  121,335 
Defined benefit asset  -  74,684  -  -  -  74,684 
 36,338  (74,684)  1,314  55,303  28,380  46,651 
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2015  481,195  938,240  3,136  79,722  122,641  1,624,934 
Service cost  2,023  -  45  280  3,286  5,634 
Interest expense  9,100  36,677  44  1,630  2,685  50,136 
Remeasurements  (29,071)  (53,706)  (54)  (3,989)  (15,016)  (101,836)
Plan participants contributions  229  -  7  -  516  752 
Benefit payments  (10,667)  (42,097)  (210)  (4,043)  (2,409)  (59,426)
Changes and plan amendments  (2,815)  -  -  -  -  (2,815)
Settlements  (23,442)  -  -  -  -  (23,442)
Exchange rate differences  -  58,969   -  -  58,969 
As at 31 December 2015  426,552  938,083  2,968  73,600  111,703  1,552,906 
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2015  432,549  952,540  1,732  18,721  79,292  1,484,834 
Interest income  8,253  37,669  24  375  1,779  48,100 
Remeasurements  (26,676)  (27,503)  49  (18)  (109)  (54,257)
Employer contributions  10,571  35,606  55  3,262  4,254  53,748 
Plan participants contributions  229  -  7  -  516  752 
Benefit payments  (10,667)  (42,097)  (210)  (4,043)  (2,409)  (59,426)
Administration cost  (603)  (2,461)  (3)  -  -  (3,067)
Settlements  (23,442)  -  -  -  -  (23,442)
Exchange rate differences  -  59,013  -  -  -  59,013 
As at 31 December 2015  390,214  1,012,767  1,654  18,297  83,323  1,506,255 
Present value of obligation  426,552  938,083  2,968  73,600  111,703  1,552,906 
Fair value of plan assets  390,214  1,012,767  1,654  18,297  83,323  1,506,255 
As at 31 December 2015  36,338  (74,684)  1,314  55,303  28,380  46,651 
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost  2,023  -  45  280  3,286  5,634 
Net interest expense  847  (992)  20  1,255  906  2,036 
Changes and plan amendments  (2,815)  -  -  -  -  (2,815)
Administration cost 603  2,461  3  -  -  3,067 
 658  1,469  68  1,535  4,192  7,922 
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income  26,676  27,503  (49)  18  109  54,257 
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic 
assumptions  113  (24,355)  -  -  2,493  (21,749)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions  (28,647)  (35,082)  (80)  (4,066)  (13,796)  (81,671)
-  Experience (gains)/losses  (537)  5,731  26  77  (3,713)  1,584 
 (2,395)  (26,203)  (103)  (3,971)  (14,907)  (47,579)
Income tax 598 6,813 35 921 2,116 10,483
Remeasurements, net of tax (1,797) (19,390) (68) (3,050) (12,791) (37,096)168 – 2015NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2014
Defined benefit liability  48,646  3,486  1,404  61,001  43,349  157,886 
Defined benefit asset  -  17,786  -  -  -  17,786 
 48,646  (14,300)  1,404  61,001  43,349  140,100 
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2014 376,020 773,365 2,571 69,987 90,540 1,312,483
Service cost 1,740 - 38 386 1,510 3,674
Interest expense 13,360 36,082 72 2,241 3,558 55,313
Remeasurements 99,682 108,159 451 11,164 34,131 253,587
Plan participants contributions 233 - 8 - 544 785
Benefit payments (9,818) (34,215) - (4,056) (6,561) (54,650)
Changes and plan amendments (22) - - - (1,081) (1,103)
Disposals - - (4) - - (4)
Exchange rate differences - 54,849 - - - 54,849
As at 31 December 2014 481,195 938,240 3,136 79,722 122,641 1,624,934
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2014 334,294 769,366 1,579 19,240 73,914 1,198,393
Interest income 12,013 36,422 46 603 2,946 52,030
Remeasurements 86,963 101,899 56 493 4,477 193,888
Employer contributions 9,884 25,820 53 2,548 4,387 42,692
Plan participants contributions 233 - 8 - 544 785
Benefit payments (9,818) (34,215) - (4,056) (6,561) (54,650)
Administration cost (1,023) (1,853) (6) - - (2,882)
Changes and plan amendments - - - - (415) (415)
Disposals 3 - (4) (107) - (108)
Exchange rate differences - 55,101 - - - 55,101
As at 31 December 2014 432,549 952,540 1,732 18,721 79,292 1,484,834
Present value of obligation  481,195 938,240 3,136 79,722 122,641 1,624,934
Fair value of plan assets 432,549 952,540 1,732 18,721 79,292 1,484,834
As at 31 December 2014 48,646 (14,300) 1,404 61,001 43,349 140,100
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 1,740 - 38 386 1,510 3,674
Net interest expense 1,347 (340) 26 1,638 612 3,283
Changes and plan amendments (22) - - - (666) (688)
Administration cost 1,023 1,853 6 - - 2,882
4,088 1,513 70 2,024 1,456 9,151
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income (86,963) (101,899) (56) (493) (4,477) (193,888)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic 
assumptions (3,820) 205 - (1) (1,477) (5,093)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions 107,320 46,312 499 10,688 36,513 201,332
-  Experience (gains)/losses (3,818) 61,642 (48) 477 (905) 57,348
Exchange rate differences - (2 ) - - - (2)
12,719 6,258 395 10,671 29,654 59,697
Income tax (3,180) (1,243) (135) (2,232) (3,444) (10,234)
Remeasurements, net of tax 9,539 5,015 260 8,439 26,210 49,4632015  – 169The average duration of the defined benefit obligations per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
Average duration  (in years) 15 24 12 13 24
The significant actuarial assumptions per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
2015
Discount rate 2.30% 3.90% 1.60% 2.10% 2.20%
Salary growth rate 0 - 1.90% 2.25 - 3.15% 1.90% 1.50% 2,25%
Pension growth rate 0 - 1.70% 2.20 - 3.15% - 1.50% 1.75%
2014
Discount rate 1.90% 3.70% 1.40% 2.10% 2.20%
Salary growth rate 0 - 1.90% 2.05 - 3.40% 1.90% 2.00% 2.25%
Pension growth rate 0 - 2.00% 2.05 - 3.10% - 2.00% 0 - 1.75%
Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics and 
experience in each country.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
• If the discount rate is 0.5 per cent per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will decrease by approximately  
€115 million (increase by approximately € 140 million).
• If the expected salary increase is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€14 million (decrease by approximately € 7 million).
• If the expected indexation is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€61 million (decrease by approximately € 51 million). 
• If the life expectancy increases (decreases) by 1 year, the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€30 million (decrease by approximately € 24 million).
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. 
In practice, this is unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the 
sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of 
the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has 
been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the 
previous period.170 – 2015Plan assets are comprised as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
2015
Equity instruments (quoted)  -  305,418  -  -  49,546  354,964 
Debt instruments (quoted)  -  542,208  -  -  28,865  571,073 
Property (quoted)  -  47,331  -  -  2,957  50,288 
Qualifying insurance policies 
(unquoted)  390,214  -  1,654  18,297  366  410,531 
Cash and cash equivalents  -  117,810  -  -  1,589  119,399 
 390,214  1,012,767  1,654  18,297  83,323  1,506,255 
2014
Equity instruments (quoted) - 314,555 - - 47,799 362,354
Debt instruments (quoted) - 482,097 - - 28,614 510,711
Property (quoted) - 32,007 - - 2,513 34,520
Qualifying insurance policies 
(unquoted) 432,549 - 1,732 18,721 367 453,369
Cash and cash equivalents - 123,880 - - - 123,880
432,549 952,539 1,732 18,721 79,293 1,484,834
Plan assets do not include the Company’s ordinary shares. The Group applies IAS 19.104 for the valuation of the plan 
assets in the Netherlands in connection with the insured contracts.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are 
detailed below:
Asset volatility  The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond 
yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Changes in bond yields  A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially 
offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings.
Salary growth   The plan liabilities are calculated based on future salaries of the plan participants, so increases 
in future salaries will result in an increase in the plan liabilities.
Pension growth  The majority of the plan liabilities are calculated based on future pension increases, so these 
increases will result in an increase in the plan liabilities.
Life expectancy  The majority of the plan liabilities are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so 
increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plan liabilities.
With regard to the funded plans, the Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability 
matching (‘ALM’) framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the 
obligations under the pension schemes. Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the 
pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments 
as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The Group monitors how the duration and the expected yield of the 
investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations. The Group has not 
changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. Investments are well diversified, such that the 
failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. 
Employer contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2016 are expected to be 
significantly lower than 2015.2015  – 17121. Provisions
Warranty RestructuringRental 
guaranteesAssociates and  
 joint  
 ventures Other Total
As at 1 January 2015  67,083  56,876  5,265  35,275  22,251  186,750 
Charged/(credited) to the 
income statement:
 - Additional provisions  15,691  40,075  142  1,435  4,102  61,445 
 - Unused amounts reversed  (5,295)  (12,095)  -  (311)  (633)  (18,334)
Used during the year  (13,652)  (43,622)  (1,853)  (15,126)  (5,436)  (79,689)
Reclassifications  (931)  -  - -  931  - 
Other movements  -  -  - -  6  6 
Exchange rate differences  -  -  - -  13  13 
As at 31 December 2015  62,896  41,234  3,554  21,273  21,234  150,191 
Provisions are classified in the balance sheet as follows:
2015 2014
Non-current  84,933  114,638 
Current  65,258  72,112 
 150,191  186,750 
The provision for warranty concerns the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle complaints and deficiencies 
that become apparent after the delivery of projects and that fall within the warranty period. In reaching its best estimate, 
the Group takes into account the risks and uncertainties that surround the underlying events which are assessed 
periodically. Approximately 27 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2014: approximately 31 per cent).
The provision for restructuring concerns the best estimate of the expenditure associated with reorganisation plans 
already initiated. Approximately 87 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2014: approximately 82 per cent). 
The estimated staff restructuring costs to be incurred are recognised under ‘personnel expenses’. Other direct costs 
attributable to the restructuring, including lease termination, are recognised under ‘other operating expenses’. 
The additional provisions in 2015 mainly relate to the Back in Shape programme and other restructurings predominantly 
in the Netherlands.
The provision for rental guarantees consists of commitments arising from rental guarantees issued to third parties 
(predominantly in Germany), taking into account expected income from subleases. These obligations in Germany relate 
to two properties. Approximately 55 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2014: nil). 
The provision for associates and joint ventures arise from the legal or constructive obligation in connection with 
structured entities for property development projects (associates and joint ventures) and the development of the 
hedging reserves in PPP joint ventures. An amount of € 0.1 million (2014: €1.0 million) relates to associates and € 21.2  
million (2014: € 34.3  million) to joint ventures. 
Other provisions include the dividend guarantee amounting to of € 8.5 million (2014: €9.2 million) in connection with the 
disposal of the Group’s interest in Van Oord in 2011. Amounts provided for the liquidation of the old project development 
activities, claims and legal obligations in Germany and continuing rental commitments resulting from (temporarily) 
unused premises are also included. Approximately 59 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2014: approximately 
15 per cent).
The non-current part of the provisions has been discounted at an interest rate of approximately 3 per cent (2014: 
approximately 3 per cent).172 – 201522. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
2015 2014
Deferred tax assets:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months  245,145  235,946 
- To be recovered within twelve months  6,570  6,546 
 251,715  242,492 
Deferred tax liabilities:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months  20,454  19,806 
- To be recovered within twelve months  10,505  6,100 
 30,959  25,906 
  
Deferred tax liabilities (net)  (220,756)  (216,586)
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
2015 2014
As at 1 January  (216,586)  (177,632)
Income statement charge/(credit)  (17,247)  (27,062)
Tax charge/(credit) relating to components of other comprehensive income  11,427  (13,242)
Change of income tax rate  (125)  30 
Transfer to assets/liabilities held for sale  1,635 1,190 
Exchange differences  140  130 
As at 31 December  (220,756)  (216,586)
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the 
offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
ProvisionsTax
lossesFair value
gainsEmployee 
benefit 
obligations Other Total
Deferred tax assets
As at 1 January 2014 2,077 172,466 12,448 18,184 46,256 251,431
(Charged)/credited to the income 
statement 111  37,303  78  (3,447)  (23,876)  10,169 
(Charged)/credited to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  2,023  10,356  -  12,379 
Changes in enacted tax rates  -  -  -  (30)  -  (30)
Transfer to assets held for sale - - (1,190) - - (1,190)
Reclassifications  -  (4,000)  -  -  4,000  - 
Exchange rate differences  124  -  196  105  178  603 
As at 31 December 2014 2,312  205,769  13,555  25,168  26,558  273,362 
(Charged)/credited to the income 
statement  692  533  (291)  (2,259)  6,475  5,150 
(Charged)/credited to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  148  (3,600)  -  (3,452)
Changes in enacted tax rates  (180)  -  -  -  (1,005)  (1,185)
Transfer to assets held for sale  -  -  (1,635)  -  -  (1,635)
Reclassifications  -  10,591  -  (750)  (10,591)  (750)
Exchange rate differences  123  -  230  55  118  526 
As at 31 December 2015  2,947  216,893  12,007  18,614  21,555  272,016 2015  – 173Construction
 contractsAccelerated
 tax
 depreciationFair value 
gainsEmployee
 benefit 
assets Other Total
Deferred tax liabilities
As at 1 January 2014 38,802 13,147 779 1,505 19,566 73,799
Charged/(credited) to the income 
statement  (18,190)  525  -  2,676  (1,904)  (16,893)
Charged/(credited) to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  (83)  (780)  -  (863)
Exchange rate differences  -  577  1  155  -  733 
As at 31 December 2014  20,612  14,249  697  3,556  17,662  56,776 
Charged/(credited) to the income 
statement  (3,893)  (582)  - 3,999  (11,621)  (12,097)
Charged/(credited) to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  1,092 6,883  - 7,975
Changes in enacted tax rates  -  (980)  -  (330)  -  (1,310)
Reclassifications  -  -  -  (750)  -  (750)
Exchange rate differences  -  581  -  85  -  666 
As at 31 December 2015  16,719  13,268  1,789  13,443  6,041  51,260 
Deferred income tax assets in a country are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits 
in that country are available against which the temporary differences and available tax losses carry-forwards can be 
utilised.
 
Tax losses available to the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for carry-forward at year-end 2015 amount to approximately 
€985 million (2014: €895 million). These unused tax losses relate to the years 2009 up to and including 2015 and 
include an amount of €395 million (2014: €395 million) owing to the liquidation of old property development activities 
in Germany. The increase in the unused tax losses in 2015 is mainly caused by the impairments on property as well as 
the restructuring costs incurred as part of the Back in Shape programme. The legal term within which these losses may 
be offset against future profits is nine years.
 
Based on estimates of the level and timing of future taxable profits within the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for the 
upcoming nine years approximately €815 million (2014: €765 million) of these losses are recognised. Management 
estimates of forecasted taxable profits in the Netherlands are based on financial budgets approved by management, 
extrapolated using growth rates for revenue and profit before tax margins that are based on external market data and 
benchmark information, taking into account past performance. Growth rates for revenue and profit before tax margins 
are in line with the Group’s mid- and long-term expectations. The estimated financial impact of the Back in Shape 
programme which includes the changes in the organisation structure and the corresponding changes in activities that 
take place at the Group, has been taken into account in the forecasted taxable profits.
Tax losses to a minimum of €567 million (2014: €635 million) are expected to remain available for the companies in 
Germany, which can be offset against future taxable profits in Germany. Based on estimates of the level and timing of 
future taxable profits per operating company and per fiscal unity, approximately €32 million (2014: €44 million) of 
these losses are recognised. The legal term within which these losses may be offset against future profits is indefinite. 
Management estimates of forecasted taxable profits in Germany are based on financial budgets approved by 
management, extrapolated using estimated growth rates that are considered to be in line with the Group’s mid- and 
long-term expectations, taking into account past performance.174 – 201523. Trade and other payables
Notes 2015 2014
Trade payables  903,640  816,490 
Amounts due to customers 6  714,428  720,845 
Amounts due to related parties 36  35,506  46,387 
Social security and other taxes  118,622  147,617 
Pension premiums  8,224 10,672
Invoices due for work completed  147,233  146,434 
Invoices due for work in progress  571,698  540,412 
Other financial liabilities  3,372  4,147 
Other liabilities  150,137 164,257
Accrued expenses and deferred income 242,961  256,145 
 2,895,821  2,853,406 
24.  Employee benefit expenses
Notes 2015 2014
Wages and salaries  1,095,178  1,174,242 
Social security costs  173,097  219,779 
Pension costs - defined contribution plans  80,578  85,374 
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 20  7,922  9,151 
Other post-employment benefits  1,659  2,015 
 1,358,434  1,490,561 
Wages and salaries include restructuring costs and other termination benefits of € 21.5  million (2014: € 50.4  million).
At year-end 2015, the Group had 21,248  employees in FTE (2014: 23,137 ). The average number of employees in FTE 
amounted to 21,916  (2014: 23,325 ).2015  – 17525. Impairment charges
2015 2014
Property, plant and equipment 1,452 1,200
Intangible assets 3,298 511
Other financial assets (949) 11,446
Inventories 37,325 54,461
Impairment charges 41,126 67,618
Share of impairment charges in investments (2,040) 48,240
39,086 115,858
In 2015, impairment charges in connection with inventories relating to land and building rights are €23 million and 
€14 million to commercial property development. Impairment charges in connection with inventories in 2014 solely 
related to land and building rights. The share in the reversal of impairment charges in investments relates to the 
favourable development of the associated land and building rights held for property development.
26.  Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or their nature, or that are non-recurring are considered as 
exceptional and are presented within the line items to which they best relate.
An analysis of the amount presented as exceptional items in these financial statements is given below:
Notes 2015 2014
Impairment charges 25 39,086 115,858
Restructuring costs 21 27,980  60,178 
Pension one-off 20 (2,815)  - 
Other exceptional costs 10,588  8,614 
74,839 184,650
Other exceptional costs consist of consultancy fees of € 11 million (2014: €9 million) directly related to the Back in 
Shape programme and have been included in ‘other operating expenses’ in the income statement.
27.  Audit fees
The total fees for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 2015 amount to €4.6 million (2014: €4.3 million).
Expenses for services provided by the Company’s independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. 
(‘PwC’) and its member firms to the Group are specified as follows:
2015 2014
PwC Member
firms Total PwC Member
firms Total
Audit fees   3,084  713  3,797  2,835  727  3,562 
Audit-related fees  443  468 911  377  432  809 
Tax advisory fees  58  158  216  93  69  162 
Other non-audit fees  10  201  211  92  329  421 
 5,135  4,954 176 – 201528. Finance income and expense
2015 2014
Finance income
- Interest income - cash at banks  2,348  3,178 
- Interest income - other financial assets  1,925  2,475 
- Interest income - PPP receivables  23,077  30,231 
- Other finance income  7,145  10,085 
 34,495  45,969 
Finance expense
- Subordinated loan  7,416  7,574 
- Bank fees - subordinated loan  500  500 
- Committed syndicated credit facility  196  3,718 
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility  4,688  3,747 
- Non-recourse PPP loans  14,198  18,778 
- Non-recourse project financing  4,511  5,789 
- Other non-recourse financing  287  181 
- Interest expense - bank overdrafts  642  1,026 
- Finance lease liabilities  915  1,329 
- Recourse property financing  2,056  2,031 
- Recourse PPP loans  2,109  2,726 
- Other recourse financing  787  899 
- Interest expense - other liabilities  335  1,046 
- Fair value result - forward exchange contracts  (1,827)  497 
 36,813  49,841 
Less: capitalised interest on the Group's own projects  (13,323)  (15,941)
 23,490  33,900 
  
Net finance result  11,005  12,069 
Included in the finance expense is an amount of € 7 million (2014: €10 million) relating to interest rate swaps that was 
reclassified from equity to the income statement. An overview of the applicable weighted average interest rates is 
disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
29. Income tax
2015 2014
Current tax  19,556 11,563
Deferred tax  (17,247) (27,062)
 2,309 (15,499)2015  – 177Income tax on the Group’s result before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted 
average tax rate applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows:
2015 2014
Result before tax  13,341 (122,440)
Tax calculated at Dutch tax rate  3,338 (30,611)
Tax effects of:
- Tax rates in other countries  (4,250) 3,428
- Income not subject to tax and previously unrecognised tax losses  (10,287) (2,426)
- Remeasurement of deferred tax – changes in enacted tax rates  (125) 30
- Tax filings and previously unrecognised temporary differences  4,541 4,595
- Tax losses no(t) (longer) recognised  10,662 16,271
- Results of investments and other participations, net of tax  (4,040) (6,979)
- Other including expenses not deductible for tax purposes  1,349 193
- Impairment of goodwill  1,121 -
Tax charge/(gain)  2,309 (15,499)
Effective tax rate 17.3% 12.7%
The weighted average tax rate applicable was -6.8 per cent (2014: 22.2  per cent). The difference is attributable to a 
different spread of results over the countries.
In 2015, the tax burden was influenced predominantly by tax losses which are not recognised (anymore), as well as the 
recognition of tax losses that were previously unrecognised. Exempt results of investments and other participations 
also influence the tax burden.
In 2014, the tax gain was influenced predominantly by tax losses which are not measured (anymore), as well as exempt 
results of investments and other participations, net of tax.
As at 1 April 2017, the main rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom  will be reduced from 20 per cent to 19 per 
cent and will be further reduced to 18 per cent as at 1 April 2020.
30. Earnings per share
2015 2014
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000)  270,957 270,395
Net result attributable to shareholders  10,180 (108,172)
Basic earnings per share (in €)  0.04 (0.40)
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders  10,180 (108,172)
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations  (in €)  0.04 (0.40)
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders  - -
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (in €)  - -178 – 2015Allowing for dilution, the earnings per share are as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue  (x 1,000)  270,957 270,395
Net result attributable to shareholders  10,180 (108,172)
Diluted earnings per share (in €)  0.04 (0.40)
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders (diluted)  10,180 (108,172)
Diluted earnings from continuing operations per share (in €)  0.04 (0.40)
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders (diluted)  - -
Diluted earnings from discontinued operations per share  (in €)  - -
31. Dividends per share
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2015 of 2 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in 
shares, at the option of the shareholders (2014: nil). Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at year-end 
2015, a maximum of € 5 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend proposal has 
not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
In line with the Group’s dividends policy the Company has not paid a dividend over the financial year 2014 following 
the net loss.
32.  Contingencies
32.1  Legal proceedings
In the normal course of business the Group is involved in legal proceedings predominantly concerning litigation in 
connection with (completed) construction contracts. The legal proceedings, whether pending, threatened or 
unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, may have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, operational 
result or cash flows. The Group may enter into discussions regarding settlement of these and other proceedings and 
may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders. 
In accordance with current accounting policies, the Group has recognised provisions with respect to these 
proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. 
32.2 Guarantees
In the ordinary course of business guarantees are issued to (prospective) clients and contracting parties. These 
contingent liabilities are not recognised in the balance sheet. It is not expected that any material risks will arise from 
these contingent liabilities.
Guarantees are issued either by the Company (parent company guarantees) or by banks and surety companies (bank 
guarantees, deposits and surety bonds). These guarantees could be forced to settle under the arrangement for the full 
guaranteed amount in case of non-compliance with or without the intervention of an independent third party.
The parent company guarantees issued amount to €156 million (2014: €176 million). Guarantees issued by banks and 
surety companies amount to €1,776 million (2014: €1,760 million). Guarantee facilities amount to €2.4 billion (2014: 
€2.5 billion).2015  – 17933.  Commitments
33.1  Purchase commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred and conditional contractual 
obligations to purchase land for property development activities is as follows:
2015 2014
Property, plant and equipment  232 970
Land  121,272 166,384
 121,504 167,354
The conditional nature of the contractual obligations to purchase land relate to, among other items, the amendment of 
development plans, the acquirement of planning permissions and the actual completion of property development 
projects.
33.2 Lease commitments
The Group leases various office buildings, equipment and company cars from third parties under non-cancellable 
operating lease agreements. The lease agreements vary in duration, escalation clauses and renewable options.  
In 2015 the costs associated with operating leases amount to € 69 million (2014: € 64 million).
The future aggregate minimum lease payments are as follows:
2015 2014
Up to 1 year  64,507 59,182
1 to 5 years  114,167 112,827
Over 5 years  23,245 21,927
 201,919 193,936
The Group leases office buildings and equipment to third parties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. 
The lease agreements vary in duration, escalation clauses and renewable options. The carrying amount of the leased 
assets amounts to €23 million at year-end 2015 (2014: €22 million). The lease income, including lease bonuses, is 
recognised as revenue in the income statement. In 2015 the income associated with operating leases amount to 
€1.7 million (2014: €1.8 million).
The future aggregate minimum lease income is as follows:
2015 2014
Up to 1 year  1,562 1,143
1 to 5 years  7,298 6,205
Over 5 years  6,629 5,182
 15,489 12,530180 – 201534. Business combinations
No material acquisitions have taken place in 2015 nor 2014.
35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
2015 2014
PPP receivables 39,391  117,401 
Deferred tax assets 1,635  1,190 
Trade and other receivables 367  2,730 
Cash and cash equivalents 421  5,722 
Assets held for sale 41,814  127,043 
Borrowings (non-current) 35,470  106,859 
Derivative financial instruments 6,538  4,761 
Borrowings (current) 3,983  15,325 
Trade and other payables 471  1,821 
Liabilities held for sale 46,462  128,766 
At year-end 2015, the assets and liabilities held for sale related to the planned disposal of one PPP project (2014: one) 
to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM. Other comprehensive income related to this project amounts to €3.9 million 
(2014: €2.8 million).
During 2015 the Group transferred two operational projects (2014: seven projects), to the joint venture BAM PPP/
PGGM and, after deduction of costs, realised a net result of €5.2 million (2014: €24.5 million). The total consideration 
received amounted to €41.7 million, of which €35.0 million in cash. The Group retained a 20 per cent share of its 
original share in these projects. 
The Group had no discontinued operations in 2015 nor 2014.2015  – 18136. Related parties
The Group identifies subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements, third parties executing the Group’s defined benefit 
pension plans and key management as related parties. Transactions with related parties are conducted at arm’s length, 
on terms comparable to those for transactions with third parties.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
36.1 Sales and purchase of goods and services
A majority of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements. These activities include the assignment and/or 
financing of land as well as carrying out construction contracts. 
The Group carried out transactions with associates and joint arrangements related to the sale of goods and  
services for € 125.6  million (2014: € 99.9  million) and related to the purchase of goods and services for € 5.2 million 
(2014: € 7.8 million).
The 2015 year-end balance of receivables arising from aforementioned transactions amounts to €5.4 million  
(2014: €9.3 million) and the liabilities to €35.5 million (2014: €46.4 million).
36.2 Loans to related parties
At year-end 2015, the Group granted loans to related parties (mainly relating to associates and joint ventures) for the 
amount of € 76 million (2014: € 72 million). These transactions were made on normal commercial terms and conditions, 
except that for a number of loans there are no fixed terms for the repayment of loans between the parties. Interests for 
these loans are at arm’s length. Loans to related parties are included in ‘Other financial assets’ in the statement of 
financial position.
36.3  Key management compensation
Key management includes members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.
Executive Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Executive Board for services is shown below:
2015
Gross 
salaryOther 
short-term
 benefitsPost-
employment
 benefitsShare-based
 paymentsOther
benefits Crisis levy Total
R.P van Wingerden 1 620  350  46  371  8  -  1,395 
T. Menssen  470  265  38  266  8  -  1,047 
E.J. Bax 2 470  265  52  111  -  -  898
 1,560 880  136  748  16  - 3,340182 – 20152014
Gross 
salaryOther 
short-term
 benefitsPost-
employment
 benefitsShare-based
 paymentsOther
benefits Crisis levy Total
R.P van Wingerden 1 508  -  64  -  8  54  634 
T. Menssen  470  -  30  -  8  48  556 
E.J. Bax 2 313  -  35  -  -  34  382 
 1,291  -  129  -  16  136  1,572 
1 Appointed as Chairman of the Executive Board with effect from 1 October 2014
2 Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 May 2014
Other short-term benefits relate to the short-term incentive (‘STI’) as part of the remuneration package of the 
Executive Board with a target pay-out of 55 per cent with a maximum of 75 per cent. The STI is based on financial 
criteria (67 per cent) and non-financial performance targets (33%). Performance incentive zones are defined for each 
of the targets. Pay-out gradually increases with performance, starting with a pay-out of 35 per cent of the target at 
threshold performance and potentially going up to 75% pay-out at maximum performance per individual target. 
Performance below the threshold will result in a zero pay-out. The Supervisory Board sets the performance ranges  
(i.e. threshold, at target and maximum performance levels) and corresponding payout levels, with the constraint 
that the STI payout will not exceed 75% of base salary. The Supervisory Board determined the pay-out for 2015 at 
56.5 per cent (2014: nil).
 
Post-employment benefits relate to the pension costs of the defined benefit plans recognised in the income statement 
and are determined on the basis of the individual pension obligations. Interest results and return on plan assets are not 
allocated on an individual basis. Certain components of the post-employment benefits are conditional and paid if 
employment continues until the retirement age.
Share-based payments relate to the Performance Share Plan and Phantom Share Plan. Additional information is 
disclosed in note 37.
Other benefits relate to annual fixed expense allowances and insurance premiums.
No share options have been granted to the members of the Executive Board. The members of the Executive Board do 
not hold any shares in the Company, except for the conditionally granted shares under the Performance Share Plan, nor 
have loans or advances been granted.2015  – 183Supervisory Board
The compensation paid or payable (including annual fixed expense allowance) the Supervisory Board for services is 
shown below:
2015 2014
P.A.F.W. Elverding, Chairman  58  58 
H. Scheffers, Vice-Chairman  52  52 
J.P. Hansen  47  47 
C.M.C. Mahieu  47  47 
H.L.J. Noy  47  47 
K.S. Wester  47  47 
 298  298 
No share options have been granted to the members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board 
do not hold any shares in the Company nor have loans or advances been granted.
Other related parties
The Group has not entered into any material transaction with other related parties.
37. Share-based payments
In 2015, BAM’s long-term incentive plan consisted of a conditional share-based compensation plan called Performance 
Share Plan. This equity-settled plan replaced the cash-settled Phantom Share Plan effective from 2011 through 2014 
and is applicable for members of the Executive Board and selected positions below the Executive Board (‘Participants’) 
whereas the Phantom Share Plan solely included members of the Executive Board. In principle, plan rules will not be 
altered during the term of the plans.
37.1 Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value 
(expressed as a percentage of gross salary) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’). 
The shares were granted on the fifth trading day following the day of the AGM and vest subject to the achievement of 
pre-determined performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed 
by BAM. Participants are not allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year lock-up period has lapsed and the 
above minimum share ownership requirements are met, with the exception of any sale of shares during the lock-up 
period except to finance tax (and other levies) payable at the date of vesting. The maximum value at the date of vesting 
of the Performance Share Plan is capped at 2.5 times the award value.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to ten other listed 
construction companies in Europe, measured over a three-year period using total shareholder return (‘TSR’), which is 
the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. The peer group on balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, 
Boskalis, Carillion, Heijmans, Hochtief, Eiffage, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci and YIT. TSR is complemented with an additional 
financial target and a non-financial target. On top, the TSR measure will function as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting 
part linked to the other two criteria. When BAM Group ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the other 
parts will not payout regardless of the performance in this area.184 – 2015The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined 
performance conditions:
TSR Financial Non-financial
Ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below threshold 0% Below threshold 0%
6 25%
7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%
At the end of each reporting period, BAM revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based 
on the non-market vesting conditions (financial and non-financial) and recognises the impact of the revision to original 
estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, disability or death, the same vesting conditions as described 
above apply. Upon termination of employment without cause in certain circumstances (e.g., restructuring or 
divestment), a pro rata part of the granted shares will vest on the date of termination of employment. For the 
performance shares, the most recent performance results will be applied to calculate the number of vested shares.
The status of the Performance Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2015 for the members of the Executive Board 
and for all other participants is shown below:
As at
1 January
2015 Granted Vested ForfeitedAs at
31 December
2015
R.P. van Wingerden - 114,319 - - 114,319
T. Menssen - 74,281 - - 74,281
E.J. Bax - 74,281 - - 74,281
Other participants - 342,094 - - 342,094
- 604,975 - - 604,975
The fair value per share of the 2015 grant, for the Participants, in connection with the TSR performance part amounted 
to €2.61 per share and is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. For the other financial and non-financial 
performance part, the fair value equals the share price at the date of grant, corrected for the expected value of the 
possibility of achieving the ‘circuit breaker’. As participants receive dividend compensation the dividend yield on the 
awards equals nil. 
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2015
Share price at grant date (in €) 3.74
Risk-free interest rate (in %) 0.01
Volatility (in %) 48.23
Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of three years. 
In 2015, an amount of €302 thousand was charged to the income statement arising from the Performance Share Plan.2015  – 18537.2  Phantom Share Plan
Under the Phantom Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value 
(expressed as a percentage of gross salary) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the AGM. 
The shares were granted on the fifth trading day following the day of the AGM and vest subject to the achievement of 
pre-determined performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed 
by BAM.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to five other listed 
construction companies in Europe, measured over a three-year period using TSR, which is the sum of share price 
growth and dividends paid. The peer group on balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, Ballast Nedam (until 
delisting), Bilfinger, Heijmans and Skanska. Participants are not allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year 
lock-up period has lapsed. The maximum cash distribution to the Participants at the date of vesting of the Phantom 
Share Plan is capped at 1.5 times the gross salary of the Participant.
The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined 
performance condition:
TSR 
PerformanceVesting
< 0 0%
0 – 5 35%
5 – 10 45%
10 – 15 55%
15 – 20 65%
20 – 25 75%
25 – 30 85%
≥ 30 100%
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, death or in the event of a restructuring or divestment, the 
granted shares will be reduced for a pro rata part reflecting the period between the date of termination of employment 
and the vesting date. 
The status of the Phantom Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2015 for the individual Executive Board members  
is as follows:
As at
1 January
2015Stock
dividend Vested ForfeitedAs at
31 December
2015
R.P. van Wingerden 218,361 - - - 218,361
T. Menssen 130,331 - - - 130,331
E.J. Bax 54,064 - - - 54,064
402,756 - - - 402,756
In addition, 189,204 shares are allocated to retired Executive Board members at year-end 2015.
The fair values per share of the conditionally granted shares outstanding amount to €4.93 and €4.81 for the 2013 
respectively 2014 grant and are determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. 186 – 2015The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2015 2014
Risk-free interest rate (in %) (0.26) 0.01
Volatility (in %) 49.31 47.77
Assumed dividend yield (in %) 2.00 2.00
In 2015, an amount of €772 thousand (2014: nil) was charged to the income statement arising from the Phantom Share 
Plan. As at 31 December 2015, the liability amounts to €1,035 thousand (2014: €265 thousand).
38. Joint operations
A part of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements classified as joint operations. This applies to all 
activities and all countries in which the Group operates. These arrangements remain in place until a project is finished. 
In practice, the duration of the majority of the joint operations is limited to a period of between 1 and 4 years, with the 
exception of joint operations in connection with land and building rights held for strategic purposes.
The Group’s share of the revenue of these joint operations amounts to approximately €1.1 billion in 2015 (2014: 
approximately €1.3 billion), which represents approximately 15 per cent of the Group’s revenue (2014: 17 per cent).
The Group’s share of the balance sheets of joint operations is indicated below: 
(in € million) 2015
Construction 
and M&E servicesCivil
engineering Property Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets - 57.7 - 57.7 
 - Current assets 119.2 763.7 105.3 988.2 
119.2 821.4 105.3 1.045.9 
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 1.3 12.7 52.3 66.3 
 - Current liabilities 123.2 795.6 40.6 959.4 
124.5 808.3 92.9 1.025.7 
    
Net balance (5.3) 13.1 12.4 20.2 
2014
Construction 
and M&E servicesCivil
engineering Property Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets - 39.6 - 39.6 
 - Current assets 96.3 491.6 131.1 719.0 
96.3 531.2 131.1 758.6 
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 1.4 7.7 62.9 72.0 
 - Current liabilities 100.6 512.9 50.6 664.1 
102.0 520.6 113.5 736.1 
    
Net balance (5.7) 10.6 17.6 22.5 
The Group has no contingencies or capital commitments under joint operations. Transfers of funds and/or other assets 
are made in consultation with the partners of the joint operations.2015  – 18739. Service concession arrangements
The Group operates various service concession arrangements, both in the accommodation and infrastructure areas. 
These activities comprise the construction, exploitation, maintenance and divestment of (a part of) concession 
arrangements structured through separate legal entities and are principally carried out by BAM PPP independently  
and/or  in collaboration with third parties.
The Group has a stake in the following concession arrangements:
Interest Classification Category Country OperationalAs 
fromConcession 
period
(in years)
Accommodations
East Ayrshire Hospital 100% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2000 25
Wharfedale Hospital 75% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2004 30
Derby Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2000 30
Cheshire Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2003 30
Peacehaven Schools 100% Group company Education United Kingdom Yes 2001 25
Bromsgrove Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2008 30
Solihull Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 25
West Dunbartonshire Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 30
Somerset Schools 17.8% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Camden Schools 18% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Irish Schools Bundle 3 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2014 25
Irish Schools Bundle 4 100% Group company Education Ireland No 2016 25
Irish Courts Bundle 100% Group company Justice Ireland No 2017 25
Gent Universiteit 100% Group company Education Belgium Yes 2011 33
Beveren Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Belgium Yes 2013 25
Dendermonde Prison 100% Group company Justice Belgium No 2016 25
Schiphol 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2012 25
High Court 100% Group company Justice Netherlands Yes 2015 30
Ministry VROM 100% Group company Other Netherlands No 2017 25
Potsdam 100% Group company Other Germany Yes 2012 30
Bremervoerde Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Germany Yes 2013 25
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein 50% Joint venture Health Germany No 2015 29
Burgdorf Prison 17.6% Joint venture Justice Switzerland Yes 2012 25
Infrastructure
Dundalk By-pass 6.7% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2005 28
Waterford By-pass 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2009 30
Portlaoise 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2010 30
N11/N7 20% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2015 25
M11 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2019 25
A59 14% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2005 15
N31 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2007 15
A12 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2012 25
N33 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2014 20
Infraspeed HSL 10.5% Associate Railway Netherlands Yes 2006 25
Lock Ijmuiden 50% Joint venture Lock Netherlands No 2019 26
A8 5% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2010 30
A9 50% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2014 17
Liefkenshoektunnel 10% Joint venture Railway Belgium Yes 2013 38
Brabo II 80.1% Joint venture Tramway Belgium No 2019 25
The Group is also involved in (accommodation and infrastructure) concession arrangements and energy service 
companies through other group companies.
The Group’s equity investment in PPP projects amount to €72 million (2014: €59 million).188 – 2015The Group has approximately € 45 million (2014: € 27 million) of obligations for capital contributions (after deduction of 
the PGGM share) in projects which have been awarded to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM. Construction revenue to 
be realised in connection with PPP projects amounts to approximately € 1.5 billion (2014: approximately € 0.9 billion).
A further description of the Group’s concession arrangements is as follows:
Accommodation
The accommodation concession arrangements relate to schools, police stations, hospitals, sport complexes, a 
penitentiary institution and a laboratory building. These arrangements are located in the United Kingdom, Ireland, 
Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Switzerland. The concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked 
to the availability of the accommodation. The actual usage of the accommodation does not affect the amount of the 
concession payments. Most arrangements include maintenance and facility management services.
During the concession periods, payments are based on the availability of the related accommodation and the 
maintenance and facility management services. The majority of the concession arrangements are subject to 
indexation. The part of the concession payment that relates to the services will be evaluated every five years in general, 
using a benchmark. There may consequently be a limited settlement with the principal as a result. However, the 
volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
Infrastructure
The infrastructure concession arrangements relate to motorways in Ireland, the Netherlands and Germany, a railway 
tunnel in Belgium, a railway line in the Netherlands and a coastal defence scheme in the United Kingdom. The concession 
arrangements started between 1999 up to and including 2014, for periods varying from 15 to 30 years.
The majority of the concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the related 
infrastructure. This availability is evaluated based on the contractually agreed upon criteria. These criteria cover the 
intensity of usage, temporary closures and maintenance. There may consequently be (temporarily) adjustments to 
the concession payments with the principal as a result. However, the volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
For three motorways in Ireland and one in Germany, concession payments are directly linked to the traffic volume 
(toll collection) and revenue and result are consequently volatile to some extent.
40.  Government grants
Government grants received in 2015, predominantly relating to education, amount to €3.1 million (2014: €3.6 million).
41.  Research and development
Research and development costs, which predominantly relate to projects, are considered to be part of contract costs. 
Other research and development costs, in the amount of approximately €0.9 million (2014: approximately €0.8 million), 
are recognised in the income statement.
42.  Events after the reporting period
No material events after the reporting period have occurred.2015  – 189Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
(before appropriation of result, x €1,000)
Notes 2015 2014
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2  20,010  17,230 
Intangible assets 3  386,698  377,278 
Financial assets 4  1,568,864  1,470,121 
Deferred tax assets 5  188,649  205,449 
 2,164,221  2,070,078 
Current assets
Receivables 6  44,432  32,695 
Cash and cash equivalents 7  16,312  70,456 
 60,744  103,151 
  
Total assets  2,224,965  2,173,229 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company 8
Issued and paid capital  27,099  27,099 
Share premium  812,212  812,212 
Reserves  (330,087)  (397,450)
Retained earnings  382,743  493,705 
Net result  10,180  (108,172)
 902,147  827,394 
Provisions 9
Employee benefits  56,060  68,123 
Provisions  -  15,080 
 56,060  83,203 
Non- current liabilities
Borrowings 10  132,104  133,030 
 132,104  133,030 
Current liabilities 11
Borrowings  1,424  48,923 
Other liabilities  1,133,230  1,080,679 
 1,134,654  1,129,602 
  
Total equity and liabilities  2,224,965  2,173,229 
Company income statement
(x € 1,000)
2015 2014
Result of subsidiaries and investments, net of tax  29,116 (97,641)
Other gains and losses, net of tax  (18,936) (10,531)
Net result  10,180 (108,172)190 – 2015Notes to the company financial statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
1.1  Basis of preparation
The company financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’) have been prepared in accordance 
with Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the 
Netherlands Civil Code, the recognition and measurement principles applied in these parent company financial 
statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated financial statements (see note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements).
1.2  Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. The net asset value is calculated using the accounting 
policies, as described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The net asset value of subsidiaries comprises 
the cost, excluding goodwill, of BAM’s share in the net assets of the subsidiary, plus BAM’s share in income or losses 
since acquisition, less dividends received. 
2.  Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings Other
assets Total
As at 1 January 2014
Cost 16,557 12,186 28,743
Accumulated depreciation (5,023) (7,697) (12,720)
11,534 4,489 16,023
Additions 1,560 2,768 4,328
Disposals - (27) (27)
Depreciation charges (764) (2,330) (3,094)
796 411 1,207
As at 31 December 2014
Cost  16,360  14,846  31,206 
Accumulated depreciation  (4,030)  (9,946)  (13,976)
 12,330  4,900  17,230 
Additions  1,649  6,654  8,303 
Disposals  (350)  (567)  (917)
Depreciation charges  (854)  (2,989)  (3,843)
Impairment charges  (763)  -  (763)
 (318)  3,098  2,780 
 
As at 31 December 2015  
Cost  16,896  17,076  33,972 
Accumulated depreciation  (4,884)  (9,078)  (13,962)
 12,012  7,998  20,010 2015  – 1913. Intangible assets
GoodwillNon- 
integrated
software Total
As at 1 January 2014
Cost 539,587 1,724 541,311
Accumulated amortisation (155,731) (806) (156,537)
383,856 918 384,774
Reclassifications (16,598) - (16,598)
Amortisation charges - (376) (376)
Exchange rate differences 9,478 - 9,478
(7,120) (376) (7,496)
As at 31 December 2014
Cost  532,467  1,724  534,191 
Accumulated amortisation  (155,731)  (1,182)  (156,913)
 376,736  542  377,278 
Additions  -  375  375 
Amortisation charges  -  (332)  (332)
Exchange rate differences  9,377  -  9,377 
 9,377  43  9,420 
As at 31 December 2015
Cost  541,844  2,099  543,943 
Accumulated amortisation  (155,731)  (1,514)  (157,245)
 386,113  585  386,698 192 – 20154.  Financial assets
Shares in 
subsidiariesReceivables 
from 
subsidiariesOther 
participating 
interestsOther loans 
and 
receivables Total
As at 1 January 2014 856,765 727,344 1,182 125 1,585,416
Net result for the year  (97,535)  -  (106)  -  (97,641)
Dividends  (17,477)  -  -  -  (17,477)
Additions  -  -  467  -  467 
Reclassifications  59,053  (59,053)  -  -  - 
Adjustments in group structure  453  -  -  -  453 
Capital contributions  32,018  -  -  -  32,018 
Loans granted and repayments  -  (47,144)  -  -  (47,144)
Cash flow hedge  38,867  -  -  -  38,867 
Remeasurements of post-employment  
benefit obligations  (40,381)  -  -  -  (40,381)
Exchange rate differences  15,543  -  -  -  15,543 
As at 31 December 2014  847,306  621,147  1,543  125  1,470,121 
Net result for the year  29,116  -  -  -  29,116 
Dividends  (3,595)  -  -  -  (3,595)
Additions  -  -  368  -  368 
Reclassifications  24,068  (24,068)  -  -  - 
Capital contributions  21,000  -  -  -  21,000 
Loans granted and repayments  -  (3,224)  -  (125)  (3,349)
Cash flow hedge  2,932  -  -  -  2,932 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit 
obligations  35,405  -  -  -  35,405 
Exchange rate differences  16,866  -  -  -  16,866 
As at 31 December 2015  973,098  593,855  1,911  -  1,568,864 
None of the financial assets were subject to impairment.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is disclosed in section Other information.
5.  Deferred tax assets
2015 2014
Deferred tax assets  188,649 205,449
 188,649 205,449
Deferred tax assets include the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany and the tax loss 
carry-forwards of the operations in the Netherlands to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit  
through future taxable profits is probable offset against deferred tax liabilities.
Additional information on deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial 
statements.2015  – 1936. Receivables
2015 2014
Amounts due from subsidiaries  27,685 15,120
Social security and other taxes  544 -
Prepayments and accrued income  16,203 17,575
 44,432 32,695
Receivables are due within one year.
7. Cash and cash equivalents
2015 2014
Cash at bank  16,312  70,456
 16,312 70,456
Cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Company.
8. Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
At year-end 2015, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2014: 400 million) and 
600 million preference shares (2014: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2014: €0.10 per share).  
All issued shares have been paid in full.
Movements in the number of ordinary shares are as follows:
Number of 
ordinary sharesNumber of 
treasury sharesNumber of 
ordinary shares 
in issue
As at 1 January 2014  269,424,089  -  269,424,089 
Dividends  1,574,868  -  1,574,868 
As at 31 December 2014  270,998,957  -  270,998,957 
Repurchase of ordinary shares  -  604,975  (604,975)
As at 31 December 2015  270,998,957  604,975  270,393,982 194 – 2015Movements in shareholders’ equity are as follows:
Issued 
and paid
capitalShare
premium ReservesRetained
earnings Net result Total
As at 1 January 2014 26,942 806,326 (411,476) 461,165 46,157 929,114
Net result for the year  -  -  -  -  (108,172)  (108,172)
Appropriation of result  -  -  -  46,157  (46,157) - 
Dividends  157  5,886  -  (13,471)  -  (7,428)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations  -  -  (49,157)  -  -  (49,157)
Cash flow hedges  -  -  37,972  -  -  37,972 
Other movements  -  -  -  (146)  -  (146)
Exchange rate differences  -  -  25,211  -  -  25,211 
At 31 December 2014  27,099  812,212  (397,450)  493,705  (108,172)  827,394 
Net result for the year  -  -  -  -  10,180  10,180 
Appropriation of result  -  -  -  (108,172)  108,172  - 
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations  -  -  37,026  -  -  37,026 
Cash flow hedges  -  -  4,094  -  -  4,094 
Repurchase of ordinary shares  -  -  -  (3,092)  -  (3,092)
Share-based payments - - - 302 - 302
Exchange rate differences  -  -  26,243  -  -  26,243 
At 31 December 2015  27,099  812,212  (330,087)  382,743  10,180  902,147 
8.1 Reserves
Reserves relate to the reserves for (cash flow) hedging, remeasurements of post-employment benefits and translation 
differences. The reserves for (cash flow) hedging and translation differences are legal reserves that are required by 
Dutch law. Distributions to the shareholders of the Company are restricted to the extent of the negative balance.
The hedging reserve amounts to €77 million negative (2014: €81 million negative), the remeasurements of post-
employment benefits €226 million negative (2014: €263 million negative) and the translation reserve €27 million 
negative (2014: €54 million negative).
8.2 Dividends per share
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2015 of 2 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in 
shares, at the option of the shareholders (2014: nil). Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at year-end 
2015, a maximum of €5 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend proposal has 
not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
In line with the Group’s dividends policy the Company has not paid a dividend over the financial year 2014 following 
the net loss.2015  – 1959. Provisions
2015 2014
Employee benefits  56,060 68,123
Other  -  15,080
 56,060  83,203
10. Borrowings
2015 2014
Subordinated loan  125,000 125,000
Other loans  7,104 8,030
 132,104 133,030
Additional information on borrowings is disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. Current liabilities
2015 2014
Bank overdrafts  1,163 48,499
Subordinated loan  (665) (500)
Other loans  926 924
Amounts due to subsidiaries  1,086,403 1,044,491
Social security and other taxes  - 208
Provisions 9,647 -
Other liabilities  37,180 35,980
 1,134,654  1,129,602
Provisions include the dividend guarantee provision relating to the disposal of the interest in Van Oord (€8.5 million) as 
well as a restructuring provision (€1.1 million).
12. Employees
During the year 2015, the Company had 210 (2014: 262) employees on average in FTE.
13. Related parties
The Company has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course 
of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at 
market prices.
Additional information on key management compensation is disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated financial 
statements.196 – 201514. Commitments and contingencies
14.1 Guarantees
The Company has issued parent company guarantees amounting to € 156 million (2014: € 176 million) at year-end 2015. 
14.2  Third-party liability
The Company is jointly and severally liable for the debts of the subsidiaries based in the Netherlands pursuant to 
section 403, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
The Company, together with other participants, has a joint and several liability for deficits in the Group’s cash pool as  
a whole.
The Company forms a fiscal unity with BAM’s major Dutch and certain other subsidiaries for income tax and 
VAT purposes and, for that reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch income tax and Dutch VAT liabilities 
of the whole fiscal unity. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands
17 February 2016 
Supervisory Board:  Executive Board:
P.A.F.W. Elverding R.P. van Wingerden
H. Scheffers T. Menssen
J.-P. Hansen E.J. Bax
C.M.C. Mahieu 
H.L.J. Noy  
K.S. Wester  2015  – 1976. Other information198 – 2015General
Our assurance procedures consisted of an audit of the company’s 
financial statements, and a combination of reasonable assurance 
procedures (audit procedures) over the safety information, business 
conduct and transparency information (scope extension 2015) and 
the section material themes and limited assurance procedures 
(review procedures) over the other sustainability information in 
the company’s integrated report. 
Our scope can be summarised as follows:
* As included in section 1 to 3 of Royal BAM Group nv’s annual report.Independent auditor’s report
To:  the general meeting and Supervisory Board of  
Royal BAM Group nv
Report on the financial statements 2015
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true 
and fair view of the financial position of Royal BAM Group nv as at 
31 December 2015 and of its result and cash flows for the year 
then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with 
Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code;
• the accompanying company financial statements give a true and 
fair view of the financial position of Royal BAM Group nv as at 
31 December 2015 and of its result for the year then ended in 
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
What we have audited
We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2015 of 
Royal BAM Group nv, Bunnik (‘the company’). The financial 
statements include the consolidated financial statements of Royal 
BAM Group nv and its subsidiaries (together: ‘the Group’) and the 
company financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements comprise:
• the consolidated statement of financial position as at 
31 December 2015;
• the following statements for 2015: the consolidated income 
statement and the consolidated statements of comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows; and
• the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
The company financial statements comprise:
• the company statement of financial position as at 31 December 
2015;
• the company income statement for the year then ended; and
• the notes, comprising a summary of the accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant 
provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the 
consolidated financial statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch 
Civil Code for the company financial statements.6.1 Independent auditor’s and assurance report
Consolidated and company
ﬁnancial statements
Audit scope
Reasonable assuranceSustainability
information
Review scope
Limited assurance
Safety
Business conduct 
and transparency
Material themes
Audit scope
Reasonable assurance
Other information in the Executive Board report *
Veriﬁed consistency with ﬁnancial statements 
No assuranceRoyal BAM Group nv Integrated Report 20152015  – 199The basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including 
the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those 
standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the 
audit of the financial statements’ section of our report.
We are independent of Royal BAM Group nv in accordance with the 
‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij 
assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO) and other relevant independence 
requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied 
with the ‘Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants’ 
(VGBA).
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Our audit approach
Overview and context
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates about the valuation of projects, project related claim 
receivables and land and building rights, which are directly related 
to the core activities of Royal BAM Group nv. We also paid specific 
attention to the valuation of deferred tax assets relating carry 
forward losses and the goodwill impairment testing. These 
estimates involved making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also 
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the 
directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to 
fraud.
We ensured that the audit teams both at group and at component 
levels included the appropriate skills and competences which are 
needed for the audit of a construction company. We therefore 
included specialists in the areas of IT, construction projects, tax, 
actuarial valuations, financial instruments and accounting and 
valuations in our team.
Materiality
• We determined an overall  financial audit materiality of € 10 million.  
Our materiality for 2015 represents 0.15% of the 2015 net revenues. 
Audit scope
•  We conducted audit work primarily in the five home countries (the Netherlands, 
Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland and Belgium) and at BAM International. 
•  All operating companies are covered by the audit work of the group engagement 
team or component auditors.
Key audit matters
• Valuation of large and complex construction projects.
• Valuation of claims receivables
• Valuation of land held for residential property development.
• Valuation of deferred tax assets.Materialit y
Audit scope
Key
assu rance
matters  200 – 2015view, due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, each of the 
operating companies required an audit of their complete financial 
information. We used component auditors from other PwC network 
firms and other audit firms who are familiar with the local laws and 
regulations of the countries in which the components operate to 
perform this audit work. Where the work was performed by 
component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we 
needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis 
for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. 
The group engagement team attended all clearance meetings of the 
component teams with local management and the Executive Board. 
The group team engagement leader and the other senior members 
of the group engagement team were also directly involved in the 
audit of a significant part of the operating companies. In addition 
they reviewed all reports about the audit approach and findings of 
the other component auditors in detail, especially on how 
management of the operating companies made their judgments 
involved in the construction contracts, land and building rights and 
property development projects. Two operating companies in the UK 
are audited by another ‘big four’ audit firm. We reviewed their audit 
files and for some high risk projects and claim receivables we 
assessed management’s estimates against legal opinions ourselves 
as well.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a 
number of complex items are audited by the group engagement 
team at the head office. These include goodwill, deferred tax 
assets, pensions, derivative financial instruments and share based 
payments. 
By performing the procedures mentioned at components, 
combined with additional procedures at group level, we have 
obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the group to provide a basis for our opinion 
on the financial statements.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the 
Supervisory Board, but they are not a comprehensive reflection of 
all matters that were identified by our audit and that we discussed. 
We described the key audit matters and included a summary of the 
audit procedures we performed on those matters.
The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon. We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters or 
on specific elements of the financial statements. Any comments we 
make on the results of our procedures should be read in this 
context. Materiality
The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of 
materiality which is further explained in the section ‘Our 
responsibility for the audit of the financial statements’. 
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine 
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the 
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to 
evaluate the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group  
materiality€10 million (2014: €10 million).
How we 
determined it0.15% of the net revenues for 2015 
(rounded to €10 million).
Rationale for 
benchmark 
appliedWe have applied this benchmark, a generally 
accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of 
the common information needs of users of the  
financial statements. Profit before tax is not 
considered to be an appropriate benchmark, given 
the volatility of results over the years. We used net 
revenue as alternative benchmark which is also an 
appropriate metric. We used a relatively low 
percentage against the revenue benchmark to 
reflect the relative low profit margins on projects. 
Considering the users of the financial statements 
and their needs we estimate that a relative low 
threshold of 0.15% is appropriate.
Component 
materialityTo each component in our audit scope, we, based 
on our judgement, allocate materiality that is less 
than our overall group materiality. The range of 
materiality allocated across components was 
between €2.0 million and €7.6 million. Certain 
components were audited to a local statutory 
audit materiality that was also less than our overall 
group materiality.
We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into 
account that, in our judgement, are material for qualitative reasons.
The scope of our group audit
Royal BAM Group nv is the parent company of a group of entities. 
The financial information of this group is included in the 
consolidated financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv. In our 2015  – 201Key audit matter  How our audit addressed the matter
   
Valuation of large and complex construction contracts
Refer to pages 28-30 (Executive Board Report), page 140 (Significant accounting estimates) and pages 145-146 (notes).
The group’s result for 2015 is significantly influenced by the results 
of large and complex construction projects. The valuation of these 
construction projects is considered a key audit matter because the 
valuation of these projects is subject to uncertainty as a result of 
the complexity of underlying contracts as well as the  complexity 
concerning assessment of the costs to complete and settlement of 
significant amounts of variation orders and claims on principals. 
Because of the increase of risks being transferred to construction 
companies in combination with the low margins in the construction 
sector, the group has procedures in place which are designed to 
reduce the risk that loss making projects are acquired. During 2015, 
the group implemented a stage gate tender approval process.Our audit procedures and the audit procedures of our component 
auditors on these projects included an assessment of BAM Group 
nv’s project control, site visits and substantive testing of 
management’s positions against underlying documentation. We 
also analysed differences with prior project estimates and assessed 
consistency with the developments during the year. We verified 
that the claims and variation orders on these projects meet the 
recognition criteria and are valued accurately based on expert 
opinions of lawyers or other supporting documentation. We 
challenged management’s assumptions at the project, local entity 
and group management levels in order to evaluate the 
reasonableness and consistency of the valuation of the variation 
orders and claims within these projects and the final forecast 
project result. 
Based on request of Royal BAM Group nv we particularly considered 
the newly implemented stage gate approval process in our audit. 
We involved our specialists and assessed the design and the 
effectiveness of the group’s stage gate process in detail. 
Valuation of claim receivables
Refer to pages 28-30 (Executive Board Report), page 141 (Significant accounting estimates) and pages 156-157 (notes).
As at year-end BAM has a number of claims receivable on principals 
relating finished projects and insurance claims as reimbursement 
for certain loss events on projects. Project related claims on 
principals can be recognised as far as it is probable that the claim 
amounts will be received. Insurance claims can be recognised only 
if it is virtually certain that the amounts recognised will be received. 
The recognition and valuation of these claims receivable is 
considered a key audit matter because the assessment whether 
they meet the virtually certain or probable criterion as well as the 
valuation in itself is subject to a high degree of judgment.Our audit procedures and the audit procedures of our component 
auditors on these claims receivable included testing management’s 
positions against underlying documentation including expert 
opinions and confirmations of lawyers, quantity surveyors and 
insurance companies. We also analysed differences with prior 
estimates and valuations and assessed consistency with the 
developments during the year. We verified that the claims 
receivable meet the recognition criteria. We challenged 
management’s assumptions at local entity and group management 
levels in order to evaluate the reasonableness and consistency of 
the valuation.202 – 2015Key audit matter  How our audit addressed the matter
   
Valuation of land held for residential property development  
Refer to page 30 (Executive Board Report), page 141 (Significant accounting estimates) and page 155 (notes).
The valuation of land held for residential property development 
(‘land’) is based on cost or lower net realisable value. The 
calculations of the net realisable value are based on assumptions 
relating to future market developments, decisions of governmental 
bodies, interest rates and future changes in costs and price. 
Because these estimates relate to terms which vary from one year 
to more than thirty years, the estimation uncertainty relating to 
the valuation of land held for residential property development is 
significant. During our audit, amongst others, we have assessed the 
calculations of the land’s net realisable values and challenged the 
reasonableness and consistency of the assumptions used by 
management. We verified that management’s assumptions around 
the possibilities for future residential property development are 
consistent with documentation which include the plans and 
decisions of government bodies and with the information included 
in external appraisals. 
We also compared management’s assumptions concerning the 
development of house prices with independent expectations of 
external parties and institutions. Expected future costs and interest 
expenses are assessed based on underlying documentation and 
assessed based on reasonableness. A part of the land portfolio has 
also been appraised by external appraisers and we have involved 
our own appraisers as audit experts to assess the underlying 
assumptions and methodology of the appraisals.
Valuation of deferred tax assets 
Refer to page 43 (Executive Board Report), page 141 (Significant accounting estimates) and pages 173-174 (notes). 
The valuation of deferred tax assets relating to carry forward tax 
losses  (which mainly relate to the fiscal unity in The Netherlands) is 
based on the expected future tax profits for 9 subsequent years. 
We considered this as a key audit matter because of the degree of 
estimation uncertainty about the company’s future taxable profits 
within the maximum off-set period and tax optimisation 
possibilities. Our audit approach included, amongst others, an assessment of the 
company’s assumptions underlying the estimated future tax profits 
for their reasonableness and consistency with internal budgets and 
strategic plans for future years.
We challenged management’s expectations on the improvements 
of the tax results for next years compared to 2015. This expectation 
is based on the fact that this year’s tax loss relates to exceptional 
costs for the group’s Back in Shape program and impairments of 
land held for property development. We also assessed the status of 
tax optimisation measures and management plans to improve 
project control improve project results. We also involved our tax 
specialists to verify that the possibilities for tax optimisation are 
consistent with applicable tax laws.
Last year we also reported the goodwill impairment assessment as 
a key audit matter because of the judgments with respect to the 
assumptions in combination with the decline of the company’s 
share price in 2014 which was considered to be an impairment 
trigger. Because of the recovery of BAM’s share price during 2015 
to a level which exceeds total equity in the financial statements, 
improved market conditions in the countries in which the BAM 
entities identified as cash generating unit operate and because we 
did not identify other impairment triggers, we did not consider the 
goodwill impairment assessment to be a key audit matter in this 
year’s audit.2015  – 203Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
The Executive Board is responsible for:
• the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements 
in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Executive Board 
report in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 
Code; and for
• such internal control as the Executive Board determines is 
necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements 
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error.
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Executive 
Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks 
mentioned, the Executive Board should prepare the financial 
statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
Executive Board either intends to liquidate the company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The 
Executive Board should disclose events and circumstances that may 
cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern in the financial statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s 
financial reporting process.
Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement to 
obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis 
for our opinion. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements are free from 
material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but not 
absolute level of assurance which makes it possible that we may not 
detect all misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or 
error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial 
statements.
A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the 
appendix to our report.Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
 
Our report on the Executive Board report and the other information
Pursuant to the legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch 
Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about the Executive 
Board report and other information):
• We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination 
whether the Executive Board report, to the extent we can assess, 
has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this 
Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of 
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed. 
• We report that the Executive Board report, to the extent we 
can assess, is consistent with the financial statements.
Our appointment
We were appointed as auditors of Royal BAM Group nv on 22 April 
2015 by the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the 
annual meeting, following such a proposal at 18 February 2015 
by the Supervisory Board. This appointment has been renewed 
annually by shareholders representing a total period of 
uninterrupted engagement appointment of over 25 years.  
This year is our last year as auditor of Royal BAM Group nv.204 – 2015We have audited the following sections in the report:
• Material themes (page 8);
• Safety information (pages 54-55); and
• Business conduct and transparency (page 56).
 
The Sustainability Information comprises a representation of the 
policy, the activities, and performance of the company relating to 
sustainable development during the reporting year 2015. The 
disclosures made by management with respect of the scope of the 
Sustainability Information are included in chapter 7.1 Sustainability 
reporting process and methods.
Limited assurance, leading to the above-mentioned conclusion, is 
substantially less in scope than reasonable assurance in relation to 
both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of 
internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the 
assessed risks.
Reasonable assurance, leading to the above-mentioned opinion, is 
expressed on the figures as well as the assertions in the surrounding 
text on the scope in the sections material themes, safety and 
business conduct and transparency.
The basis for our opinion and conclusion
Professional and ethical standards applied
We conducted our engagement in accordance with Dutch law, 
including Standard 3810N ‘Assurance engagements relating to 
sustainability reports’.
We are independent of the company in accordance with the 
“Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij 
assurance-opdrachten” (ViO) and other relevant independence 
requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied 
with the “Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants” 
(VGBA).
Limitations in our scope
The Sustainability Information, sections material themes, safety 
and business conduct and transparency contain prospective 
information, such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and 
projections. Inherent to this information is that actual future results 
may be different from the prospective information and therefore it 
may be uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the 
assumptions and feasibility of this prospective information.
The auditor is not expected to, and cannot, reduce audit risk to 
zero and cannot therefore obtain absolute assurance that the 
Sustainability Information is free from material misstatement due 
to fraud or error. This is because there are inherent limitations of an 
assurance engagement, which result in most of the audit evidence 
on which the auditor bases the auditor’s opinion being persuasive 
rather than conclusive.Independent assurance report
To: the general meeting and supervisory board of  
Royal BAM Group nv
The Board of Directors of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the company’), 
Bunnik, engaged us to provide assurance on certain information 
(‘Sustainability Information’) in the Integrated Report 2015 
(‘the report’). We believe our engagement fulfils a rational 
objective as disclosed by the company in chapter 7.1 Sustainability 
reporting process and methods.
Our engagement consisted of a combination of limited assurance 
and reasonable assurance procedures. We performed limited 
assurance (review) procedures on the Sustainability Information as 
presented in chapters 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 3.2, 3.3 and 7, leading to a 
conclusion. We performed reasonable assurance (audit) procedures 
on the sections material themes, safety and business conduct and 
transparency, leading to an opinion.
Our conclusion
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we 
have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us 
to believe that the Sustainability Information for the year ended 
31 December 2015 does not provide a reliable and appropriate 
presentation of the company’s policy for sustainable development, 
or of the activities, events and performance of the organisation 
relating to sustainable development during the reporting year, in 
accordance with the company’s reporting criteria.
Our opinion
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we 
have obtained, in our opinion the sections ‘material themes’ on 
page 8, ‘safety’ as included on pages 54-55 and ‘business conduct 
and transparency’ as included on page 56 for the year ended 
31 December 2015 are, in all material respects, presented reliably 
and adequately, in accordance with the company’s reporting 
criteria.
This conclusion and opinion are to be read in the context of the 
following content of our report.
 
What we are assuring 
We have reviewed the Sustainability Information included in the 
following chapters:
• 2 Value creation (2.1 until 2.3);
• 3.2 Social performance;
• 3.3 Environmental performance;
• 7.1 Sustainability reporting process and methods;
• 7.2 GRI Disclosures; and
• 7.3 Charters, memberships and certifications.
 2015  – 205Reporting criteria
The company developed its sustainability reporting criteria 
(including criteria to report on material themes safety and business 
conduct and transparency) on the basis of the G4 Guidelines of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are disclosed together with 
detailed information on the reporting scope in chapter 7.1 
Sustainability reporting process and methods (pages 215-217). We 
consider the sustainability reporting criteria to be relevant and 
appropriate for our examination.
Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies
The information in the scope of this engagement needs to be read 
and understood together with the reporting criteria, which the 
company is solely responsible for selecting and applying. The 
absence of a significant body of established practice on which to 
draw, to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for 
different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect 
comparability between entities and over time.Our assurance approach
Materiality
We set thresholds for materiality at the planning stage and 
reassessed them during the engagement. These helped us to 
determine the nature, timing and extent of our procedures and to 
evaluate the effect of identified misstatements on the information 
presented, both individually and in aggregate. Based on our 
professional judgment, we determined specific materiality levels 
for each element of the Sustainability Information. When 
determining our materiality thresholds, we considered the 
relevance of information for both the stakeholders and the 
company based on the materiality assessment of the company.
Area of particular focus
We considered the following areas to be one that required our 
particular focus and discussed this area with the company’s 
management. This is not a complete list of all areas of focus 
identified by our work. 
Area of focus How the scope of our work addressed the area of focus
The maturity of the sustainability 
reporting process at the local 
entities varies and in general is lower 
than the financial reporting 
processes.As a result, our assurance approach for the sustainability information focused more on substantive 
procedures and less on internal controls reliance. As part of our assurance procedures we traced 
reported information back to underlying source documentation, reperformed calculations and 
assessed estimates by challenging underlying assumptions and comparing estimates with actual 
data for comparable periods or projects.
We challenged the company to further align and integrate its sustainability related internal 
controls with the internal control environ  ment relating to the financial reporting. Some 
improvements were made during the year, but progress was limited due to the unfilled vacancy 
for a CSR Director. The company acknowledges this area of focus and aims to improve the 
maturity of the sustainability reporting process in the coming years.
The process of registration of hours 
worked on construction sites highly 
depends on manual input and is 
fragmented. In addition, limited 
level of internal controls exist. Our assurance approach towards sustainability information, including worked hours is more 
substantive in nature. The company concluded that the data collection process and level of 
internal controls for the worked hours of the company’s subcontractors needs further 
improvement in order to reach the required maturity level to obtain assurance. The company 
acknowledges the importance of this information and aims to improve the level of internal control 
in order to obtain reasonable assurance in the near future.
As an outcome of the materiality 
analysis, the company focused on 
the aspect of business conduct and 
transparency. The company 
requested reasonable assurance on 
this key material aspect and 
redefined the quantitative 
performance indicator. We believe 
the indicator and related qualitative 
disclosures provide meaningful 
information in the report.The company identified business conduct and transparency as a key material topic and requested 
PwC to provide reasonable assurance on this aspect for the first time. We have evaluated the 
policies, control activities and outcomes and discussed meaningful reporting on business conduct 
and transparency based on reliable information with management.
The Company decided to focus its reporting about business conduct and transparency on creating 
awareness within the company. As a result, Royal BAM Group nv reports quantitative information 
about the roll-out of the company’s business conduct and transparency training program, which 
started in the Netherlands. The company acknowledges the importance of business conduct and 
transparency and confirmed to take further steps in rolling out the program across the entire 
company. Furthermore, management is evaluating the options to report more detailed quantitative 
information in this respect. Next to assessing the quantitative information we assessed the 
qualitative business conduct and transparency disclosures through interviews with management 
and compliance officers as well as corroborating disclosures with underlying evidence.206 – 2015Work done
We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider 
the risk of material misstatement of the information in the sections 
material themes, safety, business conduct and transparency 
information and of the Sustainability Information in the other 
chapters.
 
Our work was carried out by an independent and multi-disciplinary 
team (which is part of the group audit engagement team) with 
experience in sustainability reporting and assurance and was 
performed at the head office in Bunnik and during conducted visits 
to the significant operating companies.
 
Our most important procedures related to the Sustainability 
Information were amongst others:
• making enquiries of Royal BAM Group nv management, including 
the CSR team and those with responsibility for CSR management 
and group CSR reporting
• performing an external environment analysis and obtaining 
insight into the industry, relevant social issues, relevant laws and 
regulations and the characteristics of the organisation;
• assessing the acceptability of the reporting policies and 
consistent application of this, such as assessment of the 
outcomes of the stakeholder dialogue and the process for 
determining the material subjects, the reasonableness of 
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the 
overall presentation of the sustainability information;
• understanding the systems and processes for data gathering, 
internal controls and processing of other information, such as 
the aggregation process of data to the information as presented 
in the sustainability information;
• reviewing internal and external documentation to determine 
whether the sustainability information, including the disclosure, 
presentation and assertions made in the report, is substantiated 
adequately; 
• assessing the consistency of the sustainability information and 
the information in the Integrated Reporting 2015 not in scope for 
this assurance report; and
• assessing whether the sustainability information has been 
prepared ‘in accordance’ with the GRI G4 Guidelines.
In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for the sections 
material themes, safety and business conduct and transparency we 
performed the following:
• assessing the systems and processes for data gathering, 
including testing the design, existence and the effectiveness of 
the relevant internal controls during the reporting year;
• conducting analytical procedures and substantive testing 
procedures on the relevant data;
• assessing the processing of other information, such as the 
aggregation process of data to the information as presented in the sustainability information; and
• corroborating internal and external documentation to determine 
whether the sustainability information is substantiated 
adequately. 
Responsibilities
The Board of Directors’ responsibilities
The Board of Directors of the company is responsible for the 
preparation of the Report in accordance with the company’s 
Reporting Criteria, including the identification of the stakeholders 
and the determination of material subjects. Furthermore, the Board 
of Directors is responsible for such internal control as the Board of 
Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the 
Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error.
Our responsibilities
Based on our assurance engagement in accordance with Standard 
3810N, our responsibility is to:
• express a conclusion on the Sustainability Information in the 
Report; and
• express an opinion on the section material themes, the safety 
information and the business conduct and transparency 
information in the report.
This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and that we 
plan and perform our work to obtain limited assurance about 
whether the report is free from material misstatement.
 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of 
the report, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk 
assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant for the 
preparation of the report in order to design procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s 
internal control. An assurance engagement aimed on providing 
limited and reasonable assurance also includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of the reporting framework used and the 
reasonableness of estimates made by management as well as 
evaluating the overall presentation of the report.
Rotterdam, 18 February 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V.
 
Drs J.G. Bod RA  2015  – 207Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial 
statements 2015 of Royal BAM Group nv
In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report we have 
further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of 
the financial statements and explained what an audit involves.
The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained 
professional scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with 
Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and 
independence requirements. Our objectives are to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a 
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error. Our audit consisted, among others of:
• Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of 
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher 
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
intentional override of internal control.
• Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control.
• Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and 
the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the Executive Board.
• Concluding on the appropriateness of the Executive Board’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit 
evidence obtained, concluding whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on 
the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report and are made in the context of our opinion on the 
financial statements as a whole. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a 
going concern.
• Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating 
whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the 
company’s consolidated financial statements we are responsible for 
the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In 
this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the 
audit procedures for components of the group to ensure that we 
performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the 
financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the 
geographic structure of the group, the significance and/or risk 
profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and 
controls, and the industry in which the group operates. On this 
basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of 
financial information or specific balances was considered necessary. 
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit 
of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not 
communicating the matter is in the public interest.208 – 20156.2 Proposed appropriation of result
The net result for 2015, amounting to €10.2 million, has been 
accounted for in shareholders’ equity. 
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 
2015 of 2 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders. Based on the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding at year-end 2015, a maximum of €5 million will be 
distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under 
equity.
6.3  Articles of Association provisions 
governing the distribution of profit
(Summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association) 
From the profit realised in any financial year, an amount will first be 
distributed, where possible, on the class B cumulative preference 
shares, calculated by applying the percentage stated below to the 
mandatory amount paid up on those shares as at the start of the 
financial year for which the distribution is made. The percentage 
referred to above will be equal to the average of the Euribor rates 
for money market loans with a maturity of twelve months – 
weighted according to the number of days for which these rates 
prevailed – during the financial year for which the distribution is 
made, plus one percentage point. Euribor refers to the Euro 
Interbank Offered Rate as determined and published by the 
European Central Bank. 
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due consideration  
of the provisions of this article, equal to an amount calculated by 
applying a percentage to the nominal amount of the financing 
preference share concerned at the start of that financial year, plus 
the amount of share premium paid up on the financing preference 
share issued in the series concerned at the time of initial issue of the 
financing preference shares of that series, less the amount paid out 
on each financing preference share concerned and charged to the 
share premium reserve formed at the time of issue of the financing 
preference shares of that series prior to that financial year. 
If and to the extent that a distribution has been made on the 
financing preference shares concerned in the course of the year and 
charged to the share premium reserve formed at the time of issue 
of the financing preference shares of the series and sub-series 
concerned, or partial repayment has been made on such shares, the 
amount of the distribution will be reduced pro rata over the period 
concerned according to the amount of the distribution charged to 
the share premium reserve and/or the repayment with respect to 
the amount referred to in the preceding sentence. The calculation 
of the dividend percentage for the financing preference shares of a certain series will be made for each of the series of financing 
preference shares referred to below, in the manner set forth for the 
series concerned. 
Series FP1-FP4: 
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the 
arithmetical mean of the yield to maturity on euro government 
loans issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining 
term matching as closely as possible the term of the series 
concerned, as published in the digital Official Price List of Euronext 
Amsterdam, plus two percentage points. 
Series FP5-FP8: 
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the Euribor 
rates for money market loans with a maturity of 12 months 
– weighted according to the number of days for which these rates 
prevailed – during the financial year for which the distribution is 
made, plus two percentage points. 
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an amount 
of no more than three hundred basis points. 
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and FP7: 
seven years; and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a period 
expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance with the 
rules laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles of 
Association. 
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal 
by the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. 
The part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of 
the General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further 
dividends will be distributed on the preference shares and with due 
consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the Articles of 
Association. 
6.4  Anti-takeover measures 
The Company has taken the following measures to protect itself 
against any undesired developments that might have an impact on 
the independence, continuity and/or identity of the Group. 
Pursuant to a resolution passed by the General Meeting held on 
12 June 1972, the Articles of Association include the possibility of 
issuing preference shares. Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep 
(hereafter referred to as ‘the Foundation’) was founded with a view 
to this possibility in 1978. The object of the Foundation is to look 
after the interests of the Company and the companies that are held 
by the Company and the group of companies associated with the 
Company. Specifically, the Foundation seeks to ensure that the 2015  – 209interests of the Company and of those companies and all their 
stakeholders are safeguarded as well as possible and that influences 
which could undermine the independence and/or continuity  
and/or identity of the Company and those companies and which are 
in conflict with those interests are averted to the best of the 
Foundation’s ability. 
The Foundation attempts to achieve its objective by acquiring 
– whether or not by exercising the option referred to above – and 
holding class B cumulative preference shares in the Company’s 
capital, by exercising the rights connected with those shares and/or 
by using its right of enquiry. 
As announced at the General Meeting held on 4 June 1992 and 
considered at the General Meeting on 8 June 1993, the Company 
granted the Foundation an option to acquire class B cumulative 
preference shares in the Company’s capital on 17 May 1993. This 
option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation might 
require, subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that would 
result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative preference 
shares in issue and not held by the Company equalling no more than 
ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9 per cent) of the nominal 
amount of the issued share capital in the form of shares other than 
class B cumulative preference shares and not held by the Company at 
the time of exercising of the right referred to above. The Executive 
Committee of the Foundation has the exclusive right to determine 
whether or not to exercise this right to acquire class B cumulative 
preference shares. 
On 6 October 2008, the Company granted the Foundation the right, 
under Article 2:346(c) of the Dutch Civil Code, to submit a petition as 
referred to in Article 2:345 of the Dutch Civil Code (right of enquiry). 
The Foundation’s Executive Committee consists of three members, 
namely a Category A director and two Category B directors. The 
Category A director is appointed by the Company’s Executive Board, 
subject to approval by the Supervisory Board. 
The Category A director may not be a member of the Executive 
Board or Supervisory Board of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Category B directors are appointed by the Foundation’s 
Executive Committee, subject to the approval of the Executive 
Board, for which the latter in turn requires the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. A Category B director may not be a person 
affiliated to the Company as referred to in the now lapsed Appendix 
X to the General Regulations of Euronext Amsterdam Stock Market, 
Rule Book II (Algemeen Reglement Euronext Amsterdam 
Stockmarket, Rulebook II). 
The current composition of the Executive Committee is: 
R. Pieterse, Chairman (B) 
F.K. Buijn (A) 
R. de Jong (B)The Chairman of the Foundation’s Executive Committee receives an 
annual fee of €12,000 from the Foundation. The Foundation pays an 
annual fee of €10,000 to each of the other members of its Executive 
Committee. 
The particulars of the Executive Committee members are: 
R. Pieterse  (1942), Chairman  
Member of the Foundation’s Executive Committee since 2009 and 
Chairman since 2012. A Dutch national. Former Chairman of the 
Executive Board of Wolters Kluwer. Mr Pieterse is member of the 
Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of 
Corbion, member of the Supervisory Board of eVision and Chairman 
of the Board of Stichting Preferente Aandelen USG People. 
In 2003, Mr Pieterse was a member of the committee that drew up 
the first Dutch Corporate Governance Code. 
F.K. Buijn  (1960) 
Member of the Foundation’s Executive Committee since 2012. 
A Dutch national. Former civil-law notary, well-versed in business 
law. Mr Buijn is member of the Executive Board of the ARCADIS 
Preferred Shares Foundation. He is involved at various large family 
companies as chair or director of foundation trust offices and 
Chairman of the Board of the Instituut Gak foundation. 
R. de Jong RA  (1948) 
Member of the Foundation’s Executive Committee since 2009. 
A Dutch national. Former member of the Executive Board and Chief 
Financial Officer of Essent. Mr De Jong is Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board of Nederlandse Gasunie, Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board of Bakeplus Holding and Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board of Rabobank Arnhem en Omstreken. He is 
member of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Enexis Holding, member of the Supervisory Board 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of USG People, member of 
the Supervisory Board of Hogeschool of Amsterdam and advisor 
Hogeschool of Amsterdam. He is a member of the Executive 
Committee of the Foundation of Holding Preferred Shares in 
Wereldhave. 
No class B cumulative preference shares have been issued at this 
time. 
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board reserve the right, 
in the interests of the Company and its associated companies, to 
resolve to take measures other than the issue of class B preference 
shares in order to protect the Company against influences that 
might be regarded by the Supervisory Board and the Executive 
Board, after balancing the interests of the Company and all of the 
stakeholders in the Group, as being potentially damaging to the 
independence, continuity and/or identity of the Group.210 – 20152015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Revenue  7,423  7,314  7,042  7,225  7,920 
Operating result  (10.7)  (104.7)  15.9  (273.1)  150.7 
Result before tax  13.3  (122.4)  44.4  (224.3)  158.7 
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company  10.2  (108.2)  46.2  (183.8)  126.0 
Basic earnings per share (in €1)  0.04  (0.40)  0.19  (0.77)  0.54 
Diluted earnings per share (in €1)  0.04  (0.40)  0.19  (0.77)  0.54 
Dividend per ordinary share (in €1)  10.02  -  0.05  0.10  0.16 
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  902.1  827.4  929.1  728.6  1.162.4 
Subordinated loan 2 124.3  124.5  124.0  123.5  200.0 
Capital base  1.026.5  951.9  1,053.1  852.1  1.362.4 
Net investment in property, plant and equipment 41.7  39.0  65.2  94.6  57.2 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges of:
- Property, plant and equipment  67.9  80.8  85.9  80.2  94.9 
- Intangible assets  7.4  3.7  3.2  154.5  11.1 
- Other impairment charges  34.3  114.1  29.5  247.7  - 
Cash flow before dividend  119.8  90.5  164.8  298.6  232.0 
Total impairment charges  39.1  115.9  30.0  398.1  - 
Order book 3 11,480  10,268  10,021  10,700  10,400 
Average number of employees (in FTE)  21,916  23,325  23,502  23,143  23,702 
Number of employees as at 31 December (in FTE)  21,248  23,137  23,329  23,691  23,830 
Ratios (in %)
Result before tax and impairment charges as % of revenue  0.7  (0.1)  1.2  2.4  2.0 
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue  0.1  (1.5)  0.7  (2.5)  1.6 
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % average equity  1.2  (12.3)  5.6  (19.4)  11.1 
Solvency ratios  (in %)  -  -  - 
- Equity attributable to shareholders as % of total assets  18.6  16.7  17.5  13.7  16.1 
- Capital ratio as % of total assets 21.2  19.2  19.8  16.1  18.9 
Current ratio  1.07  1.09  1.10  1.07  1.39 
1 Dividend proposal 2015 
2 Including current part
3 Order book comprises both signed contracts and verbally agreed upon orders
4 Figures are adjusted due to IFRS 11 and IAS 19 (as revised in 2011).6.5  Five-year overview  
(x 1 million, unless otherwise stated)
42015  – 211Subsidiaries     %
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands)  100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Bouw en Techniek bv*, Bunnik  100
 BAM Woningbouw bv*, Bunnik  100
 AM bv*, Utrecht 100
BAM Infra Nederland bv*, Gouda (Netherlands)  100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Infra bv*, Gouda 100
 BAM Infra Rail bv*, Breda 100
 BAM Infraconsult bv*, Gouda  100
BAM Belgium nv 100
uniting the activities of:
 Interbuild nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
 Galère sa, Chaudfontaine  100
 BAM Contractors nv, Brussels  100
 BAM Technics sa, Louveignee  100
 Kairos nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
BAM Construct UK Ltd, Hemel Hempstead (United Kingdom)  100
BAM Nuttall Ltd, Camberley, Surrey (United Kingdom)  100
BAM Deutschland AG, Stuttgart (Germany)  100
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau AG, Frankfurt am Main (Germany) 100
BAM International bv*, The Hague (Netherlands)  100
BAM Contractors Ltd, Kill, County Kildare (Ireland)  100
BAM PPP bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
Joint arrangements
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A  50.0
Associates
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv, Haarlem (Netherlands)  10.5
Justinvest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium)  33.3
Rabot Invest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium)  25.0
A list of associates as referred to in Sections 379 and 414, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code 
has been deposited at the Office of the Trade Register in Utrecht.
*  In respect of these subsidiaries, Royal BAM Group nv has deposited a declaration of joint and  
several liability pursuant to Section 403, Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.6.6 List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates212 – 20156.7 Glossary
Adjusted result before tax Result before tax excluding restructuring costs and other exceptional costs, impairment charges 
and pension one-off.
Adjusted pre-tax margin Adjusted result before tax divided by rolling year revenue.
Capital base Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company plus subordinated debt.
Capital employed Non-current assets plus net working capital and cash and cash equivalents.
Capital ratio Capital base divided by total assets.
Carbon footprint Total amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during a defined period, or across the 
total or part of the duration of a project. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon dixiode 
equivalents CO2(e) emitted.
Cash flow before dividend Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company adjusted for depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges
Community engagement The process by which community benefit organisations and individuals build ongoing, permanent 
relationships for the purpose of applying a collective vision for the benefit of a (local) community. 
Comprehensive income The change in equity during a period resulting from transactions and other events, other than 
those changes resulting from transactions with shareholders in their capacity as shareholders.
Earnings per share Net result attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue during the year.
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax.
Emissions and waste BAM solely reports CO2 emissions. Other greenhouse substances, such as CH4 (methane), N2O 
(nitrous oxide) are excluded as they are considered not material. BAM reports all waste leaving  
its sites and offices.
General Meeting Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
GHG Greenhouse gases which have a global warming impact.
HSE Health, safety and environment
IF BAM total Incident frequency including all employees working for BAM (BAM, hired, subcontractors and third 
parties).
Incident frequency (IF) The total number of industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million hours worked 
on construction sites.
Net debt Long-term borrowings plus short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Rolling year EBIT divided by the average capital employed.
Return on equity (ROE) Rolling year net result divided by the average invested equity. 
Serious accident An industrial accident that leads to the person involved being admitted to hospital for more than 
24 hours or results in electrocution, amputation or fracture with lost time.
Solvency Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company divided by total assets.
Total shareholder return (TSR) Metric used to compare the performance of companies in BAM’s peer group’s shares over time. 
The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to the 
peer group.
Trade working capital Working capital (excluding cash and cash equivalents and current borrowings) related to the 
ordinary operations. 
Trade working capital efficiency The average four-quarters’ trade working capital divided by rolling year revenue.2015  – 2137. Appendices214 – 2015This chapter provides specific information on the reporting 
process and reporting methods BAM used to arrive at the 
sustainability figures and topics included in this report.
Target audience
BAM reports its sustainability policy and the associated results to 
all stakeholders. BAM’s stakeholders include clients, the 
company’s employees, suppliers and subcontractors, 
shareholders, other organisations in the construction industry, 
NGOs and public authorities.
Reporting criteria – GRI G4 ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive
This report has been compiled ‘in accordance’ with the 
Comprehensive Option of the G4 Guidelines of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI). Chapter 7.2 includes an overview of the 
GRI G4 and CRESS economic, environmental and social 
performance indicators covered by this report. Certain indicators 
are reported qualitatively rather than quantitatively. Chapter 7.2 
discloses the nature of reporting per G4 – Comprehensive 
Indicators e.g. quantitatively or qualitatively.
Reporting period and reporting frequency
This report presents both quantitative and qualitative data for the 
calendar year 2015. An exception is made for all CO2 and waste 
data reported by BAM International which applies a reporting 
period of 1 December 2014 to 30 November 2015. BAM allows for 
this different reporting period as BAM International has a complex 
operating and reporting structure and more time is required to 
ensure that the reported data is reliable and adequate. BAM 
believes that the effects of a different reporting period by BAM 
International is not material to the Group’s annual report. All other 
data is reported annually.
Reporting boundaries
This report contains data of all operating companies and thus 
BAM’s own activities. Sustainability performance and data are 
accounted for according to BAM’s share of equity. As an exception 
to this rule, BAM International reports all sustainability data for 
joint arrangement projects in which it is the leading party. In 
general BAM views disclosure regarding acquisitions and 
divestments on a case-by-case basis. BAM is considering to make a 
better policy on how these are incorporated in reporting.
Reporting process
The Integrated Report, including all material aspects, is approved 
by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. Data collection 
takes into account BAM’s organisational structure. Both 
qualitative and quantitative information is reported by operating 
companies to the Group. The data is consolidated and validated 
first at company level and then consolidated and further validated 
at group level. Every reporting entity has a CSR manager, CSR 
controller and director responsible for CSR who are involved with ensuring reliable reporting. In 2009, a reporting system for CO2 
emissions and waste was launched as an extension of the financial 
reporting system.
The reporting process and definitions used are formalised in 
BAM’s CSR reporting manual. The sustainability reporting manual 
provides guidance on how to measure, calculate and estimate 
data. 
Reporting indicators
For BAM’s main indicators this chapter provides further insight 
below. For other quantitative indicators disclosures on the 
reporting scope and methods used are given in the annual report 
itself. Where relevant, figures are presented in a relative way 
(using percentages and ratios) to make it possible for readers to 
monitor and measure progress year-on-year, unless the reporting 
criteria require absolute figures to be disclosed.
Safety
For safety BAM defined its incident frequency (IF) as the number of 
BAM employees and all persons working under supervision of BAM 
International involved in reportable incidents per million manhours 
worked on BAM’s construction sites. Reportable incidents are 
based on actual occurrences and are never extrapolated or 
estimated. Reported hours are measured, calculated or estimated. 
For all companies, except for BAM International, BAM includes only 
BAM employee related accidents and hours. BAM International 
takes into account all persons working under their direct 
supervision although they may not have a labour contract with 
Royal BAM Group directly. As a result, the accidents and hours 
worked by all persons working under the supervision of BAM 
International and irrespective of their labour contract are included 
in the reported incident frequency. This is inherent to BAM 
International’s business model. In its disclosures concerning the 
incident frequency BAM distinguishes between the incident 
frequency for all operating companies including BAM  International 
and the incident frequency for all operating companies working in 
the five home countries which thus excludes data from 
BAM  International. 
Human Resources (HR)
HR data is obtained twice a year using a standardised 
questionnaire. HR data is derived from the HR accounts held by 
BAM’s operating companies. Due to different definitions used, 
breakdowns in chapter ‘Employee recruitment, development and 
retention’ are based on figures that do not match the total 
number of FTE in ‘Key figures’. This does not cause different 
insights. FTE and absenteeism definitions may vary per territory.
Energy consumption and CO2 emissions
Our energy consumption and greenhouse gas inventory is based 
on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and 7.1 Sustainability reporting process and methods2015  – 215Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (2004: ‘Corporate Standard’) 
as issued by the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development and the World Resource Institute. For greenhouse 
gas emissions BAM has chosen to report only on CO2. Other 
greenhouse gases, such as CH4 (methane), N2O (nitrous oxide) are 
excluded from BAM’s emissions inventory as they are considered 
not material. BAM uses country specific emission factors for the 
calculation of the greenhouse gas emissions, or more accurate 
factors if available. BAM uses standardised conversion factors to 
calculate energy consumption. The Group’s reporting scope 
includes its direct CO2 emissions (scope 1 emissions, from BAM’s 
own sources), indirect CO2 emissions from the generation of 
purchased electricity consumed by BAM (scope 2 emissions) and 
three indirect categories of CO2 emissions that are a consequence 
of BAM’s business activities from sources not owned and 
controlled by BAM: employee air travel, employee car travel with 
privately owned cars and business travel (scope 3 emissions). 
Emissions from the use of private cars at BAM’s German operating 
companies are excluded from scope 3 emissions, due to fiscal 
technicalities. The impact on the total scope 3 emissions is 
considered to be limited. 
The GHG Corporate value chain (scope 3) accounting and 
reporting standard for full scope 3 reporting has not been 
implemented. Contrary to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol BAM 
reports fuel consumption by leased vehicles under scope 1 
emissions. Energy consumption from district heating and use of 
public transport are considered negligible and therefore not 
included in BAM’s overall energy consumption and related CO2 
emissions.
The basis for consolidated energy consumption and CO2 emissions 
is activity data which in turn is based mostly on metre readings, 
invoices and data provided by suppliers. Where reliable data is not 
available, BAM uses calculations or estimations using reliable 
methods and input data. BAM is satisfied that the estimates are 
reliable in all material respects.
Where clients provide BAM with electricity and BAM is able to 
receive reliable information on its client supplied electricity 
consumption, the company includes this consumption in its 
carbon footprint. Also, as BAM only receives information on CO2 
emissions associated with air travel, which BAM includes in its 
scope 3 emissions. 
Using conversion factors from reputable and authoritative 
sources, BAM determines the energy consumption in TJs and CO2 
emissions associated with BAM’s energy consumption. BAM has 
updated its set of emission factors in 2013 compared to its 
previous reports. The factors follow the Kyoto protocol and 
UNFCCC charter as closely as possible. Each factor originates from 
a reputable source, which is updated annually.It occurs on its projects that BAM supplies fuel and/or electricity 
to subcontractors. BAM’s CSR reporting instructions state that 
fuel and electricity supplied to subcontractors should be 
measured and excluded from reported figures, unless fuel and 
electricity is supplied under the supervision of BAM, including for 
rented or leased machinery and possibly operating personnel. In 
practice, however, it is not always possible to unambiguously 
determine how much fuel is supplied to subcontractors. In that 
case BAM accounts for all CO2 emissions. BAM continues to 
encourage measuring fuel and electricity supplied to third parties. 
This will result in more accurate figures of its own CO2 emissions 
and further insight in reduction potential to all involved.
Waste
BAM’s reporting scope includes all waste leaving its sites and 
offices, mainly based on waste tickets and data provided by 
suppliers. Excavation waste and demolition waste are especially 
difficult to measure. Reported waste is either measured, 
calculated or estimated using reliable methods and input data 
which can be based on BAM’s experience in comparable works e.g. 
the relation of asphalt and aggregates.
Since 2011 BAM made a shift from reporting cubic metres to 
tonnes and recalculated the waste figures of 2009 and 2010. 
The percentage on waste separation relates to BAM’s Dutch 
companies and is based on information from BAM’s waste 
management suppliers. BAM is satisfied that the converted waste 
figures provide a reliable basis for comparison over time of its 
performance on this field.
Materials
In 2011 BAM started reporting on the amount of materials used 
and the recycled content of various materials used by Dutch 
operating companies. BAM has selected the raw materials which it 
consumes in large quantities and which have a significant impact 
on natural resources. The Group reports on concrete, timber, 
asphalt, bricks, steel and limestone.
The raw material consumption in the Netherlands was determined 
using solid statistical methods (weighted least square 
methodology) by random sampling of invoices from BAM’s financial 
database. BAM has determined the average procurement volume 
per material based on evaluated invoices. From the sample, BAM 
also derived an average price per unit of material. The average 
procurement volume, divided by the average price, resulted in a 
volume or weight per material. BAM has sampled sufficient invoices 
to derive statistically reliable averages. The results of BAM’s 
statistical analysis are within a 95 per cent confidence interval. The 
results are considered to be statistically reliable and are verified 
against suppliers’ data, internal and external experts and with 
BAM’s procurement database. The recycled content is determined 
based on information provided by suppliers.216 – 2015True Price of asphalt
The True Price calculations of LEAB and STAB in chapter Materials 
are made by a third party and contain inherent estimates and 
specialised supplier data. The methodology has been checked for 
logic and consistency, yet it is known that different visions on the 
cost of CO2 are available and that the cost of CO2 is subjective. 
A comparison by True Price has been performed to evaluate the 
bandwidth of CO2 cost, in which a conservative estimate is used 
by True Price. LEAB is a product with new data and is compared 
to STAB, of which the most accurate data is five years old.
Water
Potable water consumption volume is based on final settlements 
paid in 2014. BAM’s entity regarding drainage activities was 
divested in 2015. The corresponding information on the extracted 
water volume is thereby excluded from the reporting scope and 
comparable figures have been removed.
Local sourcing
For the Dutch companies BAM has investigated the extent to 
which its purchases are sourced locally. BAM has defined local 
sourcing as a purchase done with a supplier who is located in the 
same country as the construction site. Based on the country of 
residence of its suppliers, BAM determined the percentage of local 
sourcing. BAM was able to examine 99.97 per cent of the 
purchasing volume in the Netherlands.
NOX
BAM has reported the NOX emissions from asphalt plants, some of 
which participated in the Dutch NOX-trading system. 
In 2014 the emission trade system for NOX was terminated. 
Asphalt plants were obliged to report their NOX emissions to the 
Dutch Emission Authority (NEa). An independent auditor 
determined the NOX emissions per consumed unit of fuel. BAM 
continues to calculate the NOX emission factors which were 
required in previous years. For joint arrangement asphalt plants 
BAM reports the NOX emissions based on its share of equity in 
these asphalt plants.
Business conduct
Business conduct includes information regarding the Group’s 
Business Principles and Code of Conduct, on which BAM reports 
qualitatively. In addition, this report contains quantitative 
information on a mandatory e-learning course to increase 
awareness and understanding of the Code of Conduct and 
expected ethical behavior. The performance indicators concerned 
are: the number of employees who received an invitation to 
participate, which applies to all BAM Infra NL, BAM Bouw en 
Vastgoed and BAM PPP staff with a BAM email account; and the 
percentage of these employees that successfully completed the 
course between introduction in 2014 and 31 December 2015.Verification of this report
In order to provide BAM’s stakeholders comfort over BAM’s 
sustainability information, for the sixth consecutive year the 
Executive Board has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Accountants (PwC) to provide independent assurance of the 
Report. As in previous years, BAM obtained reasonable assurance 
for all information with regard to the Safety section as included in 
chapter 3.2, IF and SAA. Additionally PwC provided reasonable 
assurance over the ‘Material themes’ section in chapter 3.1 and 
the ‘Business conduct and transparency’ section in chapters 2 and 
3.2. For all other information reported in chapters 2, 3 and 7 (with 
the exception of paragraph 3.1 and 3.4) BAM obtained limited 
assurance.
As BAM applies the ‘best standard’ principle with regard to 
external assurance, the Group asked PwC to apply NV COS 3810N, 
a standard explicitly developed to verify sustainability reports. 
This standard includes strict requirements for the quality of 
accounts, the indicators used and the wording of the Report. 
Readers can therefore be confident that the report provides a fair 
and true representation of sustainability within BAM. The Group 
aims to achieve the highest level of assurance (reasonable 
assurance) through a staged approach, focusing on the most 
material themes. Increasing the maturity of internal processes in 
the coming years will help in also increasing the level of assurance 
of the report.
Other sources of information
Royal BAM Group welcomes your comments on CSR. If you have 
any questions or remarks, please contact BAM’s CSR department 
via e-mail (csr@bam.eu).2015  – 2177.2  GRI Disclosures
Page Omissions
General Standard Disclosures
G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about 
the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s 
strategy for addressing sustainability.5  
G4- 2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 8-15, 28-32  
G4- 3 Name of the organisation. 3  
G4- 4 Primary brands, products and services. 3, 20  
G4- 5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. 238 (back cover)  
G4- 6 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of  
countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that  
are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report.20  
G4- 7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 235-236  
G4- 8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types 
of customers and beneficiaries).20, 21  
G4- 9 Scale of the organisation. 2  
G4- 10 A. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender.
B. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender.
C. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender.
D. Total workforce by region and gender.
E.  Whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by 
workers who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals 
other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and 
supervised employees of contractors.
F.  Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal 
variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries).2, 59-60 F.  Not applicable, as this does not directly 
relate to BAM’s business operations.
G4 - 11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.  
G4- 12 Description of supply chain. 21  
G4- 13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 
organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain.50, 233  
G4- 14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by  
the organisation. 
G4- 15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 
principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which  
it endorses.226-232  
G4- 16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national  
or international advocacy.226-232  
G4- 17 A.  All entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial  
statements or equivalent documents.
B.  Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial 
statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report.212  
G4- 18 A.  The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries.
B.  How the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for 
defining report content.7-15  
G4- 19 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 8  
G4- 20 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary within the organisation. 9-15  
G4- 21 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation. 9-15  
Explanatory notes 
G4- 10 C.  Information on total workforce by supervised workers is currently unavailable due to the significant amount of contracts in 
which labour is included in the total subcontracting performance contracts. These contracts do not provide specific 
conditions on the amount of labour supplied. BAM will resolve this in the next year.
E.  Work performed by workers who are legally recognised as self-employed mainly applies to the Netherlands.
G4 - 11 60 per cent
G4- 14 Please refer to G4-EC2, G4-EN18, G4-en23 and G4-EN26.218 – 2015Page Omissions
G4- 22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports  
and the reasons for such restatements.121, 216, 217  
G4- 23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and  
Aspect Boundaries.216, 217  
G4- 24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 7  
G4- 25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 7  
G4- 26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement  
by type and by stakeholder group and an indication of whether any of the 
engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation 
process.7-8  
G4- 27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 
engagement and how the organisation has responded to those key topics  
and concerns, including through its reporting. The stakeholder groups  
that raised each of the key topics and concerns.7-8  
G4- 28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 215  
G4- 29 Date of most recent previous report.  
G4- 30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 215  
G4- 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 217  
G4- 32 A. ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen.
B. GRI content index for the chosen option (see tables below).
C.  Reference to the external assurance report, if the report has been  
externally assured.215, 218-225, 
199-208 
G4- 33 A.  Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance  
for the report.
B.  If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability 
report, the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
C.  Relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers.
D.  Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved  
in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report.96 -97, 217  
G4- 34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the 
highest governance body; committees responsible for decision making on 
economic, environmental and social impacts.81-98  
G4- 35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social 
topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other 
employees.89  
G4- 36 Whether the organisation has appointed an executive-level position or 
positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 
and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body.89  
G4- 37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest  
governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If 
consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes  
to the highest governance body.7-8, 91  
Explanatory notes 
G4- 29 23 February 20152015  – 219Page Omissions
G4- 38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees by:
- Executive or non-executive
- Independence
- Tenure on the governance body
-  Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments 
and the nature of the commitments
- Gender
- Membership of under-represented social groups
-  Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts
- Stakeholder representation83, 85, 109 -111  
G4- 39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 
officer. 
G4- 40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and  
its committees and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest 
governance body members.83-85, 95  
G4- 41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest  
are avoided and managed; Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to 
stakeholders.82-85  
G4- 42 The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the 
development, approval and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or 
mission statements, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, 
environmental and social impacts.89  
G4- 43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s 
collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics24, 89  
G4- 44 A.  Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance  
with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics.  
Report whether such evaluation is independent or not and its frequency. 
Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment.
B.  Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance 
body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, 
environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in 
membership and organisational practice.93  
G4- 45 A.  The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management  
of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities; 
The highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due 
diligence processes. 
B.  Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest 
governance body’s identification and management of economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities.24, 85, 87, 8  
G4- 46 The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the 
organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental  
and social topics.92  
G4- 47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities.92-93  
G4- 48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves  
the organisation’s sustainability report and ensures that all material  
aspects are covered.98  
G4- 49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 83  
Explanatory notes 
G4- 39 The Chair of the highest governance body is not an executive officer. 220 – 2015Explanatory notes 
G4- 54 BAM calculated the ratios with average annual total compensation instead of median annual total compensation  
because of incomplete data.
G4- 55 BAM calculated the ratios with average annual total compensation instead of median annual total compensation  
because of incomplete data.Page Omissions
G4- 50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to  
the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and 
resolve them.32, 91  
G4- 51 A.  Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior 
executives for the below types of remuneration:
 - fixed pay and variable pay
 - Performance-based pay
 - Equity-based pay
 - Bonuses
 - Deferred or vested shares
 - Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments
 - Termination payments
 - Clawbacks
 -   Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes 
and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior 
executives and all other employees
B.  How performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest 
governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and 
social objectives.99-103  
G4- 52 Process for determining remuneration; Whether remuneration consultants 
are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent 
of management; Any other relationships which the remuneration 
consultants have with the organisation.99  
G4- 53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding 
remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and 
proposals, if applicable.93  
G4- 54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid 
individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual  
total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) 
in the same country.60
G4- 55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the 
organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant 
operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation 
for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.60
G4- 56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of 
conduct and codes of ethics.32  
G4- 57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 
behaviour and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines  
or advice lines.32  
G4- 58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical  
or unlawful behavior and matters related to organisational integrity, such  
as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or 
hotlines.32  2015  – 221Page Omissions
Specific standard disclosures
Disclosures on Management Approach
EC Economic performance 10  
EN Materials 14  
EN Energy 12-13  
EN Emissions 12-13  
EN Effluents and Waste 14  
EN Transport 12-13, 14  
EN Supplier environmental assessment 14  
LA Occupational Health and Safety 9  
LA Training and Education 10 -11  
LA Diversity and Equal Opportunity 10 -11  
LA Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices 14, 15  
HR Supplier Human Rights Assessment 15
SO Anti-corruption 10  
SO Anti-competitive Behaviour 10  
SO Compliance 10  
PR Compliance 9-10  
G4- EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 2, 44-47  
G4- EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the  
organisation’s activities due to climate change.12-13, 64- 68  
G4- EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. 166-170, 72  
G4- EC4 Financial assistance received from government.  
G4- EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 71  
G4- EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 71  
G4- EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 65  
G4- EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation. 65, 215-217  
G4- EN5 Energy intensity. 65  
G4- EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 65  
G4- EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 66, 72  
G4- EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1). 66, 215-217 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as other 
greenhouse gas emissions are considered 
not material.
G4- EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2). 66, 215-217 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as other 
greenhouse gas emissions are considered 
not material. 
G4- EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3). 66, 215-217 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as other 
greenhouse gas emissions are considered 
not material. 
G4- EN18 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity. 66, 215-217 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as other 
greenhouse gas emissions are considered 
not material.
G4- EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. 66, 67, 72 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as other 
greenhouse gas emissions are considered 
not material.
G4- EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods). 215-217 This indicator is not applicable, as ozone 
depleting gasses and SO2 (sulphur 
dioxide) are not emitted in material 
amounts.
Explanatory notes 
G4- EC4 The most significant subsidies received by BAM (approximately €7 million) are part of funding from the  
European Commission for environmental initiative.222 – 2015Page Omissions
G4- EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions. 217, 233 Significant air emissions other than NOX 
emissions are considered not material.
G4- EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 70, 217 Information outside the Netherlands is 
not yet available, therefore water 
dicharges by quality and destination have 
been omitted for BAM’s operations 
outside the Netherlands. BAM aims to 
expand its scope by reporting country by 
country in the next years.
G4- EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 68-69, 216  
G4- EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills.  
G4- EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention annex i, ii, iii and viii  
and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.Information been omitted, as this 
indicator does not directly relate to 
BAM’s business operations.
G4- EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and 
related habitats significantly affected by the organisation’s discharges of 
water and runoff.Information been omitted. BAM works 
according to national environmental 
legislation. This information is therefore 
not significant.
G4- EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other  
goods and materials for the organisation’s operations and transporting 
members of the workforce.65-67, 215-217  
G4- EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental 
criteria.Information has been omitted. BAM aims 
to seek long term, mutually preferred 
relationships with partners who can help 
BAM improve its supply chain in the 
coming years.
G4- EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken.72 Information has been omitted. BAM aims 
to seek long term, mutually preferred 
relationships with partners who can help 
BAM improve its supply chain in the 
coming years.
G4- LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management 
worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on 
occupational health and safety programmes.Information has been omitted due to 
incomplete data. BAM will resolve this 
in the coming year.
G4- LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days  
and absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by  
region and by gender.54-55 Due to the nature of BAM’s business and 
composition of its workforce, BAM does 
not monitor information by gender, as 
this is less relevant for BAM’s 
management processes
G4- LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 
occupation.54-55  
G4- LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.  
G4- LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by  
employee category.60  
Explanatory notes 
G4- EN21 32 tonnes NOX
G4- EN24 No spills are included in BAM’s financial statements (such as due to resulting liabilities) or recorded as a spill by BAM.
G4- LA8 Laid down in Collective Labour Agreements
G4- LA9 Average hours of training per employee category is not included, as this is considered not relevant.2015  – 223Page Omissions
G4 - LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support  
the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 
career endings.11, 59  
G4 - L A11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews, by gender and by employee category.Although steps have been taken to 
improve completeness of the data, 
information is not as yet reliable enough 
for external reporting.
G4 - LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 
employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 
membership and other indicators of diversity.109 -111, 59 - 60  
G4 - LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices 
criteria.Information has been omitted. BAM aims 
to seek long term, mutually preferred 
relationships with partners who can help 
BAM improve its supply chain in the 
coming years.
G4 - LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in  
the supply chain and actions taken.Information has been omitted. BAM aims 
to seek long term, mutually preferred 
relationships with partners who can help 
BAM improve its supply chain in the 
coming years.
G4- HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human right criteria Information has been omitted. BAM 
complies with local legislation in the 
countries where it operates. In countries 
with poor human rights record, BAM 
internally and externally audits labour 
practices of its suppliers and 
subcontractors.
G4 - HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the suppy 
chain an actions taken15, 61 Information has been omitted. BAM 
complies with local legislation in the 
countries where it operates. In countries 
with poor human rights record, BAM 
internally and externally audits labour 
practices of its suppliers and 
subcontractors.
G4- SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 
impact assessments and development programmes.61
G4- SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 
communities.14  
G4- SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption and the significant risks identified.10, 56, 32  
G4- SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 32, 56  
G4- SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 56  
G4- SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and 
monopoly practices and their outcomes.56  
G4- SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 
sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.56  
Explanatory notes 
G4 - LA12 The composition of BAM governance bodies is based on the same principles for equal opportunity as all team compositions within BAM 
and complies with BAM’s Business Principle on employee equality and diversity.
G4- HR10
G4 - HR11In its General Purchase and Subcontract Conditions BAM warrants its suppliers to respect the Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights of the United Nations and to monitor complience in the chain of its own suppliers and contractors
G4- SO8 BAM defines ‘significant’ as ‘of more than €5 million (passive), of more than €1 million (active) or with potential reputational damage’.224 – 2015Explanatory notes 
G4- PR9 BAM defines ‘significant’ as ‘of more than €5 million (passive), of more than €1 million (active) or with potential reputational damage’.
CRE3 Only in the Netherlands.
CRE5 BAM has no known locations which are in need of remediation due to BAM’s activities, or its land that has been remediated or  
needs to be remediated. 
CRE7 BAM is not aware of any operations that have led to voluntarily or involuntarily displacements.Page Omissions
G4- PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 
regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.56, 32  
Specific Standard Disclosures for Sector
CRE1 Building energy intensity. 65  
CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. 65  
CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and  
redevelopment activity.67  
CRE5 Land remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended 
land use, according to applicable legal designations. 
CRE6 Percentage of the organisation operating in verified compliance with an 
internationally recognised health and safety management system.53  
CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled  
by development, broken down by project. 
CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes  
for new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment.68  2015  – 2257.3  Charters, memberships and certifications
Name Operating company
Global
BWI (Building and Wood Workers’ International) Royal BAM Group
CDP: A List, CDLI Royal BAM Group
CE100 (Ellen MacArthur Foundation) Royal BAM Group
CEMARS: ISO 14064 BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
FIB (The International Federation for Structural Concrete) BAM Infraconsult
FIRA Platinum Royal BAM Group
IABSE (International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineering) BAM Infraconsult, BAM Contractors (Belgium)
INCOSE  (International Council on Systems Engineering) BAM PPP NL
International Integrated Reporting Council Royal BAM Group
International Society for Gerontechnology BAM Bouw en Techniek
IPFA (International Project Finance Association) BAM PPP
ISO 14001 BAM Contractors nv, BAM Contractors Ltd, BAM 
Construct UK, BAM Infra Nederland, Galère, BAM 
International, BAM Nuttall, BAM Bouw en Techniek, 
Interbuild, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
ISO 26000 Royal BAM Group
ISO 9001 BAM Infra Nederland, BAM Construct UK, BAM 
Contractors Ltd, BAM Deutschland, BAM Infratechniek, 
BAM International, BAM Materieel, BAM Nuttall, BAM 
Bouw en Techniek, BAM Woningbouw, Balteau i.e., 
BAM  Contractors nv, Galère, Heilijgers, Interbuild, 
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau, Pennings
ITA (International Tunneling and Underground Space Association) BAM Infraconsult, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
OHSAS 18001 Balteau i.e., BAM Construct UK, BAM Contractors, 
BAM Deutschland, BAM Infra Nederland, BAM 
International, BAM Nuttall, BAM Bouw en Techniek, BAM 
Woningbouw, BAM Contractors nv, Galère, Interbuild, 
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Europe
E2BA (Energy Efficient Buildings Association) Royal BAM Group
ECTP (European Construction Technology Platform) Royal BAM Group
EFRTC (European Federation of Railway Trackworks Contractors) BAM Infra Rail
EIC (European International Contractors) BAM International
ENCORD (European Network of Construction Companies for  
Research and Development)Royal BAM Group
Eurbanlab Royal BAM Group
FIEC (European Construction Industry Federation) Indirect membership Royal BAM Group through 
Bouwend Nederland
First Point Assessment (FPAL) BAM Contractors Ltd
Horizon 2020, REnnovates, BAMB Royal BAM Group
STTC (European Sustainable Tropical Timber Coalition) Royal BAM Group
Belgium
ADEB - VBA BAM Track, BAM Contractors nv, Galère
Adhesia BAM Mat, BAM Track
ASENAS Galère
Belgische Betongroepering (BBG) BAM Contractors nv
Belgische Groepering voor Grondmechanica en Geotechniek BAM Contractors nv
Belgische Vereniging van Asfaltproducenten BAM Contractors nv
Belgische Vereniging voor Ondergrondse Technieken en Stedenbouw BAM Contractors nv
CC Liège (Building Confederation Liège Region) Galère226 – 2015Name Operating company
CCW (Walloon Building Confederation) Galère
CNC (National Chamber of the Construction) Galère
COBATY BAM Contractors nv
Confederatie Bouw BAM Track, BAM Contractors nv
COPRO (Impartial Certification Body in the construction sector) Galère
CRR (Belgian Road Research Center) Galère
CSTC (Scientific and technical center of the construction) Galère
FEREB BAM Contractors nv
FBEV-BFAW (Belgian Federation of Road Contractors) Galère
Federation liegeoise des entrepreneurs de travaux de voirie BAM Contractors nv
FEREDECO BAM Contractors nv
FLEV (Roadworks Federation of Liège) Galère
FWEV (Walloon Roadworks Federation) Galère, BAM Contractors nv
Grondbank BAM Contractors nv
OCW (Opzoekingscentrum voor de Wegenbouw) BAM Contractors nv
Recy Liège (Recycle Construction Waste Center - Liège) Galère
Road Federation Belgium BAM Contractors nv
Scicc (Collective Guarantee Cooperative) Galère
Seco (Technical control bureau for construction) BAM Contractors nv, Galère
Sideco (Industrial society for construction waste) Galère
Source O'Rama - scrl Chaudfontaine Promotion Galère
SPMT BAM Mat, Galère
Tradeco Liège (Construction Waste Treatment Cooperative - Liège) Galère
Tradecowall (Construction Waste Treatment Cooperative - Wallonie) Galère
Unie van Aannemers van Spoorwegwerken BAM Track
VC A** BAM Mat, BAM Track, BAM Contractors nv
Vevia BAM Contractors nv
VKW Limburg BAM Contractors nv
Vlaams Instituut voor Mobiliteit (VIM) BAM Contractors nv
VMx (Vlaamse MilieuProfessionals) BAM Contractors nv
VODKA BAM Contractors nv
Voka (Vlaams netwerk van ondernemingen) BAM Contractors nv
WTCB (BBRI, Belgian Builders, Research Institute) BAM Contractors nv
Germany
Beirat des TU Darmstadt Energy Center e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
BG Bau BAM Deutschland
Central Federation Building Industry BAM PPP
Deutsche Gesellschaft für Geotechnik e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Deutscher Ausschuss für unterirdisches Bauen e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Deutscher Beton- und Bautechnik-Verein e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
DGNB BAM Deutschland
ee Embedded BAM Deutschland
Entsorgungsgemeinschaft B + U Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Förderverein der Freunde des Institutes für Geotechnik an der  
Technischen Universität Darmstadt e.V.Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Freunde der FHT Stuttgart e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Freunde des Institutes für Massivbau der Universität Darmstadt Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
GEFMA (German Facility Management Association Deutscher Verband für 
Facility Management e.V.)BAM Deutschland
Gemeinschaft für Überwachung im Bauwesen e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
German Association Public Private Partnership BAM PPP2015  – 227Name Operating company
German Society for Trenchless Technology Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Gesellschaft für Freunde und Absolventen der Hochschule Biberach Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Gesellschaft für Maritime Technik e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
GIF (Gesellschaft für Immobilienwirtschaftliche Forschung e.V.) BAM Deutschland
Gütegemeinschaft Erhaltung von Bauwerken e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Güteschutz Kanalbau Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Hafenbautechnische Gesellschaft Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Hauptverband der Deutschen Bauindustrie e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Hessisches Wirtschaftsarchiv e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Industrie- und Handelskammer BAM Deutschland
Landesgütegemeinschaft Betoninstandsetzung Hessen-Thüringen Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Neckarhafen Plochingen GmbH Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
RealFM e.V. (Association for Real Estate and Facility Managers) BAM Deutschland
Schweizerischer Ingenieur- und Architektenverein Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Studiengesellschaft für unterirdische Verkehrsanlagen e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
VBG Power Tech e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
VDSI (Verband für Sicherheit, Gesundheit und Umweltschutz  
bei der Arbeit) BAM Deutschland
Vereinigung von Freunden der Universität Stuttgart e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
WKO Bundesinnung des Baugewerbes Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Ireland
American Chamber of Commerce BAM Contractors
Business in the Community (BITC) BAM Contractors
Chambers Ireland BAM Contractors
Civil Engineering Contractors Association (CECA) BAM Contractors
Constructing Industry Federation BAM Contractors
Construction Advisory Committee (CAC) BAM Contractors
Construction Employers Federation (CEF) BAM Contractors
Construction Excellence BAM Contractors
Construction Industry Federation BAM Contractors
Construction ITA Alliance (CITA) BAM Contractors
Cork Chamber of Commerce BAM Contractors
Dublin Chamber of Commerce BAM Contractors
Engineers Ireland BAM Contractors
Georgian Society BAM Contractors
Heritage Contractor BAM Contractors
Irish Concrete Society BAM Contractors
Irish Mining and Quarrying Society BAM Contractors
Irish Road Haulage Association (IRHA) BAM Contractors
Pipeline Industries Guild BAM Contractors
Society of Chartered Surveyors (SCS) BAM Contractors
Netherlands
ABC Architectuurinstituut Haarlem AM
Amports BAM Infra Civiel
Amsterdam Economic Board AM
ASHRAE BAM Bouw en Techniek
Astrin BAM Verkeerstechniek
Avepa BAM Bouw en Techniek
Avons Hogeschool Royal BAM Group
Betoniek BAM Infraconsult228 – 2015Name Operating company
Betonvereniging BAM Infra, BAM Infraconsult, BAM Bouw en Techniek
Bewuste Bouwers Royal BAM Group
BMC BAM Infraconsult
Bouw en Hout Convenant Royal BAM Group
Bouwcampus Royal BAM Group
Bouwen met Staal BAM Infraconsult
Bouwend Nederland BAM Infra Nederland, BAM Bouw en Techniek,  
BAM  Woningbouw, Heilijgers
Branchevereniging werkplekbeveiligingsbedrijf Railinfra BAM Infra Energie & Water Noordoost
CEN BAM Infra Rail
Cirkelstad BAM Bouw en Techniek
COB (Centrum Ondergronds Bouwen) BAM Infra, BAM Infraconsult
Connekt BAM Infra Rail
Contactorgaan Zuid/COZ Hulsman BAM Infra Civiel
CROW BAM Infra, BAM Infraconsult
de Maatschappij Heilijgers
Initiatiefgroep Ketenintegratie BAM Bouw en Techniek
Delft Blue Technology Innovatieve tijdelijke waterkeringen BAM Infraconsult
Deltalings BAM Infra Energie & Water
Deltares Adviesraad BAM Infraconsult
Digitale Rotonde BAM Infra Energie & Water, BAM Infra Telecom
Dutch Green Building Council Royal BAM Group
Duurzaam Gebouwd BAM Bouw en Techniek
EAU (recomendations for waterfront structures) BAM Infraconsult
Energy Valley BAM Infra Nederland, BAM Bouw en Techniek
EVO BAM Infra Energie & Water, BAM Infra Telecom
Expertgroep ABC Meldpunt (Aanpak Bouwincidenten Constructieve 
Veiligheid)BAM Bouw en Techniek
FIB BAM Infraconsult
Fiber to the Home Council Europe BAM Infra Energie & Water, BAM Infra Telecom
FLOW (Far and Large Offshore Wind) BAM Infra Civiel
FME BAM Infra Energie & Water, BAM Verkeerstechniek
FMN BAM Bouw en Techniek
Forum voor Stedelijke Vernieuwing AM
Fosag Heilijgers
FSC BAM Bouw en Techniek, BAM Woningbouw, Pennings, 
Heilijgers
Gebiedsontwikkeling.nu AM
Geo-Impuls BAM Infraconsult
GSVB BAM Bouw en Techniek
Havenclub Amsterdam BAM Infra Civiel
Histechnica BAM Infraconsult
Hogere Onderwijsgroep Bouw en Ruimte AM
Hogeschool van Amsterdam Onderwijs Adviesraad BAM Infraconsult
Hogeschool van Amsterdam Cluster Adviesraad BAM Infraconsult
Holland Rail industry BAM Infra Rail
IABSE Working Commission 3 'Concrete structures' BAM Infraconsult
Innotrack BAM Infra Rail
InstallatieWerk BAM Bouw en Techniek
IOP SenterNovem Selfhealing BAM Infraconsult
IPMA-NL Interessegroep Risicomanagement BAM Infraconsult
IRSE Nederland (Institution of Railway Signal Engineers) BAM Infra Rail2015  – 229Name Operating company
ISG BAM Bouw en Techniek
ISIAQ.nl (International Society of Indoor Air Quality and Climate) BAM Bouw en Techniek
I-society BAM Infra Energie & Water, BAM Infra Telecom
ISSO BAM Bouw en Techniek
KLO (Kabel- en Leiding Overleg) BAM Infra Energie & Water, BAM Infra Telecom
Kenniscentrum Duurzaam Bouwen Heilijgers
Kiwa BAM Utiliteitsbouw
KLIC BAM Infra Energie & Water, BAM Infra Telecom
KOMAT (Kontaktgroep Materieel Bouwend Nederland) BAM Materieel
Koninklijk Nederlands Vervoer BAM Infra Rail
Landelijk Nieuwbouw Portaal AM
Landschap Overijssel AM
MVO Nederland Royal BAM Group
MVO Prestatieladder: Niveau 3 BAM Bouw en Techniek
Nabu (Netherlands Association of International Contractors) Royal BAM Group
NAVS Heilijgers
Nederlandse Klimaat Coalitie Royal BAM Group
NVVK (Nederlandse vereniging voor Veiligheidskunde) BAM Infra Nederland
Neprom AM, BAM Bouw en Techniek, Heilijgers
Nevlock (Nederlands-Vlaams Onderzoekscentrum voor Kustconstructies) BAM Infraconsult
NFPA BAM Bouw en Techniek
NRW AM Real Estate Devopment
NSTT (Nederlandse Vereniging van Sleufloze Technieken en Toepassingen) BAM Infra Energie & Water
NVAF (Nederlandse Vereniging Aannemers Funderingswerken) BAM Infra Speciale Technieken
NVB BAM Woningbouw
NVDO BAM Bouw en Techniek
NVOE BAM Bouw en Techniek
NVSM BAM Bouw en Techniek
NVTG BAM Bouw en Techniek
NWP (Nederlands Water Partnership) BAM International
OLC BAM Infra Rail
PIANC (World association for waterborne transport infrastructure) BAM Infraconsult
Platform Constructieve Veiligheid BAM Bouw en Techniek
Platform Duurzaamheid Heilijgers
Platform Gezond Binnen BAM Bouw en Techniek
PLAXIS Development Committee BAM Infraconsult
PSO Prestatieladder Pennings
Coöperatie GEN (Gebieden Energie Neutraal) Royal BAM Group
PWI BAM Infra Rail
Raad van Advies Collegiaal In- en Uitleen BAM Bouw en Techniek
Railforum BAM Infra Rail
Rail-Tech BAM Infra Rail
RAV BAM Infra Rail
RBPI (OTIB/Uneto-VNI) BAM Bouw en Techniek
RICS AM
SBR Referentiedetails Utiliteitsbouw BAM Utiliteitsbouw
SBRA/Bouwmensen Heilijgers
SBRCURNET BAM Infra Civiel
SKAO BAM Woningbouw
Spoorzone Delft AM
Stads Vastgoed Rotterdam AM230 – 2015Name Operating company
Stichting Active House BAM Woningbouw
Stichting Beoordeling Integriteit Bouwnijverheid Royal BAM Group
Stichting BOEI AM
Stichting Den Haag Nieuw Centrum AM Real Estate Development
Stichting Het Nieuwe IJ AM
Stichting Hoogbouw AM, BAM Bouw en Techniek
Stichting Klantgericht Bouwen BAM Woningbouw, Heilijgers, Pennings
Stichting NAP Dace BAM Infra Civiel
Stichting Passief Bouwen BAM Woningbouw
Stichting Sportive4Kids AM
Stichting voor Wetenschappelijk Onderwijs en Onderzoek  
in de VastgoedkundeAM Real Estate Development
STUFIB BAM Infra, BAM Bouw en Techniek
STUTECH BAM Infraconsult
STW BAM Infraconsult
SWK BAM Bouw en Techniek, BAM Woningbouw, AM, 
Pennings, Heilijgers
Taskforce Wonen Heilijgers
Techniekgilde Eemland Heilijgers
Technocentrum BAM Bouw en Techniek
TVVL BAM Bouw en Techniek
UIC BAM Infra Rail
UITP BAM Infra Rail
Uneto VNI BAM Infra Energie & Water
UNIFE BAM Infra Rail
Utrechts Landschap Heilijgers
VAB Heilijgers
VIB (Vakgroep Ingenieursbureaus Bouwbedrijven) BAM Infraconsult, BAM Bouw en Techniek
VAP Business Club (Verenigde Aannemers Petrochemie) BAM Infra Civiel
VCA BAM Woningbouw, Heilijgers, Pennings
VCCN BAM Bouw en Techniek
VDEI BAM Infra Rail
VEH BAM Woningbouw, Heilijgers
Veilig en Duurzaam op weg Royal BAM Group
Vereniging Delta Metropool AM
Vernieuwing Bouw Royal BAM Group
VGME BAM Bouw en Techniek
VNO-NCW Royal BAM Group
VOMI BAM Bouw en Techniek
United Kingdom
AAT (Association of Accouning Technicians) BAM PPP
ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) BAM PPP
BRE (Building Research Establishment) BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
British Water BAM Nuttall
BQF (British Quality Foundation) BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
BS11000 BAM Nuttall
CBI BAM Nuttall
CECA (Civil Engineering Contractors Association) BAM Nuttall
CECA (Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors) BAM Nuttall
Chartered Institute of Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM) BAM Nuttall
CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) BAM PPP2015  – 231Name Operating company
CIOB (Chartered Institute of Building) BAM PPP
CIRIA (Construction Industry Research and Information) BAM Nuttall
CITB (Construction Industry Training Board) BAM Nuttall
CIWEM (Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management) BAM Nuttall
CIWM (Chartered Institution of Waste Management) BAM Nuttall
CIWW Chartered Institution of Waste Management BAM Nuttall
CL:AIRE BAM Nuttall
Concrete Society BAM Nuttall
Considerate Constructors Scheme BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
Constructing Better Health BAM Nuttall
Construction Health and Safety Group (CHSG) BAM Nuttall
DIPFA (Diploma for Financial Advisors) BAM PPP
EEGR Eastern England Energy Group BAM Nuttall
FPAL BAM Nuttall
Green Construction Board BAM Construct UK
Grown in Britain BAM Construct UK
HM Treasury Industry panel BAM PPP
ICAEW (Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales) BAM PPP
ICAS (Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland) BAM PPP
ICE (Institute of Civil Engineers) BAM PPP
ICE EAST BAM Nuttall
ICE Kent & East Sussex Branch Graduate & Students Committee BAM Nuttall
ICE South BAM Nuttall
ICW (Institute of Collaborative Working) BAM Nuttall
Investors in People: Gold BAM Nuttall
Law Society of England and Wales BAM PPP
Law Society of Schotland BAM PPP
LCI (Lean Construction Institute) BAM Nuttall
Pipeline Industries Guild BAM Nuttall
PPP Forum BAM PPP
RICS (Royal Institute Chartered Surveyors) BAM Nuttall
RoSPA (The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents) BAM Nuttall
STEMNET: Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Network BAM Nuttall
Supply Chain Sustainability School BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
The Construction Training Group BAM Nuttall
The Major Projects Association BAM Nuttall
TRADA BAM Construct UK
Tunnelskills BAM Nuttall
UK Contractor Group BAM Construct UK
UK Green Building Council (UK-GBC) BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall232 – 2015Organisational structure
January 2016
Netherlands
BAM
Bouw en
VastgoedNetherlands
BAM
InfraBelgium
BAM
Belgium
Public Private PartnershipsBusiness line Construction and property Business line Civil Engineering
United
Kingdom
BAM
Construct UKUnited
Kingdom
BAM
NuttallIreland
BAM
ContractorsGermany
Wayss &
Freytag
IngenieurbauGermany
BAM
DeutschlandWorldwide
BAM
International55
From the left: G. Cash (BAM Construct UK), T.M. Cullinane (BAM Contractors), S.C. Fox (BAM Nuttall), G.K. Mazloumian (BAM International), 
K. Meade (BAM PPP), A. Naujoks (BAM Deutschland), M. Peeters (BAM Belgium), M.H. Schimmel (BAM Infra Nederland), B.J. Wierenga (Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau), R.P. van Wingerden (CEO Royal BAM Group), T. Menssen (CFO Royal BAM Group), E.J. Bax (COO Royal BAM Group), 
S. Beckers (General Counsel / Company Secretary Royal BAM Group), T.W. Muntinga (Director of Finance Royal BAM Group) and A. Sundermeijer 
(Group IT Director Royal BAM Group). Not picured: R. Vollebregt (BAM Bouw en Vastgoed, as of 19 February 2016).Management Board2015  – 233Royal BAM Group nv shares
The average daily trade was 3,117,000 ordinary shares (2014: 
2,742,000). The value of ordinary shares traded in 2015 rose by 
68 per cent to €3,152 million (2014: €1,875 million). In 2015 the 
average daily trade in BAM shares was €12.3 million (2014: €7.3 
million).
> Graph 57 shows the development of the average number of 
ordinary shares traded in 2015 on Euronext Amsterdam. 
j f m a m j j a s o n d01,000,0002,000,0003,000,0004,000,0005,000,0006,000,0007,000,0008,000,000
ordinary trade moving average
Number of traded ordinary shares in 2015
(average per day - Euronext 2015)
> Graph 58 shows the development of the average value of traded 
ordinary shares on Euronext Amsterdam in 2015. 
05,000,00010,000,00015,000,00020,000,00025,000,00030,000,000
average value of traded
ordinary shares per dayj fm a m j j a s o n d
moving average
Value of traded ordinary shares in 2015
(average per day - Euronext 2015)
If necessary, ING and Rabobank act as liquidity providers for the 
trade in ordinary shares. Stock exchange listing 
The shares of BAM have been listed on the Euronext Amsterdam 
stock exchange since 1959. BAM is listed on the AMX index (Midkap) 
as well as on the Euronext NEXT-150 Index. Royal BAM Group 
ordinary share options have been traded by Liffe, the Euronext 
derivatives exchange, since 2006. 
The total stock exchange value (market capitalisation) of the Group 
was €1.4 billion at year-end 2015 (year-end 2014: almost €0.7 billion).
Share price 
The 2015 closing price for the ordinary share was €5.13, which was 
99 per cent higher compared to the closing price at year-end 2014 
(€2.58). The share’s performance was well above the AMX index 
(9.7 per cent increase). BAM’s share price rose by about 12 per cent 
over the last five years. By way of comparison, the AEX and the 
AMX index rose by 25 per cent and 9 per cent in the same period.
> Graph 56 shows the history of the BAM ordinary share price over 
the past five years. 
01234567
2015 2014 2012 2013 2011
BAM AEX AMX
Ordinary share price movement
(in €)
Volume of trade on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam 
The liquidity of the Royal BAM Group ordinary share increased in 
2015. The number of ordinary shares traded increased by about 
14 per cent to a total of 798 million in the financial year (2014: 
699 million).5657
58234 – 2015235 – 2015
Number of ordinary shares in issue in 2015
Ordinary Total
Ordinary shares in issue as at 1 January 2015 270,998,957 270,998,957
100% 100% 
Repurchase of ordinary shares for Performance Share Plan (604,975) (604,975)
Ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2015 270,393,982 270,393,982
99.8% 99.8%
Numbers of ordinary shares
(in € per share, unless otherwise indicated) 
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend as at year-end 270,393,982  270,998,957 269,424,089 241,524,914 232,937,569
Average number of ordinary shares 270,956,691  270,394,899 245,951,992 238,193,212 232,377,783
Net result 0.04  (0.40) 0.19 (0.77) 0.54
Net result from continued operations 0.04  (0.40) 0.15 (1.04) 0.49
Average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend 
    (diluted) 270,956,691  270,394,899 245,951,992 238,193,212 232,665,153
Net result  (diluted) 0.04  (0.40) 0.19 (0.77) 0.54
Net result from continued operations (diluted) 0.04  (0.40) 0.15 (1.04) 0.49
Cash flow before dividend 0.44  0.33 0.67 1.26 1.00
Equity attributable to shareholders 3.34  3.05 3.45 3.82 4.99 
Dividend 0.02  - 0.05 0.10 0.16
Payout  (in %) 50  - 30 - 30
Dividend yield (in %) 20.4  - 1.4 3.1 4.9
Highest closing price 5.16 4.50 4.73 3.97 5.76 
Lowest closing price 2.22 1.65 2.99 1.94 2.17
Price on 31 December 5.13 2.58 3.78 3.23 3.26
Average daily trade  (in number of shares) 3,117,000 2,742,000 1,439,200 1,198,900 1,338,500
Market capitalisation at year-end (x €1,000) 3 1,387,121 698,093 1,019,321 779,401 759,376
1 Comparative figures adjusted to IFRS 11 and IAS 19 (revised).
2 Based on share price at year-end. 
3 Based on total number of ordinary shares in issue. 6059
1236 – 2015
Movements in the number of outstanding 
shares 
In 2015, the number of outstanding ordinary shares 
decreased by 604,975 to 270,393,982, due to the 
repurchase of shares for the long term incentive plan. The 
movement in the number of outstanding shares in 2015 is 
shown in > Table 60. The average number of ordinary shares 
in 2015 was 270,956,691 (2014: 270,394,898).
According to the AFM register of substantial shareholdings, 
five institutional investors have real interests of 3 per cent  
or more.
Changes may have occurred, however, within the disclosure 
thresholds.
> Table 61 shows the interests of 3 per cent or more 
according to the AFM register of substantial shareholdings. 
Dividend policy 
Dividend policy and proposed dividend for 2015
BAM proposes a dividend of 2 eurocents per ordinary share, 
in line with its dividend policy to pay out 30 to 50 per cent 
of the net result for the year. This will be paid in cash, with 
a scrip alternative.Investor relations 
BAM attaches great importance to the provision of 
transparent and  identical information to all investors. 
BAM’s investor relations policy is geared to informing 
investors about the Group’s strategy, objectives, 
performance and prospects in good time, fully and in 
clear  and unambiguous terms. Business results will not 
be adequately reflected in the value of the shares unless 
there is high-quality communication with investors.
The explanatory comments organised by BAM upon the 
publication of the results (annual figures, half-yearly figures 
and interim statements) are accessible to anyone online 
(webcast).
The press meetings for the annual and half-yearly figures are 
held in Dutch. The analysts meetings will be held in English. 
More information on this subject can be found on the 
company’s website.
The company organises road shows and participates at 
investor conferences during the year to meet investors. All 
data and venues are published on the website. 
For questions or more information concerning BAM, please 
visit the company’s website at www.bam.eu. Shareholders 
(or potential shareholders) and financial analysts can 
address any questions to the Investor Relations Manager of 
Royal BAM Group, Mr Joost van Galen, e-mail ir@bam.nl, 
telephone +31 (0)30 659 87 07. 
 Interests of 3 per cent or more according to the register of substantial shareholdings  
kept by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM)
Interest in per cent
issued share capitalDate of
last notificationInterest above
3 per cent since *
A. van Herk 9.5 20 August 2015 October 2005
NN Group N.V. 5.5 26 May 2015 February 1992
I.M. Fares 5.0 24 October 2014 July 2013
* According to the AFM Register of Substantial Holdings and Gross Short Positions.61237 – 2015
Key financial dates
20 April 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
12 May 2016 Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
18 August 2016 Publication of half-year results 2016
3 November 2016 Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
21 February 2017 Publication of annual results 2016
19 April 2017 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
11 May 2017 Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
24 August 2017 Publication of half-year results 2017
9 November 2017 Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
Colofon
Layout :
Boulogne Jonkers Vormgeving, Zoetermeer, the Netherlands.
Printing :
GrafiServices, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
Illustrations:
Bart van Hoek Architectuurfotografie, De Beeldredaktie, Jean-Luc Deru, Filip Dujardin,  
Quintin Lake, Rob Melchior, Walter Saenen, Studio Csany, Henk Tammens
Printed on FSC®-certified paper, Tom&Otto Silk from Antalis.
18.02.2016/2Royal BAM Group nv
Runnenburg 9
3981 AZ Bunnik
P.O. Box 20
3980 CA Bunnik
The Netherlands
Telephone +31 (0)30 659 89 88
info@bam.nl
www.bam.eu
Established at Bunnik.
Trade Register number 30058019.
Follow us on     @BAMGroup_EU     www.facebook.com/RoyalBAM
