Integrated Report
Integrated Report 2015  Royal BAM Group nvKey figures
(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Profit
Continuing operations
Revenue  6,976  7,423 
Adjusted result before tax  102.7 88.2
Result before tax  60.1  13.3 
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company  46.8  10.2 
Earnings per share  (in €1)
Earnings per share  0.17  0.04
Dividends per ordinary share (in €1)  0.09  0.02 
Dividend payout (in %) 50  50 
Number of shares as at 31 December  (x 1,000)  270,622 270,394
Share closing price as at 31 December (in €1)  4.39 5.13
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  834.3  902.1 
Capital base 946.7  1,026.5 
Total assets 4,812.1  4,852.2 
 
Order book  10,193  11,480
Net investment in property, plant and equipment  45.1 41.7
Depreciation charges  60.3 66.5
Amortisation charges  4.1 4.0
Impairment charges  50.7 39.1
Cash flow before dividend  161.9  119.8 
Ratios
Adjusted result before tax as % of revenue  1.5  1.2 
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue  0.7  0.1 
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company as % of average equity  5.4  1.2 
Solvency ratios
ROCE (in %)  2.8  0.2
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company as % of total assets 17.3  18.6 
Capital ratio (in %) 19.7 21.2
People
Human resource
Average number of employees (in FTE) 20,370 21,916
Number of employees as at 31 December (in FTE) 19,486 21,248
Training costs per employee  (in €1) 667  509
Female/male  (in %) 15/85  14/86
Safety
Incident frequency (IF) 4.8 4.5
Planet
Climate positive
CO2 emissions (in kilotonnes) 203  230 
CO2 emissions intensity (in tonnes per € million revenue) 29.1  30.9 
Energy (in terra joules) 3,000 3,356 
Resource positive
Waste (in million tonnes)  2.8  2.4 
Construction and office waste  (in kilotonnes) 148  161 
Construction waste separation (in %) 25 29
For an explanation of the other terms, see the glossary on page 230.Adjusted result  
before tax
Result before tax 
excluding 
restructuring costs 
and other exceptional 
costs, impairment 
charges and pension 
one-off.
Incident frequency 
(IF)
The total number of 
industrial accidents 
leading to absence 
from work per million 
hours worked on 
construction sites.Capital base
Equity attributable to 
the shareholders of 
the Company plus 
subordinated debt.
Capital ratio
Capital base divided  
by total assets.2016 – 2Royal BAM Group nv (‘BAM’ or ‘the Group’) is a construction firm 
with ten operating companies in five European home markets and 
in niche markets worldwide. BAM’s operating companies are active 
in the business lines Construction and Property, Civil engineering, 
as well as in Public-private partnerships. 
BAM’s European home markets are the Netherlands, Belgium, the 
United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. Furthermore the Group 
delivers projects in Denmark, Luxembourg and Switzerland. The 
Group has a widespread network of offices, close to its clients.
BAM has approximately 19,500 employees and is a listed company 
at Euronext Amsterdam. BAM at a glance
2 Key figures
4 1. Message from the CEO
6 2. Strategy
 
16 3. Value creation
17 Business model
25 Stakeholder engagement and material themes
38 Risk management
 
48 4. Business performance
49 Financial performance
60 Social performance
74 Environmental performance 
84 Outlook
86 5. Governance
87 Corporate governance
98 Report of the Supervisory Board
104 Remuneration report
112  Declaration in accordance with the Dutch Financial  
    Supervision Act
113 Decision on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive
116 Supervisory Board and Executive Board
120 Management Board
122 6. Financial statements
124 Consolidated financial statements
129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
206 Company financial statements
208 Notes to the company financial statements
216 7. Other information
217  Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2016   
    financial statements and Sustainability Information
224 Proposed appropriation of result
225  Articles of Association provisions governing the  
    distribution of profit
227 Anti-takeover measures
228 Five-year overview
229  List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements and  
    associates
230 Glossary
232 8. Royal BAM Group nv shares
238 9. Appendices
239 Sustainability reporting process and methods
242 GRI Disclosures
250 Charters, memberships and certifications
253 Key financial datesContents
The Executive Board Report as intended in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code consists of chapters 1 - 5 
and page 237, with the exception of paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3.
Stakeholder interviews
BAM’s stakeholders about digitalisation,  
innovation and sustainability.
51 Wessel van Beerendonk, Studio RAP
61 Salim Ismail, ExO Works
67 Siri Krauß, Hochschule für Technik
73 Amar Hanspal, Autodesk 
97 Julie Hirigoyen, UK Green Building Council
107 Maxime Verhagen, Bouwend Nederland
119 Sofie Narinx, IBM2016  – 31. Message from the CEO4 – 20164 – 2015Looking back on my more than two years as CEO of Royal BAM 
Group, I am proud of what we together have achieved so far. We 
took important steps to improve BAM’s performance. In 2016, we 
made good progress implementing the strategy ‘Building the 
present, creating the future’. 
We are focusing our project portfolio by disciplined, data-driven 
tendering and we have a pipeline with attractive opportunities.
Across our business portfolio, we exited some non-core activities, 
completed the integration of Dutch Construction and Property, 
and are refocusing our International infrastructure and German 
construction businesses.
We are executing our digital strategy by launching a start-up to 
develop a scalable digital construction platform and using 
digitalisation to enhance our primary processes. 
Our differentiating capabilities are being enhanced by our One 
BAM culture through learning and collaboration and employee 
engagement. Four values – predictable performance, scalable 
learning, proactive ownership and open collaboration – underpin 
the successful further development of our Group. The positive 
feedback we received from our stakeholders are a clear indication 
that we are on the right track. 
Despite some headwinds, we delivered a robust adjusted result for 
2016 ahead of the previous year, in line with our guidance. The 
adjusted result before tax improved to €102.7 million. We 
continued to derisk and strengthen our financial position, and 
generated a strong positive cash flow, mainly due to working 
capital improvement. Our return on capital employed – a leading 
KPI for how we manage our business  – started to move upwards 
thanks to the higher result and lower capital.
BAM’s total revenue of €6,976 million was €447 million (6 per 
cent) below the level of 2015, of which €245 million was 
attributable to the weaker pound sterling and €45 million to 
divestments of non-core activities in the Netherlands and 
Belgium.
The inclusion in CDP’s Climate A list is a recognition of our efforts 
to reduce emissions and to achieve a net positive impact. Ensuring 
a safe working environment remains a top priority for BAM. 
BAM was reconfirmed as industry leader and ranked sixth overall 
in the annual Transparency Benchmark, the leading Dutch 
corporate social responsibility index. 
By adopting the principles of the <IR> Framework and by 
application of the Global Reporting Initiative (G4, Comprehensive) 
BAM will continue to provide transparent and more relevant 
information to all stakeholders.
Our strategy for 2016-2020 allows us to further improve the 
performance of our current project and business portfolio. In a 
fragile macroeconomic environment, our objective is to continue 
to grow profitability and capital efficiency by ‘Doing Things 
Better’. This means a more disciplined focus on market segments 
and projects where we can use either scale or expertise as critical 
success factors. 
Secondly, by rationalising our propositions in selected market 
segments and developing new solutions for clients, we will shape 
our business portfolio towards ‘Doing Better Things’. 
Thirdly, we are investing in digitalisation and new technologies 
aiming to become an industry leader in what we build and how we 
build it – ‘Doing New Things’. We are committed to innovation 
and the ever-greater digitalisation of our processes, services and 
products to reach our goals.
Our target is to reach a double-digit return on capital employed 
by 2020.
Looking ahead, the external environment is mixed with on the one 
hand, stable or slightly improving economic indicators and on the 
other hand, uncertainty on Brexit and upcoming elections. 
Despite these notes of caution, I am confident we will continue 
our positive momentum on strategy delivery in 2017. For 2017, we 
expect revenue to be slightly lower and the adjusted result before 
tax to be higher than the level of 2016. We anticipate a 
significantly lower restructuring charge compared to 2016.
We are all motivated to continue to unlock the still significant 
upside potential of BAM. We will work together to better serve our 
clients, improve our financial performance, and be a preferred 
employer and partner to create a better, more sustainable future. 
I am more than ever convinced that with our combined 
capabilities and dedication we can reach our goals.
Also on behalf of Thessa Menssen and Erik Bax, I would like to 
thank all our stakeholders for their confidence in BAM and 
especially our employees for their hard work and commitment. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2017
Rob van Wingerden,
CEO,
Royal BAM Group nv2016  – 5
‘We are committed to innovation and the
ever-greater digitalisation of our processes, 
services and products to reach our goals’6 – 2016
2. StrategyBuilding the present, creating the future
It is BAM’s mission to build sustainable environments that enhance 
people’s lives by enabling the right people to capitalise on 
state-of-the-art knowledge, resources and digital technologies, 
providing solutions across the total construction life cycle for the 
Group’s clients and clients and generating maximum value for its 
stakeholders. 
When launching its 2016-2020 strategic programme ‘Building the 
present, creating the future ’, the Group defined its vision for 
2020: By 2020 BAM will be recognised as one of Europe’s leading 
sustainable and innovative construction businesses, with healthy 
profits and a strong balance sheet, active across the total 
construction life cycle in European home markets and in selected 
growing economies worldwide.
BAM’s vision and unique culture are underpinned by four values 
which are guiding for the people of BAM. These values are 
predictable performance, scalable learning, proactive ownership 
and open collaboration.
Values
To realise the strategy ‘Building the present, creating the future ’, 
BAM will position itself as leader in the digitalisation of the 
industry. 
Three external forces are shaping prospects for the construction 
industry. Firstly, economic growth is still vulnerable and will have 
a low to modest impact on construction volumes. Secondly, 
sustainability and mega trends such as urbanisation and energy 
efficiency are creating areas of higher growth. 
‘Building the present, creating the future’Strategy 2016-2020
Focus
project
portfolioShape
business
portfolioCreate
future
portfolio
Differentiating capabilities
BAM’s unique culture
Strategy 2016-2020
Thirdly, digitalisation is increasingly transforming the construction 
industry and the built environment. Against this background, the 
main focus of the strategy for 2016-2020 is to continue to improve 
profitability and capital efficiency. The strategy has three pillars: 
to focus the project portfolio, to shape the business portfolio and 
to create the future portfolio. These are supported by a strong 
foundation consisting of two layers: culture and capabilities.
Focus project portfolio – Doing Things Better
BAM is focusing its project portfolio ( ‘Doing Things Better ’) and 
continuously makes a rigorous analysis of the existing project 
portfolio. In order to win projects, the main drivers of performance 
improvement are either scale (‘cost leadership’) or differentiation 
through specialisation (‘knowledge partnership’).  
In market segments characterised by price-led competition, 
BAM can achieve cost leadership through project bundling and/or 
industrialisation. For projects where requirements are more 
demanding, BAM will use its knowledge leadership, innovation and 
quality assurance as key differentiating factors. This focus will also 
lead to better planning and management of the fixed cost base.
Examples of project focus areas include energy-neutral home 
refurbishment, stadiums and tunnel-based infrastructure. In its 
Property sector, BAM will focus on equity-light developments in 
main urban areas and further integration of activities with 
construction to unlock synergies. PPP will continue to target 
contracts in home markets where payments are based on 
availability.Proactive ownership  ‘I take initiative to prevent, 
rather than fix’Open collaboration
‘I share, so we all gain’
Scalable learning
‘I ask, listen and support, 
so that we learn collectively’Predictable performance
‘I deliver what I promise’
122016  – 7
BAM is focusing the project 
portfolio ( ‘Doing Things 
Better’). Using either scale or 
differentiation to win projects 
will be the main driver of 
performance improvement at 
the operating companies.
BAM is shaping the business 
portfolio ( ‘Doing Better Things ’) 
by rationalising its propositions 
in selected market segments and 
developing new solutions for 
clients.Performance
In 2016 BAM strengthened its processes to enable data-driven 
choices in order to focus its efforts on selecting the projects
where it has the best chances to win and generate value for all 
stakeholders. BAM’s choices are aimed at generating the targeted 
margins whereby it focuses less on revenue growth.
Initiatives that started or accelerated in 2016 to support ‘Doing 
Things Better’ include the strengthening of the tendering stage
gate processes, peer reviews, operational audits and working 
capital management.
The data BAM collects in its improved tendering process allows 
the Group to select projects where it can leverage its scale and
abilities to differentiate with knowledge. The stage gate process 
includes peer reviews conducted by experienced colleagues to
drive the exchange of know how between operating companies 
within the Group.
In 2016 all operating companies have aligned their strategic 
agendas to focus their project portfolio on the principles of scale 
and differentiation. This has resulted in focus on more specific 
product-market combinations to generate value for clients and 
other stakeholders. In market areas where BAM cannot 
differentiate itself, decisions to exit were made. The aligned 2020 
strategic agendas were the basis on which the operating 
companies set their 2017 operating plans and priorities.
Shaping business portfolio – Doing Better Things
BAM is shaping the business portfolio (‘Doing Better Things’) by 
supporting the operating companies in developing new 
propositions in the home markets as extensions of projects along 
the lifecycle, and leveraging specialisms in international markets. These initiatives will be driven by investments in people and 
systems and developing partnerships. At the same time, BAM will 
continue to de-emphasise or exit from operational activities which 
do not offer sufficient opportunities to use scale or differentiation 
as critical success factors. BAM will continue to reduce its 
portfolio of Property assets.
Performance
Examples of businesses that were exited in 2016 since they did not 
offer sufficient opportunities to use scale or differentiation 
include the divestments of Heilijgers, Balteau i.e., Nelis de Ruijter, 
Nootenboom Sports and Mostert de Winter. Moreover the Group 
is exploring opportunities to strengthen its position in supporting 
clients along the project lifecycle in facilities management and 
mechanical and electrical services. More details about BAM’s 
divestments can be found in chapter 4.1 Financial performance.
Create future portfolio – Doing New Things
BAM is creating the future portfolio (‘Doing New Things’) by 
delivering construction services using a digital construction 
platform. BAM intends to be at the forefront of digitalisation by 
using cutting edge design and visualisation tools and keeping 
close to clients' evolving requirements. BAM will facilitate this 
transition by investing in innovation to create an attractive 
environment for partnerships and rapid prototyping to shorten 
time to market.
By creating this future portfolio BAM aims to:
• Create an advantage relative to competitors on the basis 
of innovation, returning superior financial returns to its 
shareholders;
• Improve product and project quality for its clients; 
• Improve attraction, development and retention of talent for 
its employees; 
• Contribute to innovation at its suppliers and subcontractors; 
• Build a sustainable environment for society in general.
To become the leader in digital construction, BAM structures its 
innovation with a clear focus on tangible results. Moreover BAM 
creates a lively ecosystem to co-create innovative solutions. 2016 – 8BAM is creating 
the future portfolio 
(‘Doing New Things’)  
by delivering construction  
services using a digital  
construction platform.in areas such as business controls, information management, 
digital construction, strategic sourcing and partnerships, 
enhancing local entrepreneurship to serve clients. The Group 
analysed all key processes and delivered a blueprint target-
operating model around strategic enablers. A start has been made 
with aligning core processes in accordance with these enablers.
Performance 
Selected operating companies strengthened their collaboration in 
the area of specialised products to optimise the offering for BAM’s 
clients. Examples of products with strong international 
cooperation are tunnels, hospitals and PPP projects. 
To support BAM companies in making rigorous data-driven project 
selection all Group-wide project data are captured in a joint 
database that all operating companies are able to make use of.
BAM ’s unique culture
The Group’s culture will be strengthened further by scalable 
learning from tenders and projects, more predictable 
performance, working together in open collaboration and taking 
ownership of challenges and opportunities. BAM’s people are 
fundamental to its success, so project and business career will be 
aligned and a stronger culture will be promoted to make the 
Group more attractive as an employer and partner of choice. 
BAM ’s aim is to continuously improve health and safety and to 
promote a net positive approach on the environment so it can 
deliver more value for clients. 
Performance
Within the focus of ‘Doing Things Better’ BAM has started a 
project in 2016 with all operating companies to encourage 
collaboration and learning between project managers across the 
Group. Through this internal network the use of experiences and 
best practices will be stimulated.Performance
BAM separates innovation into two streams: business (or 
‘incremental’) innovation and transformational innovation. In 
2016 existing innovation initiatives within the Group were 
organised and structured along these streams.
For business innovation BAM has identified more than two 
hundred innovation initiatives within the Group and clustered 
these in four categories:
• Digital construction;
• Physical construction;
• Future trends;
• Process innovation.
Existing initiatives were grouped together and are now being 
managed through an innovation funnel process that is based on
the Lean Startup methodology. As a result of this structured 
process, BAM’s innovation strategy has a clear direction and 
innovations can be accelerated whilst making use of the strength 
of the Group.
For its transformational innovation the Group set up a startup 
company in September 2016 that is currently developing a digital 
construction platform. BAM’s focus on digitalisation includes both 
the digital construction process (BIM, 3D printing, augmented and 
virtual reality) and the digitally built environment (smart devices, 
sensoring, smart communities).
In 2016 BAM engaged in multiple partnerships, including startup 
platforms, to grow its innovation ecosystem and to improve its 
visibility as an innovative construction company.
The innovation strategy is executed by a newly implemented 
innovation organisation that is coordinated and managed 
centrally with strong involvement of passionate innovators from 
all operating companies within the Group.
The joint initiatives that emerged in 2016 in the field of business 
innovation have accelerated the spirit of open collaboration within 
the Group. Business innovators in the area of BIM (building 
information modelling) joined forces to accelerate their countries ’ 
initiatives. Using an innovation structure that is based on the Lean 
Startup approach, innovation teams have applied the principle of 
scalable learning on a big scale.
Differentiating capabilities
BAM’s differentiating capabilities and operating model are being 
sharpened, with a focus on employee training and development. 
The operating companies are improving their systems, knowledge 
and expertise for data-driven project selection, tendering and 
execution. At the same time, Group synergies are being leveraged 2016  – 9Schuman-Josaphat tunnel, Brussels.  
BAM Belgium (BAM Contractors and 
Galère).10 – 2016BAM has received input from external consultants on its 
alignment with the SDGs (based on its 2015 Integrated Report). 
Building on this work, BAM evaluated the key areas of alignment 
of the goals with the relevant stakeholder material themes 
process (see graph 3) to highlight opportunities to measure 
impact going forward.
BAM’s business potentially has an impact on all of the SDGs; 
however, some have more direct influence within current markets 
and given the nature of its business. BAM has subsequently 
considered these global issues in relation to its 2020 sustainability 
strategy and has identified key focus areas where progress will be 
monitored going forward. BAM therefore strives to positively 
contribute to six SDGs in particular, since these align best to its 
strategy. 
Safety
In 2016 BAM’s safety strategy was aligned with the Group's 
corporate strategy to support the 2020 safety ambition. The 
BAM 2020 safety ambition is ‘zero accidents’ and being recognised 
as a safety leader in the European construction industry. 
Sustainability
In line with BAM’s corporate strategy 2016-2020 ‘Building the 
present, creating the future’, sustainability is used as the 
overarching term to include the broader focus on sustainable 
innovation, being solutions driven (to exceed client expectations) 
and benefits derived from its use of digital construction. CSR is  
an important aspect of BAM’s sustainability journey.  
CSR best describes the impact BAM will have as a business on  
the environment and its social responsibility towards both  
internal and external stakeholders.
Acknowledging BAM's ‘CSR’ maturity, as recognised through its 
increased CDP rankings (see chapter 4.3 Environmental 
performance) and as a leader in environmental compliance, 
BAM recognises growing market and legislative drivers to be more 
solutions driven, innovative and collaborative. The renewed 
sustainability focus also encapsulates the social value it generates 
through the design, construction and operation of its developments. 
This has been developed using insights from multiple stakeholders 
from within the Group, taking a view on the type of organisation 
BAM aspires to be in the longer term (up to 2050). 
During 2016, BAM’s Management Board agreed to the 
sustainability strategy, consisting of three key themes (Climate 
Positive, Resource Positive and Enhancing Lives), together 
with a set of KPI’s to form part of the strategic agenda 
2016-2020. 
The intention is to develop the strategy as an integral part 
of BAM’s culture and for work in the current strategic 
agenda to pave the way for longer term benefits beyond 
2020.
Sustainable Development Goals
In order to improve its strategy and relevance with global 
issues, BAM appreciates the impact of aligning its 
sustainability strategy with the UN adopted Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs); seventeen goals which serve as 
a roadmap for good growth by 2030. 
By collaborating with the 
supply chain, encouraging 
innovative thinking through its 
products, and realising the 
benefits of circular economic 
business models, BAM aims to 
have a net positive approach 
on climate, resources and local 
communities.2016  – 11Sustainable Development Goals - key focus areas and alignment with 2020 'net positive' strategy
SDG-number Sustainable Development 
GoalBAM’s sustainability strategy 2020: 
aspiring to net positiveCurrent Alignment with SDG goals Planned activities by 2020
3 Good healthEnsure healthy lives and promote 
well-being for all at all ages.Enhancing lives. This target is about making a real 
and positive difference to the lives 
of people BAM comes into contact 
with through its work.• Healthy workspaces for employees.
• Provide employees access to health benefits, including mental 
health.
• Create a culture of giving through community and charity 
partnerships• Develop methodologies to increase indoor air quality and 
eradicate polluting sources/ materials (see page 64, 65).
• Increase support across BAM on health and wellbeing activities 
(see page 19).
4 Quality 
educationEnsure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and promote 
life-long learning opportunities 
for all.Enhancing lives. This target is about making a real 
and positive difference to the lives 
of people BAM comes into contact 
with through its work.• Apprenticeships and getting people back into work.
• Encourage good training for our workforce (direct and indirect).
• Work with schools and educational institutes to strengthen 
industry specific skills.
• Show career opportunities and routes to enter the 
construction business.• Increase diversity and equality in workforce (see page 69).
• Enhance 1 million lives by 2020 (see page 60).
9 Innovation and 
infrastructureBuild resilient infrastructure, 
promote inclusive and 
sustainable industrialisation and 
foster innovation.Climate positive and resource 
positive.BAM aims to have a net positive 
impact on resources and climate.• Research and development and innovation programs to foster 
collaboration.
• Investment in digitalisation and working with BAM’s supply 
chain.
• Realising the benefits of circular economic business models.• Value creation and business growth by pursuing new  
business opportunities (see page 17).
• Development of circular economic business models  
(see page 74).
11  Sustainable 
cities and 
communitiesMake cities and human 
settlements inclusive, safe, 
resilient and sustainable.Resource positive. Work towards eliminating waste 
through the life cycle of 
construction projects and 
integrated developments.• Waste reduction strategies in place for all of BAM’s key 
projects.
• Health and safety strategy implemented.• Work with industry partners towards achieving zero 
construction waste (see page 17, 74).
• Encourage our stakeholders to reduce waste by taking 
a life cycle approach (see page 11, 18, 22). 
12  Responsible 
consumptionEnsure sustainable consumption 
and production patterns.Resource positive. Contribute to restoring natural 
resources. Adopt principles of the 
circular economy.• Advise BAM’s clients and project partners of options to 
increase productivity of materials, products and components 
throughout the life cycle.• Development of circular products and services across the 
group by 2020 (see page 74).
13  Climate 
actionTake urgent action to combat 
climate change and its impacts.Climate positive. Deliver products and services 
which contribute to wider 
emission reductions.• Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction strategies for BAM’s key 
operations.
• Developing assets which are low or zero carbon (or improve 
existing).
• Deliver a reduction in life cycle carbon impacts of buildings 
and infrastructure (through material selection, design and 
asset management).• Produce a baseline analysis of scope 3 emissions (see page 75).
• Work with supply chain to reduce overall impact on climate 
change (see page 11).
• Create new energy solutions for clients and partners to reduce 
reliance on fossil fuels (see page 11).32016 – 12Sustainable Development Goals - key focus areas and alignment with 2020 'net positive' strategy
SDG-number Sustainable Development 
GoalBAM’s sustainability strategy 2020: 
aspiring to net positiveCurrent Alignment with SDG goals Planned activities by 2020
3 Good healthEnsure healthy lives and promote 
well-being for all at all ages.Enhancing lives. This target is about making a real 
and positive difference to the lives 
of people BAM comes into contact 
with through its work.• Healthy workspaces for employees.
• Provide employees access to health benefits, including mental 
health.
• Create a culture of giving through community and charity 
partnerships• Develop methodologies to increase indoor air quality and 
eradicate polluting sources/ materials (see page 64, 65).
• Increase support across BAM on health and wellbeing activities 
(see page 19).
4 Quality 
educationEnsure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and promote 
life-long learning opportunities 
for all.Enhancing lives. This target is about making a real 
and positive difference to the lives 
of people BAM comes into contact 
with through its work.• Apprenticeships and getting people back into work.
• Encourage good training for our workforce (direct and indirect).
• Work with schools and educational institutes to strengthen 
industry specific skills.
• Show career opportunities and routes to enter the 
construction business.• Increase diversity and equality in workforce (see page 69).
• Enhance 1 million lives by 2020 (see page 60).
9 Innovation and 
infrastructureBuild resilient infrastructure, 
promote inclusive and 
sustainable industrialisation and 
foster innovation.Climate positive and resource 
positive.BAM aims to have a net positive 
impact on resources and climate.• Research and development and innovation programs to foster 
collaboration.
• Investment in digitalisation and working with BAM’s supply 
chain.
• Realising the benefits of circular economic business models.• Value creation and business growth by pursuing new  
business opportunities (see page 17).
• Development of circular economic business models  
(see page 74).
11  Sustainable 
cities and 
communitiesMake cities and human 
settlements inclusive, safe, 
resilient and sustainable.Resource positive. Work towards eliminating waste 
through the life cycle of 
construction projects and 
integrated developments.• Waste reduction strategies in place for all of BAM’s key 
projects.
• Health and safety strategy implemented.• Work with industry partners towards achieving zero 
construction waste (see page 17, 74).
• Encourage our stakeholders to reduce waste by taking 
a life cycle approach (see page 11, 18, 22). 
12  Responsible 
consumptionEnsure sustainable consumption 
and production patterns.Resource positive. Contribute to restoring natural 
resources. Adopt principles of the 
circular economy.• Advise BAM’s clients and project partners of options to 
increase productivity of materials, products and components 
throughout the life cycle.• Development of circular products and services across the 
group by 2020 (see page 74).
13  Climate 
actionTake urgent action to combat 
climate change and its impacts.Climate positive. Deliver products and services 
which contribute to wider 
emission reductions.• Scope 1 and 2 emission reduction strategies for BAM’s key 
operations.
• Developing assets which are low or zero carbon (or improve 
existing).
• Deliver a reduction in life cycle carbon impacts of buildings 
and infrastructure (through material selection, design and 
asset management).• Produce a baseline analysis of scope 3 emissions (see page 75).
• Work with supply chain to reduce overall impact on climate 
change (see page 11).
• Create new energy solutions for clients and partners to reduce 
reliance on fossil fuels (see page 11).2016  – 13Cohesion
This table shows the linkage between BAM's strategic themes and subjects covered in this report. Strategic targets
BAM’s vision is translated in specific goals for Profit, Planet and 
People. BAM’s targets for 2020 are to have a Return On Capital 
Employed (ROCE) that exceeds 10 per cent, raise the adjusted 
pre-tax margin to between 2 and 4 per cent, reduce the property 
portfolio to under €500 million and reduce trade working capital 
below -10 per cent, to have a net positive impact on the planet 
and to have an Incident Frequency below 3.5.
Targets 2020
Net positive
impactSafety
benchmark
IF<3.5Adjusted
pre tax margin
2-4%Property
< €500m
TWC < -10%ROCE 
> 10%4
5BAM started a strategy implementation programme in  
2016 to manage the implementation of the strategy. In this 
programme, the five building blocks (focus the project portfolio, 
shape the business portfolio, create the future portfolio, 
differentiating capabilities and BAM’s unique culture) of the 
strategy ‘Building the present, creating the future’ each have  
their own work streams that drive the strategy implementation.
Focus Project Portfolio
Shape Business Portfolio
Create Future Portfolio
Differentiating Capabilities
Unique CultureMaterial theme Risks Indicator Performance
•••Employee recruitment, 
development and retentionReputation, People Diversity of staff 4.2 Social performance
•• • Financial performanceMarket, Project, Financial, 
Property developmentROCE 4.1 Financial performance
•• Quality and control Project, Financial ROCE 4.1 Financial performance
•• Health and safety People, Health and Safety Incident Frequency 4.2 Social performance
•••• Innovation Technology, ITProgress within the innovation 
stage gate. To be developed2 Strategy
•Business conduct and  
transparencyReputationCompleted trainings on  
Code of Conduct4.2  Social performance
• Procurement strategy ProjectSupplier performance 
assessments4.2 Social performance
•• Local community engagement Reputation, Health and Safety Enhancing lives 4.2 Social performance
• Human rights Reputation, ProjectCompliance with human right 
enforcers4.2 Social performance
• • Circular economy Market, SustainabilityCircular product and service 
offerings4.3 Environmental performance
• Energy and emissions Market, Sustainability Emissions, Waste 4.3 Environmental performance
•Fair tax Reputation, Financial Fair distribution of tax 4.2 Social performance2016 – 14Repair and maintenance of the 
Tower Bridge, London. 
BAM Nuttall.2016  – 1516 – 2016
3. Value creationBusiness lines
BAM’s operating companies are active in the business lines 
Construction and Property and Civil engineering, as well as in 
Public-private partnerships. 
BAM’s European home markets are the Netherlands, Belgium, the 
United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. Furthermore the Group 
delivers projects in Denmark, Luxembourg and Switzerland. 
Construction and Property
BAM has non-residential construction activities in all its home 
markets, as well as in Switzerland and Denmark. In addition, BAM 
delivers residential construction projects, mainly in the Netherlands 
and Belgium. BAM International is undertaking the non-residential 
construction projects outside Europe, in the Middle East and 
Indonesia in particular. 
BAM’s non-residential property development activities are in the 
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Belgium. Family 
homes are mainly developed in the Netherlands. BAM integrates 
the development and construction of these projects. 
The business line Construction and Property employs 
approximately 9,000 staff.
Civil engineering
The civil engineering activities are in all BAM’s home markets, as 
well as in Luxembourg. BAM International carries out civil 
engineering works in niche markets worldwide. 
The business line employs approximately 10,000 staff.Public Private Partnerships
BAM is present in the European public private partnerships market. 
These projects deliver construction and recurring maintenance 
revenue for the business lines. BAM operates concessions for roads, 
rail, education, health care and government buildings.
BAM PPP employs approximately 100 staff.
For the financial performance of BAM’s business lines see chapter 4.
New business models
BAM’s unique product market combination and broad geographical 
presence, as well as its relationship with clients and the supply chain 
and stakeholders enable BAM to continuously expand and increase 
its potential. BAM’s strategic agenda ‘Building the present, creating 
the future ’ (focus project portfolio, shape business portfolio, create 
future portfolio) is reflected in BAM’s business model.
In line with BAM’s strategic objective to create a future portfolio, a 
startup programme was set up in 2016. This programme focuses on 
developing new business models at the edge of BAM’s existing 
organisation. Using the Lean Startup Methodology as a process 
guidance new business models based on digital opportunities are 
explored.3.1 Business model
Organisational structure
January 2017
Netherlands
BAM
Bouw en
VastgoedNetherlands
BAM
InfraBelgium
BAM
Belgium
Public Private PartnershipsBusiness line Construction and Property Business line Civil engineering
United
Kingdom
BAM
Construct UKUnited
Kingdom
BAM
NuttallIreland
BAM
ContractorsGermany
Wayss &
Freytag
IngenieurbauGermany
BAM
DeutschlandWorldwide
BAM
International62016  – 17
Creating financial value
Shareholders and financial institutions provide funds which BAM 
uses in its business lines Construction and Property and Civil 
engineering, as well as in Public-private partnerships.
BAM’s strategic target 2020 is a >10 per cent ROCE. BAM invests 
free working capital from the (non) residential construction and 
civil engineering activities in selected property and PPP projects.  
These projects generate a return on the investment and provide 
construction and recurring maintenance revenue for the business 
lines.
BAM uses capital in its business to continue with an extensive 
range of products and services in its construction and property, 
civil engineering and public private partnership  business lines. 
With the current product portfolio and expertise, presence in and 
cooperation between these business lines of BAM’s five home 
markets BAM is enabled to utilise free working capital from its 
operations to invest in selected property and PPP projects which 
again generates construction contracts. 
> Figure 7 illustrates the financial interaction between the 
business lines including the relevant financial metrics to assess 
BAM’s performance.Creating environmental value
BAM aspires to have a net positive impact. In environmental terms 
we aim to be climate and resource positive. This is achieved 
through collaboration with our supply chain, encouraging 
innovative thinking through our products and realising the (social, 
economic and environmental) benefits of circular economic 
business models. This circular economic value proposition is 
enhanced in a market where materials and labour costs rise due 
to fluctuations in demand. BAM is therefore able to offer life cycle 
solutions to maintain higher residual values for key assets in the 
built environment.
Climate positive
BAM delivers products to the market or services to our clients 
which contribute to wider emissions reductions. This includes 
developing new assets which are low or zero carbon (or improving 
existing), deploying renewable energy systems or energy 
reduction measures for our clients or communities (e.g. as part of 
an esco offering) and delivering reductions in lifecycle carbon 
impact of buildings and infrastructure (through material selection, 
design or asset management). This way, BAM strives to reduce its 
own direct negative impact on natural capital as well as the 
impact in the use phase.
Revenue clients
MarginProperty
developmentAsset management
Construction contractsPPP
ROCE ROEFree working capital
Construction contractsFree working capital
Divestment
operational
concessions Divestment
property
ROCE
Construction
Civil engineering
Creating financial value 7Return on equity (ROE)
Rolling year net result 
divided by the average 
invested equity.ROCE
Rolling year EBIT divided 
by the average capital 
employed.2016 – 18Creating social value
This target is about making a real and positive difference to the 
lives of people we come into contact with through BAM’s work. 
This is about adding real value (through activities that would not 
happen without BAM’s support/intervention) and also supporting 
people through grass roots organisations as well as those with a 
wide reach. BAM's enhancing lives activities largely focus around 
employment, training, education, community and charity 
engagement. Outcomes support one or more of social, economic 
and environmental sustainability leading to a positive impact on 
social and human capital. This will involve direct support from 
BAM, but also through partnerships with its supply chain.
See social performance in chapter 4.2.
Value chain
The Group’s value chain management and subcontractor 
engagement provide the opportunity to bring value to BAM’s 
clients from innovations and cross-fertilisation from the value 
chain. With lean planning techniques, BAM can incorporate 
schedules of supply chain partners, allowing for a reduction in 
labour and equipment costs. Value chain management requires 
sharing BAM’s business principles and policies on CSR, including 
our targets, and BAM requires its major value chain partners to 
share information on their CO2 emissions.Resource positive
The use of raw materials and land, producing waste during the 
building process has a negative impact on natural capital.  
The Group has made progress on reducing construction waste 
through becoming more efficient, utilising offsite manufacture 
and by working with its supply chain (up and down stream) to 
eliminate waste through the life cycle of its developments. The 
ultimate goal is to produce zero construction waste. BAM’s ability 
to achieve this is partly determined by forces outside of its 
immediate control e.g. National and European waste legislation. 
However, acknowledging that the creation of waste costs money 
(in wasted materials and in processing / disposing / dealing with 
waste) and therefore by aiming to reduce BAM’s waste ‘budget’ 
to zero will lead to benefits across the value chain too.
BAM creates value by having the least amount of impact on 
natural capital and ideally contributing towards restoring natural 
resources. By adopting the principles of the circular economy, 
products and services should ensure that materials which are used 
to build buildings and infrastructure are either natural and 
renewable or recoverable at high value. This may include working 
with suppliers to develop a ‘circular’ material and building 
element, a new business model, as well as designs which allow 
assets to be used in different ways and therefore retain their value 
over a longer period of time. 
See environmental performance in chapter 4.3. 
Environmental value is created in 
developing new projects which are 
low or zero carbon, improving 
existing buildings to be low or zero 
carbon and deploying renewable 
energy systems or energy reduction 
measures for BAM’s clients or 
communities.2016  – 19Five innovative gravity based 
foundations for a windfarm in 
the North Sea.  BAM Nuttall, 
BAM Infra, BAM Infraconsult.20 – 2016Suppliers are a special stakeholder category. 
Their knowledge, people and other resources 
provi de 76 per cent of BAM’s turnover which 
BAM brings as value to its clients. Working 
with BAM provides them the opportunity to increase their value through innovation and to deliver net positive solutions whilst 
considering its impact on 'people' and 
'planet'.
Society and local communities are impacted at the site that BAM prepares before building starts: excavations and landscaping can have a negative impact on society (noize, dust).The approval of the ﬁnal contract is the conclusion 
of the bidding process, and the decision is made to 
continue the value creation process.
BAM’s employees coordinate workers and subcontractors with BIM and lean techniques to reduce all avoidable cost in assembling materials, to create maximum ﬁnancial value for BAM’s ﬁnancial stakeholders. Hindrance during construction hours can have a temporary negative impact on local society.BAM’s suppliers provide the materials that 
BAM orders, which creates jobs and 
stimulates supply chain innovations.
Financial capital is used to ﬁnance materials 
and services before the project is ﬁnished.BAM’s bid needs to meet needs and demands of all relevant stakeholders to be sustainable and winning. Engagement provides the 
opportunity for better decision making by 
bringing together stakeholder demands and creating value for them.
Value is described, to be judged by 
the client, mostly in terms of ﬁnancial 
value and quality. Quality is often 
expressed in sustainability terms, 
which often relate to the impacts on 
natural and social capital.Some argue that design is where art meets science. For BAM it means: the process of optimising resources to meet functional demands, a creative process considering laws of physics, economics and society. Financial, human 
and intellectual capital are used to make the project design. 
An increasing part of design is done digitally.
• Functionality to the client• Turnover to the suppliers• Knowledge to the employees• Shareholder value to the shareholders• A better world to society• Financial capital is net positive
See an
opportunity
Propose
to the client
Order materialsDesign
Build
Deliver and maintenanceEngage with
suppliers
The client acceptsEngage with otherstakeholders
Prepare the siteCustomers do approach BAM and BAM 
identiﬁes customers, in business-to-business, 
business-to-consumer and business-to-
government relations. It all leads to the question: will BAM make a proposal to the client? Please refer to the stage gate tender procedure on page 43 for a detailed description of the supporting decision making process. 
Maintain asset value
In order to deliver maximum value to clients, BAM offers ﬂexibility, adaptability, and expertise, considering value retention, not just for the ﬁrst life, but with subsequent uses in mind. Learn from buildings and improve designs for future projects.
How BAM creates value 82016  – 21Key business activities
A project may comprise various stages:BAM’s operating companies achieve most of their turnover in 
collaboration with their subcontractors and suppliers. More than 
76 per cent of turnover is sourced from supply chain partners. 
Projects may also be carried out in collaboration with other 
construction companies (as part of a joint arrangement).
Natural, human and financial capital are typically sourced locally 
in BAM’s home markets. In the Netherlands, 97 per cent of BAM’s 
purchases were locally sourced in 2016. BAM expects comparable 
9
Value drivers Value drivers Value drivers 
Strategic deﬁnition
Preparation and briefConcept designDeveloped designTechnical design
ConstructionHandover and close outIn usepercentages in its other home countries. An exception to the rule 
is tropical timber (typically under FSC- or PEFC-labelling). BAM 
operates mainly in a business-to-business environment and in a 
business-to-government environment. Within all its European 
home countries, BAM works for national and local governments as 
well as property investment and development companies. Typical 
supply chain partners are mechanical and electrical suppliers, 
often in conjunction with local labour suppliers as well as local 
small and medium enterprises.
End-of-life/re-use
End-of-life/re-use is generally the 
starting point for a new 
development. Typically, before 
reuse, the structure is assessed for 
future use as construction 
elements or raw material.Maintenance
When the building or infrastructure 
development has been completed 
it is put into service. Facility 
management delivers life cycle 
services and ensures that the 
development is operated and 
maintained efficiently. Early 
involvement is valuable. 
Feedback on asset functionality to 
early stages of future projects.
Engineering
Details and work method of the 
construction and installation together 
with a project schedule, budget and 
resource estimate are determined.Construction
Once designed, the 
project is built and 
commissioned to ensure 
it meets the project 
requirements, including 
budget and planning.
Design
The main purpose is to develop  
the design of the project according 
to functional demands.Bid and development
At this stage the type and scope 
of a project is determined, 
including stakeholder analyses. 
Conceptual drawings are 
developed to visualise the desired 
outcome. A project may be bid at 
this stage on a design-and-build 
basis or after the design stage on 
a construction-only basis.2016 – 22The construction industry provides services on a project-by-project 
basis. An increasing part of the design and engineering is done 
digitally in the concept of ‘make it before you make it ’. A project is 
built in a digital form and the building process can be ‘played’ 
digitally, resulting in a reduction of among others failing costs.
The earlier BAM gets involved in a development the greater its 
ability to influence the sustainability of the development at a lower 
cost. When BAM is the property developer or where BAM is part of 
a public private partnership, BAM is in the best possible position to 
maximise sustainability outcomes, as the company can set 
sustainability ambitions in the early concept stages. This allows life 
cycle thinking to be taken into consideration at the early design 
stages, allowing for better use of capital investment to be 
considered against lower maintenance and operational costs.
Innovative solutions and intellectual capital are developed by 
BAM’s operating companies when developing sustainable 
solutions to meet its clients’ needs. BAM also supports a number 
of organisations in the research of specific technology and process 
innovations. BAM is also part of a number of international and 
industry leading forums sharing best practice on sustainability 
(see chapter 3.2 Stakeholder engagement and material themes).
BAM invests in digitalisation by piloting  
Microsoft Hololens
BAM has tested the HoloLens on site. The HoloLens 
enables users to see holograms within the existing 
environment and providing them with the right 
information at the right time. 
The introduction of BIM has changed the nature 
of construction. Processes are becoming more 
automated and the demand for information from 
clients and site teams has increased. The use of 
wearables is helping to drive these changes, digitising 
traditional 2D drawings and providing assembly 
instructions, which show individuals how to carry out 
each task, step by step. The HoloLens also enables 
to improve health and safety and training. It ensures 
that users have two free hands to perform actions 
and allows others to see the same view as the wearer, 
so that help and advice can be given; reducing the 
risk of errors and failure costs. 
2016  – 23Limat Tower, Dietikon, 
Switzerland (apartments  
and offices). BAM Swiss.24 – 2016Stakeholder engagement
BAM recognises that real business benefits can only be achieved 
with the involvement of its stakeholders. During 2016 BAM met  
with its clients, main suppliers and other stakeholders in multi-
stakeholder forums to further align BAM’s policies with stakeholder 
demands. 
The Group has defined its stakeholders as those groups which 
significantly influence or are influenced by the economic, 
environmental and social performance of BAM. The Group has 
identified its stakeholders based on the risks and opportunities for 
its business performance, strategy execution and strategic 
objectives.
BAM continuously engages with its stakeholders to understand their 
priorities and concerns through benchmarking, sector meetings, 
client surveys and direct contracts. BAM’s key stakeholder groups, 
and its interactions with those stakeholders are:
Clients
BAM is in daily discussion with its clients about project expectations 
and projections. In addition, BAM organises client meetings to share 
knowledge, best practices and innovation within its value chain. 
Some clients have developed their own sustainability benchmarks, 
including ProRail, the government task organisation that takes care 
of maintenance and extensions of the Dutch railway network 
infrastructure, with its CO2 Performance Ladder. Positioning on the 
ladder forms part of the tender evaluation process and positively 
affects BAM’s ability to win contracts. It is therefore important that 
BAM keeps itself informed of and is able to respond proactively to 
this and similar initiatives.
Providers of financial capital
Communication with investors, financial institutions and the 
financial community in general is actively pursued and usually takes 
place through meetings, project visits, road shows, seminars, 
presentations, investment meetings and press releases. The main 
recurring topics of discussion are financial performance and 
transparency and control. All dates and locations of road shows, 
seminars and other investor relations activities are published on the 
BAM website. The Group has also been responding to CDP’s investor 
information requests since 2008.
Employees
BAM’s employees are its most important asset. As part of BAM’s 
performance management process, employees’ personal learning 
and development plans are evaluated annually between manager 
and employee. Main discussion points are development plans and 
expectations. BAM also has active workers ’ councils in the operating 
companies to discuss organisational changes and other related 
matters. For younger employees in the Netherlands and in the UK ‘Young BAM’ commitees organise events to learn about projects 
and inspire to provide feedback.
Suppliers and subcontractors
BAM’s procurement officers are in daily contact with suppliers and 
subcontractors to discuss amongst others health and safety. Also, 
circular economy practices are increasingly discussed. Supply chain 
partners are increasingly being involved at the early stages of the 
bidding process and helping to develop and plan BAM’s projects 
through lean planning meetings and thereby optimising the 
efficiency of the build programme through the value chain. By 
involving its supply chain partners, BAM invests in relationships. 
Society
By its very nature, BAM’s construction and civil engineering works 
have an impact on local communities, occupants and other users of 
buildings and infrastructure and society as a whole. Main discussion 
points differ per governmental body, but health and safety as well as 
human rights are common. Chapter 4 of this report describes BAM’s 
results and gives several examples of its community engagement 
activities in 2016.
Regulators 
Through its delivery of projects, BAM has ongoing contact with local 
government bodies regarding the issuing of permits, compliance 
with regulations and supervision of its activities. BAM is involved in 
many governmental initiatives including several Green Deals in the 
Netherlands. BAM Nuttall and BAM Construct UK are members of 
the UK Green Building Council. BAM aims to engage regulators on 
issues such as zero carbon buildings, lifecycle carbon impacts of 
infrastructure and other sustainability related issues within the built 
environment.
Multi-stakeholder dialogue
In addition to its engagements with different stakeholders across its 
operating companies, the Group organises a yearly multistakeholder 
meeting hosted by BAM’s CEO. Local smaller parties as well as 
executives of international stakeholders and governmental bodies 
and institutions have attended. The meeting is used not only to 
present and check BAM’s strategy to all directly or indirectly 
involved parties but more importantly to jointly discuss cross 
industry trends and movements in the entire construction value 
chain. 
In 2016 BAM organised its stakeholder meeting together with  
two stakeholders: Bouwend Nederland and Holland ConTech.  
This first time jointly organising effort was in line with BAM’s core 
value ‘open collaboration’. 
The stakeholders selected for the dialogue comprised fifty 
management-level representatives of clients, financial institutions, 3.2 Stakeholder engagement and material themes
2016  – 25Input from stakeholders for BAM:
• BAM is expected to take the lead on digitalisation in the 
construction value chain;
• The present stakeholders are open towards forming joint 
project teams on certain digital or sustainable projects;
• A need for more open discussions was expressed. 
 
BAM has taken the lead by hosting follow-up meetings in 2017 
to promote further discussion and when applicable execute 
the first steps of the experiments.
Material themes
As part of the development of the strategic agenda for 2016-2020, 
the Group conducted a materiality assessment. Material themes 
are those that substantively affect BAM’s ability to create value 
over the short, medium and long term.
As a first step in the process of identifying material themes, BAM 
selected relevant matters from a longlist of topics, based on their suppliers, architects, start-ups, NGOs, and knowledge institutes 
that are actively involved with BAM activities and 30 executive 
representatives of these same organisations. They were joined at 
the meeting by BAM executives and internal stakeholders from 
BAM’s operating companies. 
During this year’s meeting inter-stakeholder groups were formed 
to create action plans to benefit digitalisation. BAM took the lead 
in bringing the parties together. The plans were presented to all 
party executives to ensure buy-in. Digitalisation was discussed in 
the light of the following themes: 
• Circular building;
• Using non-proven technologies;
• Cooperation in the value chain;
• Learning from startups;
• Data ownership;
• Starting with the end user;
• Culture.
LNG transhipment facility near 
Onslow, Australia. 
BAM International, 
BAM Infraconsult.2016 – 26ability to affect financial, environmental and social value creation 
for BAM’s stakeholders. This longlist included aspects derived 
from the fourth edition of the Guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting 
Initiative), BAM’s Group strategy, the results of research into 
stakeholders’ interests and feedback from stakeholder dialogues 
and general meetings of shareholders.
Next, a Group-wide selection of BAM employees evaluated the 
importance of these relevant matters in terms of their known or 
potential effects on BAM’s activities, products, services and 
relations, both within and outside of BAM, within the timeframe 
2016-2020. ‘Effect’ within BAM was defined as ‘impact on BAM ’s 
success’.
Stakeholders were asked to identify and prioritise the potential 
impact of these matters on themselves and on society. Most 
relevant for the clients group were ‘health and safety’ and ‘project 
and product quality and control’. The group of employees 
specifically indicated ‘employee recruitment, development and 
retention’ as a material theme. Providers of financial capital 
indicated that BAM’s performance on ‘circular economy’ is most 
relevant to their organisations. BAM’s subcontractors and Impact of BAM on stakeholders 
The dot size represents 
the impact of BAM’s performance on society (manipulated for graphical reason).
Impact on BAM's success2345
2 3 4 5
employee recruitment,
development and retentionﬁnancial performanceproject and product quality and control
health and safetyinnovation
business conduct 
and transparencyprocurement strategy
local communityengagement
human rightscircular economy
energy and emissions
fair tax
Materiality matrixsuppliers as well as the group representing society (NGOs, 
government and knowledge institutes) specifically indicated 
‘business conduct and transparency’ as the most material theme. 
They were also asked to introduce and assess matters that were 
omitted from BAM’s initial materiality assessment. Topics that 
were added as important were culture and open collaboration. 
These subjects are pillars of BAM’s strategy and already elaborated 
in this report and will also be included in next year’s survey.
The stakeholders that were invited to the stakeholder dialogue 
were asked to fill out a materiality survey. In the light of the theme 
'digitalisation' it was to be expected that 'innovation' would rank 
high in responses.
The materiality matrix displays the prioritisation of the matters 
based on their relative importance to BAM and to BAM’s 
stakeholders. It should be noted that opinions of various 
stakeholders and appreciation in BAM’s home markets may vary.
This report has been structured according to the material themes. 
It addresses BAM’s performance in relation to the following topics 
that are positioned in the materiality matrix:
102016  – 27Quality and control
Definition:  Quality of tender process, efficient project 
management and effective project execution with the aim to 
meet or exceed clients’ expectations.
Impact:  To exceed clients’ expectations, BAM needs to 
continuously improve the (perceived) performance of BAM’s 
products. Product quality means that BAM does what it has 
promised to do, within budget and on time. Operational 
performance is crucial to realising the appropriate level of 
financial and non-financial results on construction projects.
Management approach:  Since 2014 BAM has increased its efforts 
to improve the quality of its tender process in order to safeguard 
its current and future results arising from construction projects.
The evaluation of BAM’s internal governance framework has 
resulted in the update of company principles and management 
guidelines, including strengthening BAM’s project selection and 
tendering process for large and high-risk projects. In connection 
with this development, peer reviews on project estimates are 
undertaken under the leadership of the Tender Desk Director.
In order to comply with product responsibility, BAM makes sure 
that all projects where its operating companies are responsible for 
design and construction are certified. In other projects (PPP 
projects) BAM uses verification and validation methods. Each 
operating company has a quality manager who is responsible for 
the quality control of the operating company’s processes.  
System audits are conducted by third parties. On all levels, 
outcomes are assessed by the senior management of BAM’s 
operating companies. 
> For BAM’s performance, see chapters 2 Strategy and 3.3 Risk 
management.
Business conduct and transparency
Definition:  Openness regarding and adherence to generally 
accepted standards and values and compliance with local 
statutory and other rules and regulations, particularly with 
respect to the acquisition and performance of contracts.
Impact: BAM’s reputation and licence to operate depend on 
responsible business conduct, by stimulating dialogue on 
dilemmas. Ensuring compliance with anti-corruption legislation 
enhances efficiency by reducing transaction costs for BAM and for 
BAM’s stakeholders. Furthermore, BAM believes that doing 
business honestly is vital to increasing competitiveness for BAM 
and for BAM’s partners. Competitive behaviour contributes to 
innovation and collaboration. It creates an environment in which 
the best products will win and in which BAM’s stakeholders will 
get the best products for the best price. The Group believes that Health and safety
Definition:  Health and safety (zero accidents) of all employees and 
subcontractors and everyone involved with BAM’s activities, 
including the general public.
Impact:  ‘BAM borrows its employees from their families’, is how 
BAM expresses its responsibility for everyone who works with and 
for BAM. There is nothing more important than everyone 
returning home safely. Occupational health and safety contributes 
to the satisfaction of the Group’s employees and their relatives, 
BAM’s subcontractors, its supply chain partners and others 
involved with BAM’s construction sites. Safety also affects BAM’s 
clients and BAM’s reputation.
Management approach: A Group-wide guideline for safety 
management provides BAM’s operating companies with a frame  - 
work within which their safety management system must comply.
Meeting the strategy means focusing on the quality of the 
underlying goals: living the safety ambition of ‘zero accidents ’ 
every day is the goal for safety. Zero accidents means the mind-set 
(intrinsic motivation) and true believe that it’s achievable to create 
a safe work environment which will allow ‘everyone home safe 
ever y day!’.
Creating the right environment for knowledge sharing and 
learning (in BAM’s complete supply chain) is most important to 
reach the Group’s safety targets. This will be done by:
• Supporting the operating companies to develop leadership and 
behaviour by implementing the new Safety Behaviour Audit (SBA);
• Recognition of performance by implementing and follow up on 
the Safety Exchanges (SEs);
• Strengthening BAM’s (safety) culture supported by uniform 
safety communication processes, modern methods and 
channels;
• Improving the Safety Group performance to IF (Incident 
Frequency) < 3,5.
Safety activities
At the annual Safety Awareness Audits (SAAs), BAM used to 
monitor the extent to which the safety management systems of 
operating companies comply with the guideline and the extent to 
which employees are aware of the safety risks inherent in their 
projects. Now that the majority of operating companies have 
achieved reasonable scores in all areas the opportunity was taken 
to harness the report in a different direction: that of the Safety 
Activities (SAs). On a yearly base at least one SBA was scheduled 
per operating company, the number of SAs was based on turnover 
and performance was added. Two types of SAs were launched: 
Safety Behaviour Audit and Safety Exchange.
> For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.2 Social performance. 2016 – 28teams that are fit for future challenges and will contribute to 
achieving BAM’s strategic goals.
Management approach:  The Group’s development approach is 
to encourage employees to take ownership of their development 
with the manager/company adopting a supportive/facilitating 
role. The employee’s personal development is captured in a 
personal learning and development plan. These plans are 
evaluated annually between manager and employee. BAM offers 
employees various tools that can be used in their personal 
development, which are all accessible via the internal My BAM 
Career site. Across the Group, BAM works with a number of 
universities externally and internally with the Group’s training 
centres to ensure BAM continues to offer high-quality training and 
development programmes.
With BAM Business School, BAM offers an integrated approach to 
support employees in achieving their goals. The training portfolio 
allows employees to keep their professional knowledge up to date 
and to further develop the wider skills related to their role and 
their career paths. Courses include topics like integrity, 
entrepreneurship, commerce, new contract forms, project 
development, risk management, procurement and financial 
management. The Group aims to foster an open culture of 
learning and exchanging knowledge in the form of training and 
education, building on the knowledge and expertise available.
> For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.2 Social performance.
Energy and emissions
Definition:  Energy consumption for BAM’s direct activities and 
the entire lifecycle of its products, and the CO2 emissions as a 
result of this energy consumption.
Impact:  The Group’s energy consumption contributes to a 
significant amount of its costs and is an indicator of the efficiency 
of its processes. As a large player in an industry with relatively 
high energy consumption versus other industries, its energy usage 
also has a great impact on society. Buildings account for 
approximately 40 per cent of European Union's (EU) energy 
demand. The renovation of existing buildings represents more 
than 17 per cent of the estimated primary energy saving potential 
within the EU up to 2050. In the field of energy and emissions, 
BAM can create value by building energy efficient buildings and by 
renovating buildings to higher energy performance standards. 
Emissions that relate to the Group’s energy usage are relevant to 
BAM due to risks driven by changes in regulation and worldwide 
support from governments to tackle climate change.  
For example: the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (see 
chapter 2 Strategy for more information on BAM's targets), the 
Paris Agreement and the EU Emissions Trading System. Buildings by providing financial and non-financial information on the 
achievement of BAM’s strategic goals, it can continuously improve 
the reporting process as well as its performance.
Management approach:  The chapter Reputation risk describes 
BAM’s management measures related to business conduct. 
> For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.2 Social performance.
Financial performance
Definition:  Overall financial health, including balance sheet, profit 
and loss, property divestment and working capital improvement. 
Impact:  A healthy financial performance provides BAM with the 
means to undertake transactions with its supply chain partners, 
which leads to the opportunity to develop new activities and to 
pay BAM’s employees and shareholders.
Management approach:  Continuous focus is put on 
strengthening BAM’s balance sheet and net results by improving 
its financial processes to ensure a solid track record on project 
execution and margin stability, including close monitoring of its 
cost base in line with BAM’s portfolio. Other key elements are 
working capital management and the execution of a property 
divestment programme.
> Example KPI: Return on capital employed (ROCE) >10% by 2020. 
For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.1 Financial performance.
Employee recruitment, development and retention 
Definition:  Stimulating employees to use their competencies, 
capabilities and experience in a way that adds value to the business 
and provides personal growth, technical innovation and profit.
Impact:  BAM increases its intellectual capital and the human 
capital of its stakeholders by investing in employee development. 
While the impact of employee development on wider society is 
minimal, it is far greater within BAM, where it contributes to 
employee engagement and lifelong learning. BAM recognises the 
importance of Group-wide development and implementation of 
the talent strategy and agenda, succession planning and internal 
mobility, based on BAM’s organisational development and 
strategic aims.
Talent management allows BAM to attract, develop, motivate and 
retain productive, engaged employees, now and in the future.
BAM is committed to the principles of equal opportunity and 
diversity. The Group believes that diverse teams connect better to 
the wishes and expectations of its clients and to society in all BAM 
markets. In line with its vision on diversity BAM aims to attract 
people with different profiles and backgrounds in order to build 2016  – 29Dutch Supreme Court, 
The Hague, opened by 
King Willem Alexander on 
20 April 2016.  
BAM PPP and BAM Bouw  
en Techniek.30 – 2016Management approach:  Firstly, BAM innovates to reduce material 
consumption during the design process. The Group works with its 
supply chain partners to identify more sustainable alternatives 
both upstream and downstream of manufacturing and operational 
processes. BAM focuses on improving the reuse potential of 
materials as well as renewable materials by asking its main 
suppliers to provide an insight into the source of the materials. 
BAM has set targets for both waste reduction and recycling. The 
Group monitors and benchmarks progress on these targets on a 
quarterly basis for different activities within the company. BAM is 
also the only major construction member of the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation’s CE100 programme, which promotes the circular 
economy.
> Example KPI: source 100 per cent sustainable timber by 2020. For 
BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.3 Environmental performance.
Local community engagement
Definition:  The relationships with the communities surrounding 
BAM’s activities.
Impact:  By its very nature, the Group’s construction and 
renovation work has an impact on the local community, occupiers 
and other users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a 
whole. Community engagement affects the Group’s licence to 
operate and allows BAM to build faster, which directly leads to 
results. The Group’s impact on its surroundings immediately 
affects its employees and local suppliers. And BAM’s community 
engagement improves jobs and education in its environment, 
contributing to society as well. This requires a constant focus on 
everything BAM does to minimise the Group’s negative impact and 
create value for local communities by implementing community 
engagement programmes. BAM considers community 
engagement and involvement of people from diverse backgrounds 
and provides an opportunity to create value. This is known as 
‘social return’ and BAM actively supports its implementation. 
People who have been unemployed for a variety of reasons (such 
as poor education, health issues, and people suffering from 
disabilities), gaining employment due to support given by BAM are 
considered to be benefitting from social return initiatives. 
Initiatives such as these can be defined as providing 'Social Return 
on Investment'.
Management approach: On many of its projects, BAM makes an 
inventory of local interests and, based on this, opts for the best 
approach to increase its licence to operate (which could be 
participation in local events). In addition, BAM participates in the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme in the United Kingdom and in 
the similarly inspired Bewuste Bouwers scheme in the Netherlands.
> Example KPI: enhance one million lives in local communities by 
2020. For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.2 Social performance.account for 36 per cent of EU CO2 emissions. The operation of a 
building accounts for approximately 80 per cent of the total CO2 
emissions through the building’s life cycle. Most of the rate of new 
construction continues to remain low. 
Management approach:  BAM innovates and works with value 
chain partners to identify possible reductions in both upstream  
and downstream manufacturing and operational processes.
BAM has calculated its carbon footprint in order to identify the main 
influences and therefore the key areas for potential reduction of 
emissions. The Group has set targets for both absolute and relative 
reduction of emissions. BAM’s product-mix of civil and construction 
work changes constantly due to market conditions, resulting in less 
predictable reductions in BAM's absolute emissions.  
BAM monitors and benchmarks progress on these targets on a 
quarterly basis for different activities within the company. BAM 
focuses on reducing its direct CO2 emissions by lowering energy  
use during the construction process. The Group also maintains its 
efforts to use higher proportions of renewable energy.
By joining the Dutch Climate Coalition (Nederlandse Klimaat 
Coalitie), BAM has committed to: 
• Having climate-neutral operations by 2050 at the latest; 
• Providing insights into its carbon footprint; 
• Setting interim targets for climate neutrality; 
• Becoming an ambassador of the Dutch Climate Coalition within 
the construction industry.
> Example KPI: to be included in CDP Climate A list Leadership. For 
BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.3 Environmental performance.
Circular economy
Definition: An economy which aims to keep materials, components 
and products at their highest utility and value, at all times.
Impact: Globally, the construction industry accounts for 
40-50 per cent of natural resource use and 25 per cent of all timber 
use. BAM has a continuous need for raw materials, water and energy. 
This means primary processes are affected by increasing volatility in 
raw material and energy prices. The products produced by the Group 
must also meet current and future demands, where the impact of 
changing laws and regulations, in particular, has proved to be very 
significant. Waste production affects BAM’s licence to operate and is 
an indicator of the efficiency of BAM’s processes. Also, waste incurs 
costs due to the low value of residual material. Activities involved in 
the construction process generate approximately 25-30  per cent of 
total demolition and construction waste within the European Union. 
As a large construction company, the Group’s waste production 
affects society. As approximately 90 per cent of materials are 
recycled, it concerns large amounts of materials that are to be 
reused. BAM has identified opportunities for innovation based on 
changing client requests, particularly in relation to a greater focus  
on the recycling of materials and the use of sustainable materials, 
including timber sourced from sustainable forests.2016  – 31Procurement
Definition:  Selecting suppliers and subcontractors and 
stimulating them to practise their skills and products in a way that 
adds long-term value to BAM and its clients as well as the suppliers 
and subcontractors, providing technical innovation and profit.
Impact: Labour practices of the Group’s suppliers and 
subcontractors affect BAM’s reputation and are associated with 
the risk of losing work. The Group’s suppliers and subcontractors 
have to bring their practices at least up to BAM standards to be 
able to work for the company and in doing so will have a good 
influence outside of the Group as well.
Management approach: To develop the Group’s supply chain and 
incorporate its values, BAM seeks added value, long-term, 
mutually beneficial relationships with partners who can help 
improve the Group’s supply chain. In order to achieve this, BAM is 
developing selected group(s) of suppliers and subcontractors on 
different levels (such as unit, operating company, country and 
Group) within BAM. By having a preferred group of suppliers and 
subcontractors we are able to further interact with the supply 
chain on a regular basis, thereby creating the possibility to 
challenge each other to learn, innovate and improve our joint 
performance to the client. Based on the level of the relationship 
there are different types of suppliers and subcontractors, such as 
preferred suppliers, partners and co-makers. Based on the 
challenges in client markets, development in the supply chain and 
performance of the suppliers and subcontractors, the position and 
role of the suppliers and subcontractors can change. The 
challenge is, on the one hand, to select up-front supply chain 
partners, products and services that really make a difference to 
the value proposition of BAM, and on the other hand let go of 
suppliers and subcontractors who add value. Apart from a more 
standardised due dilligence, suppliers are assessed against five 
different themes: safety, quality, total cost, logistics and 
engineering and process. If they score below the required level, 
BAM starts a dialogue to improve their performance. If they are 
not willing and/or able to improve their performance, they will be 
excluded from future work with BAM.
> For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.2 Social performance.
Innovation
Definition:  The creation of new viable business offerings. 
Impact:  Innovation influences the ability to adapt to changing 
market needs and competitiveness with current competition and 
future entrants into BAM’s market. Digital construction is a main 
theme within BAM’s innovation agenda. The benefits of digital 
construction for BAM and its stakeholders are higher resource 
productivity, end-user value, sustainability and outcome 
predictability. Management approach: BAM shapes its future portfolio over 
two tracks. Both tracks are supported by an organisation and a 
lively ecosystem for innovation. In both tracks BAM focuses 
strongly on digital innovation.
• Track one, ‘Business Innovation’, follows an innovation stage 
gate-process to improve and align BAM’s current innovation 
portfolio;
• Track two, ‘Scaling edges’, uses scalable learning and sprint 
methodology to develop and scale new business offerings at 
the edges of BAM’s current business. 
> For BAM’s performance, see chapter 2 Strategy.
Human rights
Definition:  Ensuring compliance within the entire value chain 
regarding the basic rights and freedoms to which all humans are 
considered to be entitled, often held to include the rights to 
equality, a fair trial, freedom from slavery and freedom of thought 
and expression.
Impact:  Human rights practices within BAM and its supply chain 
affect the reputation of the Group and are associated with the risk 
of losing work. Subcontractors have to bring their practices up to 
at least BAM standards to be able to work for the company and in 
doing so will have a good influence outside of the Group as well. 
Management approach:  In 2006, BAM and Building and Wood 
Workers’ International (BWI), signed a framework agreement to 
promote and protect employee rights. By signing the agreement 
BAM agreed to recognise and respect:
• The fundamental principles of human rights as defined in the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
• The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work;
• The ILO Conventions in force;
• The ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principle concerning 
Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy;
• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Dilemma: 
In a market where cost often takes precedence over value, 
especially at tender stage, we see reduced uptake on our 
innovative solutions. For many clients, capital cost is deemed 
more important than operational costs (the latter having a 
greater impact). This approach yields less benefits for their 
long term interests.2016 – 32Within the agreement, BAM also endorses the need for fair 
negotiations with national trade unions and acknowledges that 
corruption, bribery and anti-competitive behaviour are not 
acceptable. BAM is committed to achieving social justice and 
sustainable development in its activities with its trading partners, 
subcontractors and suppliers. In that regard, BAM and BWI are 
working together to ensure that the following social criteria are 
effectively applied:
• A ban on forced labour;
• The right to equality and diversity in terms of ethnicity, race, 
gender, religion, political affiliation, nationality or other 
distinguishing characteristics;
• A ban on child labour;
• A safe and healthy working environment;
• The right to establish and join trade union organisations;
• The right of employees to receive fair pay and respect for the 
minimum wage;
• The right to suitable working conditions (working hours, 
facilities, learning and development, health and safety).
Regular meetings are held with management representatives 
from BAM and trade union organisations, including BWI, to 
monitor implementation of the agreement. Sub-subcontractors 
must comply with labour conditions as BAM enforces them on 
subcontractors. In the UK, The Modern Slavery Act 2015 was 
announced, requiring all larger companies to prepare a statement 
of its activities in this area. Both BAM Construct UK and BAM 
Nuttall have initiated working groups and are working towards 
developing their approaches.
> For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.2 Social performance.
BAM is committed to 
achieving social justice and 
sustainable development in 
its activities with its trading 
partners, subcontractors 
and suppliers.2016  – 33Management approach:  Therefore, BAM strives to come to a 
responsible approach to tax and supports a responsible approach 
to tax as an integral part of its sustainability agenda.
Find BAM’s responsible tax statement on the website  
www.bam.com.
> For BAM’s performance, see chapter 4.2 Social performance. Responsible tax
Definition: Compliance to the letter and spirit of tax laws 
resulting in paying an appropriate amount of tax according to 
where value is created within the normal course of business and 
being transparent about approach and outcome.
Impact:  Tax is a relevant subject for BAM and its stakeholders.
Tax payments to governments can contribute to the development 
of countries. On the other hand, optimisation of taxes is in the 
interest of the company and its financial position.2016 – 34Port House, Antwerp. 
BAM Belgium (Interbuild). 
Design: Zaha Hadid Architects.2016  – 35Deventer City Hall, 
the Netherlands.
BAM Bouw en Techniek. 36 – 2016Business principles
A. People: We offer added value to clients, employees, business 
partners and the community.
1. Clients:  We always do our utmost to exceed our client’s 
expectations. We work in partnership with our clients to deliver 
high-end projects within the timescale set, both safely and with 
respect for the environment. We encourage our clients to work 
with us to develop suitable sustainable solutions. We aim to be 
the preferred supplier for CO2-neutral solutions.
2. Community:  We promote good communications with the 
local community. By its very nature, our construction and 
renovation work has an impact on local communities, occupiers 
and other users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a 
whole. We are pro-active therefore in minimising the level of 
negative impact on the local environment and seek to make a 
positive contribution to local communities.
3. Employees:  We believe in our employees. We aim to create a 
safe and inspiring environment for our employees to develop 
their skills and in turn enable them to contribute to the further 
development and growth of our organisation. 
The commitment to our employees is demonstrated by:
•  Health and Safety – Health and Safety is the top priority of 
our company. We are committed to the continuous 
improvement of our performance in Health and Safety for 
all our employees and subcontractors and everyone 
involved with our activities, including the general public;
•  Equality and diversity – We offer a challenging working 
environment where everyone feels valued and respected. 
We are committed to offering equal opportunities and we 
ensure that job applicants and employees do not face 
discrimination on the grounds of gender, marital status, 
race, skin colour, ethnic origin, religious belief, sexual 
orientation, disability, or age;
•  Learning and development – We create a learning culture 
and provide opportunities for our employees to fully apply 
their knowledge and skills in the service of the company. 
We are committed to professional development and will 
help our employees to continue their development in the 
interests of the company and its objectives.
4. Supply chain partners: We procure responsibly. We treat our 
supply chain partners honestly and respectfully. We work with 
subcontractors and suppliers to ensure that they operate safely 
and in an environmentally-conscious way. Together with our 
preferred partners, we promote and develop sustainable 
solutions and best practice for the industry.B. Planet:  We recognise our responsibility to future 
generations.
5. Energy:  We strive to reduce our impact on climate change.  
We will improve our energy efficiency, reduce our CO2 emissions  
and work with our clients to develop CO2-neutral solutions.
6. Raw materials: We are becoming more efficient in our use of 
materials. We believe in reducing our impact on the supply of 
natural raw materials used in our products. We will work with 
our clients and suppliers to use alternative materials and 
methods in order to optimise the use of raw materials. We also 
promote measures to recycle and reduce waste.
7. Environment: We will limit our environmental impact. We 
take all possible reasonable measures to ensure that our 
activities are conducted in a way that minimises the impact on 
the local environment. We promote environmentally-friendly 
operations and seek opportunities to promote biodiversity on 
our construction sites.
C. Profit:  Creating economic value.
8. Innovation:  We innovate to identify balanced sustainable 
solutions. Innovation is essential for our development and to 
identify powerful sustainable solutions in the built environment. 
Together with our partners in the supply chain, from clients to 
subcontractors and suppliers, we will provide sustainable 
solutions in which economic, environmental and community 
interests are well- balanced. This approach ensures that we use 
materials efficiently and provide good value to our clients.
9. Prosperity:  We believe that sustainability results in economic 
value and we choose to create value by working on effective and 
profitable solutions for our shareholders that contribute to a 
sustainable future. We believe that by applying these business 
principles, we create value for our shareholders, clients, 
employees and for society as a whole.Social, environmental and economic aspects in the short and long term are weighed up 
whenever strategic decisions are taken. The business principles of BAM respresent the Group's 
beliefs and are connected to our values. Along with the code of conduct, these principles form 
a key part of the internal environment in which risk management is conducted.
2016  – 37Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the 
Group is exposed is not unusual or different from what is 
considered acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk 
management system is designed to identify and manage risks. 
Effective risk management enables BAM to capitalise on 
opportunities in a carefully controlled way.
Risk profile and appetite
The focus areas of BAM’s new strategy ‘Building the present, 
creating the future’ have a positive impact on the risk profile of 
the Group. In the current project and business portfolio, BAM has 
a more disciplined focus on market segments and projects where 
the company can use either scale or expertise as a critical success 
factor. For the future business portfolio, BAM is rationalising its 
propositions and developing new solutions for clients and is 
investing in digitalisation to be an industry leader in how and what 
BAM builds. The new strategy also brings a stronger focus on 
cultural values, further supporting the BAM brand and strategy.
Risk appetite is defined as the level in which BAM is willing to 
accept risks in the ordinary course of business in order to achieve 
its objectives. Key factors in determining risk appetite are the risk 
categories: 
Strategic:  Based on knowledge and experience in the home 
markets, BAM tenders on complex multidisciplinary projects, 
which involves the controlled allocation of risk between the client 
and BAM. Outside the home markets, BAM operates worldwide in 
niche areas, provided they are in line with the Group’s business 
principles. In PPP investments, BAM only invests in projects based 
on contractual availability (i.e. fixed compensation) and not on 
volume (i.e. variable compensation). BAM invests in property 
development projects provided they are profitable and have a 
clear and profitable exit strategy that has been defined in 
advance.The main risk areas are:
- Market
- Reputation
- People
- Project
- Financial
- Property development
- Technology
- Information technology
- Sustainability
- Health and safetyOperational:  BAM aims to limit the risks that could jeopardise 
the execution of its business activities.
Compliance:  Adherence to all applicable laws and regulations 
including the BAM Code of Business Conduct is fundamental to 
BAM.
Financial:  BAM is committed to maintaining a solid financial 
position to guarantee access to financial markets and to maintain 
the trust of its clients, supply chain and other partners. BAM is 
averse to reporting risks that could impact the reputation of the 
company.
Risk management framework
The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Executive Board, 
which has the overall responsibility for enterprise risk 
management in the Group. BAM’s framework, which is based on 
COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway 
Commission), is integrated into the regular planning and control 
cycle, creating a Group-wide focus on risk management. There is a 
strong focus on developing employees’ risk awareness and risk 
attitude in a changing environment, for example by including the 
risk management philosophy in the curriculum of the BAM 
Business School, the in-house training institute.
The risk management and monitoring system provides a platform 
for sharing knowledge and expertise among the operating 
companies in a structured manner, making risk management a 
key enabler in achieving the strategic objectives. Corporate 
functions and subject matter communities across the Group 
accelerate the process of acquiring and sharing knowledge and 
expertise through a consistent risk management language and 
approach.
The 2016-2020 Group strategy was defined by the Executive Board 
and representatives of the operating companies and the corporate 
functions. In the strategic planning process, the strategy was 
translated into strategic objectives and initiatives at  Group, 
operating company and corporate function levels, considering the 
risk appetite specified above. The main risks to achieving the 
objectives were assessed and prioritised through dialogue 
sessions. 
The Executive Board receives progress updates on the status of 
the strategic objectives, initiatives and leading indicators through 
dashboards in quarterly reports and in management meetings. 
This is also shared periodically with the Supervisory Board.3.3 Risk management
Main risk areas 11
2016 – 38Apartment building The Garden, 
Berlin. BAM Deutschland.General management measures
Besides a variety of specific management measures, the 
following general management measures as part of its risk 
management and monitoring system.
Business principles 
The business principles (see page 37) represent the Group’s 
beliefs and key do’s and don’ts and are connected to our values. 
Along with the Code of Conduct, these principles form a key 
part of the internal environment in which risk management is 
conducted.
Management guidelines
The Group provides guidelines and instructions to the 
management of the operating companies. The guidelines define 
the levels of responsibility of the operating companies and set 
requirements for the quality of vital management measures and 
include, among other things, limits for entering into risks and 
commitments related to investments and bidding on projects. 
The guidelines are assessed – and amended if necessary – based 
on changes in the risk appetite for achieving the objectives, the 
risk profile, or changes in the internal organisation.
In addition to the management guidelines, there are more 
detailed instructions for external reporting, information 
security, tax and treasury- related matters.
Budgeting, reporting and (internal) controls 
The Group uses uniform guidelines and accounting policies 
which serve as the basis for all financial, non-financial and 
management reporting. As part of the detailed monthly and 
quarterly reports, the operating companies report on changes 
in (projected) company revenues, financial results, working 
capital and liquidity, order book and sustainability.
BAM invests in 
digitalisation to be an 
industry leader in how and 
what the company builds.2016  – 39Possible impact
BAM’s reputation may be damaged if it fails to successfully mitigate 
the main risks, including fraud.
Management measures 
For BAM, it is fundamental to adhere to generally accepted standards 
and values and comply with local statutory and other rules and 
regulations, particularly with respect to the acquisition and 
performance of contracts. This is set out in the Group’s business 
principles, code of conduct and related policies such as those relating 
to bribery, corruption and competition. All employees are required to 
act fairly, to honour agreements and to act with care towards clients 
and business partners, including suppliers and subcontractors. 
Compliance is promoted by the Executive Board and this is kept 
under constant review in order to make integrity a fundamental part 
of day-today activities. The Group has a whistle-blower policy in place 
so breaches of the code and policies can be reported. 
The Group believes it is important that employees can report any 
suspicion of wrongdoings within the Group and that they are able to 
report such matters without fear of reprisals. Both the code of 
conduct and the whistle-blower policy are easily accessible to 
employees. For example, they can be found on the Group’s intranet 
site and on its corporate website. Compliance officers monitor 
compliance and provide advice on issues involving integrity.
People risk 
Risk description
Attracting, training and retaining talented people is critical for BAM 
as it allows the Group to respond more effectively to changes in the 
market by using its full potential. It is essential that BAM remains a 
preferred employer.
Possible impact
BAM’s unique culture is underpinned by its values that guide its 
behaviour. Failing to establish a culture based on predictable 
performance, scalable learning, ownership and open collaboration 
will negatively impact the success.
Management measures 
BAM aims to foster an open culture of learning and exchanging 
knowledge in the form of training and education, building on the 
knowledge and expertise available. BAM increases the mobility of 
employees in core businesses. This is facilitated by the international 
recruitment site, which publishes all vacancies and career 
opportunities within the Group. BAM works together with 
recruitment agencies, through advertising and by collaborating with 
various training institutes to attract top talent. The Group invests in 
further developing employees through various training programmes, 
including a management trainee programme and prepares 
candidates for key positions aiming to improve (inclusive) leadership.Main risk areas
Several risk areas and measures have been identified in relation to 
BAM’s strategic objectives. Follow-up and feedback are part of the 
regular management reporting cycle. The main risk areas are 
specified on the following pages.
Market risk
Risk description
The markets where BAM operates are subject to macro- economic 
volatility and are affected by government investment programs, 
economic downturns and political developments. In most of the 
Group’s home markets, there is intense competition.
Possible impact
Limited availability of capital may lead to cancellation and deferral 
of property development, construction and PPP projects, putting 
pressure on the value of BAM’s portfolio. Intense competition may 
lead to a buyer’s market, which will impact margins, lead to a shift of 
design and contract risks to the contractor and compromise the 
pre-financing of projects by clients.
Management measures 
As market conditions vary per country, BAM aims to keep a 
diversified geographical footprint. Based on the new strategy, BAM 
applies a more disciplined focus on market segments and projects 
where it can use either scale or expertise as a critical success factor. 
For the future business portfolio BAM is rationalising its propositions 
and developing new solutions for clients and are investing in 
digitalisation to be an industry leader in how and what BAM builds. 
BAM invested in the required capabilities to support the 
achievement of the strategic objectives, for example by creating or 
reinforcing corporate functions in the areas strategy, digital 
construction and innovation, but also by harmonising processes and 
procedures. 
The updated tender stage gate procedure is key in managing a 
healthy order intake for the Group and guides a tender through 
various stage gates based on the complexity and size of the tender, 
before the company enters into a contract. The progress on the 
realisation of the strategic objectives is monitored through monthly 
and quarterly reports and meetings in which the leading indicators 
to effectively compete in the rapidly changing environment are key.
Reputation risk
Risk description
The trust placed by clients, shareholders, lenders, construction 
partners and employees in the Group is vital in order to be able to 
ensure the company’s continuity. The Group’s main fraud risk with 
reputational impact is corruption.2016 – 40Project monitoring
During the execution, the project team periodically and 
systematically assesses the opportunities and risks attached to the 
project. If necessary, the project team implements measures to 
reduce newly identified risks, focusing mainly on the quality of the 
construction work to be completed and the avoidance of 
construction faults. Regular progress reports are submitted to 
regional, operating companies’ and Group management. 
Contract risk
To limit contractual risks, BAM uses standard contracts for projects 
wherever possible. Where a non-standard contract is used, BAM’s 
(in-house) lawyers and other specialists will assess the contract 
beforehand. Standard contracts include for example clauses that 
provide that price increases in wages and materials may be charged 
on to the client during the construction period. 
Subcontractors and suppliers
On an annual basis, the Group procures more than 70 per cent of its 
revenue from suppliers and subcontractors. These companies have a 
major impact on the projects, both in financial and in technical terms. 
The Group aims to build strong partnerships with its suppliers and 
subcontractors to ensure that the construction process runs as 
smoothly as possible and to achieve the optimum lowest possible 
costs and high quality of products. Suppliers need to be involved in 
the project at an early stage. The Group strives to set up partnerships 
and framework contracts, which contain agreements about fees and 
conditions (such as delivery times, invoicing, risks and bonus 
discounts). Project-specific orders can then be placed under these 
framework contracts. The performance of subcontractors and 
suppliers on the above mentioned criteria is periodically measured in 
a 1-4 scale and actively monitored and engaged.
Payment risk
Operating companies limit payment risks of projects as much as 
possible by agreeing on contractual payment schedules. This ensures 
that the client’s payments are at least in balance with the progress of 
the work performed. For projects completed in emerging markets 
and developing countries, adequate security is agreed or export 
credit insurance is purchased prior to the start of the project in order 
to hedge political and payment risk. When entering into financing 
arrangements, BAM performs a credit check on clients. The Group 
focuses in particular on security provided by banks and the payment 
systems used by government bodies.
Guarantees
In the construction industry, clients commonly demand guarantees 
by way of security that the project will be completed successfully. 
This guarantee may be provided by the parent company or, 
alternatively, by external parties such as banks and surety 
institutions. The Group has strict procedures in place to ensure that 
the contractual terms of the guarantees provided comply with the 
company’s specific guidelines. Project risk
Risk description
Construction activities are BAM’s core business, which include 
tendering, procurement, contract management, project 
management and the corresponding value chain. BAM is active in 
thousands of projects in which it is exposed to a large variety of 
risks in a sector that is known for having an asymmetrical risk 
profile. Selecting the right projects under balanced contractual 
conditions is critical. 
Possible impact
Failing to achieve a healthy order intake and flawless project 
execution leads to fluctuations in the project results and 
eventually to BAM not achieving its strategic objectives.
Management measures
BAM implemented the following measures to control project risk.
Tender stage gate procedure and peer reviews
The results of projects are mainly determined during the tender 
stage. Effective 2016, the Group launched the updated tender 
stage gate procedure. See the separate section on page 43. 
Project team composition
The composition of the project team is critical for the success of a 
project. BAM strives to select project teams based on the right 
capabilities in areas such as leadership, ownership, combined 
experience and collaboration. 
Innovation
The Group’s industry is at the forefront of major technological 
changes. BAM invests heavily in implementing concept and 
process innovation related to sustainability, virtual building, 
digital and lean construction.
Partnering
The comprehensive knowledge and extensive experience of its 
operating companies enable the Group to complete major 
projects successfully on its own. Nonetheless, it can be 
advantageous – also from the point of view of spreading the 
risks – to work in a joint arrangement when dealing with larger 
projects. In projects that exceed €300 million, BAM in principle 
bids together with partners. This usually involves establishing a 
general partnership (a legal form in which all parties are jointly 
and severally liable for mutual commitments connected with the 
performance of the project). The Group enters only into joint 
arrangements with solid and solvent partners. If the risk to which 
the partner is exposed is nevertheless assessed to be too high, 
BAM demands other securities which can take the form of a bank 
guarantee or of the partner leaving sufficient cash invested in the 
joint arrangement.2016  – 41The Hague start station Erasmus 
line (light rail connection 
between The Hague and 
Rotterdam). BAM Infra.2016  – 42 42 – 2016Stage gate 4
Approval ﬁnal
contract
Stage gate 2
Initial 
validation
Stage gate 3
Decision
to bid
Stage gate 5
If won:
reality check
Stage gate 1
Decision 
to tender
Stage gate 0
Categorisation
Tender submitted Contract awardedTender assessment
PQQ
submitted/
partnerships
formedPeer review
Tender
documents
receivedTender stage gate procedure 12Tender stage gate procedure
The tender stage gate procedure [see scheme below] is 
key in managing a healthy order intake for the Group and 
guides a tender through various stage gates based on 
the complexity and size of the tender (tender category). 
Through the process, qualitative and quantitative risks and 
opportunities that may impact the success of the tender 
are considered. Areas considered include client, contract, 
work schedule, finance, partners, safety, location et cetera.
The stage gate procedure also includes several approval 
rounds depending on the risk profile. The procedure follows 
a governance structure based on tender categories to 
ensure tenders are reviewed and approved by the right 
level of management. Bids for major projects or projects 
involving exceptional risk are submitted and presented to 
the Executive Board and – if necessary – the Supervisory 
Board for prior approval.
The procedure is supported by the stage gate system, 
an application where all relevant data is maintained. This 
system allows the preparation of dashboards, reports and 
other management information to support the business 
going forward. All required tenders based on their risk category are 
assessed by the Tender Desk and approved by the  
pre-established bodies. Lessons learned from these 
tenders are shared with the management of the operating 
companies, focusing on product type, client relationship, 
geographical location, contract type and required partners 
for the tender at hand.
Several peer reviews were performed by experts from 
other operating companies in the Group during the tender 
phase of major projects. These peer reviews mobilise the 
full knowledge of the Group and contribute in robustness 
of the proposal made to the client. Tender assessments 
were performed on those tenders where the Executive 
Board decided a more detailed (objective) assessment of 
the tender was necessary before approval to bid could be 
provided.
BAM is convinced that a strong and robust tender process, 
focused on all relevant risk and opportunity areas of 
the tender, is critical to further improve a healthy order 
intake. The systematic collection of tender data and the 
confrontation with the outcome during the execution 
phase provides the Group with valuable management 
information which helps in the preparation and evaluation 
of future tenders. 
2016  – 43system of phased project execution. The Dutch property portfolio 
still includes a number of legacy residential construction projects 
where there is an unconditional obligation to build.
Technology risk
Risk description
The Group’s industry is at the forefront of major technological 
changes. Digital technology starts to change value creation within 
the construction industry where traditional capabilities may 
become commoditised.
Possible impact
Competitors or new entrants to the market may marginalise 
BAM’s differentiating capabilities and thus endanger the existing 
business model.
Management measures 
Digital construction initiatives focus both on transformational and 
incremental innovations. These innovations are build on new digital 
technologies and should improve the clients experience as well as 
optimised construction processes. 
 
> See chapter 2 Strategy and chapter 3.2 Stakeholder engagement 
and material themes. 
Information technology risk
Risk description
Digitalisation, data, communication and connectivity are essential 
to BAM. A global presence also leads to cyber security challenges 
that require us to have the agility to constantly adapt. 
Possible impact
IT is crucial in supporting and safeguarding the core and 
supporting processes. BAM relies more and more on digital 
communication, connectivity and the use of technology. The 
Group has to remain alert to prevent the use of compromised data 
and the unavailability, loss or theft of critical strategic, financial 
and operational data.
Management measures 
BAM has strengthened its security strategy and policy with a clear 
governance structure and uses the latest technology to protect its 
environment. This includes implementing and testing of 
confidentiality and continuity measures as well as the integrity of 
data. Training and communication increase awareness around safe 
IT usage by BAM’s people and partners, as this is considered 
essential. Financial risk
Risk description
The attractiveness of BAM as trusted partner to work with or 
invest in is strongly influenced by its financial position and ability 
to control financial risks.
Possible impact
Failing to achieve the trusted partner status may prevent BAM 
from working with preferred parties and lead to restrictions in 
access to financial markets. 
Management measures 
BAM financing strategy is based on long-term relationships with 
reputable financial institutions and a well-spread debt maturity 
schedule. A strong centralised focus on cash and working capital 
(including financing by clients and suppliers) limits the need for 
additional capital. The company enters ‘equity-light’ in property 
development projects and in PPP investments. The company’s 
intention is to sell these projects to investors. 
Specific financial risk management measures, including those in 
the area of interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk are stated in note 3 of the financial 
statements. 
Property development risk
Risk description
BAM is involved in property development on its own account. 
The level and timing of both revenues (sale/rent) and costs (site 
acquisition and building costs) of these projects may deviate from 
the initial expectations as a result of divergent market and process 
(planning/permits) conditions. BAM’s capital employed position is 
important to satisfactory fund the projects. 
Possible impact
Property development projects may be delayed or completed at a 
cost higher than budgeted. This in turn will affect the financial 
results (level and duration of capital employed, profit).
Management measures 
If the Group intends to take on property development risks, this 
requires the prior consent of the Executive Board. The latter takes 
a decision based on the project proposals from the operating 
company concerned and associated analyses performed by the 
Group’s Property Investment function. The general rule is that 
construction does not start until a substantial number of 
properties have been sold or, for non-residential, a large part of 
the project has been let or sold. However, the UK – where BAM 
only operates in the non-residential property sector – is an 
exception to this. There, the inventory risk is mitigated by a 2016 – 44Sustainability risk
Risk description
The construction industry heavily relies on natural resources, 
these deplete when consumption rates are faster than natural 
replenishment. Global warming and climate change cause more 
frequent extreme weather events including storms, heat waves, 
droughts, heavy rainfall with floods and heavy snowfall.
Possible impact
Failing to deliver more sustainable and innovative further may 
impede BAM’s position towards clients and supply chain partners. 
Extreme weather events and material shortages may lead to 
disruption of the construction process. 
Management measures
BAM has strengthened its corporate team responsible for 
sustainability during 2016 to support achieving continuous 
improvement and puts significant effort in reducing its 
environmental impact with an ambition of achieving a net positive 
result. To limit BAM’s impact on resource consumption, the 
company works together with supply chain partners and clients to 
explore circular economic business models. 
> See chapter 2 Strategy and chapter 4.3 Environmental 
performance. 
Health and safety risk
Risk description
The nature of BAM’s business may impose health and safety risks 
to its people. The well-being and safety of the people of BAM is 
vital to the company.
Possible impact
Health and safety incidents may lead to serious injuries or even 
fatalities and may lead to project disturbance. Incidents may lead 
to loss of time, additional costs and as a result impact BAM’s 
performance.
Management measures 
BAM has established several health and safety policies to provide 
guidance in this area. A central department, together with 
representatives at operating company level, supports the business 
to maintain and further improve a culture of healthy and safe 
behaviour. In this culture, prevention of incidents and the 
openness to discuss dilemmas are paramount. Several reporting 
processes monitor BAM’s performance in this area. 
> See chapter 3.2 Stakeholder engagement and material themes. Insurance management
Insurance management is part of the risk 
management strategy of the Group. Insurance 
management is identifying insurable risks and 
buying the right insurance cover, with a balance 
between cover, cost and certainty of cover. The 
focus is on high impact events, and not on insuring 
frequent losses with low impact. All insurances are 
placed via professional insurance brokers and 
results are monitored at Group Level. All insurers 
have a minimum rating of S&P A-.
Within the operating company dedicated insurance 
management teams assess and insure the risks 
associated with the construction of projects. The 
Group sets the minimum requirements for 
insurances to be secured by the operating company.
All insurance managers report to operating 
company management and the Group director 
Insurance.
Operational audit
Within BAM, the Operational Audit Department 
has been established as an objective, independent 
function to assess the effectiveness and efficiency 
of the control environment. The capacity of the 
audit function is focused on the main risks the 
company faces in the project business it is involved 
in. Operational audits are an important and powerful 
tool in the mitigation of project-related risks at an 
early stage. 
In 2016, Operational Audit evaluated the 
implementation of the improved tender stage gate 
procedure and assessed the Group’s compliance 
with the procedure. Furthermore, high-risk projects 
throughout the Group were visited shortly after 
contract award to assess the effectiveness of the 
project control system. 2016  – 45What impacted BAM in 2016?
Despite all the measures BAM has taken and the focus and attention 
given by its people, some risks that are related to the nature and 
complexity of the market and business environment impacted BAM 
in 2016. In this section some examples are demonstrated. 
Transition to new organisation 
(market risk/people risk)
The re-focus within BAM following the 2016-2020 strategy 
programme ‘Building the present, creating the future’ impacted the 
way BAM wants to work. The transition to a new organisational 
model (which already started during the Back in Shape period) 
includes rationalisation of business models and businesses. This 
needs to be more collaborative, harmonised and agile so BAM can 
keep up with industry developments and be a frontrunner in its 
selected markets. Restructuring impacts BAM’s business 
performance financially by one-off charges but also may create 
temporary uncertainty for the people of BAM. The Group strives to 
limit this period of uncertainty by implementing changes rapidly 
and providing clarity about the direction for the future. BAM also 
communicated extensively about the new strategy.
Brexit (market risk)
On 23 June 2016, the UK voted for Brexit. The UK is BAM’s second 
largest home market after the Netherlands. BAM’s UK activities are 
split between three operating companies: BAM Construct UK in 
non-residential construction and property development, BAM 
Nuttall in civil engineering, and the UK operations of BAM PPP. They 
are widely diversified by location (strong regional presence across 
the UK), client base (public and private) and market (retail, office 
and industrial construction, and across all civil sectors.) 
The operating companies are among the leaders in their markets. 
The translation of the devaluated pound into euro reduced the 
reported revenue, results, closing cash balance and order book for 
the UK. A significant percentage of the revenue for 2017 is secured 
in projects which are already underway. Moreover, since the vote 
BAM has won several new orders. Further impact of Brexit remains 
uncertain, which is why BAM will continue to monitor developments 
closely, maintain tender discipline and adapt its organisation and 
operations if required.
A-symmetric risk profile in combination with public 
tendering (market risk/project risk)
BAM’s performance in 2016 was still impacted by the phase-out of 
projects that were awarded in an economically difficult period. 
Considerable efforts were made to turn around those low-margin 
projects, but this could not prevent part of BAM’s portfolio from Claims and procedures 
Companies operating in the construction industry are involved in 
discussions on the financial settlement of construction projects, 
including contract variations, the time of completion and the quality 
level of the work. Most of these discussions are concluded to the 
satisfaction of all concerned. However, in some cases it is impossible 
to avoid a discussion ending in legal proceedings. BAM is also 
involved in a number of lawsuits. Financial claims that the Group has 
pending against third parties are generally not capitalised unless it is 
reasonably certain that the amount in question will be paid. The 
Group takes great care to prevent such legal proceedings by 
implementing quality programmes and providing training for its 
employees. Examples of major legal proceedings involving BAM are 
given briefly below.
In 2005, during the construction of a drilled tunnel for the SMART 
North tunnel project in Kuala Lumpur, engineering firm Wayss & 
Freytag Ingenieurbau was faced with ground conditions that varied 
from the information provided by the client. Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau terminated the contract early 2006 as a result of the 
client’s failure to fulfil its payment obligations and refusal to deal 
with Wayss & Freytag’s claims for an extension of the construction 
period and reimbursement of costs. The client, in turn, also 
terminated the contract in January 2006. Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau lodged a claim against the client for more than 
€20 million as compensation for costs incurred. The client lodged 
provisional counterclaims of €5 million. An independent dispute 
adjudicator, in the contractually prescribed procedure, has ruled 
that Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau was entitled to terminate the 
contract. This verdict has been confirmed by an arbitration. The 
client appealed before the Federal Court, but meanwhile the parties 
initiated negotiations for settlement. These negotiations were 
successful. A full and final settlement was reached in January 2017. 
On 3 March 2009, during the construction of a section of the 
Cologne metro system, several adjacent buildings, including the 
building of the City Archives of the City of Cologne, collapsed. Two 
persons were killed as a result of this accident. Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau is a one-third partner in the consortium carrying out 
this project but was not directly involved in the work performed at 
the site of the accident. The client has instituted a judicial inquiry 
(known as a Beweisverfahren) before the district court (the 
Landgericht in Cologne). As part of these proceedings, a number of 
specialists are investigating the cause of the accident. Only when 
their investigation is complete will it be possible to determine if and 
to what extent the consortium might be held responsible for the 
accident. The German Public Prosecution Service is also carrying out 
its own investigation to determine whether any criminal offences 
have been committed. The damage to property is considerable and 
the parties involved have claimed under several different insurance 
policies.2016 – 46The external auditor describes areas of improvement that mainly 
relate to the clarification of central and decentral responsibilities 
and further formalisation of:
• BAM’s business control framework;
• IT controls and procedures (logical access , security settings);
• Integrity and compliance framework (set minimum group 
standards, updating procedures).
The Group carries out appropriate actions to follow up on the 
recommendations.
In control statement
BAM can reasonably state that the risk management and monitoring 
systems, in respect of financial reporting risks, worked adequately 
during the year under review and no deficiencies were identified in 
relation to these systems and their operation that could have 
potential material implications on the financial reporting in 2016. 
The Group cannot guarantee that no risks will materialise and no 
system and procedures provide absolute certainty for the realisation 
of business objectives.contributing less than the company needs to achieve its strategic 
objectives. At the end of 2016, the de-risking of the project backlog 
was largely completed. At the same time there are still projects, 
especially when publicly tendered, that impose an a-symmetric risk 
profile on BAM. The healthy order intake for the future therefore 
continues to be top priority, supported by data driven project 
selection, flawless execution and state-of-the-art supporting 
processes. 
Safety
Although the focus on safety is stronger than ever before, the 
company is still facing incidents at project sites. The loyalty of the 
people of BAM towards meeting clients’ schedules or meeting 
financial targets sometimes impacts the safety of the working 
environment. Besides having the knowledge and tools to work 
safely, it is crucial that employees can always openly communicate 
about unsafe situations with each other and with their manager. 
Improvements to the risk management and 
monitoring system 
The improvement of BAM’s risk management and monitoring 
system is an ongoing process. The risk management function, 
operational audit and the external auditor all provide input for 
further enhancements. The improvement potential relates to 
developing and sharing better practices and the harmonisation of 
risk management processes throughout the Group. 
Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC)
Early 2017, enterprise risk management and the interconnected 
pillars related to governance and compliance have been further 
enhanced by establishing a new Governance, Risk and Compliance 
(GRC) function. The main responsibility for this new role is to further 
evolve the GRC areas in line with the strategy 2016-2020. 
The GRC areas relate to the implementation and periodically 
recalibrating of BAM’s governance structure in line with market 
trends and strategic development of the Group, enhancing the 
enterprise risk management (ERM) programme and further develop 
compliance (including privacy) in accordance with social standards 
and relevant laws and regulations. 
Reporting external auditor
The independent auditor assesses BAM’s internal control 
environment as an integral part of its audit procedures, mainly 
focusing on the key (financial) processes and reporting systems 
underlying the information contained in the financial statements. 
BAM transitioned from PwC to EY as its external auditor in 2016.  
In their first year audit, the external auditor concludes that no 
material weaknesses or significant deficiencies have been found. 2016  – 4748 – 2016
4. Business performance2016  – 49
In 2016, we made good progress implementing the strategy ‘Building 
the present, creating the future.’ We are focusing our project portfolio 
by disciplined, data-driven tendering and we have a pipeline with 
attractive opportunities. Across our business portfolio, we exited some 
non-core activities, completed the integration of Dutch Construction 
and property, and are refocusing our International infrastructure and 
German construction businesses. 
Despite some headwinds, we delivered a robust adjusted result for 
2016 ahead of the previous year. We continued to de-risk and 
strengthen our financial position, and generated a strong positive cash 
flow. Our return on capital employed – a leading KPI for how we 
manage our business  – started to move upwards thanks to the higher 
result and lower capital.
Management summary
• Revenue amounted to €6,976 million, 6 per cent down 
compared to 2015 of which more than half coming from the 
lower GBP exchange rate;
• Adjusted result before tax of €102.7 million, 16 per cent up 
compared to 2015;
• Order book decreased in the year by €1,300 million, or 11 per 
cent, to €10,200 million. More than a third part of the decrease 
coming from the lower GBP exchange rate;
• Total cash flow over €100 million, predominantly coming from 
better working capital positions.Target: Creating return on capital employed above 10 per cent
Target Performance Progress
Return on capital employed (ROCE) >10 per cent  
by 2020
In order to reach that target return must go up  
and capital employed must go down.ROCE in 2016 amounted to 2.8 per cent (2015: 0.2 per cent).   
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Return: BAM aims to get its results on projects  
into a 2 to 4 per cent range.The margin on the adjusted result before tax for 2016 improved 
to 1.5 per cent, 0.3 per cent points up compared to 2015.  
Capital employed: Increase trade working capital 
efficiency below -/- 10 per cent of revenue.The trade working capital efficiency improved to -/- 10 per cent 
at year-end 2016 compared to -/- 8.1 per cent at year-end 2015.  
Capital employed: Reduce investment in land bank 
and property development below €500 million.BAM achieved divestments of property and other assets for 
a total of €62 million in 2016 (2015: €95 million). Balance sheet 
value for land bank and property down to €630 million.  
Improve capital ratio towards 25 per cent by 2020. Capital ratio amounted to 19.7 per cent compared to  
21.2 per cent at year-end 2015.  13
Key financial results
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Revenue 6,976 7,423
Adjusted result before tax 102.7 88.2
Margin (%) 1.5 1.2
Result before tax 60.1 13.3
Net result attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company 46.8 10.2
Order book 10,193 11,480
Earnings per share 17 cents 4 cents
Dividend proposal 9 cents 2 cents144.1 Financial performance 2016 – 50
Result before tax
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Continuing operations
Adjusted result before tax, depreciation and 
amortisation charges 167.1 158.7
Depreciation and amortisation charges (64.4) (70.5)
Adjusted result before tax 102.7 88.2
Impairment charges (50.7) (39.1)
Restructuring and other exceptional costs (33.5) (38.6)
Pension one-off 41.6 2.8
Result before tax 60.1 13.3
Income tax (10.9) (2.3)
Result for the year 49.2 11.0
Non-controlling interests 2.4 0.8
Net result attributable to shareholders  
of the Company 46.8 10.2
Revenue
Revenue decreased by €447 million, or 6 per cent, in 2016 
principally due to a foreign exchange rate effect of the pound 
sterling of 3.4 per cent. The sector Construction and Property 
reported an average decrease in revenue of 1.7 per cent whilst 
revenue in the Civil Engineering sector declined by 11 per cent. 
Civil sector revenue was down, mainly in the UK due to foreign 
exchange rate effect and at BAM International due to lower 
activity in the oil and gas industry.
Order book
As at 31 December 2016 the order book (orders in hand for the 
next five years) amounted to €10.2 billion, representing a 
decrease of €1.3 billion in the year (2015: increase of €1.2 billion in 
the year). The decrease takes into account the cancellation of a 
large order and a negative exchange rate effect of €445 million. 
Of the current order book position, €5.4 billion (2015: €5.9 billion) 
is expected to be carried out in 2017 and €4.8 billion (2015: €5.6 
billion) in the years after. In addition, the Group has more than 
€2.1 billion (2015: €2.3 billion) in the order book beyond five 
years, mainly comprising of long-term maintenance contracts for 
PPP projects.Earnings per share
The number of outstanding ordinary shares of BAM increased by 
0.2 million in 2016 to 270.6 million shares as at 31 December 
2016, due to stock dividend minus the repurchase of shares for 
the conditional performance share plan. (Diluted) earnings per 
share amounted to 17 euro cents (2015: 4 euro cents).
Dividend proposal
The announced dividend of 9 euro cents per share (in cash or in 
shares) for 2016 (2015: 2 euro cents) will be proposed to 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders to be 
held on 19 April 2017. The recommended dividend is in line with 
our dividend policy to target a pay-out ratio in the range of 30 to 
50 per cent of the net result. The dividend return amounts to 
2.1 per cent, based on the 2016 closing price (2015: 0.4 per cent).
 
Financial position
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 739 637
Less: borrowings (612) (597)
Net cash 127 40
Add: non-recourse financing 368 319
Recourse net cash 495 359
Capital employed
- Non-current assets 1,446 1,507
- Net working capital (456) (340)
Shareholders’ equity 834 902
Capital base 947 1,026
Total assets 4,812 4,852
Solvency (%) 19.7 21.2
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents was €739 million as at 31 December 2016 
(2015: €637 million), of which €223 million (2015: €181 million) 
concerns the Group’s share of cash and cash equivalents in joint 
operations.15
162016 – 51
Stakeholder interview
What is the most important catalyst for 
further sustainable development in 
construction?
Antwoord tekst.How do we ensure sustainability will 
continue to be a theme – and what role 
does digitisation and innovation play?
Antwoord tekst.Naam/functieIntro tekst
‘Streamer  
streamer’
 2015 – 51
Stakeholder interview
What is the most important catalyst for 
further sustainable development in 
construction?
‘Profitable innovation is the most 
important factor for sustainable 
development in the construction industry. 
As an architect, I believe that we have the 
power to deliver a substantial contribution 
to our society by transforming the 
fragmented, one-dimensional building 
proces into a digital integrated building 
proces. We’ve got to redefine the role of 
the contemporary architect towards that 
of a digital master builder; one who utilises 
the untapped potential of digitalisation, 
automation and prefabrication for more 
expressive and efficient building design.
At Studio RAP we believe in digital 
fabrication, especially robotics, as the 
enabler to close the gap between the possibilities of the digital and the material 
world. This reunification results in a more 
straightforward building process where 
experts can work together, 
simultaneously, on solutions for a 
building’s total lifecycle; resulting in a 
circular construction industry. Under the 
master-builder’s guidance, the combined 
intelligence of architect, engineer, 
contracter, producer, investor and client 
results in much more than product 
innovation. It ultimately revolutionises the 
entire building proces.’
How do we ensure sustainability will 
continue to be a theme – and what role 
does digitalisation and innovation play?
‘Profitability is key. We’ve reached a 
pivotal point in history where we, the 
digital generation, have all the tools at our 
disposal to translate the awareness of our 
planet’s finite resources to tangible solutions. Digitalisation gives us the scope 
to see buildings as containers of materials 
but also of functional possibilities, spatial 
qualities and contemporary values. 
Automation gives us the possibility to 
build this wonderful environment 
time- and cost-effectively without forcing 
repetitive, exhaustive or dangerous 
low-wage jobs onto our working 
population.
Concluding; the construction industry has 
the power to reinvigorate itself and our 
society. By choosing long over short-term, 
circular over linear, innovation over 
tradition, idea’s over dogma’s and by 
leaving the wasteful, conservative models 
of the past for a profitable, sustainable 
future for all.’Wessel van Beerendonk, ArchitectWessel van Beerendonk is Architect and co-founder at 
Studio RAP in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Studio RAP 
works with the most advanced digital fabrication methods 
to create a new expressive architecture. RAP realised in 
2015 the first robotically fabrication building of the 
Netherlands.
‘The construction industry has the power  
to reinvigorate itself’Horse Inn at Liège Airport in 
Grâce-Hollogne near Liège. 
BAM Belgium (Galère).52 – 2016Borrowings  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Non-recourse debt
PPP 274 195
Property 86 116
Other 8 8
368 319
Subordinated loan - 124
Subordinated convertible bonds 113 -
Recourse debt
PPP 50 53
Property 74 87
Financial lease 7 15
244 279
Borrowings 612 597
The recourse net debt, part of the recourse leverage ratio in BAM’s 
financing arrangements, mainly comprising equity bridge loans for 
PPP projects and property loans on a recourse basis minus cash and 
cash equivalents, amounted to a net cash position of €495 million 
as at 31 December 2016, €136 million up compared to 2015.
Capital employed
Non-current assets
On balance, non-current assets decreased in the year with 
€61 million (2015: increase €38 million).
As the annual depreciation was partly compensated by the net 
capital expenditures in the year, the carrying amount of property, 
plant and equipment decreased with €22 million to €270 million. 
The majority of the capital expenditures and disposals concerned 
the asset category equipment and installations in the sector Civil 
engineering.
Intangible assets predominantly comprises goodwill with a carrying 
amount of €379 million, a decrease of €27 million compared to 2015 
owing to the exchange rate of the British pound sterling compared 
to the prior year with an effect of €23 million. Furthermore an 
amount of €4 million goodwill was disposed of in relation to the 
divestment of Heilijgers. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually 
and this did not result in an impairment. The sensitivity analyses 
indicated that for a German cash-generating unit, representing a 
goodwill amount of €12 million, a limited headroom remains in case 
of a negative change of 50 basis points on the discount rate and/or 
growth rate beyond the forecast period.Borrowings
As at 31 December 2016 total borrowings amounted to €612 
million (2015: €597 million) of which €368 million (2015: €319 
million) concerned non-recourse debt. The increase in 2016 is 
driven by non-recourse debt. Non-recourse loans associated 
with PPP projects increased with €79 million (2015: decrease 
€11 million) and property development decreased in 2016 with 
€30 million (2015: €46 million decrease) principally due to PPP 
investments and project divestments in the year with 
consequential debt payments.
As at 31 December 2016 a net cash position is achieved of 
€127 million (2015: €40 million net cash position). This position 
comprised of cash and cash equivalents minus borrowings of  
€612 million (2015: €597 million).
The Group refinanced its two credit facilities in 2016. The 
subordinated loan with a nominal value of €125 million was repaid 
following the placement of unsecured subordinated convertible 
bonds for €125 million. The bonds will be convertible into ordinary 
shares of BAM with a nominal value of €0.10 each. The bonds are 
subordinated to BAM’s senior payment obligations. The bonds will 
carry an annual coupon of 3.5 per cent payable semi-annually and 
a conversion price of €5.2245 which represent a 32.5 per cent 
premium to the volume weighted average price of the shares 
quoted on the Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam between 
opening of trading on 6 June 2016 and pricing. The bonds will be 
redeemed at their principal amount on or around 13 June 2021. 
Upon exercise of the conversion rights, bond holders will receive 
shares at the then prevailing conversion price. BAM will have the 
option to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their 
principal amount plus interest from 28 June 2019, if the value of a 
BAM share exceeds for a specified period of time a price which is 
30 per cent higher than the conversion price.
In November 2016 the Group has reached agreement with a bank 
syndicate on the renewal of the committed revolving credit 
facility for an amount of €400 million until 31 March 2022. This 
new facility replaces a facility of €417.5 million that was due 30 
January 2018. The qualitative terms of the facility are material 
similar to the previous facility, the credit margin and commitment 
fee have been improved. As at 31 December 2016 the committed 
syndicated credit facility was not used, just as in 2015.
2016  – 53
17decreased in 2016. Recourse solvency, the ratio in accordance 
with the bank covenants, slightly decreased to 29.0 per cent as 
at 31 December 2016 (2015: 29.3 per cent), which comfortably 
exceeds the required minimum of 15 per cent.
Other significant movements in balance sheet items 
Post-employment benefits
The net defined benefit liability amounted to €82 million as at 
31 December 2016, an increase of €5 million compared to 2015 
principally due to changes in actuarial assumptions, specifically 
the discount rate used. The current year balance allows for 
pension one-off gains of €42 million in connection with pension 
plan amendments in defined benefit schemes in the Netherlands, 
the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Provisions
Provisions, other than post-employment benefits, slightly 
decreased by €8 million to €142 million (2015: €150 million), 
mainly effected by the release of the dividend guarantee provision 
for the Van Oord disposal. The restructuring provision increased 
by €1 million to €42 million as at 31 December 2016. Additional 
restructuring provisions, related to both organisational changes 
and market circumstances, and releases of unused provisions 
totalled €34 million, predominantly in the Netherlands. Payments 
on restructurings, mainly from the Back in shape programme, 
amounted to €33 million. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The Group has a net deferred tax asset of €223 million 
(2015: €221 million) principally reflecting the tax losses carry 
forward in the Netherlands and Germany. The valuation as at 
31 December 2016 allows for estimates of the level and timing of 
future taxable profits for the upcoming nine years (the 
Netherlands) and for an indefinite period (Germany) including 
available tax planning opportunities.
 
Assets and liabilities held for sale
The assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2016 
amount to €40 million (2015: €42 million) for the assets and 
€4 million (2015: €46 million) for the liabilities and are fully 
attributable to the proposed sale of all 47 property development 
positions in the Northeast part of the Netherlands. In 2015 the 
assets and liabilities held for sale were fully attributable to one 
PPP project, that was transferred to the joint arrangement with 
PGGM in 2016. PPP receivables increased in 2016 to €359 million from 
€284 million principally due to construction progress on current 
PPP projects (€190 million) compensated by the transfer of two 
projects to the joint venture with PGGM (€87 million). In 2016, 
no PPP receivables were reclassified to assets held for sale to the 
PGGM joint venture (2015: one project with an amount of 
€39 million).
The carrying amounts of investments (accounted for using the 
equity method) and other financial assets decreased in the year 
with €8 million (from €94 million to €86 million) respectively 
decreased by €6 million (from €98 million to €92 million). 
The increase in other financial assets includes a reversal of 
impairment charges of €2 million. 
Net working capital
Net working capital (current assets excluding cash and cash 
equivalents minus current liabilities excluding current borrowings) 
as at 31 December 2016 amounted to minus €456 million (2015: 
minus €340 million). Gross investment in property development 
has been reduced with €110 million in 2016 to €630 million, as a 
consequence of property sales, divestments and an impairment 
charge of €48 million (2015: €37 million). Net investment in 
property development, taking into account associated 
borrowings, amounted to €475 million (2015: €544 million).
The further improvement of net working capital in 2016 was 
mainly driven by an improvement of prefinancing of our 
construction contracts.
Shareholders’ equity and capital base
Shareholders’ equity significantly decreased by €68 million in 
2016 to €834 million as at 31 December 2016. This decrease is 
principally due to the unfavourable development of the 
remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 
(€53 million) due to lower discount rates and foreign exchange 
rate differences (€66 million), partly compensated by the net 
result for the year of €47 million.
Capital base includes the new subordinated convertible bonds 
of €112.5 million (2015: €125 million for the repaid subordinated 
loan). The difference between the nominal value of the 
convertible bonds of €125 million and the reported value of 
€112.5 million, consists of the valuation of the conversion right 
and transaction cost.
Solvency
As at 31 December 2016 solvency is 19.7 per cent (2015: 21.2 
per cent) determined by using the capital base. Given the lower 
capital base and the stable balance sheet total, solvency 2016 – 54Civil engineering
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Revenue 2,899 3,260
Adjusted result before tax 83.4 66.6
Margin (%) 2.9 2.0
Order book 3,950 4,895
In Civil engineering, revenue reduced by €361 million to €2,899 
million, of which €94 million currency effect. This was due to lower 
revenue from large multi-disciplinary projects in the UK, BAM 
International and in Belgium. Revenue in the Netherlands grew by 
6 per cent. Margins in BAM’s home markets were above 2 per cent. 
At BAM International, although total project results were positive, 
there was a loss due to lower revenue and increased tender cost 
linked to refocusing to selected on-shore markets. The movement 
in the sector order book of a decrease of €945 million mainly came 
from negative currency effects, the project cancellation in Belgium 
in the first quarter and adverse market conditions in Belgium and 
International oil and gas. The order book in the UK reduced. The 
percentage of the UK revenue for 2017 secured at year end was 
slightly lower compared to prior year.
PPP
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Revenue 197 185
Adjusted result before tax 17.1 18.7
Order book 342 558
Average invested equity 103 97
Return on equity (%) 16.6 19.3
The sector PPP had another good year providing a stable adjusted 
result before tax and maintaining a healthy return on equity.
The result was primarily driven by good operational project 
performance within the growing portfolio, successful refinancing 
of a number of projects and asset management profits on 
transfers to the joint venture with PGGM.
The continued success of the joint venture is reflected by PGGM’s 
decision in 2016 to further increase its commitment. The total 
committed funding for the joint venture is now €775 million.
Whilst no new projects were added to the portfolio this year and 
the number of bid decisions expected in 2017 is somewhat 
reduced from previous years, the pipeline of active and imminent 
bids remains healthy with three major tenders having commenced 
in the final quarter of 2016 along with a steady flow of new 
opportunities that are scheduled to commence throughout 2017. Business line results
With effect from 2016, BAM has changed its reporting sectors to 
align with its implemented updated strategy. The ten operating 
companies now report as three sectors: Construction and 
Property, Civil Engineering and PPP. The Construction and 
Property activities are now managed and reported as one 
integrated business line. In addition, construction activities in 
Ireland, Belgium and at BAM International have been reclassified 
from Civil engineering to Construction and Property. Comparative 
figures for previous year have been adjusted. The reporting sector 
PPP remains unchanged.
Construction and Property
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2016 2015
Revenue 4,124 4,202
Adjusted result before tax 3.5 15.1
Margin (%) 0.1 0.4
Order book 6,264 6,559
In Construction and Property revenue was €4,124 million, which 
was lower by €78 million compared to 2015 due to the impact of 
the pound sterling (-€157 million). Revenue rose in the UK, Ireland 
and the Netherlands. There was a shortfall in revenues in Germany 
due to project postponements and refocusing the activities on 
targeted regions. Revenue in Belgium reduced because of fewer 
property transactions.
The total sector result was €3.5 million including a property 
development result of €26.7 million, mainly from commercial 
property in the UK and Ireland. The Dutch non-residential 
Construction and Property restored profitability in 2016. In 
Germany, there was a loss of €33.3 million from lower volumes, 
settlements at older projects and subcontractor bankruptcies. 
This business is expected to be profitable in 2017. At Dutch 
residential Construction and Property, house sales (2,158) were 
broadly in line with the prior year (2,187). Despite growing 
demand for new build houses, development opportunities were 
limited by reduced planning and zoning capacity at municipalities. 
Margins here remained low.
The year-end order book was lower by €295 million, mostly 
caused by the weaker pound (€236 million), and market 
conditions in Dutch non-residential. The order book in the UK was 
slightly down on a constant currency basis. The order book in 
other countries was higher. 
The total investment in property reduced by €110 million to €630 
million at the end of 2016. These investments were financed by 
€69 million recourse property loans (year-end 2015: €80 million) 
and €86 million non recourse property loans (year-end 2015: €116 
million).2016  – 55
2019
18At the end of 2016 the number of PPP projects in the portfolio 
was 44 of which BAM PPP retains an interest in 40; for the 
remaining 4 projects only asset management services are 
provided by BAM PPP.
Two projects reached financial close in 2016:
• A94 road (A94), Germany
• N25 road (N25), Ireland
BAM PPP’s projects are spread across BAM’s European markets 
with revenue based mainly on the availability criterion. 
The ratio of accommodation to civil engineering projects is also 
balanced, although civil engineering projects are often greater 
in size.
The joint venture with PGGM made good progress during 2016, 
with the investment in two new projects. The joint venture 
provides BAM PPP with the twin benefits of a strong position 
from which to pursue further projects and a stable platform 
within which equity can be made available for new investments.
Strategy
BAM PPP harnesses the strengths, experience and expertise 
within Royal BAM Group, coordinating the provision of lifecycle 
solutions for the benefit of public-sector clients. The company 
focuses on BAM’s European home markets where the Group has 
proven construction and maintenance skills and expertise.
Its strategy aims to grow the portfolio to provide short-term 
construction turnover, long-term Facility Management and 
lifecycle turnover, equity investment returns and asset 
management income.
Market
The PPP markets continue to offer an attractive supply of 
bidding opportunities. Competition continues to be intense and 
is demonstrated by the increased number of competitors at the 
prequalification stage. The bidding opportunities are spread 
reasonably evenly across all of our markets with the exception of 
the UK. Interest in providing long term debt remains strong 
from both bank and institutional lenders for both primary and 
refinancing transactions.
BAM PPP Portfolio financial performance
At year-end 2016, shareholders equity invested by BAM PPP 
totaled €66 million (2015: €72 million). BAM PPP invested
€10 million and transferred €12 million to the BAM PPP PGGM 
joint venture in 2016. BAM PPP does not invest in projects until 
their structural completion, with the shareholders’ equity part 
being financed with a bridging loan.
Committed equity is €120 million, all by the joint venture. 
The invested and committed equity totaled €186 million. 
New projects will mainly be undertaken by the joint venture.2016 – 56Subway station (U-Bahnhof) 
Heinrich-Heine-Allee in 
Düsseldorf, Germany. 
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau.2016  – 57Portfolio financial performance 2016
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Nominal Discounted
Invested equity 66
Committed equity 120
Total invested and committed 
equity (a) 186 165
Future equity cash flows (b) 868 238
Implied forecast unrealised 
value in the portfolio (b) - (a) 73
Sensitivities
The > table below shows the sensitivity of the directors’ valuation 
if all the project discount rates applied are changed 
simultaneously by plus or minus 1 per cent and 2 per cent.
Sensitivity of the directors’ valuation
Discount rate 
adjustment Portfolio valuationDifference in 
valuation
(€ million) (€ million)
+2% 202 -36
+1% 219 -19
0% 238 -
-1% 261 22
-2% 287 48
Directors’ valuation 2016
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Valuation as at December 2015 239
Dividends and distributions received since December 2015 -10
Repayments and divestments since December 2015 -16
Exchange rate movements -8
Rebased December 2015 204
Valuation at December 2016 238
New projects added 15
Revaluation 2016 119
Increase/decrease in portfolio valuation 34
1   The revaluation 2016 consists of a combination of factors including:  
-  The discount unwind (over time, the discounted value increases given that 
the future value is a year closer);
 -  The impact of changes in discount rates applied as projects move into 
operations;
 -  Operational performance gains as a result of factors such as the impact of 
macro-economic changes, higher inflation, better performance, successful 
asset management, changes in demand and revisions to costs.The future asset flow is based on the expected inflow of cash from 
the concessions portfolio for the shareholders’ equity (dividends, 
interest and repayment). The discounted value of this future cash 
inflow is the Director’s valuation and totals €238 million (2015: 
€239 million).
A comparison of the directors’ valuation and the discounted value 
of the invested and committed equity results in an unrealised 
value of the portfolio of €73 million (2015: €77 million). 
Business development
The current portfolio provides BAM PPP with returns on equity 
investments, in addition, as at year-end 2016, to an order book of 
construction turnover of €785 million and Facility Management 
and lifecycle turnover for BAM sister companies of €3.5 billion. 
BAM PPP has in the pipeline 8 active bids, providing potential 
equity investments of €162 million, potential construction 
turnover of €1.4 billion and potential Facility Management 
turnover (excluding lifecycle) of €0.7 billion.
Directors’ valuation
The directors’ valuation is intended to illustrate movements in the 
value of the PPP portfolio during the year taking account of the 
impact of intervening transactions, through the application of a 
consistent methodology. The valuation is based on the forecast 
returns of the projects, based on current projections, and may 
differ significantly from the book value of the investments shown 
in the accounts. Cash flows accruing from projects are calculated 
on the basis of financial models, based on contractual terms with 
clients and have been approved by external lenders. The valuation 
is calculated using the widely acknowledged discounted cash flow 
basis, discounting all future cash flows to BAM PPP at an 
appropriate discount rate. All future cash flows are converted into 
euros. All projects that have reached financial close are taken into 
account; projects for which BAM PPP is the preferred bidder are 
excluded until financial close is achieved.
Discount rates
BAM PPP applies discount rates based on the company’s 
knowledge of the market, the agreed transfer mechanism with 
PGGM, through the joint venture, and the use of a simple project 
phase analysis.
A higher discount rate is applied from financial close through to 
construction completion before stepping it down once into 
operations due to the reduced risk and greater certainty of future 
cash flows. BAM PPP believes this approach is preferable to using 
an adjusted market risk free rate approach as we have the benefit 
of up-to-date market information based on our discussions and 
agreement with PGGM.2016 – 58
21
22
23Acquisitions and divestments
There were no material acquisitions in 2016.
On 26 January 2016 BAM Infra Nederland bv has sold its water 
treatment activities, which formed part of BAM Infra Milieu, to 
SITA  Remediation bv in Utrecht. The transaction refered to the  
four employees, work in progress and plant and water treatment 
equipment. BAM saw insufficient opportunities for further 
development of the water treatment activities and considered 
the added value of this specialisation for the Group limited. 
Furthermore, the transaction was in line with the streamlining 
of the organisation. 
On 19 May 2016, BAM Technics sa in Belgium sold its Walloon 
subsidiary Balteau i.e. (installations électriques) to the management. 
Balteau i.e. is specialised in electrical engineering, high and low 
voltage for public, private and industrial buildings, data cabling, fire 
detection, alarm systems and electric heating. The company was 
founded in 1983 and was part of BAM from 2008. Balteau i.e. has 
more than two hundred employees and an annual turnover of 
approximately €40 million. The transaction also included the four 
affiliates of Balteau i.e., Electro Gdb, TCS Pirotte, Alarme Contrôle 
and Service Partner. BAM saw insufficient synergies to maintain its 
participation in Balteau i.e. and its affiliates.
On 29 August 2016, Royal BAM Group nv reached agreement with 
the management of its construction and properties subsidiary 
Heilijgers about a management buyout. 
The decision to transfer Heilijgers (over 100 employees; revenues 
in 2015 €40 million) to its management was part of BAM’s strategy 
‘Building the present, creating the future’. One aspect of the 
strategy relates to shaping the business portfolio. Among other 
things this includes exiting operational activities that do not offer 
sufficient opportunities to use scale or differentiation as critical 
success factors. The management buyout offers Heilijgers 
opportunities for further growth.
On 18 November 2016 Royal BAM Group nv has signed an 
agreement with VanWonen Vastgoedontwikkeling on the 
proposed sale of a portfolio of all 47 property development 
positions in the north east of the Netherlands. The intended 
transaction is in line with BAM’s strategy, whereby the business 
portfolio is being shaped and the property portfolio is being 
reduced to less than €500 million by 2020. In this context, BAM is 
adjusting the property portfolio by converting residential 
property positions outside the core urban areas into cash and 
using the proceeds to invest in equity light propositions in the 
core urban areas. BAM will remain active in residential and 
non-residential construction and the development of non-
residential property in the north east of the Netherlands.
Adelphi Arts Centre, University of 
Salford. BAM Construct UK.
2016  – 59Where BAM can improve
Despite BAM’s continuing effort to improve safety on its projects, the 
company deeply regrets the sad loss of one BAM employee, one passer 
by and one employee of a subcontractor on a joint venture project. 
The Group faced two fatal accidents in January 2017. As a result the 
upcoming Management Board meeting was combined with the 
international Safety Officer’s meeting which took place in February 
2017. The purpose was to create a specific action plan together that 
should avoid such incidents for the future, on a company level as well 
as on a personal level. Commitment, visible leadership and knowledge 
sharing are a few of the main topics in this plan. BAM is aiming for 
zero accidents, regardless of the severity of the accidents or the 
numbers of hours worked. We are in the process to generate a genuine 
and sustainable safety leadership culture across the senior 
management of the Royal BAM Group. Ambition: to offer added value to clients, employees, business partners and the community
Targets Performance Progress
Fully incorporate safety in daily activities to achieve a  
BAM incident frequency (IF BAM) of 4.5 for 2016 and  
of ≤ 4.0 for 2017.IF BAM of 4.8.   
 BAM values implemented in the operating companies 
in 2017.BAM values discussed with management teams.   
 Leadership development programme for top business 
management in 2019.Analysis of current development programmes in  
operating companies.  
 Olympus: project management development  
programme for top project managers in 2018.Seminars with top project managers. Providers 
for development programmes are selected.   
Enhance one million lives in local communities  
by 2020.Develop a group wide strategy and resource  
(including development of monitoring tools) to  
measure overall social impact across the group.  24
Health and safety
Royal BAM Group feels responsible for all people involved in or 
affected by the activities of the Group. This includes BAM’s 
employees, clients, designers, partners, suppliers, subcontractors, 
buyers and the general public.
Safety
In order to effectively monitor its safety performance, BAM records 
statistics of the following groups:
• BAM employees (all employees with an employment contract 
with the company);
• Consortium/joint venture (all BAM employees, leasing employees, 
self-employed persons and employees of subcontractors and their 
subcontractors who are working for BAM);
• Other/third parties (principal, supervisor, inspector, supplier, 
visitor and so forth). Safety
Human Resources
Enhancing lives
Benchmarking
and sharing outcomeAssessment 
(audit)• Interview questions
•  Assement of records  
and compliance analysis
• Site conditionsReport Improvement plan
• Corrective actions
• Areas of real concernClose out  
and  
final scoreSafety Behaviour Audit Process 25 4.2 Social performance2016 – 602016 – 61
Stakeholder interview
Salim Ismail is an investor, speaker, advisor, entrepreneur 
and strategist. He is author of the bestseller Exponential 
Organizations, founding executive director of Singularity 
University and founder and Chairman of ExO Works. He is 
also co-founder of Confabb, PubSub Concepts and Angstro.
Salim Ismail, Chairman of ExO Works 
What is the most important catalyst for 
further digitalisation in construction? 
‘There are two of them. First, new 
materials, which come from all of these 
new technologies. New technologies allow 
us to radically create new materials very 
quickly. Second, the business model starts 
to get really affected in construction in an 
unexpected way. If you look at the way we 
traditionally do planning and projection of 
construction and how we deal with 
strategic planning, we kind of look out a 
few years and think we will need, for 
example, a certain amount of hotel 
buildings. But then appears Airbnb. 
Suddenly those hotel buildings are not 
needed anymore. So, there are 
unexpected facts that will affect the 
business model of utility, even the one on 
the surface. It seems like a hard industry to 
disrupt.’How do we ensure digitalisation will 
continue to be a theme? 
‘I think this is a very profound effect. We 
are only just getting started. For example, 
ten years ago we had half a billion internet 
connect devices in the world. Now we are 
up to fifteen billion and we will be in a 
trillion in the next few years. That means 
we are only one and a half per cent of 
where we will be in a few years. That 
impact is very profound.’ What role does digitalisation and 
innovation play?
‘Digitalisation is just getting started. There 
will be profound innovation across all 
sectors as many the technologies start 
multiplying, accelerating and intersecting 
at the same time. Each intersection has a 
very dramatic consequence when you 
think for example of the impact of drones 
in construction, prefab and 3D printing. 
They become more and more effective 
and impactful.’
‘Digitalisation is just getting started’Construction of Dubai’s Jebel Ali Port in the United Arab Emirates. 
Construction of 2,240 metres of quay wall, 2,240 metres of land side crane 
beam to accommodate 100-tonne STS cranes as well as a 440-metres long 
access bridge and a 2.6-kilometres causeway to link the new terminal being 
built on an island of reclaimed land to the main port.  
BAM International, BAM Infraconsult.62 – 2016The IF for BAM is determined by the total number of industrial 
accidents leading to absence from work, per million hours worked on 
construction sites (on risk). In 2016 the IF increased to 4.8 (2015: 4.5), 
which is above the 2016 target of 4.5. The number of fatal and serious 
accidents (BAM employees, hired, subcontractors’ employees, other) 
decreased from 153 in 2015 to 127 in total in 2016. An accident is 
classified as serious when an employee is admitted to hospital for 
more than 24 hours or results in electrocution (with enter- and exit 
mark on the body), amputation or a fracture.
Safety Behaviour Audit
With the introduction of the SBA, ‘awareness’ was replaced by 
‘behaviour’. This new type of auditing should lead to an increased 
focus on safety behaviour, commitment and performance, still 
based on an assessment and interviews, leading to a report and 
improvement plan. Moreover, a SBA is not just about safety but it  
is about leadership and behaviour in all parts of the company and 
supply chain. 
Safety Exchange
This customised knowledge exchange, introduced in 2016, is an 
open dialogue between two operating companies that focusses on 
a debate for challenging and learning (themes from the safety 
maturity model, see next paragraph) in which they have to come 
up with solutions together. 
2016 was a year of developing and learning to work with SBAs and 
SEs, in order to launch these new types of dialogue officially in 2017.
Maturity model
Based on twelve leading (safety) indicators, all of BAM’s operating 
companies except for BAM PPP are measured on the subjects:
1. Visual leadership/Ambition;
2. Enforcement/Intervene;
3. Communication;
4. Continuous improvement/Innovation;
5. Training and development;
6. Supply chain management;
7. Tender risk management;
8. BIM/Safety by design;
9. Logistics and traffic management plan;Safety Exchange Process
Determine  
visitor and host  
by CSO.Appointment of 
champion to 
organise Exchange.Purpose, agenda 
and outcomes 
agreed by 
participants.Visitors should 
be operational but 
yet influential 
colleagues.Hosts should be  
the ‘believers’.Short and simple 
report. Outcomes 
will be shared 
widely. Follow-up  
will be monitored. 26
10. Method statement;
11. WASP/Partner plan;
12. Briefings/Encouragement.
By connecting two operating companies regarding one leading 
indicator, the set-up is made for each Safety Exchange.
Reporting
As of 1 October 2016 reporting was extended with adding high 
potential near hit/miss incidents. Creating uniform safety 
reporting across all operating companies is one of the strategic 
objectives, which enables access to the right management 
information.
BAM is still in the process of enhancing the reporting process for 
worked hours of subcontractors. The Group strives to obtain 
reliable information by implementing automated on-site entrance 
systems as tourniquets, fingerprint readers, iris scans and card 
systems.
When a fatal industrial accident occurs, involving a BAM employee 
or a subcontractor, the following actions take place:
1. The operating company informs the Executive Board and the 
Corporate Safety Officer (CSO) directly after the accident;
2. The first details of the accident are communicated within 
24 hours of the accident;
3. No later than the day following the fatal accident, a message 
will be published on BAM’s intranet;
4. If the accident occurred in Western Europe, the COO, assisted 
by the CSO, will pay a visit to the operating company within 
15 days after the accident;
Dilemma: 
Due to economic pressures on tenders, main contractors often 
work with competitively priced sub-contractors or hired site 
personnel with whom a relationship of trust and ability has not 
been formed. Without the correct checks and processes in 
place, this could result in fewer safety measures, equipment or 
checks required to protect workers. BAM considers it 
unacceptable to reduce cost at the expense of health and 
safety measures, both for our own employees and our project 
partners. 2016  – 63Safety dialogue
The board game ‘The Ultimate Match’ was especially 
developed to enable employees and subcontractors 
to start a safety dialogue on Safety Day in an informal 
setting. Group-wide, many gaming sessions took 
place, which were well attended and received by 
the participants. Through serious gaming, BAM and 
subcontractor employees created an environment 
in which they could give constructive and honest 
feedback and – equally important – which left room 
for follow-ups on issues and ideas.5. For accidents occurring outside Western Europe: video- 
conference; 
6. Three weeks after the accident a ‘safety start’ takes place in 
the country where the fatality occurred; A safety presentation/ 
bulletin has been produced highlighting the lessons learned 
and who must have intervened. This has to be briefed out to 
all operatives.
More insidious than the fatal and serious industrial accidents is the 
number of workers who suffer impaired health or long-term illness 
caused or made worse at work. Many of these illnesses only 
manifest themselves years after exposure and many are ultimate 
fatal. BAM believes that all injuries, deaths and illnesses can and 
should be prevented. BAM is in the process of setting minimum 
health management requirements. Within ENCORD, Europe’s 
forum for industry-led research, development and innovation in 
the construction industry, the Group has put on the agenda 
research and development regarding quartz dust and asbestos 
inhalation, diabetes and skin cancer.
Worldwide BAM Safety Day 
The seventh Safety Day was 
held on 11 October 2016. 
The starting point remained 
to improve BAM’s safety 
results at all construction sites, worldwide. Involvement of 
construction site employees and, not least, BAM management is 
crucial to get the message trough. However, some 75 per cent of 
the employees at the average BAM site are employed by 
subcontractors. This means the performance of these colleagues 
has a major impact on the safety performance of the companies 
project teams. Explicitly involving BAM’s subcontractors in the 
Safety Day therefore was a logical step towards improving the 
Group-wide safety results. The key objective of the ‘one team, one 
mission’ theme was to raise awareness about the crucial role of 
subcontractors in projects and – in line with the updated strategic 
agenda – emphasising the importance of cooperating, sharing 
knowledge and learning from each other. 
Health
BAM's vitality and health policy and procedures contribute to 
sustainable employability. The policy is based on a shared 
responsibility between employer and employee and has resulted 
in a decreasing trend in BAM’s absenteeism figures over the past 
years.
 
The vitality and health policy is focused on: 
1. Prevention: promote health and well-being and increase 
awareness.
2. Control: active guidance is provided by managers and case 
managers to reduce absenteeism, disability and ill health 
incapacity and promote responsible reintegration. Group Incident Frequency (IF)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 20150369
4.8
(lost days 5,642)27
Incident frequency (IF) by country 28
Ireland 0.9 (lost days: 3)United Kingdom 1.6
(lost days: 245)Germany 8.8
(lost days: 1,744)
Rest of the world 0.2 (lost days: 76)0510152530
2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 2015Belgium 27.8
(lost days: 2,645)
The Netherlands 5.8
(lost days: 2,153)
Worldwide
Safety Day 2016
One Team, One Mission2016 – 64Revenue according to Corruption Perception Index  
country 
(in %)Absenteeism (number of sick days as a percentage  
of total number of available days)
30
01020304050607080
Very low risk
CPI >80Low risk
80≥ CPI >60Average risk
60≥ CPI >40High risk
40≥ CPI >20Very high risk
CPI ≤201213141516 1213141516 1213141516 1213141516 12131415161879
02129
2345
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20162.83.2
BAM joins Girls’ Day to promote technology sector
On 14 April more than ten thousand girls and three 
hundred companies participated in the seventh 
edition of Girls’ Day in the Netherlands. BAM Infra 
hosted girls at project Rotterdamsebaan, Asphalt 
Plant The Hague and Schiphol Airport.
The project team participating in the day scheduled 
an introduction of BAM, a presentation on the 
Rotterdamsebaan, applying BIM/3D, augmented 
reality and experiencing virtual reality. The group 
continued with a visit to the Asphalt Plant The 
Hague, where the girls were taught the ins and outs 
of asphalt. At Schiphol the refurbishment of one of 
the landing strips was part of the programme. It was 
exciting to enthuse young girls for the technology 
sector and perhaps later to welcome them as future 
BAM colleagues. Girls’ Day is organised by VHTO 
(national knowledge centre girls/women and beta/
technics), to introduce girls aged ten to fifteen years 
to science, technology and ICT. BAM initiated a building performance strategy to evaluate social, 
economic and environmental performance of its buildings. 
Discovering the relationship between the Indoor Environmental 
Quality (IEQ) and health and wellbeing (and productivity) creates 
an opportunity to help clients to consider better, sustainable 
design options in an early stage. IEQ refers to the quality of a 
building’s environment in relation to the health and wellbeing of 
those who occupy space within it.
Business conduct and transparency
In 2013, the code of conduct of BAM was modernised. The signed 
agreement with the Building and Woodworkers’ International 
promoted inclusion of human rights into the norms and values of 
BAM and aligned to other regulations such as the UK Bribery Act. 
New employees are required to sign a declaration of adherence to 
this code as part of their employment agreement with BAM. An 
e-learning tool has been launched to train and remind employees 
of these values and standards. The training is available in English, 
German and Dutch and has an obligatory character for all new 
BAM employees. By the end of 2016, 6,000 employees have 
completed the training, compared to 2,598 in 2015. In 2016 the 
number of completed trainings has increased due to a renewed 
focus on business conduct. The largest growth comes from the 
Dutch operating companies, others will further implement the tool 
in 2017. 
In 2016 the Group started to strengthen the governance on 
compliance within the company. Two compliance officers’ meetings 
were organised. The purpose of the two meetings was to share 
knowledge and to get to know the new developed tools and policies 
like the bribery policy, competition policy, the internal misconduct 
reporting procedure, the new SpeakUp-line and the new developed 
internal reporting. The new roles of compliance officer and 
confidential officer were also discussed and the compliance officers 
shared dilemmas they came across in their roles.
During the fourth quarter of 2016 BAM finalised its planning to 
complete outstanding actions to ensure compliance is embedded in 
the organisation. A communication toolkit is being created to help 
the compliance officers to implement the new developed tools in 
the operating companies.2016  – 65In 2016 no legal actions were reported by operating companies to 
BAM's headoffice for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and 
monopoly practices or corruption. 
Corruption index
The Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is calculated annually  
by Transparency International, which focuses on strict 
implementation of the UN Convention against Corruption.  
The CPI classifies countries according to their perceived level  
of corruption on a scale from 0 to 100. BAM achieves the majority of 
its turnover in countries with a Corruption Perception Index score 
higher than 80, i.e. in countries with a very low risk of corruption.
Responsible tax
Corporate income tax, taxes on wages, social security 
contributions, and VAT are also considered relevant taxes in 
relation to the turnover that BAM makes in the areas where it 
works. In 2016, BAM increased its transparency on tax payments 
by adopting public county-by-county reporting for the first time. 
These taxes provide good comparability in BAM's home countries 
and the rest of the world. Under these categories BAM’s taxes 
amount to €783 million. Relative to BAM’s turnover, the share of 
taxes paid deviates most from the share of turnover in the 
Netherlands. Here, BAM’s share of taxes is relatively high 
compared to turnover.
In October 2016, the Dutch Association of Investors for 
Sustainable Development (VBDO), published a comparative study 
on tax transparency of 68 Dutch listed companies. BAM ranked 
ninth in overall ranking of companies. Tax is vital to society and by 
paying taxes companies contribute to society. BAM recognises 
that fair distribution of tax revenues is a key factor in fostering the 
business climate and economic growth that both multinational 
companies and societies need to thrive.
For more information on responsible tax, visit the website 
www.bam.com.
Taxes paid in 2016
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
 
Taxes %Turnover %
Netherlands 404 52 2,531 36
United Kingdom 200 26 2,185 31
Belgium 47 6 743 11
Germany 89 11 732 10
Ireland 18 2 281 4
Rest of the world 25 3 504 7
Total 783 100 6,976 10031Employee recruitment, development and retention
The new 2016-2020 strategy has been the starting point for BAM’s 
HR initiatives in 2016. The new HR strategy has been developed in 
several sessions with the ten HR directors representing all 
operating companies. The focus of the strategy is to have similar 
processes and exploit synergies across the Group. The important 
HR areas for business support are insights and development from 
BAM's people, recruiting new talent, compensation and benefits, 
and HR people support and data insights.
 
Continuous organisational development
The complexity of the world asks for continuous improvements 
and different ways of working. Therefore the organisation needs 
to be as agile as possible. Constant changes in different parts of 
the organisation are expected to be able to deliver the best 
products. Change will be the norm and communication is 
important. With the aim for further improving communication, 
2017 will see the introduction of a European Works Council.
Culture
In defining the unique BAM culture and determining how to steer 
the culture in the strategic direction, the Group is enabled by the 
four values as written in the BAM strategy: predictable 
performance, scalable learning, pro-active ownership and open 
collaboration. Living the values and the culture will be an 
important theme for 2017, and BAM has made a start in 2016 by 
discussing the culture and values and how to integrate them in 
the daily work of BAM’s employees.
Recruitment
The recruitment of new employees provides the perfect 
opportunity to diversify the workforce and find potential talent 
with different capabilities, various degrees of experience and 
different genders, nationalities and cultural backgrounds. 
Together, they can help BAM mirror its client base and execute its 
strategic agenda. Therefore the Group took all job and candidate 
profiles under evaluation in 2016. This will support BAM’s search 
for the best fitting talent. To attract talent BAM works on 
employer branding standards and better applicant experience.2016 – 662016 – 67
Stakeholder interview
Naam/functie
2015 – 67
Stakeholder interview
What is the most important catalyst for 
further sustainable development in 
construction?
‘Sustainability in construction covers a lot 
of different aspects: in a narrow view it 
focuses on the delivering of green 
buildings to clients and users, in a holistic 
approach it includes all activities of a 
construction company. Thus, companies 
will always have to look in detail at the 
location and the client of a building as well 
as the local market conditions to find out 
what drives sustainability under given 
circumstances. Costs, however, are often 
mentioned as a general key barrier for 
further sustainable development 
overlooking the fact that there is a 
growing evidence that this does not 
necessarily have to be the case.I think that above all the most important 
catalysts to promote the necessary 
transformation in construction will be 
information and inspiration: We need more 
reliable data to fully understand the 
financial implications of a more sustainable 
run construction business and more best 
practice examples to facilitate the 
embedding of sustainability into business 
practice.’
How do we ensure sustainability will 
continue to be a theme – and what role 
does digitalisation and innovation play?
‘I am convinced that innovation and 
digitalisation will lead to more 
sustainability in construction, concerning 
both products and processes. 
From the product view, data in a building 
model can be used to take a whole-life view of buildings, for example concerning 
carbon performance or operating costs, 
leading to better and more sustainable 
design decisions especially at the start of  
a project. 
From the process view, the use of a 
building model will promote 
communication and collaboration 
between design specialists, contractors, 
clients and suppliers, helping construction 
companies to win over partners in the 
value chain and create greater productivity 
during the design and construction phase.
In consequence, digitalisation and 
innovation will help companies to deliver 
buildings that provide greater satisfaction, 
well-being and value to the client as well as 
it will help them being more profitable and 
competitive.’Prof. Dr.-Ing. Siri Krauß,  
Hochschule für Technik, Stuttgart Siri Krauß is a professor at the University for Technology 
in Stüttgart. She works at the Faculty of Civil 
Engineering, Building Physics and Economics. Among 
other things she’s specialised in the fields construction 
management and construction industry.
‘Information and inspiration are key for a necessary 
transformation in construction’Underground bike park 
Mahlerplein, Amsterdam. 
BAM Infra.68 – 2016Diversity
Diversity is a continuous focus since the construction industry has 
a low level of emancipation. A good signal on diversity comes 
from BAM's young graduates programme in the Netherlands. This 
was almost balanced at year-end: seven female and eight male 
participants. Diversity at senior levels has our attention, but 
shows only limited progress. The definition of diversity in senior 
roles extends beyond gender diversity, and calls for more 
attention to cultural backgrounds, differences in experiences and 
age diversity in the formation of project teams or in external 
recruitment.
Talent development
A talent review process was conducted with the boards of all 
operating companies to discuss current and future needed 
capabilities for BAM. The key business and project managers were 
discussed in terms of leadership, succession and opportunities for 
development. In follow-up meetings progress, talent exchange 
opportunities and short-term succession goals were discussed.
Attracting young graduates remains crucial to BAM. The existing 
Dutch graduate programme was refined and a move was made 
towards a single BAM graduate programme for the benefit of all 
home markets. The young talent career proposition was 
complemented with a finance graduate programme.
Internal (international) mobility will be supported to support 
internal learning by sharing.
BAM participates at EuroPride Canal Parade
BAM participated as a first construction company 
ever (together with Arcadis, Schiphol Airport, 
Rijkswaterstaat and Shell) in the 2016 EuroPride 
Canal Parade on the canals of Amsterdam. EuroPride 
is a pan-European international event dedicated to 
LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) pride. 
The motto of the BAM boat was ‘Building Diversity’. 
With this participation BAM emphasises again the 
importance of diversity within the company. Dressed 
with colorful helmets and safety jackets everyone 
on the boat celebrated (together with an audience 
of approximately 560,000 people) the freedom and 
acceptance of being whoever you are. Female employees by region
(in % of total employees) 
2016 2015
Netherlands 11 11
United Kingdom 24 23
Belgium 11 10
Germany 21 21
Ireland 26 25
Rest of the world 5 4
Employees per gender by employment type
(in %)
  
 2016  2015  2016  2015
Full-time 95 96 57 56
Part-time 5 4 43 44
Employees per employment contract  
by gender in 2016
(in %)
 permanent contract temporary contract
91 9
89 11
Employees per employee category  
by gender in 2016
(in %) 
Senior 
managementMiddle 
managementOperational 
staff
7 9 16
93 91 84
Employees by age group
(in %) 
Age group 2016 2015
<20 1 1
20-29 13 15
30-39 24 25
40-49 27 27
50-59 26 24
≥60 9 832
33
34
35
362016  – 69Annual total compensation by country
 
 (in ratio of the annual total compensation for the  
organisation’s highest-paid individual to the average  
annual total compensation for all employees (excluding  
the highest-paid individual))
2016 2015
Ratio of percentage
Increase ratio ratio
Netherlands 3% 14 13
United Kingdom -9% 7 7
Belgium 26% 8 6
Germany 7% 7 6
Ireland -7% 6 6
Rest of the world 9% 25 23Project Olympus, developing BAM’s senior project managers
BAM’s project managers are fundamental to the success of BAM. 
In order to be our clients’ partner of choice we need the most 
talented project and tender managers. To achieve this ambition 
the Group-wide Project Olympus was initiated. Project Olympus 
aims to recognise and develop BAM’s project managers and offer 
them rewarding career propositions. In order to realise this the 
Group designed a project management development programme 
and started a pilot to establish a project management community 
network for knowledge sharing and Group-wide collaboration. In 
several seminars BAM brought together project managers to 
connect and to share their views and experiences on leadership, 
personal development and knowledge sharing. The outcomes will 
be used as valuable input for future initiatives.
Employee engagement
During two meetings, one in spring and one in autumn, around
hundred staff from all parts of the Group to discuss the strategy 
and share initiatives. Sharing ideas has led to Group connections 
and scalable learning: not reinventing the wheel but sharing 
shows the opportunities of being ‘one BAM’.
Annual total compensation by country
In 2016 the rounded ratios for annual total compensation of BAM’s 
highest paid individual to the average annual total compensation 
for all employees remained at the same level as in 2015, except in 
Germany. Here, the ratio decreased from seven to six, which 
means that the average salary increased more than the salary 
increase of the highest paid individual. The ratio of percentage 
increased in the Netherlands and decreased in Belgium and 
Germany.
The relatively high ratio for BAM’s international business can be 
explained by the fact that Dutch management members work 
together with local workforce, thereby explaining the difference 
in salary standards.38
Average hours of training per employee 
0510152025
2012 2011 2013 2014 2016 201520
1437
BAM leader of Cobouw construction employer 
ranking
BAM is leading the 2016 Dutch Cobouw construction 
employer ranking in the engineering branch. 
Participants of the survey had to motivate their 
answer and explain why they think an organisation 
is a favorable employer. One of the main arguments 
to work for a company is the size of the company, 
interesting and/or challenging projects and the brand 
image of the employer. According to the respondents 
there are six factors that influence the choice of 
employer: primary employment conditions, work-life 
balance, interesting positions, job security, variation 
in work and growth opportunities. 2016 – 70Award. BAM Construct UK uses the London Benchmarking Model 
(www.lbg-online.net) to quantitatively measure the monetary 
value of its community efforts. In 2016, over €558,463 (£454,036) 
was invested into the communities surrounding BAM Construct 
UK’s projects, which benefitted over 20,000 people.
BAM Construct UK continued to use an apprentice-tracking tool 
to document the number of young people gaining expertise on its 
sites. In 2016, over 390 apprentices and over 50 trainees have 
gained over 24,000 days of site experience on BAM projects.
Procurement
BAM uses a tool to measure supplier performance. During project 
preparation, implementation and follow-up, the tool assesses 
suppliers against the themes safety, quality, total cost, logistics 
and engineering and process. Operating companies are at liberty 
to add any specific criteria. On a scale of 1 to 4, each supplier has 
to score at least 3 for each criterion. In 2016 a total of 4,198 
supplier performance assessments were carried out.
Human rights
In 2006, BAM and the international federation Building and Wood 
Workers’ International (BWI), signed a framework agreement to 
promote and protect employee rights. On 26 May 2015, a 
delegation of BWI and trade union organisations FNVBouw STICC 
visited the BAM project site of Hoog Catharijne in Utrecht, the 
Netherlands. No anomalies were detected in any of the areas that 
have been assessed by the BWI. A report, issued by FNVBouw 
confirmed this and stated that, among other things, there is an 
extensive safety programme on site, employment is freely chosen, 
there is no discrimination in employment, child labour is not used, 
working conditions are decent, safety representatives are chosen 
and the employment relationship is established. 
In September 2017 this delegation will visit a BAM project site 
in Dubai. Special attention will be paid to:
• The safety programme on site; 
• Migrant workers; 
• Recruitment policies;
• Working conditions;
• Discrimination.
Combatting slavery
BAM is currently finalising a statement of compliance with The 
Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK), publishing its commitment to 
combatting slavery and human trafficking throughout its 
operations and those associated with its business, for example 
within its supply chain.Enhancing lives
As part of its strategy, BAM has initiated a target around 
enhancing lives by 2020. This consists of:
• Acknowledging the benefits it provides to local communities;
• Education and skills;
• Charity partnerships;
• Generally by enhancing the lives of its workforce.
In order to start measuring this social value, BAM has started a 
cross company steering group to understand the maturity of BAM 
in different operating countries and to make a roadmap to 
develop a consistent methodology and reporting framework. 
Ultimately BAM wants to demonstrate the added value it provides 
to society through its operations.
Community engagement progress 
In 2016, local community engagement programmes that measure 
and manage the impact of building projects on the local 
environment were implemented in 33 per cent of BAM’s 
operations. These were initiatives as part of existing programmes, 
such as the Considerate Constructors Scheme (CCS), Bewuste 
Bouwers and Making TIME for Communities, as well as unique 
initiatives of engagement managers on projects and site-specific 
sponsoring or charity work.
Considerate Constructors Scheme
CCS fosters good communication with the local community and 
promotes professionalism on building sites. Both BAM Construct 
UK and BAM Nuttall in the United Kingdom are associate 
members of the CCS. Construction sites registered under the CCS 
scheme are monitored to ensure that they comply with the Code 
of Considerate Practice developed to promote good practice, 
going beyond legal requirements.
Bewuste Bouwers
Based on the success of the UK Considerate Constructions 
Scheme, BAM was one of the companies that introduced the 
scheme Bewuste Bouwers in the Netherlands in 2009. After five 
years of BAM participation, Bewuste Bouwers decided to involve 
BAM in a further roll-out of the scheme. During 2016, 78 sites 
were registered under the scheme in the Netherlands (2015: 78).
Making TIME for Communities
BAM Construct UK continued its commitment to targeting the 
social issues highlighted in the Making TIME for Communities 
strategy. For the fourth year running, BAM Construct UK’s 
community initiatives were award winning, with the Coventry and 
Warwickshire Construction Shared Apprenticeship Scheme 
winning two awards. The scheme, which is a unique public/private 
partnership between Coventry City Council, BAM Construct UK 
and local colleges, won the Partnership Initiative of the Year 2016  – 71Terminal 3, Julius Nyerere 
International Airport, 
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.  
BAM International.
BAM International refurbishes local school at 
Kilimanjaro Airport
BAM International demonstrated its social 
engagement at the primary school in Ngurdoto, 
Tanzania. The school, which provides education to 
approximately 850 children, was in a deplorable 
state. The sanitary facilities – only ten toilets and 
no connection to a sewer system – as well as eleven 
classrooms, were in a deplorable state. Sanne 
de Haan, student engineer, has drawn up a plan, 
including a cost estimate, for a thorough overhaul 
including an added veranda, an upgrade of the 
kitchen building and the construction of two to four 
new classrooms. The works will be executed under 
supervision of a local contractor. 72 – 20162016 – 73
Stakeholder interview
What is the most important catalyst for 
further digitalisation in construction?
‘Competitive advantage is the single most 
important catalyst for a construction 
company’s decision to go fully digital. 
Given the high revenue, high risk and low 
margin nature of the industry, every point 
of efficiency and quality gained by better 
connecting teams to the right information 
is significant. Digitalisation is proven to 
deliver better outcomes, but it’s really only 
the first step in the improvement of the 
entire project lifecycle from design to 
handover. The move to digital begins with 
Building Information Modelling (BIM). It is 
no longer is an option, but rather a 
requirement to remain relevant in a rapidly 
evolving industry. Beyond that, extending 
BIM to the field through cloud-based 
collaboration solutions creates additional opportunities. Once construction teams 
become fully digital, the opportunities for 
increased profit margins and the reduction 
of risk become endless.’
How do we ensure digitalisation will 
continue to be a theme?
‘At a time when every industry, from 
transportation to retail to healthcare, is 
being redefined by technology, the 
digitalisation of the construction industry 
is an ongoing theme and doesn’t need 
much encouragement.’ 
What role does digitalisation and 
innovation play?
‘Innovation emerges from the exploration 
and connection of multiple ideas. We are 
only now starting to see the full potential 
of connectivity, infinite compute power and big data to generate insights 
alternatives. We are just scratching the 
surface of the difference that machine 
learning, artificial intelligence, generative 
design, robotics, 3D printing and new 
materials will bring to the world of 
construction.’Amar Hanspal has been Senior Vice President of Autodesk 
Product Group since 2015. He oversees the Autodesk’s core 
cloud platform (Autodesk 360) and the full range of Building 
Information Modelling products for the Architecture, 
Engineering & Construction Collection®.
Amar Hanspal, Senior Vice President  
at Autodesk
‘Digitalisation of the construction industry  
is an ongoing theme’
Targets Performance in 2016 Progress
To achieve 25 per cent relative emissions reduction 
scope 1, 2 and 3 by 2020.BAM reduced CO2 emissions from 230  kilotonnes  
in 2015 to 203 kilotonnes in 2016, a reduction of 
12 per cent.  
To be included in the CDP Climate A List Leadership 
Index by achieving performance band A.In 2016 BAM was included in the CDP Climate A List,  
and achieved a performance score of A.   
Deliver at least one product or service contributing  
to wider emissions reduction (zero carbon product).Develop a group wide reporting methodology to capture 
low carbon solutions for BAM's projects. Disseminate and 
encourage wider adoption across the Group.  
To aspire zero construction waste in 2025. BAM reduced construction and office waste from 
161 kilotonnes in 2015 to 148 kilotonnes in 2016, 
a significant reduction of 8  per cent.  
Deliver at least one BAM circular project, product  
or service in each operating company by 2020.Develop a group wide reporting methodology to capture 
circular projects, products and services. Disseminate and 
encourage wider adoption across the Group.  
Source 100 per cent sustainable timber by 2020. BAM verified 98 per cent sustainable certified timber in 
the Netherlands and 92 per cent in the United Kingdom.   
Where we can improve
In general, the nature of BAM’s business means that greenhouse 
gasses are emitted, for instance in the production of asphalt. BAM  
can further reduce the emissions from its asphalt plants by producing 
more low-energy asphalt (LEAB). Furthermore, BAM should intensify  
its engagement with suppliers on responsible sourcing, for instance on 
the use and disclosure of sustainable timber and concrete.
In a circular economy, there is the potential for one hundred per cent 
of all construction materials to be re-purposed or reused throughout 
the value chain. In 2016 BAM managed to reuse 91 per cent of its 
waste as construction materials. By working with its supply chain, 
there is an opportunity for BAM to find more useful purposes than 
landfill or incineration for the remaining 9 per cent of BAM’s waste.
Climate positive
The construction industry has many fuel-intensive processes. To 
monitor its emissions, BAM measures its carbon footprint using 
the greenhouse gas (GHG) protocol. The Group’s carbon footprint 
and its carbon intensity depend largely on the type, the phase and 
the location of projects in the reporting year. The largest impact 
on climate change of BAM’s activities occurs in the operational 
phase of its products, after completion of construction. In 2016 BAM developed a new sustainability strategy for the years 
2020 and beyond. The vision of BAM is to have a positive impact 
on climate change. To measure progress, the Group’s new 2020 
reduction target on CO2 emissions intensity is 25 per cent 
compared to 2015 levels (scope 1, 2 and 3). BAM’s carbon 
footprint in 2016 was calculated based on energy consumption of 
all operating companies worldwide as a consequence of direct and 
indirect CO2 emissions from business activities. In 2016 BAM 
emitted 203 kilotonnes CO2 (2015: 230 kilotonnes). BAM’s carbon 
footprint fell by 12 per cent compared to 2015. The CO2 intensity, 
decreased by 6 per cent to 29.1 tonnes CO2 per million euro 
(2015: 30.9 tonnes CO2 per million euro). BAM's energy intensity 
was 0.43 TJ per million turnover (2015: 0.45 TJ/mio).Ambition: to achieve a net positive impact on climate and natural resourcesClimate positive
Resource positive
The vision of BAM is to have  
a net positive impact on the 
environment. To measure progress 
the Group’s new 2020 reduction 
target on CO2 emissions intensity  
is 25 per cent compared to 2015.2016 – 74
4.3 Environmental performance
39The GHG protocol differentiates between three scopes, namely 
emissions directly resulting from a company’s own activities 
(scope 1), indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating 
and cooling (scope 2) and indirect emissions in the value chain 
(scope 3). BAM measures all material scope 1 and 2 emissions, and 
just a few scope 3 travel related emissions. Scope 1 CO2 emissions 
form the majority of BAM’s total CO2 emissions (82 per cent). BAM 
aims to start measuring a wider range of scope 3 emissions. In 
2017 an assessment will be made to understand more fully BAM’s 
wider CO2 impacts (via supply chain) on projects and where the 
Group has the greatest opportunities to make reductions.
CO2 emissions per business line
(in kilotonnes)Total absolute CO2 emissions
(in kilotonnes)40
050100150200250300203
Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 212 13 14 15 16
41
PPP and 
otherCivil 
engineeringConstruction 
and Property12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 1637164
2
050100150200250
Silent power at the Kilimanjaro airport project
Diesel-guzzling power generators have been very 
quiet at the Kilimanjaro International Airport 
rehabilitation project: with the help of the local power 
supply company, BAM International has found a much 
more sustainable alternative. Some 80,000 tonnes 
of asphalt are going into the largest element of the 
project: paving the runway, aprons and taxiways. For 
this purpose, BAM has purchased a mobile asphalt 
plant, which was delivered in January 2016. For this 
plant to operate at its optimum, it requires at least a 
three-phase 800 kVA steady power supply, which is 
used to keep the machine running as well as to fire 
the burners that heat the aggregates and the heating 
elements to melt bitumen. The team invested in a 
grid connection and decided to use existing power 
facility rather than several large diesel generators. 
Since then, the stand-by diesel generators on site 
have lain idle and silent. The project is now 50 per 
cent complete and 40,000 tonnes of asphalt have 
been mixed. A very innovative approach resulting 
in a quieter construction site and a reduction in fuel 
consumption of 250,000 litres or 660 tonnes of 
CO2 emissions over the lifetime of the project.2016  – 75BAM Construct UK launches new business unit 
BAM Energy
A new trading company within BAM – BAM Energy 
Ltd – was launched in February to finance sustainable 
energy solutions. Investing in renewable energy can 
be daunting and expensive for clients. BAM Energy 
offers them a solution. Bringing together expertise 
from every business unit in designing, installing, 
running and maintaining energy-efficient systems, a 
company can now also finance the projects.
BAM Energy funds the design and installation of 
sustainable energy systems (such as biomass 
heating systems, Combined Heat and Power (CHP), 
photovoltaics (PVs) or heat pumps) on behalf of a 
client during the construction phase of a new 
building. The cost is then recovered over an agreed 
period of time through a power purchase 
agreement, whereby the client buys its power from 
BAM Energy at a competitive rate. CO2 emissions intensity 
(in tonnes per €1 million revenue)
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20051015202530354023.229.1
BAM initiates energy reduction measures to constantly reduce its 
footprint. This is also driven by the European energy efficiency 
directive (EED). This regulation establishes a set of binding 
measures to help the EU reach its 20 per cent energy efficiency 
target by 2020. Individual EU countries have set their own 
indicative national energy efficiency targets, which also impact 
BAM. In response, BAM made several studies of its energy 
consumption to identify ways to reduce it. In 2016, emissions 
from BAM’s offices decreased by 8 per cent compared to 2015 as a 
result of an almost complete shift towards renewable electricity 
use in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, the merging of 
offices throughout BAM and continued energy efficiency 
improvements. BAM has rebuilt the majority of its Dutch offices 
into open plan shared office spaces using the latest energy-saving 
measures. In 2016 BAM used 123 kWh per square metre in its 
buildings in the Netherlands (2015: 117 kWh*). The CO2 emissions 
intensity of BAM’s office buildings in the Netherlands was 
15.1  kilograms CO2 per square metre (2015: 12.6).
There has also been a decline of emissions at BAM’s vehicle fleet, 
which attributed to 29 per cent of total emissions, and decreased 
by 5 per cent compared to 2015. This is the result of a reduction of 
leased vehicles, an increase of fuel-efficient cars and continued 
programmes for fuel-efficient driving. In 2016, BAM introduced a 
CO2 limit of 120 grams per kilometer for all new cars in its leased 
vehicle fleet. In addition, employees are financially incentivised to 
choose smaller and more fuel-efficient cars below 90 grams per 
kilometer. In April BAM signed the pledge for Cleaner Car 
Contracts. By signing this pledge, BAM underpins the ambition 
for more sustainable mobility. The total current vehicle fleet of 
BAM in the Netherlands consists of 92.5 per cent A or B labels, 
compared to 94.2 per cent in 2015. BAM also deploys electric CO2 emissions per source 
(in kilotonnes)
0326496128160
Vehicle 
ﬂeetAir
travelAsphalt
plantConstruction 
sitesOfﬁces1213141516 1213141516 1213141516 1213141516 121314151629102
759
64243
* correction from 2015 Integrated Report2016 – 76BAM’s activities in getting to grips with the circular economy in 
2016 involved:
•  Working with Horizon 2020’s BAMB (Buildings as Material 
Banks) on the prevention of construction and demolition waste, 
the reduction of virgin resource consumption and the 
development towards a circular economy through industrial 
symbiosis.
• Circular Economy Supply Chain workshops - BAM Construct UK 
and BAM Nuttall held a series of workshops. BAM Construct UK 
has also been commissioned as part of a consortium to work up 
circular economic opportunities for the HS2 rail development in 
the UK. 
• Circular Building - BAM was involved in designing and building a 
circular pavilion in London, the initiation of a 'Circular Building 
Platform' and the development of a portal to enable reuse in 
the built environment.
•  Involvement in committees and programmes: 
 -   The development committee for a circular economy standard 
with the British Standards Institute (BS 8001); 
 -   The Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100 programme.
 -  London Waste and Recycling Board (LWARB) - Circular 
economy steering group engaged in setting a roadmap to 
2036 for circular economy in London (for the London Mayor's 
office). 
 -  The Green Construction Board Circular Economy working 
group.vehicles to reduce fuel consumption, CO2 emissions and air 
pollution. In 2016 more than 5.4 million kilometres were driven 
with the Group’s fully electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid cars.
Emissions from BAM’s construction sites fluctuate heavily due to 
the phase and type of work. Emissions from BAM’s construction 
sites fluctuate heavily due to the phase and type of work. Most 
CO2 emissions are due to civil engineering projects. In 2016 
emissions decreased due to completion of major projects and 
continued energy efficiency measures. An efficient designed 
construction site typically use energy less energy. Innovative 
solutions like smart meters, an early connection to the grid and 
more efficient equipment help to reduce the CO2 output.
In 2016, 20 per cent of BAM’s revenue, approximately €1.4 billion, 
came from projects that have been registered with third-party 
green building or sustainable construction rating organisations, 
such as the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEED) standards, the UK’s Building 
Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method 
(BREEAM), Germany’s Passivhaus standards and other objective 
and third-party standards or BAM’s green building products.
For its actions to reduce CO2 emissions and mitigate the business 
risks of climate change, BAM has been awarded with a position 
on the CDP Climate A List 2016: The CDP Climate Performance 
Leadership Index 2016. The index has been produced at the 
request of 827 investors – who represent more than a third of 
the world’s invested capital – by CDP, the international NGO that 
drives sustainable economies. Information provided by nearly 
5,800 listed companies has been independently assessed against 
CDP’s scoring methodology and ranked accordingly. BAM has 
been awarded an A grade for its climate performance, earning a 
position on this global ranking of corporate efforts to mitigate 
climate change. Since 2012, BAM has been one of the leaders 
regarding transparency on impact on climate change. Only some 
of these companies also show improved climate performance. 
BAM has been on the A list in the last three consecutive years, 
evidence to being among the best performing companies.
Resource positive
BAM is the only major construction member of the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation’s CE100 programme. The Group actively 
works with clients to develop business models for ‘circular 
buildings’, including the ABN Amro pavilion in Amsterdam, of 
which construction began in 2016.
BAM also has a strategic partnership with Autodesk and is actively 
involved in developing BIM applications to help manage the
life-cycle of buildings.
BAM Deutschland builds first Passivhaus hospital
BAM Deutschland and Max Bögl have been awarded 
the contract to build a hospital in Frankfurt Höchst. 
It will be the first hospital built in accordance with 
the sustainability standards of the passive house 
concept. The guidelines for this pilot project have 
been developed by the Passivhaus Institut Darmstadt 
together with Zentrale Errichtungs Gesellschaft (ZEG) 
of Frankfurt. The six-storey building has a total gross 
floor area of 79,000 m2. The hospital will have 664 
beds and will treat of 33,500 patients each year. It 
will have 10 operating rooms and a ‘hybrid’ operating 
room, which will have special equipment for tasks 
such as CT and MRI scans. 2016  – 77Waste production per destination category 
(in %)
020406080100
12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 1691
8
1
Recycling / re-use Waste to energy
incinerationIncineration without
energy recovery / landﬁll45Waste
BAM’s waste typically consists of excavation, demolition, 
construction and office waste. BAM focuses on construction and 
office waste as indicators of operational performance, since these 
outputs are based on the Group’s own processes and 
procurement. All construction and office materials are initially 
brought to BAM’s sites and offices on its behalf, in contrast to 
excavation and demolition waste. Excavation and demolition 
waste are initially present at sites before BAM takes on a project 
and therefore less relevant as indicators of operational 
performance or sustainability; it is merely a part of BAM’s business 
model to efficiently remove these from sites.
Waste production per source  
(in kilotonnes)
Construction and office waste intensity
(in tonnes per €1 million revenue)
05101520253035
12 13 14 15 1621.344
46050100150200250
Construction
waste12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16
Ofﬁce
waste144
4
BAM Construct UK presents its progress on  
BAMB in Brussels - a circular way of building
The BAMB project - Building as material banks, is 
working to realize a new and standardized, circular 
way of building. Through design and circular industrial 
value chains is ensured the materials in buildings 
keep its value. In BAMB, sixteen partners from eight 
European countries are working together. BAMB will 
enable a systemic shift where dynamically and flexibly 
designed buildings can be incorporated into a circular 
economy. Through design and circular value chains, 
materials in buildings sustain their value – in a sector 
producing less waste and using less virgin resources. 
Instead of being to-be waste, buildings will function as 
banks of valuable materials – slowing down the usage 
of resources to a rate that meets the capacity of the 
planet. 2016 – 78Much like CO2 emissions, trends in removed waste depend heavily 
on the phase and type of a project. This can give rise to major 
differences among civil engineering companies in particular. It can 
therefore be a challenge to understand the relationship between 
BAM’s turnover, the type of activities and the level of waste 
produced.
In 2016, BAM reduced its construction and office waste by 
8 per cent compared to 2015, from 161 kilotonnes to 148 
kilotonnes. A  large contribution to this year’s reduction of the 
volume of construction waste was due to termination of large 
construction projects. Efficiency in BAM’s production process is 
further gained from prefabrication and the use of BIM, which 
reduces the amount of waste produced at construction sites.
To promote appropriate recycling, BAM has the objective to 
improve the separation of construction waste. In 2016, 25 per cent 
of the Group’s construction waste in the Netherlands was 
separated, compared with 29 per cent in 2015. BAM’s efforts to 
separate construction waste on site have resulted in improved 
performance. In 2016, large volumes of timber, metals and 
cardboard were separately diverted. A proactive approach of 
project managers to separate these materials has resulted in a 
significant increase of the separation rate.
BAM achieves highest score in Forest50 2016
Forest50 is an initiative by FSC® Netherlands. In the 
Forest50 the fifty largest construction companies 
in the Netherlands are assessed on their use of 
sustainable timber and their communication about 
that. Through Forest50 FSC Netherlands wants to 
give an impetus to increased transparency on the 
use of timber sourced from responsibly managed 
forests. These companies are progressing towards fully 
sustainable timber procurement. BAM and Heijmans 
share a number one ranking. Both companies achieved 
an almost completely sustainable procurement of 
timber with 98 per cent of timber sustainably sourced. 
Driven by their own motivation and in many cases 
independent of client demand these companies take 
their responsibility to increase their sustainability of 
timber procurement.
ABN Amro pavilion, 
Amsterdam: an example  
of circular building.  
BAM Bouw en Techniek.2016  – 79Materials
Since 2011, BAM has identified the quantities of materials used in 
its construction projects in the Netherlands. The Group has 
identified the main categories of procured materials, as shown in 
> table 48 in the Netherlands. Depending on their nature, most 
used materials can be recycled. Based on this analysis and supplier 
data BAM believes that the recycled percentages correspond with 
the figures shown in this table. In cases where BAM applies 
recycled materials, nearly all materials are processed before they 
can be reused for construction. Therefore BAM chooses to report 
all materials to be recycled instead of partly reused.
Water
In 2016, BAM consumed 101,000  m3 potable water in the 
Netherlands (2015: 69,000 m3; 2014: 92,000 m3; 2013: 
390,000  m3; 2012: 147,000 m3). In 2013, water consumption at 
construction sites was strongly influenced by tunnel drilling 
operations.
Asphalt
Asphalt production is typically high in natural resources and 
energy intensive. Already back in 1998, BAM started with the 
development of low-energy asphalt concrete (LEAB, after the 
Dutch name: laag energie asfalt beton), an innovative type of 
asphalt that uses less energy and less scarce natural resources 
and has lower CO2 emissions than conventional asphalt. 
2012
88%2013
93%2015
98%2016
98%Sustainable certified timber (FSC and PEFC) in the Netherlands * 47
2014
95%Dilemma: 
The construction industry is traditionally slow to change. 
Innovations typically provide unique solutions for which no 
equivalent exists (these often have limited credibility in the 
market place). Added to this, publicly procured projects are 
conservative in adopting sustainability led solutions, to 
prevent competitive advantage. Sustainable timber
In 2007, BAM signed a covenant with FSC Netherlands committing 
to using only certified timber to support forest conservation and 
biodiversity. BAM’s experience has been that it is difficult for some 
suppliers to provide information on the amount of certified timber 
in products which are composite materials, partly made from 
timber (e.g. doors and window frames). Working with FSC 
Netherlands, BAM’s suppliers have been encouraged to improve 
the measurement and reporting of certified timber and BAM has 
developed a simple system to record supplier data.
BAM requests information on the application of sustainable 
timber twice a year. BAM asks its suppliers to report on categories 
of timber, which represented an estimated 85 per cent of all 
timber usage in the Netherlands for all construction works 
performed directly by BAM. The data used in this analysis 
therefore does not include any timber consumption for 
subcontracted projects. BAM approached 44 Dutch suppliers to 
report the amount of certified timber used in products. Based on 
their responses BAM estimates that 98 per cent was certified 
timber, 88 per cent was FSC- and 10 per cent was PEFC-certified.
In the United Kingdom, the source of certified sustainable timber 
from both FSC and PEFC sources is recorded in BAM’s on-line data 
monitoring system BAM SMART. In 2016, 98.4 per cent of timber 
in the United Kingdom was from verified legal and sustainable 
sources, of which 92 per cent (2015: 90%) was delivered with full 
FSC or PEFC Chain of Custody certification or reused from other 
sites.
* As of 2016 these figures include both FSC and PEFC, BAM updated the figures accordingly.2016 – 80Material consumption in the Netherlands 
Consumption
Resource 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Insitu concrete m3375,000 364,000 286,000 265,000 189,000
Timber m328,000 23,000 28,000 32,000 23,500
Asphalt t 1,300,000 1,400,000 1,500,000 1,400,000 1,450,000
Steel t 61,000 67,000 79,000 73,000 54,000
Recycled content
Resource 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Insitu concrete m311% 11% 10% 12% 18%
Timber m32% 2% 2% 1% 3%
Asphalt t 41% 39% 42% 40% 42%
Steel t 60% 66% 64% 63% 71%48
Potable water usage in the Netherlands 49
92,000 m3 
201469,000 m3 
2015390,000 m3 
2013147,000 m3 
2012
In order to investigate the potential of this new type of asphalt to 
create value for society, BAM commissioned a study by True Price. 
The study shows the difference in environmental impact between 
applying LEAB and conventional stone mastic asphalt (STAB). 
It indicates an estimated environmental saving equal to €257,000 
per kilometer of highway. This equals the monetised environmental 
externalities (often referred to as ‘environmental cost’) of energy 
use of about 120 Dutch households per year. To calculate the true 
price, the main environmental impacts of asphalt production were 
measured and translated into societal costs. The results show that 
the production, use and end-of-life treatment of LEAB asphalt is 
associated with 30 per cent lower environmental costs than 
conventional asphalt. Coincidentally, this equals the reduction in energy and CO2 reduction, but is built up of other factors. This 
makes LEAB an undeniable proposition for, for instance, 
government procurers, since it is of a similar quality to conventional 
asphalt, but comes at a price equal to or lower than that of 
competing products and offers better environmental performance.
BAM continued its research on sustainable asphalt with LE2AP 
(Low Emission² Asphalt Pavement). This asphalt is produced using 
an innovative way of recycling porous asphalt. The goal of the 
project, sponsored by the European Commission’s LIFE 
programme, is to use over 80 per cent recycled materials, mixed 
at 80˚C and providing a 7dB noise reduction. Two pilot projects 
have been completed in 2016.101,000 m3 
20162016  – 81257,000    Equals the yearly environmental cost of energy use for 119 households.Net positive impact per km highway
€24,000 € 170,000 €
12,000 € 17,000 €
€ 34,000
Ecotoxicity  CO2-eq saving  Other  
Materials savingEnergy saving
Head office Unilever Indonesia 
in BSD City, Tangerang, Jakarta. 
BAM International.2016 – 82257,000    Equals the yearly environmental cost of energy use for 119 households.Net positive impact per km highway
€24,000 € 170,000 €
12,000 € 17,000 €
€ 34,000
Ecotoxicity  CO2-eq saving  Other  
Materials savingEnergy saving
Notes:
-   Only production, transport and end-of-life treatment is taken into account, not the placement and use phase.
-   7,500 ton asphalt per km highway (width: 30m, asphalt density: 2,500 kg/m3, thickness lower/middle layer: 40/60 mm).
-   Average electricity and gas use of a Dutch household: resp. 3,340 kWh/yr and 1,525m3/yr (RVO, 2014).
-   Compared LEAB ‘bin base 30/45 60% PR limestone’ to STAB ‘(50%) Natural Gas Average’.
-   In 2016, 74,000 ton LEAB has been produced. This equals a total saving of approximately €2.52 million.
BAM LE2AP tested on provincial roads 
In collaboration with the provinces Noord-Brabant and 
Gelderland, a step towards the circular economy is taken: 
BAM started testing its LE2AP (Low Emission² Asphalt 
Pavement) asphalt. This mixture consists of up to 93 per cent 
recycled materials. Two test pavements have been made. 
LE2AP is a demonstration project that is part of the LIFE+ 
programme, an instrument of the European Commission for 
providing additional funding for environmental initiatives. The innovative mixture is produced at a temperature 
of about 105C. In addition to the high recycling value it 
provides an energy and CO2 reduction of approximately 
30 per cent and a 7dB noise reduction. The two test sections 
are the promising capstone of the LE2AP project, on which 
BAM worked for almost three years. BAM has presented 
LE2AP on numerous (inter-)national conferences, openly 
inviting competitors and foreign interested parties for 
cooperation possibilities. Calculate the environmental impacts of producing LEAB compared to conventional asphalt 50
Research and development focusing on recycling asphalt 51
2016  – 83In general market circumstances are gradually improving in BAM’s 
home countries, whereas GDP and construction output volume 
are growing. However, the upcoming elections in several home 
countries and the impact of the Brexit will influence further 
improvement. The prospects for Dutch non-residential 
construction remain challenging due to vacant offices and retail 
space. In Belgium the continuing political uncertainty will affect 
civil engineering markets. BAM’s international activities for the oil 
and gas market remains at the low end. BAM continues to target 
profitability above revenue and follows the development of 
product market combination closely to adapt its businesses if 
needed.
The PPP markets continue to offer an attractive supply of bidding 
opportunities. Competition continues to be intense and is 
demonstrated by the increased number of competitors at the 
prequalification stage. The bidding opportunities are spread 
reasonably evenly across all of our markets with the exception of 
the UK. Interest in providing long term debt remains strong from 
both bank and institutional lenders for both primary and 
refinancing transactions. steady flow of new opportunities 
commencing throughout 2017. BAM will continue to benefit from 
the successful partnership with PGGM. 
BAM started the financial year 2017 with an order book of 
€10.2 billion (2016: €11.5 billion), of which €5.4 billion will be 
carried out this year. 
Due to economic growth, especially in the field of technology, 
BAM will face a tight labour market. The Group’s challenge to find 
technical skilled people will increase. This will be addressed in 
BAM’s employer branding strategy. By offering learning 
programmes and other opportunities to grow the Group keeps 
developing the employees.4.4 Outlook
BAM expects the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change will 
have an effect on national and European regulations to reduce 
energy demand resulting in demand for more energy efficient and 
energy positive solutions. Linear consumption patterns (‘take-
make-dispose’) of products are coming up against constraints on 
the availability of resources. The construction sector needs to 
develop new opportunities and realise circular economy ambitions 
faster, which requires rethinking, redesign and innovative 
construction methods. BAM will continue its efforts to implement 
its sustainability strategy to ultimately have a net positive impact 
innovate and work towards zero carbon and circular products and 
projects.
BAM expects that three external forces will shape the prospects 
for the construction industry in the coming years. Economic 
growth which is currently fragile is expected to have a low to 
modestly positive impact on construction volumes. We foresee 
the creation of areas of higher growth as a result of megatrends
such as urbanisation and energy efficiency. And digitalisation is 
increasingly transforming the construction industry and the built 
environment.
Against this background the main focus of the updated strategy 
for 2016-2020, ‘Building the present, creating the future’, is to 
continue to restore profitability and improve capital efficiency.
For 2017, BAM expects the revenue to be slightly lower and the 
adjusted result before tax to be higher than the level of 2016. 
BAM  anticipates a significantly lower restructuring charge 
compared to 2016.
Executive Board
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 20172016 – 84Student housing for ETH Zürich 
(Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology). BAM Swiss.86 – 2016
5. GovernanceThe Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are responsible for 
the company’s corporate governance structure and for compliance 
with that structure. They are accountable for this to the Annual 
General Meeting and should provide sound reasons for any 
non-application of the principles and best practice provisions of the 
Dutch corporate governance code (hereafter: ‘the Code’). Each 
substantial change in the corporate governance structure of the 
company and in the compliance of the company with this code will 
be submitted to the general meeting for discussion. The main 
aspects of this corporate governance structure are set out in the 
annual report each year and are published on the company’s 
website. The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board subscribe 
to the Code. A more detailed explanation of how the company 
complies with the Code is given below. The full text of the Code can 
be found at www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl.
In December 2016 the Dutch Corporate Governance Code 
Monitoring Committee published a revised corporate governance 
code. Dutch listed companies are required to report in 2018 on 
compliance with the revised Code in the 2017 financial year. 
BAM took notice of the revised Code and will take inventory the 
consequences in the course of 2017.
Executive Board
Apart from looking after the day-to-day management of the 
company, the Executive Board is guided by long term value creation. 
It is responsible for formulating and achieving corporate objectives, 
for corporate strategy with its associated risk profile and for 
corporate social responsibility. The Executive Board accounts for its 
activities to the Supervisory Board and to the Annual General 
Meeting. In performing its duties, the Executive Board is guided by 
the interests of the company and the related enterprise, weighing 
the justifiable interests of the various stakeholders against each 
other. 
The company’s Executive Board shall consist of at least two 
members. The members of the Executive Board jointly manage the 
company and are jointly and severally liable for that management. 
Subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the members of 
the Executive Board each have their personal responsibilities. The 
Chairman (CEO) presides the Executive Board and is responsible for 
BAM International and the PPP activities as well as the majority of 
the corporate functions. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is charged 
with financial tasks and is responsible for the corporate functions 
finance, GRC, ICT and – together with the Chairman – investor 
relations. The Chief Operational Officer (COO) manages the 
operating companies that are entrusted to his supervision, as well as 
a number of corporate functions.
The Executive Board ensures proper provision of information to the 
Supervisory Board. In the annual report, the Executive Board 
describes the principal risks related to the company’s strategy, the organisation and operation of internal risk management. It also 
describes control systems in relation to the principal risks during the 
financial year and any significant shortcomings in the internal risk 
management and control systems that were identified during the 
financial year, any significant changes that were made and any 
significant improvements that are planned.
The Group has implemented general risk management measures by 
means of standards and values that have been made explicit, 
internal procedures and instructions and a system of budgeting, 
reporting as well as internal (and external) control. Besides general 
risk management measures, the Group has also implemented 
specific measures in the main risk areas. These risks are discussed in 
greater detail on page 38 to 47 of this report, along with the risk 
management measures that the Group has taken. The risk section 
in this report contains a statement by the Executive Board on the 
risks of financial reporting, as referred to in best practice provision 
II.1.5 of the Code.
The Executive Board is subject to a set of rules approved by the 
Supervisory Board, laying down the details of how the Executive 
Board operates and its relationship with the Supervisory Board, the 
shareholders and the Central Works Council. The Executive Board 
rules have been published on the company’s website.
The company also operates a code of conduct and a whistleblowers’ 
scheme, both of which are published on the company’s website.
A mitigated two-tier regime applies to the company. Members of 
the Executive Board are appointed by the Annual General Meeting. 
The Supervisory Board has the right to make a (binding) proposal as 
regards nominees for appointment. However, the Annual General 
Meeting can render a proposal non-binding, in line with the 
company’s Articles of Association, in which case the Annual General 
Meeting is then free to fill the vacant seat on the Executive Board as 
it deems fit, in accordance with the formalities stated in the 
company’s Articles of Association. Decisions by the Annual General 
Meeting regarding candidates proposed by the Supervisory Board 
for membership of the Executive Board require a simple majority of 
the votes cast.
Decisions by the Annual General Meeting about candidates for 
membership of the Executive Board who are not proposed by the 
Supervisory Board require an absolute majority of the votes cast, 
but that majority must represent at least one third of the issued 
capital.
The Supervisory Board has the power to suspend members of the 
Executive Board. The Annual General Meeting can suspend or 
dismiss members of the Executive Board. Decisions to suspend or 
dismiss a member can only be taken by an absolute majority of 
votes, providing that majority represents at least one third of the 5.1 Corporate governance2016  – 87
are taken into account. In addition to the annual variable short-term 
component, the remuneration package of members of the 
Executive Board includes a remuneration plan that rewards 
long-term improvements.
In the information on variable remuneration to be stated in the 
remuneration report, the company strives for transparency.
However, the company will not reveal information that it considers 
competitively sensitive. In cases where the variable remuneration is 
awarded on the basis of inaccurate (financial) data, the Supervisory 
Board can adjust the variable remuneration accordingly and the 
company is entitled to reclaim (any part of) the variable 
remuneration paid to a member of the Executive Board on the basis 
of incorrect (financial) information.
The Supervisory Board also has the power to amend the existing 
conditional awards of the variable remuneration by quantified 
performance criteria if, in its opinion, applying the award without 
amendment would have an unreasonable or unintended outcome. 
These matters have all been incorporated into the agreements with 
members of the Executive Board since the introduction of the Code.
The compensation to members of the Executive Board in case of 
dismissal does not exceed one year’s base salary.
The company has a long-term benefit plan for members of the 
Executive Board and a group of maximum 15 senior executives in 
the form of a performance share plan. The Code’s recommendations 
with regard to this plan are adhered to. More information on the 
plan is available in the remuneration report, page 104.
As a principle, the company does not provide any personal loans or 
guarantees to members of the Executive Board, managers or any 
other employees. The Group has the usual indemnity and insurance 
arrangements in relation to normal company business, and these 
arrangements cover members of the Supervisory Board, Executive 
Board, managers and other employees.
Any form or appearance of conflicting interests between the 
company and members of the Executive Board must be avoided. 
Decisions to enter into transactions that might lead to a conflict of 
interest on the part of a member of the Executive Board and that 
are of material importance to the company and/or the Executive 
Board member in question must be approved by the Supervisory 
Board. The Executive Board’s rules set out in detail what action 
should be taken in the event of possible conflicts of interest. 
These rules govern such matters as what situations might 
constitute conflicts of interest, the manner in which members of 
the Executive Board are to report conflicts of interest, the 
withdrawal of the Executive Board member concerned during 
participation in discussions and in relevant decisions and the 
Supervisory Board’s approval procedure.issued capital, unless the proposal to suspend or dismiss is put 
forward by the Supervisory Board, in which case the decision can be 
taken by an absolute majority of the votes without the requirement 
for a quorum. The Supervisory Board appoints one of the members 
of the Executive Board as Chairman and can appoint one of the 
members of the Executive Board as Vice-Chairman.
Pursuant to the Code, members of the Executive Board are 
appointed for a period of no more than four years. They retire after 
the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting, to be held in the 
fourth year after the year in which they were appointed. Members of 
the Executive Board can be re-appointed for a further period of four 
years. Information about the term of the agreements of members of 
the Executive Board is available in the remuneration report.
The main elements of the contracts with members of the 
Executive Board are published on the company’s website in 
accordance with the Code. The company follows the Code’s 
provisions relating to the amount of the remuneration payable to 
members of the Executive Board and the composition of the 
remuneration package as well as the disclosure of these details are 
respected. The Supervisory Board draws up a proposal – prepared 
by the Remuneration Committee  – regarding the company’s 
remuneration policy. This remuneration policy is submitted for 
adoption to the Annual General Meeting. The  Supervisory Board 
also annually composes a remuneration report, prepared by the 
Remuneration Committee. The remuneration report confirms the 
manner in which the remuneration policy has been adhered to in 
practice during the financial year. It also contains details of the 
total remuneration of the members of the Executive Board, 
subdivided into the various elements, and a summary of the 
remuneration policy as adopted by the shareholders.
As part of the report by the Supervisory Board, the remuneration 
report is included in the annual report and is also published on the 
company’s website. The Supervisory Board determines the 
remuneration of the members of the Executive Board, within the 
framework of the remuneration policy, based on a recommendation 
by the Remuneration Committee.
The variable part of the remuneration for members of the Executive 
Board is linked to predefined objectives that are assessable and that 
can be influenced, with a reasonable balance between short-term 
and long-term focus. The Supervisory Board analyses the possible 
results of the variable remuneration components and the 
consequences for the remuneration of the members of the 
Executive Board. The Supervisory Board determines the level and 
structure of this remuneration on the basis of scenario analyses, 
taking into account pay differentials within the Group, and in doing 
so considers the results, share price performance and non-financial 
indicators which are relevant to the Group’s long-term objectives. 
The risks to which variable remuneration may expose the enterprise 2016 – 88Renovation runways 
Eindhoven Airport. 
BAM Infra.
Supervisory Board
The duty of the Supervisory Board is to supervise the Executive 
Board’s policies and the general affairs of the company and its 
affiliated enterprise. The role of the Supervisory Board is also to 
assist the Executive Board by providing advice. As the Executive 
Board, the Supervisory Board is guided by the interests of the 
company and the related enterprise, weighing the justifiable 
interests of the various stakeholders against each other. The 
Supervisory Board also takes into account corporate social 
responsibility issues in its assessments. The principles and best 
practice provisions relating to the Supervisory Board are adhered to.
In its periodic meetings with the Executive Board, the Supervisory 
Board discusses a number of subjects, including the general state of 
affairs (e.g. safety, order book, major tenders, special projects, 
problem areas, major claims and legal proceedings) and financial 
reporting based on the operational plan for the year in question 
(half-yearly and annual reports and interim financial statements, 
balance sheets and income statements, cash flow statements, 
capital investments and warranties).
The agenda for Supervisory Board meetings also includes subjects 
such as major investments (both regarding acquisitions and 
disposals as well as fixed assets), management development, human 
resources, corporate social responsibility issues that are relevant for the company, the relationship with shareholders, the dividend 
proposal, interim statements and half-yearly reports, the 
independent auditor’s report, the independent auditor’s 
management letter and follow-up actions to that management 
letter, setting the operational plan with the operational and financial 
goals for the next financial year (set once a year) and approval of the 
strategy and the related parameter conditions (every third year).
At least once a year, the Supervisory Board discusses the strategy 
and the principal risks connected to the business, the Executive 
Board’s assessment of the organisation and operation of the 
internal risk management and control systems, as well as any 
significant changes to those systems. A statement that these 
discussions have taken place is included in the report by the 
Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is subject to a set of rules 
laying down the details of how it operates and its relationship with 
the Executive Board, the shareholders and the Central Works 
Council. The Supervisory Board’s rules can be found on the 
company’s website.
The Supervisory Board shall consist of at least five members. The 
Supervisory Board currently consists of six members, which is a 
number that the Supervisory Board considers appropriate in today’s 
circumstances, especially given the size and international nature of 
the Group. The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed 2016  – 89reject it. The General Meeting may dismiss the entire Supervisory 
Board once the Works Council has had the opportunity to give its 
opinion. The General Meeting determines the Supervisory Board 
members’ remuneration. In relation to the independence of 
Supervisory Board members, as detailed in best practice provision 
III.2.1, all of the current members of the Supervisory Board qualify 
as being independent in accordance with the meaning of the Code.
The Supervisory Board has created a profile, which is published on 
the company’s website. The composition of the Supervisory Board 
must be balanced and in line with this profile.
The members of the Supervisory Board must have the experience 
needed to perform well in a large multinational construction 
company. Each member must be capable of assessing the main 
aspects of the overall policy and of behaving in a critical and 
independent manner with regard to the other members of the 
Supervisory Board and the members of the Executive Board. 
The members of the Supervisory Board must carry out the tasks of 
the Supervisory Board as specified by law and by the company’s 
Articles of Association and they must be capable of giving the 
Executive Board solicited and unsolicited advice.
Other, specific criteria applied by the Supervisory Board to its 
composition are a general, broad-based understanding of business, 
knowledge of the construction industry, experience in the 
management of large, preferably international companies and 
expertise relating to issues with a social dimension and concerning 
society at large.
The Supervisory Board appoints one of its members as Chairman 
and another to be Vice-Chairman. The Supervisory Board is assisted 
by the Company Secretary. Among the members of the Supervisory 
Board is a financial expert with experience in both the financial and 
accounting disciplines in a large corporation. The company will be by the Annual General Meeting on the recommendation of the 
Supervisory Board, which recommendation is being made on the 
basis of the profile. The Annual General Meeting and the Works 
Council are entitled to recommend candidates for inclusion in the 
proposal made by the Supervisory Board. 
In case of vacancies in the Executive Board and Supervisory Board 
the Nomination Committee of the Supervisory Board will prepare a 
profile for the vacant position, taking into account the profile for 
the Supervisory Board (which can be found on the company 
website). The profile for the vacant position will be discussed with 
the Supervisory Board as well as the Executive Board after which 
the services of an external executive search company will be 
retained to create a longlist. It is common practice that fifty per 
cent of this longlist should consist of qualified female candidates. 
Based on this longlist the Nomination Committee will create a 
shortlist of at least three candidates, which will be interviewed by 
the Nomination Committee. In addition the candidates will also 
meet with other functionaries, including but not limited to the CEO. 
After this process a final proposal will be submitted to the full 
Supervisory Board for recommendation to the Annual General 
Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting can reject candidates put forward by 
the Supervisory Board, in which case the Supervisory Board must 
draw up a new proposal. The Central Works Council has an 
extended right of recommendation in respect of one third of the 
membership of the Supervisory Board. If the Supervisory Board 
rejects the recommended candidate or candidates, the Board and 
the Works Council consult with each other and the Works Council 
will make a new recommendation. If the Supervisory Board and the 
Works Council fail to reach agreement, then the matter is 
submitted to the Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of 
Appeal for a ruling. If the Supervisory Board adopts the Works 
Council’s recommendation, the Annual General Meeting may still 
Villapark Eikelenburgh in 
Rijswijk consists of 84 villas, 
semi-attached houses and 
attached houses built in 30s 
architecture style.  
AM and BAM Wonen.2016 – 90relevant provisions of the Code. It is the task of the committees to 
support and advise the Supervisory Board concerning the items that 
are under the committees’ responsibility and to prepare the 
Supervisory Board’s decisions regarding those items. 
The Supervisory Board as a whole remains responsible for the way in 
which it performs its tasks and for the preparatory work carried out 
by the committees. The committees submit reports on all their 
meetings to the Supervisory Board.
The Audit Committee’s regular assessments include: 
• The internal risk management and control systems;
• The provision of financial information by the company, including 
the process through which this information is generated and 
published;
• Recommendations by the independent auditor and the actions 
taken as a result thereof;
• The audit process and the audit plan;
• The relationship with the independent auditor;
• Governance and compliance;
• Taxation;
• Impairment review;
• Valuation of real estate;
• The application of ICT;
• Group financing;
• Performance of the internal audit function;
• The financial and administrative organisation.
The tasks of the Remuneration Committee include making 
proposals to the Supervisory Board with regard to:
• The company remuneration policy;
• The remuneration structure; 
• The level of remuneration;
• The terms and conditions of employment of members of the 
Executive Board;
• The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board. responsible for an introduction programme for persons appointed 
to the Supervisory Board for the first time as referred to in best 
practice provision III.3.3. This provision is also fulfilled by arranging 
working visits to the Group’s operating companies and through 
presentations by operating company managers to the Supervisory 
Board. 
Principles and best practice provisions relating to conflicts of 
interest are adhered to. The rules with regard to such conflicts in 
connection with the Executive Board apply equally to the members 
of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board rules set out in 
detail what action should be taken in the event of possible conflicts 
of interest.
The company has prepared rules regarding the ownership of and 
transactions in securities of other listed companies by members of 
the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. These rules are 
included in BAM’s insider dealing policy, which was updated in 2016 
as a result of the EU Market Abuse Regulations. In addition a 
Disclosure Committee has been established, which advises the 
Executive Board on the qualification of information, delay of 
publication of inside information and the monitoring of such delay. 
Periodic meetings are convened in order to monitor internal and 
external developments with regard to inside information. The 
company does not issue any personal loans or guarantees to 
members of the Supervisory Board. The Group has taken out the 
usual professional indemnity insurance for, among others, members 
of the Supervisory Board.
Supervisory Board Committees
The Supervisory Board has three permanent committees, being the 
Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the 
Nomination Committee. The rules and the composition of these 
committees can be found on the company’s website. The 
composition and role of these committees are in line with the 
2016  – 91The Remuneration Committee also consults with the Chairman of 
the Executive Board about the policy on terms and conditions of 
employment for operating company managers and executives of 
equivalent rank and drafts a remuneration report on the way in 
which remuneration policy has been implemented in practice.
The Nomination Committee makes proposals to the Supervisory 
Board with regard to:
• Selection criteria and appointment procedures with regard to 
members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Executive 
Board;
• The size and composition of the Supervisory Board and the 
Executive Board and a profile of the Supervisory Board;
• Assessment of the performance of individual members of the 
Executive Board and process for the self-assessment of the 
Supervisory Board;
• (Re-)appointments of members of the Supervisory Board and 
members of the Executive Board;
• An Executive Board member’s acceptance of membership of the 
Supervisory Board of another listed company;
• Possible conflicts of interest arising in connection with the 
acceptance of other positions by members of the Supervisory 
Board.
Bike park at railway station 
Hengelo, the Netherlands. 
BAM Infra.2016 – 92The Committee also monitors the Executive Board’s policy on 
selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior 
management and discusses management development and 
succession planning, especially in relation to senior management 
positions.
Shareholders
The company adheres to the principles and best practice provisions 
in chapter IV of the Code with regard to the shareholders and the 
Annual General Meeting. No depositary receipts for shares in the 
company have been issued with the company’s cooperation. Royal 
BAM Group does not have any provisions limiting voting rights. One vote may be cast for every share held. The company’s capital 
consists of ordinary shares and Class B and F preference shares 
(not issued at present). The ordinary shares are listed on Euronext in 
Amsterdam. Ordinary share options are also traded on the 
Amsterdam option exchange of Liffe.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board believe it to be 
important that as many shareholders as possible take part in the 
decision-making process in shareholders’ meetings. Notices 
convening shareholders’ meetings, agendas and documentation to 
be discussed are published no later than 42 days prior to the 
meeting and placed on the company’s website. The website also 2016  – 93the approval of the Supervisory Board. Material amendments to the 
Articles of Association will each be submitted separately to the 
Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are entitled to put items on the agenda of 
shareholders’ meetings. Shareholders who on their own or jointly 
represent at least:
(i)  1.0 per cent of the issued capital, or
(ii) Shares worth €50 million
can place items on the agenda of the General Meeting if the 
company receives a written request to that effect (‘written’ can 
mean an electronic message), including reasons to substantiate the 
request, not later than sixty days before the day of the meeting.
In addition, shareholders who represent at least ten per cent of the 
company’s issued capital are entitled to call a shareholders’ meeting.
Each year the Annual General Meeting is asked to authorise the 
Executive Board – subject to the approval of the Supervisory 
Board – to issue shares or share options. This authorisation is 
limited in time to a period of eighteen months. It is also limited in 
scope in respect of ordinary shares and Class F preference shares 
to ten per cent of the issued capital, plus an additional 
ten per cent, which additional ten per cent may be used 
exclusively for mergers, acquisitions or strategic partnerships by 
the company or its operating companies. In addition the General 
Meeting is requested – again subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board – to exclude or limit pre-emptive rights to 
issued shares and to exclude or limit the issuing of ordinary share 
options.
Also each year the General Meeting is asked to authorise the 
Executive Board for a period of 18 months to repurchase shares in 
the company, within the limitations imposed by the law and the 
Articles of Association. Every request for the granting of such an 
authorisation is put separately on the agenda. The company’s 
policy on reserves and dividends and a proposal to pay a dividend 
are discussed as separate agenda items at the General Meeting.
A proposal for approval or authorisation by the General Meeting 
will be accompanied by a written explanation including all 
relevant information. The agenda for shareholders’ meetings will 
state which of the agenda items are for discussion and which 
items will be put to a vote.
Reports on shareholders’ meetings are provided to shareholders, as 
stipulated in the Code. Within 15 calendar days after each 
shareholders’ meeting, the results of the votes per agenda item are 
published on the company’s website. As regards the provision of 
information as stated in Principle IV.3 of the Code, the Supervisory 
Board and the Executive Board endorse the importance of 
providing transparent and equal information. The company 
endeavours to do so, subject to exceptions under the law.includes an anonymous list, broken down by agenda item, of the 
votes cast by proxy received by the company prior to the meeting. 
Remote voting and voting by proxy also play a role in increasing 
shareholder participation. The Act of Parliament to promote the use 
of electronic communication media enables shareholders to 
participate in meetings of shareholders and to cast their votes at 
such meetings without being physically present. The company has 
incorporated the facilities offered by law for using electronic 
communication media into the Articles of Association. The company 
considers that the manner in which shareholders take part in their 
meetings and cast votes at such meetings requires a meticulous 
procedure. The use of electronic means of communication therefore 
depends greatly on the degree of certainty that these means of 
communication will work properly.
In addition, voting by proxy continues to provide shareholders with 
a good mechanism for allowing their voice to be heard in meetings 
in which they are unable to attend, so that the company can take 
notice of their views. When shareholders’ meetings are convened, 
the company invites shareholders to use their option to vote by 
proxy, and ensures that voting instruction forms can be obtained 
and that these forms are also available electronically.
Shareholders are also informed of their option to give a proxy 
electronically. The company offers its shareholders the opportunity 
to give a proxy, with voting instructions, to an independent third 
party before the meeting takes place. In addition the company 
offers shareholders the possibility of voting in advance of the 
meeting. As a rule, voting takes place electronically at the meeting 
itself.
The company invites shareholders to submit any questions to the 
company prior to the meeting, which will then be answered by the 
company at the meeting.
Prior approval from the Annual General Meeting is required for 
decisions concerning any important changes in the identity or 
nature of the company or the business, including the entire or 
near-entire transfer of ownership of the business, entry into 
long-term partnerships that have a significant effect on the 
company and acquiring or disposing of a participating interest 
worth at least a third of the amount of the assets recognised on the 
consolidated balance sheet. In the event that a serious private bid 
has been announced for part of the business or a participating 
interest, and that bid is worth at least a third of the amount of the 
assets recognised on the consolidated balance sheet, the Executive 
Board will publicly announce its point of view in respect of the bid, 
together with its reasons, as soon as possible.
Resolutions to amend the company’s Articles of Association may be 
adopted by the Annual General Meeting by an absolute majority of 
the votes cast in response to a proposal by the Executive Board with 2016 – 94A call option was issued to Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep 
(BAM Group Stock Management Foundation) in 1993 for Class B 
preference shares. The company gave this foundation the right of 
investigation in 2008. More information relating to protective 
measures is provided on pages 227 of the Integrated Report.
Financial reporting and the role of the auditor
The principles and best practice provisions relating to financial 
reporting are adhered to. The Executive Board is responsible for 
the quality and completeness of the financial reports that are 
published. The Supervisory Board ensures that the Executive 
Board carries out this responsibility.
The principles and best practice provisions regarding the role, 
appointment, remuneration and assessment of the performance 
of the independent auditor are also supported. The independent 
auditor will be present at the Annual General Meeting to answer 
questions from shareholders about his independent auditor’s 
report on the financial statements.
The Audit Committee assesses the functioning of the internal 
audit function each year. Within Royal BAM Group internal 
auditing has been established by means of an operational audit 
function. Operational audit performs audits and reviews on main 
risks that are related to the project business. 
The independent auditor attends the meetings of the Supervisory 
Board at which the financial statements and the half-yearly figures 
are discussed. The independent auditor reports the same 
information from his findings with respect to the financial 
statements to both the Executive Board and the Supervisory 
Board. The independent auditor is also present when the Audit 
Committee discusses the financial statements, the half-yearly 
figures and the interim statements. The independent auditor may 
also attend other meetings of the Audit Committee, subject to 
asking the Chairman of the Audit Committee for permission to 
attend in advance.
The independent auditor receives the financial information on 
which the annual and half-yearly figures and interim statements 
are based and is given the opportunity to respond to that 
information. The partner in the independent audit company who 
performs the required audit is allowed to audit the Group’s 
financial statements for a maximum of five consecutive years.
CSR responsibility and delegation
The Executive Board is responsible for defining the CSR policy, in 
consultation with the Director Strategy and Group Director 
Sustainability and the management of the operating companies. 
Meetings with senior management are used to define 
sustainability issues and reach agreement on prioritising 
objectives, monitoring activities, and reporting results. Critical Press and analysts 
All press and analysts’ meetings and conference calls in 
connection with the publication of the annual and half-year 
results and interim financial statements are open to everyone via 
the internet or by telephone. Shareholders’ meetings are open to 
the press and via webcast. All dates and locations of roadshows, 
seminars and the like are published on the company’s website.
Financial presentations given to third parties are published on the 
company’s website in case there is a material difference between 
these and previously published presentations. For six weeks prior 
to the publication of each annual report and three weeks prior to 
the publication of each interim statement and half-yearly report, 
the company will be extremely reticent about conducting any 
conversations with investors, analysts or members of the press 
about the overall course of business at the company. The 
company does not review analysts’ reports or valuations by 
analysts in advance, nor add comments or correct them, except 
for matters of fact.
The company does not pay any fees to parties for carrying out 
investigations for analysts’ reports, nor for writing or publishing 
such reports, with the exception of credit rating firms. As a rule, 
the Chairman and/or the Chief Financial Officer, with the 
assistance of the Investor Relations Manager or the Public 
Relations Director, will speak to investors, analysts or the press. 
These directors and officers are fully up to date regarding all 
relevant information – whether or not it is already known on the 
market – and they ensure that the information is provided in a 
clear and unambiguous manner. Should any price-sensitive 
information be provided by mistake during any contact with 
shareholders, investors, analysts or the press, a press release will 
be issued immediately.
The company has a general policy on bilateral contacts with 
shareholders, investors, analysts and the press. This policy has 
been published on the company’s website.
Anti-takeover measures
The Executive Board can invoke a response period as specified in 
best practice provision II.1.9 of the Code. The Supervisory Board 
will be involved closely and in good time in the process 
concerning any offer for shares in the company, and the Executive 
Board and the Supervisory Board will immediately discuss any 
request from a competing third-party bidder to examine 
company information.
As regards the protective provisions against undesirable 
developments that might affect the independence, continuity 
and/or identity of the Group, the company has the facility for 
issuing Class B preference shares.2016  – 95The corporate governance structure described above was 
discussed with the shareholders during the General Meeting on 
21 April 2009. The company will submit any substantial changes in 
the main features of the corporate governance structure to the 
General Meeting for discussion purposes.concerns are reported to the Executive Board at least in quarterly 
reports, or whenever more urgency is required. The Executive 
Board communicates to the Supervisory Board according planned 
reporting cycles, or whenever more urgency is required. Safety 
ambitions, the reduction of CO2 emissions, and strict waste 
management, along with business integrity, apply to all BAM 
operating companies. In addition, each operating company 
measures KPIs addressing issues of relevance to its own business. 
Each operating company has a management team member who 
has the responsibility for BAM’s sustainability activity. The 
operating companies report progress quarterly to the Executive 
Board, Director Strategy and Group Director Sustainability 
together with details of actions taken to support the Group’s 
business objectives. They interpret BAM’s objectives based on 
their unique operating conditions. CSR is part of how managers 
and employees do their day-to-day jobs. It is addressed, for 
example, at regular work discussions and performance reviews. In 
this way, implementing sustainability is shared across all levels of 
the Group, from BAM’s Executive Board to its local champions.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are convinced that 
Royal BAM Group’s corporate governance is up to standards.
The sea lock at IJmuiden improves the accessibility 
of the port of Amsterdam. The lock will be 70 
metres wide, 500 metres long and 18 metres deep. 
Client is Rijkswaterstaat. The OpenIJ consortium 
(BAM, PGGM, VolkerWessels and DIF) is responsible 
for the design, construct, finance, and maintenance. 
BAM PPP, BAM Infra.96 – 2016Naam/functie
2015 – 97
Stakeholder interview
What is the most important catalyst for 
further sustainable development in 
construction?
‘There was a time when I might have 
suggested that legislation could provide 
one of the most important catalysts for 
more sustainable construction practices. 
Indeed the clarity of escalator policies such 
as the landfill tax have had remarkable 
success in reducing construction waste to 
landfill. But the truth is that genuinely 
sustainable construction practices are 
hard to achieve commercially and require 
much more holistic thinking. For instance, 
reducing waste to landfill doesn’t 
necessarily address the quantum of 
materials specified in the first place. 
In my view the most important catalyst for 
sustainable construction has to be the 
measurement, management and 
disclosure of environmental and social 
impacts throughout the entire supply 
chain. This should encourage more 
innovative procurement and contractual 
models that encourage circular design 
practices, and a whole life cost approach 
to design and building practices.’How do we ensure sustainability will 
continue to be a theme – and what role 
do digitalisation and innovation play?
‘Sustainable development is inherently a 
very long-term theme – encompassing 
issues that are multi-generational and 
cross-disciplinary. The seventeen 
sustainable development goals (SDGs - 
officially referred to as ‘Transforming our 
World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development’) are extremely ambitious 
and have a 15 year timescale. The targets 
set by 195 nation states underpinning the 
Paris Agreement themselves span until 
2050 and beyond. 
The role of innovation could not be more 
significant. Indeed, SDG9 is called 
‘Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure’ 
and relates directly to construction and 
the built environment. We will not achieve the trajectory that is required to achieve 
these goals unless all industry sectors 
embrace innovation and new ways of 
working. Digitalisation and technology 
offer one lens through which innovation 
can be viewed, yet a very important one 
due to their potential for improving 
productivity and efficiency in the 
construction process.’Julie Hirigoyen, Chief Executive  
at UK Green Building CouncilJulie Hirigoyen became CEO of UK-GBC in April 2015 with 
ultimate responsibility for organisational strategy and 
execution. Previously she was UK Head of Sustainability and 
an International Director at Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL), a 
financial services firm that specialises in commercial real 
estate services and investment management. JLL acquired 
Upstream, a leading sustainability consultancy which was 
co-founded by Hirigoyen.
‘The role of innovation  
could not be more significant’
The Supervisory Board’s activities
The transformation of the company, which started in the second 
half of 2014 with the implementation of the Back in Shape 
programme, has continued successfully in 2016. Gradually the 
results of these efforts are becoming visible. The focus remains on 
making the organisation structurally stronger, by continuous 
disciplined execution of the tender stage gate process, by 
analysing risks and by improved process management in 
executing projects. In this chapter the Supervisory Board reports 
on its supervision activities during the year under review.
Strategy and operational plan
The BAM strategy for 2016-2020 Building the present, creating the 
future was developed in 2015 and announced in February of the 
year under review. The strategy is built on three pillars (focusing 
the project portfolio, shaping the business portfolio and creating 
the future portfolio) and is aimed at preparing the company for 
the future while improving current performance. This strategy is 
supported by a new target-operating model that creates clarity 
and uniformity in the way the company operates. 
In order to ensure that the strategic direction set in the new 
strategy is followed by the entire Group, the operating companies 
and corporate functions developed their own strategic agendas 
which derive from and are aligned with the Group strategy. The 
process was supported by external experts. Last but not least, the 
company’s governance structure was evaluated and subsequently 
amended in order to provide an internal control framework suited 
to supporting the strategic goals. 
The Supervisory Board was closely involved in the development of 
the new Group strategy but also provided input on the strategic 
agendas of the operating companies and a number of corporate 
functions. To this effect a three-day event was organised at which 
representatives of these companies and functions presented their 
strategic agendas, giving the members of the Supervisory Board 
the opportunity to provide comments and input. 
Order intake 
Again in 2016 the need to avoid major loss-making projects and 
their potential financial consequences was high on the agenda of 
discussions between the Supervisory Board and the Executive 
Board. Order intake reduced slightly on the back of a more 
stringent selection process of projects. 
While the tender stage gate process is aimed at identifying risks 
and opportunities with regard to projects upfront, the operational 
audit function offers a chance to learn from the past by auditing 
high exposure projects and applying the lessons learned to 
improve risk control measures. Based on an updated authorisation schedule, a number of very 
large projects in the tender stage were presented to the 
Supervisory Board in extraordinary and regular meetings, 
allowing critical input and approval. The Supervisory Board 
reviewed in detail the projects presented in these meetings. 
Risk profile
The Supervisory Board’s regular meetings included a discussion 
on the course of business as well as risks and opportunities for 
both the Group as a whole and for the respective segments and 
individual operating companies. The implications of the issues 
addressed in these meetings are discussed elsewhere in this 
report, including on page 38 and onwards.
The Supervisory Board concluded that the Group has in place 
internal risk management and internal control systems, financial 
reporting manuals and procedures for drawing up financial 
reports, as well as an established monitoring and reporting 
system. The ability of the Executive Board to monitor the 
operational activities of the Group improved further as a 
consequence of improved internal reporting requirements, the 
tender stage gate process and monthly meetings with the 
Management Board, all of which contributed to increased 
transparency and awareness. 
The Operational Audit team was strengthened with the 
appointment of several audit professionals. The audit plan for 
2016 was presented to and discussed with the Audit Committee 
and subsequently the full Supervisory Board which approved the 
plan. Although risk management in the Group was strengthened, 
continuous attention and improvement is necessary in order to 
protect the company against the operational risks it faces. 
The Supervisory Board reviewed the strategic direction of the 
company and the risks related to the achievement of the 
strategic objectives with the Executive Board and staff from the 
risk management corporate functions. Information about its 
activities and the progress made was obtained and discussed. 
The financial audit process is conducted by an independent audit 
firm. In 2016 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP took over the role of 
external auditor from PricewaterhouseCoopers. The transition 
process as well as the collaboration with BAM management and 
the employees involved in the audit was constructive and 
satisfactory.
Sustainability 
The Supervisory Board discussed the importance of and 
approach towards sustainability with the Executive Board and 
Management Board. The sustainability strategy 2020 and 
beyond is aligned with the corporate strategy and forms the 
basis for KPIs on people and planet. The content of the 
Integrated Report is based on themes identified in the 5.2 Report of the Supervisory Board2016 – 98that the individual members of the Board, as well as the Board as 
a whole and its committees are functioning constructively and 
professionally. 
The observations and recommendations, among other things, 
related to the division of tasks between the full board and the 
Audit Committee. The temporary absence of a responsible HR 
executive was noted in the Remuneration Committee and 
Appointment Committee. The relationship with the Executive 
Board was felt to be open and transparent. The Supervisory Board 
members expressed a broad wish for more direct contact with the 
members of the Management Board. The Supervisory Board 
identified the following priorities for the next period: the 
implementation of the strategy, large projects, ICT (vision, 
strategy and priorities) and succession planning of senior 
management. The importance of compliance was also noted as an 
issue to be placed on the agenda of the Supervisory Board at least 
once per year.
Remuneration
The Supervisory Board approved the remuneration report 
prepared by the Remuneration Committee. The remuneration 
report is included on pages 104-111 of the Integrated Report as 
part of the report by the Supervisory Board. The remuneration 
policy was not amended in 2016.
Meetings
In the year under review, the Supervisory Board met on seven 
occasions in the presence of the Executive Board. The general 
attendance at the meetings in 2016 was 93 per cent.
The Supervisory Board also met without the Executive Board 
being present. These meetings were primarily devoted to the 
functioning of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. 
Internally the Supervisory Board also discussed its position and 
view on a number of strategic and organisational matters, as well 
as the remuneration of the Executive Board, including the 
determination of the variable portion of that remuneration.
The Supervisory Board’s committees
The Supervisory Board actively engages with the Executive Board 
as well as other senior management levels in order to ensure it has 
the right information, both quantitatively and qualitatively. 
Besides the regular board meetings, members of the Supervisory 
Board regularly meet with specific functionaries within the 
company in order to be briefed on general developments as well 
as specific topics, like HR, Corporate Governance, Finance and 
Operational Audit. In addition functionaries are invited in 
meetings in order to provide information on material matters and 
developments. In the year under review a joint meeting of the 
Supervisory Board and the Management Board was organised to materiality assessment as being most relevant for BAM and its 
stakeholders. The Supervisory Board supports and stimulates the 
proactive consultation of partners, clients and suppliers in 
stakeholder dialogues.
Safety
Safety continued to be a focus area for the Supervisory Board 
and the company. BAM's safety performance slightly 
deteriorated in the year under review (from 4.5 (IF BAM) in 2015 
to 4.8 (IF BAM) in 2016). BAM regrettably had to record three 
fatal incidents on the Group’s projects (one third party, one 
employee and one subcontractor of a joint venture), These were 
extensively evaluated in the meetings with the Executive Board. 
The Supervisory Board also took notice of the two additional 
fatalities that took place in the early weeks of 2017. Together 
with the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board is of the opinion 
that the achievement of a higher safety level is one of the most 
important challenges for the Group. The Supervisory Board fully 
supports and encourages the Executive Board’s approach to 
further increase management’s dedication to safety.
Other activities
Each of the Supervisory Board’s meetings featured a report on 
what had been discussed in meetings of the Board’s three 
permanent committees. In addition, in each meeting the 
Executive Board reported on the state of affairs, the financial 
situation and market developments for the operating companies 
and the risks they face, each report being based on the 
operational plan for the relevant financial year. Other matters 
discussed in 2016 included the Annual Report and financial 
statement for 2015, the half-yearly report and interim statement 
for 2016, the reserve and dividend policy and the dividend 
proposal for 2015, corporate governance, the various effects of 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on the Group’s 
financial reports, management development and the quality of 
management, and the most important claims as well as legal 
proceedings involving parts of the Group.
In 2016 a delegation of the Supervisory Board met with the 
Central Works Council on several occasions in order to discuss 
the position of the employees in general and more specifically 
the consequences of the Back in Shape programme. The annual 
meeting of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board with 
the Central Works Council was held on 19 August 2016.
Performance of the Supervisory Board and Executive Board
In 2016 the Supervisory Board assessed performance of the 
Supervisory and Executive Board, its committees and the 
individual members internally. The Chairman of the Supervisory 
Board held extensive meetings with each individual Supervisory 
Board member as well as the members of the Executive Board. 
Based on this thorough process the Supervisory Board concluded 2016  – 99Campus of the Technical 
University of Denmark (DTU), 
Kongens Lyngby near 
Copenhagen. BAM Danmark.100 – 2016Remuneration Committee 
In the year under review, the Remuneration Committee was 
composed of Mrs Mahieu (Chairwoman), Mr Elverding and Mr Noy. 
The composition of the Remuneration Committee is in line with 
the provisions of the Dutch corporate governance code. 
One of the tasks of the Remuneration Committee is to make 
proposals to the Supervisory Board with regard to remuneration 
policy, the terms of employment of members of the Executive 
Board and the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory 
Board and Executive Board.
The Committee submitted a proposal to the Supervisory Board 
relating to the remuneration of members of the Executive Board 
and the criteria for variable remuneration. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee prepared a remuneration report on the 
way the remuneration policy has been implemented in practice. 
The developments with regard to the different pension schemes 
in the company were also reviewed. In the financial year, the 
committee consulted the Chairman of the Executive Board about 
the policy on terms and conditions of employment for directors of 
operating companies and executive officers of equivalent rank.
The Remuneration Committee met two times during the year 
under review. The Chairman of the Executive Board was present 
during parts of these meetings. The committee members 
consulted with each other a number of times outside the context 
of a formal meeting. In addition a number of teleconferences 
were held. 
Nomination Committee 
During the year under review, the Nomination Committee was 
composed of Mr Elverding (Chairman), Mrs Mahieu and Mr Noy. 
One of the tasks of the Nomination Committee is to make 
proposals to the Supervisory Board regarding selection criteria 
and appointment procedures, and regarding the size, 
composition, appointments and reappointments to the 
Supervisory Board and the Executive Board as well as assessment 
of their performance. The committee also monitors the Executive 
Board’s policy on selection criteria and appointment procedures 
for senior management and holds annual appraisals with the 
individual members of the Executive Board.
The Nomination Committee met two times in the past financial 
year. One item discussed was the ending of the terms of Mr 
Van Wingerden and Mrs Menssen (as members of the Executive 
Board) and Mr Noy (as a member of the Supervisory Board) at the 
Annual General Meeting in 2016. A proposal for reappointment 
was submitted to the Supervisory Board. In 2016 the Nomination 
Committee also initiated a search for the new members of the 
Supervisory Board to be appointed by the Annual General  
Meeting in 2017.discuss the strategic agendas of the individual operating 
companies.
The Supervisory Board has three permanent committees: an 
Audit  Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination 
Committee. It is the task of these committees to support and 
advise the Supervisory Board concerning items under the 
committees’ responsibility and to prepare the Supervisory Board’s 
decisions regarding those items. The Supervisory Board as a whole 
remains responsible for the way in which it performs its tasks and 
for the preparatory work carried out by the committees. The 
committees submitted reports on their meetings to the 
Supervisory Board.
The Audit Committee 
In the year under review the Audit Committee was composed of 
Messrs. Scheffers (Chairman), Hansen and Wester. The composition 
of the Audit Committee is in line with the provisions of the Dutch 
corporate governance code. The Audit Committee supports the 
Supervisory Board in the performance of its tasks, especially with 
regard to financial and accounting matters. The Committee met 
four times over the past financial year. The independent auditor 
was present at all of these meetings, with exception of the part of 
the meeting where the relationship with the independent auditor 
was reviewed as described below. The Chairman of the Executive 
Board, the Chief Financial Officer and the Operational Audit 
Director also attended all the Audit Committee's meetings. 
In addition to its regular tasks and responsibilities, the Audit 
Committee addressed the following specific matters in 2016: the 
successful placement of €125 million subordinated unsecured 
convertible bonds due 2021 in June 2016 and subsequent renewal 
of its revolving credit facility until 31 March 2022, the audit plan 
2016 of the new independent auditor Ernst & Young Accountants 
LLP, internal audit plan for 2017, material legal proceedings, 
development of working capital, key projects, financing of the 
company, possible impact of Brexit and developments relating to 
taxes, pensions, insurance and IT. 
The Audit Committee was briefed by the independent auditor on 
relevant developments in the audit profession, especially those 
related to the EU audit reform and the proposed revision of the 
Dutch corporate governance code. The transition of audit 
responsibilities to Ernst & Young Accountants LLP as of this year 
was monitored closely. The committee met with the independent 
auditor on one occasion without the Executive Board being 
present and reported to the Supervisory Board on the 
relationship with the independent auditor subsequently. 
The Audit Committee believes that the relationship with the 
independent auditor is sound.
2016  – 101supervisory body was held. This is in line with the Management 
and Supervision (Public and Private Companies) Act and the 
Code. 
The Supervisory Board has no evidence of any conflicts of interest 
between the company and members of the Executive Board.
Shareholders and investor relations
The Supervisory Board prepared the Annual General Meeting and 
evaluated it afterwards. The Supervisory Board was very pleased 
with the constructive dialogue with shareholders at the meeting. 
The Supervisory Board reviews the Group’s investor relations 
activities and shareholder base on a regular basis. 
Independent auditor
During its review of the 2015 full year results and the 2016 half 
year results, the Supervisory Board met with 
PriceWaterhouseCoopers respectively Ernst & Young Accountants 
LLP to discuss their respective reports. The Board established that 
the transition from PriceWaterhouseCoopers to Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP went smoothly and that the new independent 
auditor had received the financial information on which the 
financial reports were based. The independent auditors have also 
been given the opportunity to discuss the information provided 
with BAM officers and the Executive Board. The Supervisory 
Board took note of the reports and management letters as 
prepared by the independent auditors. These documents were 
discussed with the respective independent auditor and the 
Executive Board. The Supervisory Board also discussed the 
follow-up to the independent auditors’ findings with the 
Executive Board.
PricewaterhouseCoopers attended the Annual General Meeting 
of 20 April 2016 and was available to answer any questions.
As part of its consideration of this report and the 2016 financial 
statements, the Supervisory Board assessed the relationship with 
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, based on reports from the 
Executive Board and the Audit Committee. The Supervisory Board 
concluded that the relation with the independent auditor is 
sound and constructive. 
In the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2015 Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP was appointed as independent auditor for the 
financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018. 
Corporate governance
The company’s corporate governance structure and its 
compliance with the Code were discussed with the shareholders 
in the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2009. The Supervisory Composition of the Supervisory Board
During the year under review, the Supervisory Board was 
composed of six members. In accordance with the retirement 
schedule, there was one reappointment (Mr Noy).
Diversity
BAM strives for a diverse composition of its corporate bodies and 
senior management. Diversity in this respect is not limited to 
gender; it also involves age, nationality and other criteria. 
However, gender diversity is recognised as an important 
contributor to successful management. The Supervisory Board 
has five male members and one female member (16.7 per cent). 
One member of the Supervisory Board is a Belgian national. 
The Executive Board, whose members are all Dutch nationals, 
has two male members and one female member (33.3 per cent). 
As such the Group complies with the diversity targets as far as 
the Executive Board is concerned but has not yet reached the 
desired target in the Supervisory Board. 
Both the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board endorse the 
importance of diversity in the Group’s managerial bodies. In order 
to further emphasise this, the profile of the Supervisory Board 
was updated in 2015 to include a 30 per cent target for female 
board members. For future vacancies the Supervisory Board will 
ensure that specific efforts will be made to identify one or more 
suitable female candidates and strives to comply with the 
diversity target by 2018. 
Independence
In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the requirements of the 
Dutch corporate governance code with regard to independence 
have been met. In 2016 the Supervisory Board members did not 
have any other relationships of a business nature with the 
company. None of the Supervisory Board members had more 
than five memberships of Supervisory Boards at Dutch listed 
companies or other large institutions. 
The Supervisory Board is not aware of any conflicts of interest 
between the company and members of the Supervisory Board, or 
between the company and natural persons or legal entities that 
hold at least 10 per cent of the shares in the company.
Composition of the Executive Board
During the financial year, the Executive Board was composed of 
three members. There were two scheduled reappointments 
(Mr Van Wingerden and Mrs Menssen). 
The Supervisory Board concluded that none of the members of 
the Executive Board holds more than two Supervisory Board 
positions of large corporations and no position of Chairman of a 2016 – 102Board and the Executive Board reviewed the corporate 
governance structure during the financial year and decided that 
there were no reasons to change it. 
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are convinced 
that Royal BAM Group’s corporate governance is up to standard. 
Please refer to the corporate governance statement from 
page  87 of the Integrated Report concerning the company’s 
compliance with the Code.
The 2016 financial statements, duly prepared by the Executive 
Board, will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for 
adoption. The financial statements have been audited by the 
independent auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP; the 
unqualified independent auditor’s report is included on 
page 217 of the Integrated Report. The Supervisory Board has 
discussed the financial statements with the Executive Board in 
the presence of the independent auditor and agrees with them. 
The Supervisory Board agrees with the proposal of the Executive 
Board to distribute a dividend of €0.09 per share in accordance 
with the Group’s dividend policy. The Supervisory Board is of the 
opinion that the financial statements, the report by the 
Supervisory Board and the report by the Executive Board 
provide a solid basis on which to hold the Executive Board 
accountable for the management policies pursued and the 
Supervisory Board accountable for its supervision of the 
management policies pursued. The members of the Supervisory 
Board have signed the financial statements in accordance with 
their statutory obligations under Article 2:101, paragraph 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code. The Supervisory Board believes that this 
report is presented in accordance with the International 
Integrated Reporting Framework.
Final comments
2016 was a year of accelerated change. The development and 
implementation of the new 2016-2020 Group strategy Building 
the present, creating the future, the translation of this strategy 
into dedicated strategic agendas for the operating companies 
and corporate functions, and the introduction of the new target 
operating model all stretched the organisation as well as its 
employees. The Supervisory Board expresses its appreciation for 
the contribution of management and all employees to the major 
efforts that have been made and the results achieved so far.
Zaans Medical Center (ZMC) in 
Zaandam, the Netherlands.  
Vitaal Zorgvast and BAM Bouw en 
Techniek.2016  – 103The company has not awarded any options to members of the 
Executive Board, members of operating company management 
teams or employees. The remuneration of the Executive Board 
members is not affected by a change of control at the company. 
No loans were issued to members of the Executive Board. 
The Supervisory Board did not see any reason during the financial 
year to use its extraordinary powers to adjust or reclaim variable 
or long-term remuneration that had already been awarded. 
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members 
The annual remuneration for the members of the Supervisory 
Board, in accordance with the policy adopted at the General 
Meeting on 7 May 2008, is €50,000 for the Chairman, €45,000 for 
the Vice-Chairman and €40,000 for the other members of the 
Board, with an additional remuneration of €5,000 for each 
member who is on one or more committees set up by the 
Supervisory Board. The Chairman and the other members of the 
Supervisory Board receive an annual fixed expenses allowance of 
€3,280 and €1,640 respectively. The remuneration and fixed 
expenses allowance are paid on a quarterly basis. 
As a policy the Company does not award any options or shares to 
members of the Supervisory Board. This was also the case in 2016. 
The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is not 
affected by the company’s results, nor by any change of control at 
the company. No loans were issued to members of the 
Supervisory Board. 
Remuneration policy 
The Supervisory Board draws up the company’s remuneration 
policy based on advice from its Remuneration Committee. The 
General Meeting adopts the remuneration policy. Once the 
remuneration policy has been adopted, the Supervisory Board 
determines the remuneration for the individual members of the 
Executive Board, again on the basis of recommendations of its 
Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee’s 
regulations are published on BAM’s website. The members of the 
Executive Board received remuneration in the past financial year 
in line with the remuneration policy adopted by the Annual 
General Meeting on 22 April 2015 after a review of the 
remuneration policy for the Executive Board in light of the Back in 
Shape programme and by taking into account developments in 
market best practices since the previous update. 
Design principles 
The remuneration policy is geared to attract and retain qualified 
people and motivating them to achieve Royal BAM Group’s 
objectives. Particular emphasis is placed on experience with the 
Group’s (international) activities and the necessary management 
qualities. In the design of the policy and in determining the The following remuneration report from the Supervisory Board 
describes how the remuneration policy was put into practice 
during the past financial year. The report includes summaries 
of information concerning remuneration received in 2016 and 
also contains a summary of the remuneration policy for the 
coming financial year and subsequent years. 
Remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee is a permanent committee of 
the Supervisory Board and consists of at least two members of 
the Supervisory Board. The Remuneration Committee is 
subject to rules established by the Supervisory Board. At the 
end of the year under review it consisted of Mrs Mahieu 
(Chairwoman), Mr Elverding and Mr Noy. The composition of 
the Remuneration Committee is in line with the provisions of 
the Code. The Remuneration Committee met two times during 
the past financial  year. The committee members consulted 
with each other a number of times outside the context of a 
formal meeting. 
Beginning 2016 the salaries were benchmarked against the 
labour market reference group by external remuneration 
advisers (Hay Group). Based on the results the Supervisory 
Board, based on a proposal by the Remuneration Committee, 
decided to adjust the salaries of the Executive Board per 
1 January 2016. The salary of the CEO has been increased from 
€620,000 to €680,000 in order to bring him closer to the 
median of the reference group. The salaries of the other 
members of the Executive Board were adjusted from €470,000 
to €480,000 in line with general salary increases.
A summary of the remuneration of the individual members of 
the Executive Board can be found in > tables 55 and 60. No 
other compensation was awarded to members of the Executive 
Board in  the financial year other than the compensation 
indicated in > tables 55 and 60. 
Annual variable remuneration and long-term remuneration  
for the members of the Executive Board 
The members of the Executive Board were awarded 
60 per cent annual variable remuneration in relation to the 
financial and non-financial targets from the short-term 
incentive plan. The targets related to performance on the 
Group’s financial priorities, measured by adjusted profit before 
tax, working capital and cash flow, to performance on safety, 
measured by IF, and strategy implementation. 
The conditional performance shares granted to the members 
of the Executive Board under the long-term incentive 
performance share plan in 2016 are stated in > table 60. 5.3 Remuneration report 2016 – 104remuneration levels of the members of the Executive Board, the 
Supervisory Board has benchmarked the several remuneration 
elements against market standards. Also the internal pay 
differentials have been taken into account, as well as scenario 
analyses which were used to determine possible outcomes of the 
variable remuneration elements, including the maximum value of 
the long-term incentive. The remuneration structure and 
elements take into account that risk-taking beyond the risk profile 
of the company should not be encouraged.
The policy is also aimed at stimulating profitable growth and
long-term value creation, to motivate individuals and to increase 
the attractiveness of the company to highly qualified executives, 
including those from other industries, so as to interest them in 
Royal BAM Group as an employer. The remuneration level and 
structure are partly based on the development of results, as well 
as other developments that are relevant to the company, 
including non-financial indicators which are relevant for the 
company’s long-term objectives.
In order to achieve these design principles, remuneration is set at 
a competitive level for the relevant national general remuneration 
market for directors and other senior managers of large 
companies. The Supervisory Board will regularly review the 
remuneration package to ensure that it complies with the 
assumptions underlying the remuneration policy. The 
remuneration policy will also be evaluated regularly; changes in 
the policy will be put forward for adoption at the General Meeting.
Remuneration level
The Supervisory Board uses external benchmark information to 
assess market comparability of the remuneration levels. 
Remuneration levels are aimed at the median of a labour market 
reference group of sixteen companies as listed in > table 52. 
The reference group was selected based on industry, ownership 
structure, geographical business scope and size parameters. 
Reference group 52
Arcadis
Balfour Beatty
Bauer
Besix 
Boskalis
Carillion
Eiffage
FugroThe incentive levels are presented in the > table below:
Remuneration level
STI (% of fixed remuneration)
CEO 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
Members 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
LTI (% of fixed remuneration)*
CEO 70%
Members 60%
Share ownership guidelines
CEO 1 times fixed remuneration
Members 0.75 times fixed remuneration
* Award value.
Remuneration package
The remuneration of the Executive Board consists of four 
elements:
a. Fixed remuneration;
b. Short-term incentive (STI);
c. Long-term incentive (LTI);
d.  Post-employment benefits and other secondary conditions  
of employment.
Ad a. Fixed remuneration
The Supervisory Board determines the development of the annual 
fixed remuneration of the individual member of the Executive 
Board. The annual evaluation and change in fixed remuneration 
generally take place per 1 January of each year. The evaluation 
considers personal performance, the results of the past year, the 
extent to which the current fixed remuneration deviates from the 
benchmark and general changes in the market.
Ad b. Short-term incentive
To ensure continued alignment between the short-term incentive 
and BAM’s strategy, flexibility with respect to the STI metrics is 
important to enable adequate responses to the challenges the 
Group is facing. The Remuneration Committee annually selects 
two to three financial metrics for the STI of the members of the 
Executive Board. It also determines their relative weighting.
The financial metrics will be chosen from the following list:
1.  (Adjusted) profit before tax 5.  Cash conversion
2.  Operational result (EBIT) 6.  Cost reduction
3.  Working capital 7.  Divestments
4.  Cash flowHeijmans
Hochtief
NCC
Post NL
Skanska
Strabag
TNT Express
VolkerWessels532016  – 105LTI is capped at 2.5 times the award value in order to avoid 
inappropriate payouts.
There are two financial performance measures, being total 
shareholder return and ROCE and one non-financial measure, 
being CDP ranking. Realised performance results in a vesting 
percentage for each of the three performance targets, each 
determining one third of the vesting of the conditionally granted 
shares. The TSR measure will also operate as a ‘circuit breaker’ for 
the vesting part linked to the other two criteria. When BAM Group 
ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the other 
parts will not pay out regardless of the performance in this area.
Minimum share ownership requirements: for the CEO this amounts 
to hundred per cent of fixed remuneration and for the other 
members of the Executive Board this amounts to 75 per cent of 
fixed remuneration. In accordance with the code the three-year 
vesting period will be followed by a two-year lock-up period. 
Participants are not allowed to divest any shareholding until the 
two-year lock-up period has lapsed and the above minimum share 
ownership requirements are met, with the exception of any sale of 
shares during the lock-up period required to meet any tax 
obligations and social security premiums (including any other 
duties and levies) as a consequence of this performance share plan.
Long-term incentive plan
Financial vs. non-financial 
(personal) measuresFinancial: 66.7 per cent
Non-financial: 33.3 per cent
Weight (% of total value at grant) 
and type of measures TSR: 33.3 per cent
ROCE: 33.3 per cent
CDP ranking: 33.3 per cent
Payment mechanism Conditional performance shares
Stimulating share ownership Two-year additional holding 
period plus minimum share 
ownership requirements 
TSR is defined as the share price increase, including dividends. 
TSR is measured over a three-year period based on a three-month 
average period before award and vesting date. The relative position 
within the peer group determines the vesting percentage. The TSR 
peer group comprises of Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, Carillion, 
Heijmans, Hochtief, Eiffage, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci, YIT (and BAM). 
The composition of the TSR peer group is being evaluated on a 
periodic basis, among other things, in light of corporate events.The selected metrics link remuneration with a focus on BAM’s 
financial priorities. As specific targets for each of the metrics may 
qualify as sensitive information, these will in principle not be 
disclosed.
Seventy per cent of the STI is based on financial criteria (as outlined 
above), the remaining thirty per cent is linked to non-financial 
performance targets. Performance incentive zones are defined for 
each of the targets. Pay-out gradually increases with performance, 
starting with a pay-out of 35 per cent of the target opportunity at 
threshold performance and potentially going up to 75 per cent 
pay-out at maximum performance per individual target. Below 
threshold there will be zero pay-out. The Supervisory Board sets 
the performance ranges (i.e. threshold, at target and maximum 
performance levels) and corresponding payout levels, with the 
constraint that the STI payout will not exceed 75 per cent of fixed 
remuneration. 
After the end of the financial year, the Remuneration Committee 
determines to what extent the performance targets have been 
met. The Supervisory Board, following a proposal from the 
Remuneration Committee, will decide upon the variable 
remuneration to be awarded over the past financial year.
In cases in which the variable remuneration is awarded on the 
basis of inaccurate (financial) data, the Supervisory Board has the 
right to adjust the variable remuneration accordingly, and the 
company is entitled to reclaim (any part of) the variable 
remuneration paid to a member of the Executive Board on the 
basis of incorrect (financial) information.
In the case of new awards of variable remuneration to members of 
the Executive Board, based on quantified performance criteria, 
the Supervisory Board has the right to amend the awards in 
relation to the level of previous years if it considers that this would 
otherwise lead to an unreasonable outcome.
The Supervisory Board also has the power to amend the existing 
conditional awards of variable remuneration based on quantifiable 
performance criteria if, in its opinion, applying the criteria without 
amendment would have an unreasonable and unintended 
outcome. These matters have been incorporated into the 
management agreements of the Executive Board.
Ad c. Long-term incentive
Executive Board members participate in a performance share 
plan. The performance shares are conditionally awarded subject 
to performance testing after three years. The number of 
performance shares at award date is calculated by dividing the 
award value by the average closing price of BAM Group shares on 
Euronext Amsterdam based on the five-day average closing price 
after AGM. The maximum value at the moment of vesting of the 542016 – 106Stakeholder interview2015 – 107
Maxime Verhagen,  
Chairman of Bouwend Nederland
What is the most important catalyst for 
further sustainable development in 
construction? 
‘The phase we’re entering now is 
‘development by doing’. We must leave 
the drawing board behind, leave the 
endless discussions behind and get to 
work! Execution of those lofty sustainable 
goals, that’s what matters now. Translate 
them into projects proper, in close 
cooperation with your clients. Of course 
these need to be smart projects, in which 
multiple sustainable innovations are joined 
together. They will amplify and enhance 
each other. Out of this fusion I fully expect 
new concepts to emerge, which in turn 
should be scaled up swiftly. Let’s not waste 
time while building a significant future. 
And let’s not look outside, but inside as 
well, for catalysts. If sustainability is at 
your company’s core, you are well 
prepared to meet the challenge of new, 
sharp requests by your clients. Are you 
really passionate about distinguishing 
yourself in sustainable construction?’Maxime Verhagen, Chairman of Bouwend Nederland, 
the association of Dutch building and infrastructure 
companies, since 2013. Verhagen is a retired Dutch 
politician of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA). 
How do we ensure sustainability will 
continue to be a theme – and what role 
does digitalisation and innovation play?
‘Sustainability is much more than just a 
theme. Over the last two years I witnessed 
inherent sustainability in each and every 
innovation, especially those developed by 
startups. Governments increasingly wake 
up to it and encourage their citizens. 
‘Going green’ is rapidly becoming policy as 
usual. This has important repercussions. 
When buying a newly built house, people 
expect no less than an almost zero-energy home. In the near future, they also expect 
to charge their - soon affordable – electric 
car using the solar energy captured by 
their roof. Also, they won’t be exasperated 
if new buildings are wholly connected to 
very diverse systems. The Internet of 
Things is the next big thing and it has 
everything to do with sustainability. In 
short, we don’t have to cheer on 
sustainability. Instead, we have to stay 
ahead of the curve and be the catalyst.’
’We have to stay ahead and be the catalyst’The performance incentive zonesopenbare biedingen Wft), the provisions of Article 2:135 (7) of the 
Civil Code shall apply. In accordance with this article, the company 
(based upon a resolution of the Supervisory Board, following a 
proposal of the Remuneration Committee) will reclaim from a 
member of the Executive Board payment in kind or in cash of any 
increase in value referred to therein.
At the discretionairy request of the Supervisory Board, the 
company’s independent auditor will check the calculations carried 
out and conclusions reached in connection with the long-term 
incentive plan, in which case the independent auditor’s 
assessment will be binding.
Ad d.  Post-employment benefits and other secondary conditions  
of employment 
With respect to pensions, sector regulations are adopted 
wherever possible, with surplus schemes based on defined 
contributions and contributions from the participants. Members 
of the Executive Board are subject to a pension scheme and 
transitional arrangements as applicable within the Group from 
1 January 2006 for all comparable employees following the 
introduction of the Act of Parliament concerning early retirement, 
pre-pension and life-course savings schemes (Wet VPL). The costs 
of trend-based indexation of underlying pension rights have been 
included in the pension contributions with effect from 2009. The 
company does not have any early retirement schemes. Due to the 
nature of the management services agreement no pension 
arrangements were made with regard to Mr Bax, who instead will 
receive a contribution for his personal pension arrangements.
As for all the other employees, the Group has a competitive 
package of secondary conditions of employment for the members 
of the Executive Board. This package includes such matters as 
healthcare and disability insurance, personal accident insurance, Realised performance against those targets is assessed by using 
performance incentive zones. For excellent performance, the 
number of performance shares per individual target that may vest 
may amount to a maximum of 150 per cent of the ‘at target’ 
number of performance shares. This percentage may be reduced 
to zero (on a sliding scale) for non-achievement of the individual 
targets. The performance incentive zones are presented in the 
tables below.
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of 
the number of performance shares that will vest and the share 
price at the moment of vesting – that will become unconditional 
to a participant will at vesting never exceed two and a half times 
the award value.
The authority to implement the long-term incentive plan is vested 
in the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has the right to 
change or terminate the scheme at any time. If the Supervisory 
Board decides to terminate or make material changes to the 
long-term incentive plan, the next General Meeting will be asked 
to adopt a resolution to that effect. Upon a decision of the 
Supervisory Board, following a proposal from the Remuneration 
Committee, the company has the discretionary power to fully or 
partially reclaim from the participant who is member of the 
Executive Board the conditionally awarded performance shares as 
well as vested shares (or any benefit resulting therefrom) where 
those have been awarded on the basis of incorrect information 
concerning:
(i) The achievement of the performance conditions concerned or; 
(ii)  Events or conditions on which the shares were conditionally 
awarded.
In case of announcement of a public offer for shares in the 
company as referred to in Article 5 of the Takeover Decree (Besluit 
55
Relative TSR ROCE CDP ranking
TSR ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below treshold 0% Below treshold 0%
6 25%
Notes:
1)  Vesting is expressed as a percentage of the conditionally granted number of shares.
2)  If TSR would be at position 10 or 11, no vesting can occur for the other parts.7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%2016 – 108employment. As of the above-mentioned date, new Executive 
Board members are appointed by means of a management 
services agreement. This is the case for Mr Bax with whom a 
management services agreement has been negotiated. In the 
course of 2016, the employment contracts of the other members 
of the Executive Board were changed into management services 
agreements as well.
If the company terminates the management services agreement 
of a member of the Executive Board, the maximum severance 
payment will be one year’s fixed remuneration. 
The company has no other remuneration provisions, beyond the 
remuneration package mentioned above, nor are there any other 
rights to one-time payments.
Securities rules
The company has rules relating to the possession of and trading in 
securities. These rules are published on the company’s website 
and also include regulations for members of the Executive Board 
and the Supervisory Board relating to the possession of and 
trading in securities other than those issued by the company.
Remuneration policy for 2017 and subsequent years
The remuneration policy described above will remain in effect in 
the financial year 2017 and subsequent years. No material changes 
in the remuneration policy are planned in the coming period.
Supervisory Board 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 2017 a car scheme and reimbursement of personal expenses. The 
Group does not give loans, warrants and the like to members of 
the Executive Board or to other employees, except for the 
arrangements set out below.
Current and former members of the Supervisory Board and 
current and former members of the Executive Board are covered 
by the indemnity, under the Articles of Association, against claims 
made against them in respect of actions or omissions in the 
performance of the duties of their position, unless said actions or 
omissions constituted wilful, deliberately reckless or seriously 
culpable conduct and/or consisted of traffic offences. This facility 
also applies to all employees and former employees of BAM. 
The company has taken out directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance under standard market terms and conditions for the 
members of the Supervisory Board, the members of the Executive 
Board, the members of the operating company management 
teams and all other directors and officers in BAM.
Period of appointment and management services agreements
Members of the Executive Board are appointed for a period of four 
years. The members of the Executive Board have a notice period 
of six months for the company and three months for the 
members. The company regards a notice period of three months 
suitable for a member of the Executive Board.
The relationship between the members of the Executive Board 
and the company changed as of 1 January 2013 with the 
introduction of the Management and Supervision (Public and 
Private Companies) Act (Wet bestuur en toezicht). As such, the 
employment relationship between new members of the Executive 
Board and the company will not be classified as a contract of 
Executive Board remuneration 
Fixed remuneration, short-term incentive, post-employment benefits, other benefits and long-term incentive
(x €1,000)
Fixed  
remuneration 1Short-term  
incentivePost-employment 
benefitsOther 
benefitsLong-term
incentive
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
R.P. van Wingerden 680 620 408 350  126  46  8 8 119 371
T. Menssen 480 470 288 265  39  38  8  8 95 266
E.J. Bax 480 470 288 265  66  52  5  - 99 111
1 As of 20 April 2016, the Executive Board members have a management services agreement and receive a fixed remuneration instead of gross salary.562016  – 109Long-term incentive plan 
Unconditional Phantom Share Plan 2012-2015 1 
(value in €)
At the award date At the vesting date
Number Value NumberTSR-
performanceGraduated 
scaleVested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  84,559  230,000  88,479 0.3% 35%  30,968  135,948 
T. Menssen - - - - - - -
E.J. Bax - - - - - - -
1 Award has become unconditional on 4 May 2015; lock-up period up to and including 4 May 2017.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2016 (€4.390) and on the number of vested shares three years after the award.  
The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for the year 2012, 2013 and 2014.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.
Unconditional Phantom Share Plan 2013-2016 1 
(value in €)
At the award date At the vesting date
Number Value NumberTSR-
performanceGraduated 
scaleVested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  69,272  235,000  70,617 7.6% 45%  31,778  139,504 
T. Menssen  69,272  235,000  70,617 7.6% 45%  31,778  139,504 
E.J. Bax  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 
1 Award has become unconditional on 3 May 2016; lock-up period up to and including 3 May 2018.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2016 (€4.390) and on the number of vested shares three years after the award.  
The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for the year 2013, 2014 and 2015.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.
Conditional Phantom Share Plan 2014-2017 1
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2016
Number Value Number Value 2TSR-
performanceGraduated
scale 
R.P. van Wingerden  60,072  235,000  60,378  265,059 7.1% 45%
T. Menssen  60,072  235,000  60,378  265,059 7.1% 45%
E.J. Bax  60,072  235,000  54,340  238,553 7.1% 45%
1 Award on 1 May 2014; award becomes unconditional on 1 May 2017; lock-up period up to and including 1 May 2019.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2016 (€4.390) and on the number of conditional phantom shares that become 
unconditional three years after the award.  
The TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for 2016. The ultimate TSR performance is based on the quarterly average for the year 2014,  
2015 and 2016.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.57
58
592016 – 110Conditional Performance Share Plan 2015-2017 1
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2016
number value number value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  114,319  434,000  114,319  501,860 
T. Menssen  74,281  282,000  74,281  326,093 
E.J. Bax  74,281  282,000  74,281  326,093 
1 Award on 30 April 2015; award becomes unconditional if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2016 (€4.390) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional performance shares that 
become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price at the vesting date 
– that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half (2.5) times the award value.
Conditional Performance Share Plan 2016-2018 1
(value in €)
At the award date  Year-end 2016
Number Value Number Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden  112,711  476,000  112,711  494,801 
T. Menssen  68,195  288,000  68,195  299,376 
E.J. Bax  68,195  288,000  68,195  299,376 
1 Awarded on 28 April 2016; award becomes unconditional if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2016 (€4.390) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional performance shares  
that become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price  
at the vesting date – that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half times the award value.
Appointment and contractual arrangements
Year of 
employmentDate of
first 
 appointmentStart date 
current 
appointmentPeriod of 
appointmentNotice  
period  
for the 
CompanyNotice  
period for  
the Executive 
Board member Severance
R.P. van Wingerden 1988 7 May 2008 20 April 2016 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration
T. Menssen 2012 1 October 2012 20 April 2016 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration
E.J. Bax 2014 1 May 2014 1 May 2014 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration60
61
622016  – 111The members of the Executive Board as required by section 5:25c, 
paragraph 2, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision 
(Wet op het financieel toezicht) confirm that to the best of their 
knowledge:
• The 2016 financial statements included in this report give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole;5.4  Declaration in accordance with the  
Dutch Financial Supervision Act
• The report by the Executive Board included in this report gives a 
true and fair view of the position of the company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole as 
at 31 December 2016, and of the development and 
performance of the business for the financial year then ended;
• The report by the Executive Board includes a description of the 
substantial risks and uncertainties that the company faces.
Werl Prison, east of Dortmund, 
Germany. BAM Deutschland.112 – 2016The following information and explanations relate to the provisions 
of the Decree of 5 April 2006 implementing Article 10 of Directive 
number 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 
the European Union dated 21 April 2004.
Capital structure
Note 15 of the financial statements may be used as a reference for 
the company’s capital structure. No rights apart from those 
arising under statute are attached to the shares into which the 
company’s capital is divided, apart from the scheme specified in 
Article 31 of the Articles of Association concerning the application 
of the profit in relation to Class B and Class F preference shares.
A brief summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association is 
provided below. From the profit realised in any financial year, an 
amount will first be distributed, where possible, on the Class B 
cumulative preference shares, calculated by applying the 
percentage stated below to the amount that must be paid up on 
those shares as at the start of the financial year for which the 
distribution is made. The percentage referred to above will be equal 
to the average of the Euribor rates for money market loans with a 
maturity of twelve months – weighted according to the number of 
days for which these rates prevailed – during the financial year for 
which the distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor 
refers to the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and 
published by the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of Article 31(6) of the Articles of 
Association, equal to an amount calculated by applying a 
percentage to the nominal amount of the financing preference 
share concerned at the start of that financial year, plus the amount 
of share premium paid in on the financing preference share issued 
in the series concerned at the time of initial issue of the financing 
preference shares of that series, less the amount paid out on each 
financing preference share concerned and charged to the share 
premium reserve formed at the time of issue of the financing 
preference shares of that series prior to that financial year. If and to 
the extent that a distribution has been made on the financing 
preference shares concerned in the course of the year and charged 
to the share premium reserve formed at the time of issue of the 
financing preference shares of the series concerned, or partial 
repayment has been made on such shares, the amount of the 
distribution will be reduced pro rata over the period concerned 
according to the amount of the distribution charged to the share 
premium reserve and/or the repayment with respect to the amount 
referred to in the preceding sentence.
The calculation of the dividend percentage for the financing 
preference shares of a certain series will be made for each of the 
series of financing preference shares referred to below, in the 
manner set forth for the series concerned.Series FP1 to FP4
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the arithmetic 
mean of the yield to maturity on euro government loans issued by 
the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining term matching as 
closely as possible the term of the series concerned, as published in 
the Euronext Prices Lists, plus two percentage points.
Series FP5 to FP8
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the Euribor 
rates for money market loans with a maturity of 12 months – 
weighted according to the number of days for which these rates 
prevailed – during the financial year for which the distribution is 
made, plus two percentage points.
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an amount 
of no more than 300 basis points.
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and FP7: 
seven years and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a period 
expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance with the rules 
laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles of Association.
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal by 
the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. The 
part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of the 
General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further dividends 
will be distributed on the preference shares and with due 
consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the Articles of 
Association.
Please note that, as at the balance sheet date, neither preference 
shares B nor preference shares F have been issued.
Limits on the transfer of shares
The company has no limitation, under the Articles of Association or 
by contract, on the transfer of shares or depositary receipts issued 
with the company’s cooperation, apart from the restriction on the 
transfer of Class B preference shares contained in the Articles of 
Association. Article 13 of the company’s Articles of Association 
stipulates that approval is required from the company’s Executive 
Board for the transfer of Class B preference shares. The scheme is 
included in order to offer the company the facility – because of the 
specific purpose of issuing these shares, namely the acquisition of 
finance or achieving protection – of offering the holders of these 
shares an alternative in the event that they wish to dispose of their 
shares.
As regards the Class B preference shares, the company and Stichting 
Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (BAM Group Stock Management 
Foundation) have agreed that the company will not proceed to issue 
these shares or to grant any rights to purchase them to anyone other 5.5 Decision on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive
2016  – 113Supervisory Board. The General Meeting also appoints the members 
of the Executive Board, with the Supervisory Board having the right 
of recommendation. The section headed Corporate governance on 
page 87 onwards of the report by the Executive Board provides a 
more detailed explanation of the appointment and dismissal of 
members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Executive 
Board. Resolutions to amend the Articles of Association or to 
dissolve the Company may only be adopted by the General Meeting 
pursuant to a proposal of the Executive Board and subject to the 
approval of the Supervisory Board.
Powers of the Executive Board
The company is managed by an Executive Board. The Executive 
Board’s powers are those arising from legislation and regulations. 
A more detailed description of the Executive Board’s duties can be 
found on page 87 onwards of the Executive Board’s report, in the 
section headed Corporate governance. The Executive Board was 
authorised by the General Meeting held on 20 April 2016 to issue 
ordinary shares and Class F preference shares and/or to grant 
options to purchase these shares, subject to approval from the 
Supervisory Board. This authorisation is limited in duration to 
eighteen months. It is also limited in scope to 10 per cent of the 
issued capital, plus an additional 10 per cent, which additional 
10 per cent may be used exclusively for mergers, acquisitions or 
strategic partnerships by the company or by operating companies. 
The General Meeting held on 20 April 2016 granted authority to the 
Executive Board for a period of 18 months to repurchase shares in 
the company, within the limitations imposed by the law and the 
Articles of Association and subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. In principle, the General Meeting is asked to 
grant these authorisations every year. Resolutions to amend the 
Articles of Association, or to dissolve the company may only be 
passed by the General Meeting on the basis of a proposal put 
forward by the Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory 
Board.
Change of control provisions in important agreements
The Group’s most important financial rules state that in the event of 
a change of control (including in the event that more than 50 per 
cent of the shares in BAM are deemed to be held by one party), the 
banks may terminate further financing and the Group can be 
obliged to repay outstanding loans under these arrangements and 
to extend the capital base provided for outstanding bank 
guarantees. A change of control clause is not unusual in important 
collaboration agreements over a longer period, where the parties 
include parts of the Group. Partly because of the total size of the 
Group, these clauses are not considered significant within the 
meaning of the Decree on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive.
Change of control clauses in contracts of employment
No agreement has been concluded with directors or employees of 
the company providing for a severance payment on termination of 
employment resulting from a public bid for the company.than the said foundation without the foundation’s permission. The 
foundation will not dispose of or encumber any Class B preference 
shares, nor renounce the voting rights relating to them, without 
permission from the company. Please refer to page 227 onward of 
the report with regard to the reasons behind protecting the 
company and the manner in which this is done.
Substantial interests
The company is aware of the following interests in its equity, which 
are now reported under the provisions concerning the reporting of 
controlling interests under the Disclosure of the Financial 
Supervision Act. See > table 69.
Special control rights
The shares into which the company’s equity is divided are not 
subject to any special control rights.
Employee share plan or employee option plan
The company does not have any employee share or employee 
option plans. Since 2015 a long term incentive plan based on 
performance shares has been introduced for the members of the 
Executive Board, which replaces the previous long-term incentive 
plan which was based on phantom shares. The new long-term 
incentive plan is cascaded down to a maximum number of 15 senior 
executive positions below the Executive Board.
Voting rights
Each share in the company provides entitlement to the casting of 
one vote at shareholders’ meetings. There are no restrictions on 
the exercising of voting rights. The company’s Articles of 
Association contain the usual provisions in relation to intimation for 
the purpose of being acknowledged as a proxy at shareholders’ 
meetings. Where the company’s Articles of Association mention 
holders of depositary receipts or depositary receipt holders, 
whether named or bearer, this is understood to mean holders of 
depositary receipts issued with the company’s cooperation and also 
individuals who, under the terms of Articles 88 or 89, Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code, have the rights accorded to holders of depositary 
receipts for shares issued with the company’s cooperation.
Shareholders’ agreements
The company is not aware of any agreements involving one of the 
company’s shareholders and which might provide reasons for:
(i)  Restricting the transfer of shares or of depositary receipts 
issued with the company’s cooperation, or
(ii) Restricting the voting rights.
Appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board and 
members of the Executive Board and amendment of the Articles of 
Association
The company is obliged by law to operate a mitigated two-tier 
structure. The General Meeting appoints the members of the 
Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation from the 
2016 – 114Office building Onealbertquay 
in Cork City Centre is designed 
to Gold LEED standards 
(Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design). 
BAM Ireland.2016  – 115 2016  – 115Biographies of the Supervisory Board members
P.A.F.W. Elverding  (1948), Chairman
Mr Elverding graduated from the University of Amsterdam. After 
completing his law degree in 1972, Mr Elverding began his career 
in the healthcare sector. He then went on to work at Akzo Chemie 
Nederland and De Bijenkorf in various human resources positions. 
In 1981, he joined the management team of De Bijenkorf, 
assuming responsibility for human resources. In 1985, Mr 
Elverding joined DSM, serving in various management positions in 
different parts of the DSM Group with responsibility for human 
resources and general affairs. He was appointed to the DSM 
Executive Board in 1995 and became Chairman of the Executive 
Board in 1999. Mr Elverding retired in 2007. Mr Elverding is a 
Dutch national. He does not own any shares in the company’s 
capital.
Other offices:  Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of 
SHV Holdings; member of the Supervisory Board of Royal 
FrieslandCampina; member of the Board of Stichting Instituut GAK.
Mr Elverding was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
was appointed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board in November 
2011. He was re-appointed in 2015.
H. Scheffers  (1948), Vice-Chairman
Mr Scheffers trained as a chartered accountant. He worked from 
1974 until 1993 at Koninklijke Bunge, where he successively held 
the positions of internal auditor, European controller and 
President Northern Europe. He was a member of the Executive 
Board of LeasePlan Corporation from 1993 until 1999. He joined 
SHV Holdings in 1999, where he was CFO on the Executive Board 
until he retired in 2007. Mr Scheffers is a Dutch national. He does 
not own any shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aalberts 
Industries; Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Flint 
Holding; member of the Supervisory Board of Heineken; member 
of the Board of Directors of Stichting Administratiekantoor 
Aandelen KAS BANK; member of the Monitoring Commission 
Accountancy (MCA). 
Mr Scheffers was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2009 and 
reappointed in 2013. He was appointed as Vice-Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board in November 2011.
J.-P. Hansen  (1948)
Baron Hansen graduated from Luik University, Belgium, as an 
electromechanical engineer. After two years working for the 
Belgian government, he continued his career in the electricity and 
gas sector. Mr Hansen was CEO of Electrabel during two periods, 
from 1992 to 1999 and again from 2005 to 2010.
From 1999 to 2004 he was Chairman of the Executive Board of 
Electrabel. He was a member of the Executive Board of ENGIE until 
February 2013. Currently Mr Hansen is Honorary Chairman of 
Electrabel. Mr Hansen is a Belgian national and does not own any shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices:  member of the Board of Directors of CMB 
(Compagnie Maritime Belge). He is a professor of economics 
at the University of Louvain. 
Mr Hansen was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2013.
C.M.C. Mahieu  (1959)
Mrs Mahieu studied economics at the University of Amsterdam, 
where she graduated in 1984. She began her career at Royal Dutch 
Shell, where she held various management positions dealing with 
human resources, communication and corporate strategy. After 
several years as a consultant, Mrs Mahieu joined Royal Philips 
Electronics as Senior Vice-President Corporate Human Resources 
in 2003. She took up her current position as Executive Vice-
President and Global Head of Human Resources at Aegon in 
September 2010. She became a member of Aegon’s Management 
Board in 2016. Mrs Mahieu is a Dutch national. She does not own 
any shares in the company’s capital.
Mrs Mahieu holds no other offices. 
Mrs Mahieu was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011  
and re-appointed in 2015.
H.L.J. Noy  (1951)
Mr Noy completed his studies at Eindhoven University of 
Technology in 1974. Mr Noy worked for Arcadis throughout his 
entire career. He joined that company, which at the time still 
operated under the name Heidemij, in 1975 and has since 
occupied various positions. From 1989 to 1994 he was a member 
of the Management Board of Arcadis’ consultancy division in the 
Netherlands, and served as Chairman of that Board from 1992 to 
1994. In 1994, Mr Noy was appointed as a member of the 
Executive Board. From 2000 to May 2012, Mr Noy served as CEO 
and Chairman of the Executive Board of Arcadis NV. Mr Noy is a 
Dutch national and does not own any shares in the company’s 
capital.
Other offices: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Fugro; 
Chairman of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor 
TKH Group; extraordinary member of the Dutch Safety Board. 
Mr Noy was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2012 and 
re-appointed in 2016.
K.S. Wester  (1946)
Mr Wester graduated in civil engineering from Delft University 
of Technology in 1969. He then worked briefly for Fugro as a 
geotechnical engineer, after having performed military service. 
He went on to work at Costain Blankevoort and later at Ballast 
Nedam, working in the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates 
and Kuwait. In 1981, he returned to Fugro, where he held various 
management positions before being appointed as a member of 
the Fugro Executive Board under the Articles of Association in 5.6 Supervisory Board and Executive Board2016 – 1161996. Mr Wester went on to become Chairman of the Executive 
Board in 2005, a position he held until his retirement in 2012. 
Mr Wester is a Dutch national and does not own any shares in the 
company’s capital.
Other offices: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ACTA; 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Iv-Groep.
Mr Wester was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
re-appointed in 2015.
Retirement schedule for the Supervisory Board
As of January 2016Year of 
appointmentYear of next 
re-appointmentYear of 
retirementCurrent 
term 1
P.A.F.W. Elverding 2011 2019 2023 2
H.S. Scheffers 2009 2017 2021 2
J.-P. Hansen 2013 2017 2025 1
C.M.C. Mahieu 2011 2019 2023 2
H.L.J. Noy 2012 2020 2024 2
K.S. Wester 2011 2019 2023 2
1  Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed/reappointed for a maximum of four years.63
From the left (top): K.S. Wester, H.L.J. Noy, H. Scheffers and J.-P. Hansen.
(Bottom:) P.A.F.W. Elverding and C.M.C. Mahieu.2016  – 117Biographies of the Executive Board
R.P. (Rob) van Wingerden  (1961), CEO 
Mr Van Wingerden graduated as a civil 
engineer from Delft University of 
Technology in 1988. He joined the Group 
as a project surveyor in 1988 and 
subsequently worked in a variety of 
project management and other roles for 
operating companies in the Netherlands 
and elsewhere (including Taiwan and 
Hong Kong). He completed his MBA cum 
laude at Twente School of Management in 
1994. During this period he attended the 
Advanced Management Program at 
Harvard Business School, Boston, USA. 
He was appointed Director of HBG Bouw 
en Vastgoed in 2000, became Director at 
BAM Utiliteitsbouw in 2002 and was 
appointed Chairman of the Board of BAM 
Woningbouw in 2005. Mr Van Wingerden 
has been a member of the Executive Board 
of Royal BAM Group since 2008. In 
October 2014 he was promoted to the 
position of CEO and Chairman of the 
Executive Board. He is a Dutch national. 
Information about Mr Wingerden’s 
shareholding position is on pages 110 and 
111.
Other offices:  member of the Supervisory 
Board of Royal Saan; member of the Board 
of Governors of the Dutch Construction 
and Infrastructure Federation (Bouwend 
Nederland); member of the Board of 
De Bouwcampus; member of the Taskforce 
Bouw; member of the Advisory Board of 
DIMI (Delft Infrastructures & Mobility 
Initiative).T. (Thessa) Menssen  (1967), CFO
Mrs Menssen graduated from the 
University of Technology Eindhoven in 
1990 with a degree in mechanical 
engineering. She then received a master’s 
degree in business administration from 
the Technical University of Twente. In 1992 
Mrs Menssen joined Unilever, where she 
held various management positions. In 
2006 Mrs Menssen was appointed to the 
Executive Board of Havenbedrijf 
Rotterdam (Rotterdam Port Authority), 
first as CFO and from 2010 as COO. Mrs 
Menssen has been a member of the 
Executive Board of Royal BAM since 
October 2012 and CFO since January 2013. 
She is a Dutch national. Information about 
Mrs Menssen’s shareholding position is on 
pages 110 and 111.
Other offices:  member of the Supervisory 
Board of PostNL; member of the 
Supervisory Board of FMO; member of the 
Supervisory Board of the Rotterdam 
Philharmonic Orchestra; member of the 
Monitoring Committee of the Talent naar 
de Top programme; member of the 
Supervisory Board of the Foundation 
Topvrouw van het Jaar (a platform for the 
promotion of gender diversity at board 
level in the Netherlands).E.J. (Erik) Bax  (1957), COO
Mr Bax studied engineering, building and 
construction at the Tilburg Institute for 
Technology and obtained an MBA at 
Erasmus University Rotterdam and 
Georgia State University in Atlanta, USA. 
He joined CRH, the international leader for 
production and distribution of building 
materials, in 1984 and held various 
management positions at CRH’s different 
operating companies and divisions. 
He then fulfilled a number of positions in 
CRH’s senior management. As of 2010 he 
was Managing Director CRH Europe and 
member of the Executive Committee of 
CRH plc in Dublin. Mr Bax has been a 
member of the Executive Board of Royal 
BAM Group since May 2014 and COO since 
October 2014. He is a Dutch national. 
Information about Mr Bax’ shareholding 
position is on pages 110 and 111.From the left: Rob van Wingerden, 
Thessa Menssen and Erik Bax.2016 – 1182016 – 119
Stakeholder interview
How do we ensure digitalisation will 
continue to be a theme – and what role 
does digitalisation and innovation play?  
‘The number of IoT devices in the built 
environment is rapidly increasing along 
with new requirements for flexible and 
sustainable operations. Cognitive 
buildings will be able to autonomously 
integrate IoT devices and learn system and 
user behaviour to optimise performance, 
thereby unleashing new levels of 
productivity, increasing environmental 
efficiency and sustainability, enabling new 
business models and improving end user 
well-being. 
The emerging challenge for organisations 
is how to take advantage of these new 
possibilities. I believe the IoT and cognitive 
platforms, with artificial intelligence and 
cognitive learning, will create the 
possibility to develop innovative new 
services for engaging with building users, 
radically reduce costs through automation 
and optimisation of operations and 
improve end user satisfaction from 
personalised, cognitive client service.’What is the most important catalyst for 
further digitalisation in construction? 
‘The Internet of Things (IoT) and emerging 
technologies like Cognitive Computing 
(CC) will be the primary drivers of the 
digital transformation which the 
construction industry will undergo in the 
coming years, creating a self-learning 
environment which will drive digital 
disruption in the physical world. This 
digital transformation will allow new 
business models to emerge and enables 
changes in work processes, productivity 
improvements, cost containment and 
enhanced client experiences.
The exploding amount of IoT data requires 
a new approach to gather, analyze and 
make sense out of all that data. Cognitive 
IoT is such an approach. Programmable 
systems thrive on prescribed scenarios using predictable data and their rigidity 
can limit their usefulness when addressing 
the ambiguity and uncertainty of IoT data. 
Cognitive systems, however, are not 
explicitly programmed. Rather, they learn 
from interactions with people and from 
experiences with their environment. In 
doing so, they become able to keep pace 
with the complexity of the IoT, identifying 
data correlations that would otherwise go 
unnoticed.’Sofie Narinx, Associate Partner at IBM  Sofie Narinx is Associate Partner at IBM in the Industrial 
Sector and Engineering, Construction and Operations 
Industry. She is an expert in digital transformation, design 
thinking, Internet of Things and cognitive solutions to 
enable business transformation.
‘The digital transformation  
will allow new business models’In addition to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, 
BAM’s  governance structure is complemented with the 
Management Board. This corporate body was established as 
part of the ‘Back in Shape’ programme in 2014 in order to 
strengthen the ‘One BAM’ approach and supports the Executive 
Board in achieving the objectives of the Strategic Agenda. 
The Management Board consists of the members of the Executive 
Board, the Managing Directors of the ten operating companies 
(see the organisational structure in > table 6 at page 17) and a 
number of selected Corporate Function Directors. 
Executive Board
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 20 February 20175.7 Management Board
From the left: G. Cash (BAM Construct UK), T.M. Cullinane (BAM Contractors), S.C. Fox (BAM Nuttall), M. Koch (BAM Deutschland) G.K. Mazloumian 
(BAM International), K. Meade (BAM PPP), M. Peeters (BAM Belgium), M.H. Schimmel (BAM Infra Nederland), R. Vollebregt (BAM Bouw en Vastgoed), 
B.J. Wierenga (Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau), R.P. van Wingerden (CEO Royal BAM Group), T. Menssen (CFO Royal BAM Group), E.J. Bax (COO Royal 
BAM Group), S. Beckers (General Counsel / Company Secretary Royal BAM Group), T.W. Muntinga (Director of Finance Royal BAM Group), 
A Sundermeijer (Group IT Director Royal BAM Group) and R. Zuidema (Director of Human Resources Royal BAM Group).
2016 – 120Wageningen City Hall, 
the Netherlands. 
BAM Bouw en Techniek.
2016  – 121122 – 2016
6. Financial statementsContents
Consolidated financial statements
124 Consolidated income statement
125 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
126 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
127 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
128 Consolidated statement of cash flows
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
129 1.General information
129 2.Summary of significant accounting policies
146 3.Financial risk management
151 4.Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties
153 5.Segment information
156 6.Projects
158 7.Property, plant and equipment
159 8.Intangible assets
161 9.PPP receivables
161 10. Investments
165 11. Other financial assets
165 12. Inventories
166 13. Trade and other receivables
167 14. Cash and cash equivalents
168 15. Share capital and premium
169 16. Reserves
170 17. Capital base
171 18. Borrowings
176 19. Derivative financial instruments
177 20. Employee benefits
184 21. Provisions
185 22. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
188 23. Trade and other payables
188 24. Employee benefit expenses
188 25. Impairment charges
189 26. Exceptional items
189 27. Audit fees
190 28. Finance income and expense
190 29. Income tax
191 30. Earnings per share
192 31. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
192 32. Contingencies
194 33. Commitments
195 34. Business combinations
195 35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
196 36. Related parties
198 37. Share-based payments
201 38. Joint operations
203 39. Service concession arrangements
204 40. Government grants
205 41. Research and development
205 42. Events after the reporting period
Company financial statements
206 Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
207 Company income statement
208 Notes to the company financial statements2016  – 123
The notes on pages 129 to 205  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated income statement
(x €1,000)
Notes 2016 2015
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 6,976,090  7,422,942 
Raw materials and consumables used (1,295,185) (1,502,663)
Subcontracted work and other external charges (4,013,649) (4,200,698)
Employee benefit expenses 24 (1,276,214) (1,358,434)
Depreciation and amortisation charges 7,8 (64,449) (70,527)
Impairment charges 25 (50,659) (41,126)
Other operating expenses (245,131) (265,003)
Exchange rate differences 2,137 4,817
(6,943,150) (7,433,634)
  
Operating result 32,940 (10,692)
Finance income 28 31,805 34,495
Finance expense 28 24,485 23,490
7,320 11,005
Share of result of investments 10 19,827 10,988
Share of impairment charges in investments 10,25  - 2,040
19,827 13,028
  
Result before tax 60,087 13,341
Income tax 29 (10,883) (2,309)
Result for the year from continuing operations 49,204 11,032
Discontinued operations
Result for the year from discontinued operations 35  -  - 
  
Net result 49,204 11,032
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company 46,831 10,180
Non-controlling interests 2,373 852
49,204 11,032
Earnings per share 
(x €1)
Basic 30
Continuing operations 0.17 0.04
Discontinued operations  -  - 
Total 0.17 0.04
Diluted 30
Continuing operations 0.17 0.04
Discontinued operations  -  - 
Total 0.17 0.04124 – 2016The notes on pages 129 to 205  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2016 2015
Net result 49,204  11,032 
Items that may be subsequently reclassifed to the income statement
Fair value of cash flow hedge 24,605  6,673 
Tax on fair value of cashflow hedge (7,344)  (1,899)
Cash flow hedges 19  17,261  4,774 
Fair value movement hedges in joint ventures  (24,308)  (1,489)
Tax on fair value movement hedges in joint ventures  6,979  846 
Cash flow hedges of investment in joint ventures 19  (17,329)  (643)
Exchange rate differences  (65,862) 26,344
Items that will not be subsequently reclassifed to the income statement, net of tax
Movement in remeasurements  (62,559) 47,672
Tax on movement in remeasurements  9,262  (10,576)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 20  (53,297) 37,096
  
Other comprehensive income  (119,227) 67,571
  
Total comprehensive income  (70,023) 78,603
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company  (72,111) 77,543
Non-controlling interests  2,088 1,060
 (70,023) 78,603
Total comprehensive income attributable to the shareholders of the Company arises from:
Continuing operations  (72,111) 77,543
Discontinued operations  -  - 
 (72,111) 77,543Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(x €1,000)2016  – 125The notes on pages 129 to 205  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
(x €1,000)
Notes 2016 2015
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 270,173 292,159
Intangible assets 8 389,992 416,052
PPP receivables 9 296,395 279,074
Investments 10 85,866 94,052
Other financial assets 11 92,044 98,488
Derivative financial instruments 19  - 979
Employee benefits 20 62,773 74,684
Deferred tax assets 22 248,845 251,715
1,446,088 1,507,203
Current assets
Inventories 12 645,433 758,738
Trade and other receivables 13 1,934,542 1,891,776
Income tax receivable 6,226 9,306
Derivative financial instruments 19 983 6,200
Cash and cash equivalents 14 738,577 637,212
3,325,761 3,303,232
Assets held for sale 35 40,245 41,814
3,366,006 3,345,046
  
Total assets 4,812,094 4,852,249
Equity attributable to the shareholders of Company
Share capital 15 839,311 839,311
Reserves 16 (170,252) (104,536)
Retained earnings 165,191 167,372
834,250 902,147
Non-controlling interests 5,061 3,638
Total Equity 839,311 905,785
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 18 463,515 511,863
Derivative financial instruments 19 20,347 33,939
Employee benefits 20 144,708 151,731
Provisions 21 86,058 84,933
Deferred tax liabilities 22 26,287 30,959
740,915 813,425
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18 148,131 85,459
Trade and other payables 23 3,004,428 2,895,821
Derivative financial instruments 19 4,354 16,749
Provisions 21 55,805 65,258
Income tax payable 14,817 23,290
3,227,535 3,086,577
Liabilities held for sale 35 4,333 46,462
3,231,868 3,133,039
  
Total equity and liabilities 4,812,094 4,852,249
Capital base 17 946,741 1,026,482126 – 2016The notes on pages 129 to 205  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated statement of changes in equity
(x € 1,000)
 Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
NotesShare
 capital and  
 premium ReservesRetained
earnings TotalNon-
controlling 
interests Total
equity
As at 1 January 2015  839,311  (134,873)  122,956  827,394  3,322  830,716 
Cash flow hedges 19  -  4,094  -  4,094  37  4,131 
Remeasurements of post-
employment benefit obligations 20  -  -  37,026  37,026  70  37,096 
Exchange rate differences  -  26,243  -  26,243  101  26,344 
Other comprehensive income,  
net of tax  -  30,337  37,026  67,363  208  67,571 
Net result  -  -  10,180  10,180  852  11,032 
Total comprehensive income  -  30,337  47,206  77,543  1,060  78,603 
Dividends 31  -  -  -  -  (743)  (743)
Repurchase of ordinary shares  -  -  (3,092)  (3,092)  -  (3,092)
Share based payments  -  -  302  302  -  302 
Other movements - - - - (1) (1)
 -  -  (2,790)  (2,790)  (744)  (3,534)
      
As at 31 December 2015  839,311  (104,536)  167,372  902,147  3,638  905,785 
Cash flow hedges 19  -  (45)  -  (45)  (23)  (68)
Remeasurements of post-
employment obligations 20  -  -  (53,226)  (53,226)  (71)  (53,297)
Exchange rate differences  -  (65,671)  -  (65,671)  (191)  (65,862)
Other comprehensive income, net of 
tax  -  (65,716)  (53,226)  (118,942)  (285)  (119,227)
Net result  -  -  46,831  46,831  2,373  49,204 
Total comprehensive income  -  (65,716)  (6,395)  (72,111)  2,088  (70,023)
Issue of convertible bonds  -  -  7,852  7,852  -  7,852 
Dividends 31  -  -  (1,978)  (1,978)  (540)  (2,518)
Repurchase of ordinary shares  -  -  (2,529)  (2,529)  -  (2,529)
Share based payments  -  -  606  606  -  606 
Other movements  -  -  263  263  (125)  138 
 -  -  4,214  4,214  (665)  3,549 
      
As at 31 December 2016  839,311  (170,252)  165,191  834,250  5,061  839,311 
Due to a change in accounting policy, the remeasurements of post-employment benefits are no longer included in the 
reserves, but have been restated to the retained earnings. The comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly. 2016  – 127Consolidated statement of cash flows
(x € 1,000)
Notes 2016 2015
Net result  49,204  11,032 
Adjustments for:
 - Income tax 29  10,883  2,309 
 - Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7  60,305  66,470 
 - Amortisation of intangible assets 8  4,144  4,057 
 - Impairment of property, plant and equipment 7,25  2,213  1,452 
 - Impairment of investments and non-current receivables 11,25  (196)  (949)
 - Impairment of intangible assets 8,25  833  3,298 
 - Impairment of inventories 12,25  47,809  37,325 
 - Share of impairment charges in investments 10,25  -  (2,040)
 - Result on sale of subsidiaries (270)  - 
 - Result on sale of PPP projects 35 (4,400)  (5,207)
 - Result on sale of property, plant and equipment (6,291)  (4,594)
 - Share based payments 37  606  302 
 - Share of result of investments 10 (19,826)  (10,988)
 - Finance income 28  (31,805)  (34,495)
 - Finance expense 28  24,485  23,490 
Interest received  10,866  11,828 
Dividends received from investments 10  13,033  13,321 
Changes in provisions and pensions 20,21  (62,423)  (69,606)
Changes in working capital (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 176,425  91,083 
Cash flow from operations 275,595  138,088 
Interest paid (38,468) (38,274)
Income tax paid  (14,473)  (10,023)
Net cash flow from ordinary operations 222,654  89,791 
Investments in PPP receivables 9  (189,785)  (195,437)
Repayments of PPP receivables 9  35,048  63,820 
Net cash flow from operating activities 67,917  (41,826)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  (904)  - 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 7  (61,927)  (64,644)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7  16,004  27,567 
Purchases of intangible assets 8  (4,993)  (6,391)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 8 -  918 
Investments in non-current receivables 11 (11,892)  (14,899)
Repayments of non-current receivables 11 11,799  3,759 
Investments in other financial assets 10,11 (15,690)  (17,433)
Proceeds from disposal of other financial assets 10,11 3,357  837 
Proceeds from sale of PPP projects 35  16,600  35,000 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries (2,318)  - 
Net cash flow from investing activities  (49,964)  (35,286)
Proceeds from borrowings 18 312,216  214,239 
Repayments of borrowings 18  (189,976)  (130,131)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 31  (1,978)  - 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (540)  (743)
Repurchase of ordinary shares with respect to Performance Share Plan  (2,529)  (3,092)
Net cash flow from financing activities 117,193  80,273 
Change in cash and cash equivalents  135,146  3,161 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 14  637,209  624,330 
Change in cash and cash equivalents in assets and liabilities held for sale 35  (614)  (421)
Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents (33,166)  10,139 
Net cash position at end of year 14 738,575  637,209 
The notes on pages 129 to 205  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.128 – 2016Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. General information
Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’), its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) and its share in joint operations 
offers its clients a substantial package of products and services in the sectors Construction and property, Civil 
engineering and Public Private Partnerships (‘PPP’). The Group is mainly active in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United 
Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. The Group is also involved in specialist construction and civil engineering projects in 
niche markets worldwide.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on Euronext Amsterdam, with its registered seat and head office 
in Bunnik, the Netherlands. 
On 20 February 2017 the Executive Board authorised the financial statements for issue. The financial statements as 
presented in this report are subject to the adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2017.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out 
below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
2.1  Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union and also comply with the financial reporting 
requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, as far as applicable. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, unless otherwise 
stated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates 
are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
2.1.1  Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a) Changes in accounting policies
The Group has amended the accounting policy for remeasurements of post-employment benefits, which is no longer 
presented within the reserves and instead is included in the retained earnings. Presentation within the retained 
earnings is more in line with IAS 19 Employee Benefits (where however a free choice was given). The Group will 
continue to recognises remeasurement gains and losses arising on defined benefit pension plans in OCI in accordance 
with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. 
(b) Application of new and revised standards
The Group has applied the amendments for the first time for their annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2016 
in connection with the ‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2012-2014 Cycle’.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current period or any prior period and is not likely 
to affect future periods. 
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC amendments as per 1 January 2016 that have a material impact on the Group.2016  – 129(c) New standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods 
beginning after 1 January 2016 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None 
of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except the 
following set out below:
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and 
financial liabilities and introduces new rules for hedge accounting. IFRS 9 brings together all three aspects of the 
accounting for financial instruments project: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. 
IFRS 9 is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. The Group 
plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date. Except for hedge accounting, retrospective application 
is required but providing comparative information is not compulsory. For hedge accounting, the requirements are 
generally applied prospectively, with some limited exceptions.
The new hedging rules align hedge accounting more closely with the Group’s risk management practices. As a general 
rule it will be easier to apply hedge accounting going forward as the standard introduces a more principles-based 
approach. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation. 
The Group has performed a high-level impact assessment of all three aspects of IFRS 9. This preliminary assessment is 
based on currently available information and may be subject to changes arising from further detailed analyses or 
additional reasonable and supportable information being made available to the Group in the future. Overall, the Group 
expects no significant impact on its balance sheet and equity except for the effect of applying the impairment 
requirements of IFRS 9. 
The new impairment model is an expected credit loss (ECL) model which may result in the earlier recognition of credit 
losses, resulting in a negative impact on equity. The Group will perform a detailed assessment in 2017 to determine the 
final extent. 
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for 
reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of 
revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer 
obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or 
service. The standard replaces IAS 18, ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11, ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. 
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is permitted. 
The Group will implement this standard on the required date. 
The Group has performed a detailed impact analysis in 2016 to identify the areas for which the Group expects this 
standard will have impact upon. The Group has identified the areas within the different entities and will proceed in 
2017 to perform a full contract by contract analysis to complete the preparations for the implementation as per 
1 January 2018. The Group expects to use the retrospective method for implementation. As a result of the impact 
analysis, the Group does not expect major changes in the method of revenue recognition as Percentage of Completion 
over time generally still applies. The Group expects some impact on the timing of revenue recognition, for example 
due to claim recognition, the separation of performance obligations within one contract and the treatment of site 
mobilisation costs. Guidelines, processes and forms will be adjusted to comply with the new IFRS 15 standard, as 
expanded information will be needed for disclosure purposes.
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ was issued by the IASB on 13 January 2016. Under existing rules, lessees generally account for lease 
transactions either off-balance if the lease is classified as operating lease or on balance if the lease is classified as 
finance lease. IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise nearly all leases on balance which will reflect their right to use an 
asset for a period of time and the associated liability to pay rentals. The lessor’s accounting’ model largely remains 
unchanged. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier adoption 
permitted if IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ also has been applied. As disclosed in note 33.2, the 130 – 2016Group has several operating lease contracts for buildings, equipment and company cars for which the accounting will 
in principle change from off balance to on balance. The Group will start with a detailed impact analysis in 2017 to 
identify the effect of this standard on its financial statements and plans to implement this standard on the required 
date. 
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material 
impact on the Group.
2.2  Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an 
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on 
which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the 
acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset 
or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition 
date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at 
fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held 
equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such 
remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is 
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income. 
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for 
within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the 
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised 
and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case 
of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated. When necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to 
conform with the Group’s accounting policies.
(b) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions 
– that is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any 
consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in 
equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.2016  – 131(c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date 
when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income statement. The fair value is the 
initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint 
venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of 
that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean 
that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the profit or loss.
(d) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, accompanying a shareholding 
of between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting rights or based on the representation on the board of directors. 
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the 
investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s 
share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The Group’s investment in associates includes 
goodwill identified on acquisition. 
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of 
the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement, where 
appropriate.
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-
acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a 
corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate 
equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise 
further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the 
associate is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the 
recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Group’s 
financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. Unrealised losses are 
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. When necessary 
amounts reported by associates have been adjusted to conform with the Group’s accounting policies. 
(e) Joint arrangements
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint operations depending on the 
contractual rights and obligations. 
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement 
have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. The parties to the arrangement have agreed contractually that 
control is shared and decisions regarding relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties which have joint 
control of the joint venture. 
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint 
ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition 
profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture 
equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form 
part of the Group’s net investment in the joint ventures), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has 
incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s 132 – 2016interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the 
arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the joint operation. The Group 
recognises its share in the joint operations’ individual revenues and expenses, assets and liabilities and includes it on a 
line-by-line basis with corresponding items in the Group’s financial statements.
2.3  Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Board. 
The Executive Board considers the business from a sector perspective and identifies as from 2016 Construction and 
Property, Civil engineering and PPP as operating segments. In previous years Property was considered as a separate 
sector, but since these activities are highly interrelated with our construction activities, this is no longer considered to 
be a separate sector.
Furthermore, construction activities of several operating companies that were fully reported in the Civil engineering 
segment in previous years, are now reported in the Construction and property segment. All changes mentioned follow 
changes in internal organisation and reporting.
2.4  Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in ‘euro’ (€), which is the Group’s presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from 
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement within ‘exchange rate differences’, 
except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges. 
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the 
presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
• all resulting exchange rate differences are recognised separately in equity in ‘other comprehensive income’.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. Exchange rate differences arising are recognised in ‘other 
comprehensive income’.
 2016  – 133(d) Exchange rates
The following exchange rates of the euro against the pound sterling (£) have been used in the preparation of these 
financial statements:
2016 2015
Closing exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.85940  0.73681
Average exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.81301  0.72653
2.5  Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only 
when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the 
item can be measured reliably. Other costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which 
they are incurred.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost 
to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Land improvements 10%-25%
Buildings 2%-10%
Equipment and installations 10%-25%
IT equipment 10%-25%
Furniture and fixtures 10%-25%
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting 
period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount (note 2.7).
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised 
within ‘other operating expenses’ in the income statement.
2.6  Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the 
Group’s interest in net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and 
the amount of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to 
the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. Each unit to 
which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for 
internal management purposes.134 – 2016Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate a potential impairment. The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to the recoverable 
amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
(b) Non-integrated software
Non-integrated software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation on non-integrated software is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their 
residual values over their estimated useful lives (between 4 and 10 years).
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting 
period.
(c) Other
Other intangible assets relate to market positions, including (brand) names and the management of acquired 
subsidiaries and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation on other 
intangible assets is calculated over their estimated useful lives.
The assets’ useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
2.7  Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation 
and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is 
recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash inflows (CGUs). Prior 
impairments of non-financial assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
2.8  Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through 
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case the asset (or disposal group) must be 
available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or 
disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the asset’s carrying amount and the fair value 
less costs to sell. Depreciation or amortisation of an asset ceases when it is classified as held for sale. Equity accounting 
ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, 
and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single co-ordinated 
plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued 
operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the component disposed of and that will not be recognised 
subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the income statement. Results and cash 
flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial statements so that 
the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the 
balance sheet date for the latest period presented.2016  – 1352.9  Financial assets
2.9.1  Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The classification depends on the 
purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the category ‘loans and receivables’ and ‘derivative financial instruments’ 
(note 2.12). Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not 
quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after 
the end of the reporting period. These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise 
‘PPP receivables’, ‘other financial assets’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘retentions’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the 
balance sheet.
2.9.2  Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date on which the Group commits to purchase or 
sell the asset. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried 
at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at 
fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when the 
rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
2.10 Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset 
and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must 
be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company 
or the counterparty.
2.11  Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or 
group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses 
are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the 
initial recognition of the asset (‘loss event’) and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the 
financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant 
financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter 
bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in 
the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
For loans and receivables, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. If a loan 136 – 2016has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate 
determined under the contract.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to 
an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement.
2.12  Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. Derivatives are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair 
value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a 
hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates the derivatives as hedges of 
a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (‘cash flow 
hedge’).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged 
items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group 
also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are 
used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 19. Movements 
on the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income are shown in note 16. The full fair value of a hedging derivative 
is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve months and as a 
current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within ‘finance 
income/expense’.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings 
is recognised in the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’. The gain or loss relating to the effective 
portion of forward foreign exchange contracts is recognised in profit or loss within ‘operating result’.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any 
cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction 
is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within ‘finance 
income/expense’.
2.13 Inventories
Land, building rights and property developments are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group 
capitalises interest on finance raised to facilitate the development of specific projects once development commences 
and until practical completion, based on the total actual finance cost incurred on the borrowings during the period. 
When properties are acquired for future redevelopment, interest on borrowings is recognised in the income statement 
until redevelopment commences.2016  – 137Raw materials and finished goods are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the 
‘first-in, first-out (FIFO) method’. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, 
less applicable variable selling expenses.
2.14  Construction contracts
A construction contract is defined as a contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset.
On the balance sheet, the Group reports the net contract position for each contract as either an asset or a liability. 
A contract represents an asset where costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) exceed progress 
billings; a contract represents a liability where the opposite is the case.
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually certain that a contract will be awarded, from which time 
further pre-contract costs are recognised as an asset and charged as an expense over the period of the contract. 
Amounts recovered in respect of pre-contract costs that have been written off are deferred and amortised over the life 
of the contract.
For further guidelines regarding construction contracts see paragraph 2.24 revenue recognition under (a).
2.15  Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If 
collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current 
assets.
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
2.16  Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with 
banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. 
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within ‘borrowings’ in current liabilities.
2.17  Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of 
tax, from the proceeds. When share capital is repurchased in order to prevent dilution as a result of the share-based 
compensation plan, the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of tax, is deducted from equity. 
Repurchased shares (treasury shares) are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or 
re-issued subsequently, any amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit 
on the transaction is transferred to/from retained earnings.138 – 20162.18  Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 
from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they 
are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
2.19  Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried 
at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method (in case not 
attributable to property development projects).
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is 
probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. 
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is 
capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
The subordinated convertible bonds are separated into liability and equity components based on the terms of the 
contract. On issuance of the subordinated convertible bonds, the fair value of the liability component is determined 
using a market rate for an equivalent non-convertible instrument. This amount is classified as a financial liability 
measured at amortised cost (net of transaction costs) until it is extinguished on conversion or redemption. The 
remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised and included in equity. 
Transaction costs are deducted from equity, net of associated income tax. The carrying amount of the conversion 
option is not remeasured in subsequent years. Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and equity 
components of the subordinated convertible bonds, based on the allocation of proceeds to the liability and equity 
components when the instruments are initially recognised.
2.20  Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the 
tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income respectively directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to 
interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the 
tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if 
they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred income tax  asset is realised or the deferred income tax  liability is settled.2016  – 139The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. 
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has 
become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and joint arrangements, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred income tax  assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in 
subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the temporary difference will 
reverse in the future and there is sufficient taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can be 
utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by 
the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention 
to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.21  Employee benefits
(a) Pension obligations
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. 
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient 
assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit 
plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, 
usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit 
obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of 
the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of 
high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have 
terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no deep 
market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or 
credited in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Current service costs of defined benefit plans are recognised immediately in the income statement, as part of 
‘employee benefit expenses’, and reflect the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service 
in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements. 
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. Interest expenses are included in the 
‘employee benefit expenses’.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, 
contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. 140 – 2016The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are 
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
(b) Other employment obligations
Other employment obligations comprise jubilee benefits, retirement gifts, temporary leaves and similar arrangements 
and have a non-current nature. These obligations are stated at present value.
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or 
whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises 
termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those 
benefits; and (b) when the entity recognises costs for a restructuring and involves the payment of termination benefits. 
In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the 
number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the 
reporting period are discounted to their present value.
2.22 Share-based payments
(a) Performance Share Plan
The Group operates an equity-settled share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a 
corresponding credit entry of equity. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over 
which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. The total amount to be expensed is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the shares granted:
• including a market performance condition based on the Company’s share price;
• excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions; and
• including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest 
based on the non-market vesting conditions and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original 
estimates, if any, in the income statement within ‘personnel expenses’, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the 
grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service 
commencement period and grant date.
These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the performance shares and are 
re-invested.
(b) Phantom Share Plan
The Group operates a cash-settled share-based compensation plan. 
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a 
corresponding credit entry of liabilities for the period until the date on which the Executive Board members are 
unconditionally entitled to payment. The valuation of the liability is re-assessed on every reporting date and on the 
settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement within ‘personnel 
expenses’.
Phantom shares become unconditional three years after the date of grant, while the percentage of phantom shares 
that become unconditional depends on the market performance condition based on the Company’s share price.2016  – 141These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the phantom shares and are 
re-invested.
Upon vesting date, unconditional phantom shares are locked up for another two years. Cash distribution takes place at 
the end of the lock-up period. 
2.23  Provisions
Provisions for warranties, restructuring costs, rental guarantees and associates and joint ventures are recognised when: 
(a) the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; (b) it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and (c) the amount has been reliably estimated. 
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using 
a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan has been approved, and the restructuring has 
either commenced or has been announced publicly. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and 
employee termination payments. Future operating losses are not recognised.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment (including separately presented goodwill 
and other uninsured receivables), further losses will not be recognised, unless the Group has provided securities to the 
associate or joint venture, committed to liabilities or payment on behalf of the associate and joint venture. In that case, 
the excess will be provided for. 
2.24  Revenue recognition
(a) Construction contracts
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be 
profitable, contract revenue is recognised over the period of the contract by reference to the stage of completion. 
The net contract position as per period end is included on the balance sheet. See paragraph 2.14.
The outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:
• total contract revenue can be measured reliably;
• it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group;
• both the contract costs to complete and the stage of contract completion at the end of the reporting period can be 
measured reliably; and
• the contract costs attributable to the contract can be clearly identified and measured reliably so that actual contract 
costs incurred can be compared with prior estimates.
The Group uses the ‘percentage-of-completion method‘ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given 
period. The stage of completion is measured by reference to the contract costs incurred up to the end of the reporting 
period as a percentage of total forecasted costs for each contract. Costs incurred in the year in connection with future 
activity on a contract are excluded from contract costs in determining the stage of completion.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately.
When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the 
extent of contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable.142 – 2016Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in contract revenue to the extent that may 
have been agreed with the customer and are capable of being reliably measured. 
A variation order is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of a project to be performed under the 
contract. Regarding variation orders the following basis for valuation is applied:
• it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation; and 
•  the amount of revenue can be reliably measured. 
In the normal course of business the Group recognises amounts receivable in connection with claims for (un)completed 
work due from the principal and/or insurance claims as reimbursement for certain loss events on projects. Project 
related claims on the principal are recognised when:
• negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim; and
• the amount that is probable will be accepted by the customer can be measured reliably.
In some markets, given local circumstances and practices with our principals, historic data on receiving comparable 
claims is also taken into account when assessing the probability of receiving a claim. 
Insurance claims can be recognised only if it is virtually certain that the amount recognised will be reimbursed.
(b) Property development
The Group develops property, which it sells in the ordinary course of business and has entered into contracts to sell 
certain of these properties on completion of construction. The Group has concluded that these pre-completion 
contracts were not, in substance, construction contracts. 
Sale of property development are recognised in respect of contracts exchanged during the year, provided that no 
material conditions remain outstanding on the balance sheet date and all conditions are fully satisfied by the date on 
which the contract is signed. Construction and other expenditure attributable to such property are included in 
inventory property development until disposal. Rental income from incidental operations in connection with property 
development is recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis.
Known and expected losses are recognised as an expense immediately on completing a development once such losses 
are foreseen. The profit on disposal of property developments is determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the reporting period including additions in 
the period and any residual commitments.
When the buyer is able to specify the major structural elements of the design of property development before 
construction begins and/or specify major structural changes once construction is in progress (whether it exercises that 
ability or not), revenue is recognised in accordance with construction contracts.
When the Group transfers control and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the work in progress in its 
current state as construction progresses to the buyer, revenue is recognised in accordance with ‘construction 
contracts’. This may be the case in house-building projects as from the moment that the land and buildings, if any, have 
been legally transferred to the buyer.
(c) Service concession arrangements 
Under the terms of IFRIC 12 ‘Service concession arrangements’ comprise construction and/or upgrade activities, as 
well as operating and maintenance activities. The consideration (concession payments) received is allocated between 
construction/upgrade activities and operating/maintenance services according to the relative fair values of the 
respective activities. 2016  – 143Revenue from construction and/or upgrade activities is recognised in conformity with the revenue recognition 
principles of construction contracts (IAS 11). Revenue from operating and maintenance activities is recognized in 
conformity with revenue from services (IAS 18).
The financial assets relating to service concession arrangements (‘PPP receivables’) are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Interest is calculated using the effective interest method and is recognised in the income statement as 
‘finance income’.
(d) Services and other
Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to stage of 
completion of the specific transaction and assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the 
total services to be provided.
Sales of goods are recognised upon delivery to the customer and there is no unfulfilled obligation that could affect the 
customer’s acceptance of the products.
When the outcome of a transaction cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the 
expenses recognised that are recoverable.
Other revenue includes, among other items, rental income under an operating lease and (sub)lease of property, plant 
and/or equipment. When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet 
based on the nature of the asset. Lease income on operating leases is recognised over the term of the lease on a 
straight-line basis.
2.25  Finance income and expenses
Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method. When a loan and receivable is impaired, the Group 
reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the 
original effective interest rate of the instrument and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Finance 
income on impaired loan and receivables is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Finance expenses comprise interest expenses on borrowings, finance lease expenses, gains and losses relating to 
hedging instruments and other financial expenses. Interest expenses on borrowings and finance lease expenses are 
recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
2.26  Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group leases certain property, plant and/or equipment. Leases of property, plant and/or equipment where the 
Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are 
capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of 
the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of 
finance charges, are included in ‘borrowings’. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income 
statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability for each period. The property, plant and/or equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the 
shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.144 – 20162.27  Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the 
conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be reviewed.
Government grants that are receivable as a compensation for expenses or losses already incurred are recognised in 
the income statement in the period in which they become receivable.
2.28  Research and development
Research and development costs, which predominantly relate to projects, are considered to be part of contract costs. 
Other research and development costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
2.29  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further 
understanding of the financial performance of the Group. These are material items of income and expense that have 
been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
2.30  Statement of cash flows
The statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method. The net cash position in the statement of cash 
flows consists of cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts. 
Cash flows in foreign exchange currencies are converted using the average exchange rate. Exchange rate differences 
on the net cash position are separately presented in the statement of cash flows. Payments in connection with interest 
and income tax  are included in the cash flow from operations. Cash flows in connection with PPP receivables are 
included in the cash flow from operating activities. Paid dividend is included in cash flows from financing activities. The 
purchase price of acquisitions of subsidiaries are included in the cash flow from investing activities as far as payments 
have taken place. Cash and cash equivalents in the subsidiaries are deducted from the purchase price.
Non-cash transactions are not included in the statement of cash flows.2016  – 1453.  Financial risk management
3.1  Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate 
risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the Group 
is exposed is not unusual or different from what is considered acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk management 
system is designed to identify and manage threats and opportunities. Effective risk management enables BAM to 
capitalise on opportunities in a carefully controlled environment. The Group’s overall risk management programme 
focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s 
financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by group treasury under policies approved by the Executive Board, which has the 
overall responsibility for risk management in the Group and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Group 
treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close collaboration with the group companies. The Executive 
Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such 
as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative 
financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
A substantial part of the Group’s activities takes place in the United Kingdom and, to a limited extent, in other 
non-euro countries. The Group’s results and shareholders’ equity are therefore affected by foreign exchange rates. 
Generally, the Group is active in these non-euro countries through local subsidiaries. The exchange risk is therefore 
limited, because transactions are denominated largely in the functional currencies of the subsidiaries. The associated 
translation risk is not hedged. Due to the translation effect the decrease of exchange rate of the pound sterling in 2016 
has on Group level reduced the reported revenue, results, equity and closing order book for the UK companies. Based 
on the value per end of 2016 of the Group's UK subsidiaries, an increase or decrease of 10% of the exchange rate of the 
pound sterling, will have an effect on the Group's equity of approximately €32 million.
A limited number of group companies are active in markets where contracts are denominated in a different currency 
than their functional currency. Group policy is that costs and revenues from these projects are mainly expressed in the 
same currency, thus limiting foreign exchange risks. The Group hedges the residual exchange risk on a project-by-
project basis, using forward exchange contracts. This involves hedging of unconditional project related exchange risks 
in excess of €1 million as soon as these occur. The Group reports these hedges by means of cash flow hedge 
accounting. Additional exchange risks in the tender stage and arising from contractual amendments are assessed on a 
case-by-case basis. 
Procedures have been established for proper recording of hedge transactions. Systems are in place to ensure the 
regular performance and analysis of the requisite hedge effectiveness measurements for hedge accounting. 
With regard to financial instruments, the Group predominantly faces an exchange rate risk for current account 
balances in pound sterling. This risk is covered by forward exchange contracts. The residual effect of the exchange rate 
risk with regard to financial instruments in pound sterling and other currencies on the Group’s result and equity, is 
limited. 
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk is associated with interest-bearing receivables and cash and cash equivalents, on the one 
hand and interest-bearing borrowings, on the other. If the interest is variable, it presents the Group with a cash flow 
interest rate risk. If the interest rate is fixed, there is a fair value interest rate risk. 146 – 2016The Group mitigates the cash flow interest rate risk to the extent possible through the use of interest rate swaps, under 
which interest liabilities based on a variable rate are converted into fixed rates. The Group does not use interest rate 
swaps under which fixed-rate interest liabilities are converted into variable rates in order to hedge the fair value 
interest rate risk. 
The analysis of the cash flow interest rate risk takes into account cash and cash equivalents, the debt position and the 
usual fluctuations in the Group’s working capital requirements. In addition, alternatives are being studied and hedges 
are being considered. Under Group policy, cash flow interest rate risks with regard to long-term borrowings (mainly 
PPP loans) are largely hedged by interest swaps. As a result, the Group is not entirely insensitive to movements in 
interest rates. At year-end 2016, 82 per cent (2015: 83 per cent) of the interest on the Group’s debt position was fixed. 
The part not covered consists almost entirely of property financing. 
If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been an average of 100 basis points higher or lower during 2016, the 
Group’s net result after tax (assuming that all other variables remained equal) would have been approximately 
€0.1  million higher or approximately €1.0 million higher (2015: approximately €0.3 million lower or approximately 
€2.1 million higher). If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been 100 basis points higher or lower during 2016, the 
Group’s cash flow hedge reserves in Group equity (assuming that all other variables remained equal) would have been 
approximately €12 million higher or approximately €12 million lower (2015: approximately €24 million higher or 
approximately €24 million lower). 
(iii) Price risk
The price risk run by the Group relates to the procurement of land and materials and subcontracting of work and 
consists of the difference between the market price at the point of tendering or offering on a contract and the market 
price at the time of actual performance. 
The Group’s policy is to agree a price indexation reimbursement clause with the customer at the point of tendering or 
offering on major projects. The Group also endeavours to manage the price risk by using framework contracts, 
suppliers’ quotations and high-value sources of information. If the Group is awarded a project and no price indexation 
reimbursement clause is agreed with the customer, the costs of land and materials, as well as the costs for 
subcontractors, are fixed at an early stage by establishing prices and conditions in advance with the main suppliers and 
subcontractors. 
While it is impossible to exclude the impact of price fluctuations altogether, the Group takes the view that its current 
policy reflects the optimum economic balance between decisiveness and predictability. The Group occasionally uses 
financial instruments to hedge the (residual) price risks. 
(b) Credit risk
The Group has credit risks with regard to financial assets including ‘PPP receivables’, ‘non-current receivables’, 
‘derivative financial instruments’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘retentions’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’. 
‘PPP receivables’ and a substantial part of the ‘trade receivables – net’ consist of contracts with governments or 
government bodies. Therefore, credit risk inherent in these contracts is limited. Furthermore, a significant part of 
‘trade receivables – net’ is based on contracts involving prepayments or payments proportionate to progress of the 
work, which limits the credit risks, in principle, to the balances outstanding. 
The credit risk arising from ‘PPP receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ is monitored by the relevant subsidiaries. 
Clients’ creditworthiness is analysed in advance and then monitored during the performance of the project. This 
involves taking account of the client’s financial position, previous collaborations and other factors. Group policy is 
designed to mitigate these credit risks through the use of various instruments, including retaining ownership until 
payment has been received, prepayments and the use of bank guarantees. 2016  – 147The Group’s ‘cash and cash equivalents’ are held in various banks. The Group limits the associated credit risk as a result 
of the Group’s policy to work only with respectable banks and financial institutions. This involves ‘cash and cash 
equivalents’ in excess of €10 million being held at banks and financial institutions with a minimum rating of ‘A’. 
The Group’s policy aims to minimise any concentration of credit risks involving ‘cash and cash equivalents’.
The carrying amounts of the financial assets exposed to a credit risk are as follows:
Notes 2016 2015
Non-current assets
PPP receivables 9  296,395 279,074
Non-current receivables 11  90,138 96,108
Derivative financial instruments 19  -   979
Current assets
Trade receivables – net 13  915,067 806,492
Retentions 13  112,607 126,142
PPP receivables 13  62,338 5,263
Other financial assets 11  720 6,726
Derivative financial instruments 19  983 6,200
Cash and cash equivalents 14  738,577 637,212
 2,216,825 1,964,196
Non-current receivables predominantly concern loans granted to property and PPP associates and joint ventures. 
These loans are in general not past due at the balance sheet date. Triggering events for impairments are identified 
based on the financial position of these associates and joint ventures, which also include the value of the underlying 
property development positions. For a part of these loans property developments positions are held as securities 
generally subordinated to the providers of the external financing. 
Impairments are included in ‘non-current receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ (notes 11 and 13). None of the other 
assets were overdue at year-end 2016 or subject to impairment. The maximum credit risk relating to financial 
instruments equals the carrying amount of the financial instrument concerned.
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risks may occur if the procurement and performance of new projects stagnate and less payments (and 
prepayments) are received, or if investments in land or property development would have a significant effect on the 
available financing resources and/or operational cash flows. 
The size of individual transactions can cause relatively large short-term fluctuations in the liquidity position. The Group 
has sufficient credit and current account facilities to manage these fluctuations. 
Partly to manage liquidity risks, subsidiaries prepare monthly detailed cash flow projections for the ensuing twelve 
months. The analysis of the liquidity risk takes into account the amount of cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities 
and the usual fluctuations in the Group’s working capital requirements. This provides the Group with sufficient 
opportunities to use its available liquidities and credit facilities as flexible as possible and to indicate any shortfalls in a 
timely manner. 
The first possible expected contractual cash outflows from financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments as at 
the end of the year and settled on a net basis, consist of (contractual) repayments and (estimated) interest payments. 148 – 2016The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is as follows:
Carrying 
amountContractual
 cash flows < 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years
2016
Subordinated convertible bonds 112,491 144,688 4,375 140,313  -   
Non-recourse PPP loans 274,348 332,434 67,990 50,167 214,277
Non-recourse property financing 85,678 89,025 36,757 52,268  -   
Other non-recourse financing 7,922 8,543 2,227 5,686 630
Recourse PPP loans 50,103 51,176 37,368 13,808  -   
Recourse property financing 68,745 72,342 11,473 60,869  -   
Other recourse financing 5,550 6,090 170 5,920  -   
Finance lease liabilities 6,807 7,357 2,729 4,260  368 
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts) 4,030 5,137 3,484 1,653  -   
Derivatives (interest rate swaps) 19,688 23,570 4,304 11,218  8,048 
Bank overdrafts 2 2 2  -    -   
Other current liabilities 932,818 932,818 932,818  -    -   
 1,568,182  1,673,182  1,103,697  346,162  223,323 
2015
Subordinated loan  124,335  142,242  7,138  135,104  -   
Non-recourse PPP loans  194,787  250,975  13,368  56,836  180,771 
Non-recourse property financing  116,034  128,974  25,232  103,742  -   
Other non-recourse financing  7,921  8,223  1,577  6,611  35 
Recourse PPP loans  52,771  54,865  8,634  46,231  -   
Recourse property financing  80,083  83,894  36,948  46,866  80 
Other recourse financing  6,937  8,227  225  4,397  3,605 
Finance lease liabilities  14,451  14,387  4,585  9,802  -   
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts)  12,988  5,853  (7,669)  13,522  -   
Derivatives (interest rate swaps)  30,521  44,590  9,256  22,881  12,453 
Bank overdrafts  3  3  3  -    -   
Other current liabilities  907,012  907,012  907,012  -    -   
 1,547,843  1,649,245  1,006,309  445,992  196,944 
The expected cash outflows are offset by the cash inflows from operations and (re-)financing. In addition, the Group has committed 
syndicated and bilateral credit facilities of €400 million (2015: €500 million) respectively €163 million (2015: €153 million) available.2016  – 1493.2  Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in 
order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s aim is for a financing structure that ensures continuing operations and minimises cost of equity. For this, 
flexibility and access to the financial markets are important conditions. As usual within the industry, the Group 
monitors its financing structure using a capital ratio, among other factors. 
Capital ratio is calculated as the capital base divided by total assets. The Group’s capital base consists of equity 
attributable to the shareholders of the Company and the subordinated instruments (notes 17 and 18). At year-end 
2016, the capital ratio was 19.7 per cent (2015: 21.2 per cent). For the strategic objectives regarding the capital ratio, 
see chapter 4.1 Financial performance of the Executive Board Report.
Under the terms of our borrowings facilities the group is required to comply with financial covenants. For information 
on these financial covenants see note 18.
3.3  Financial instruments by categories
The Group has three categories of financial instruments. A significant number of these are inherent to the Group’s 
business activities and are presented in various other balance sheet items. The following summary indicates the values 
for which financial instruments are included for each relevant balance sheet item:
Financial instruments
NotesLoans and 
receivablesFinancial 
liabilities HedgingNon-financial 
instruments Total
2016
PPP receivables 9  296,395  -  -  -  296,395 
Other financial assets 11  92,044  -  -  -  92,044 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  983  -  983 
Trade and other receivables 13  1,091,497  -  -  843,045  1,934,542 
Cash and cash equivalents 14  738,577  -  -  -  738,577 
Borrowings 18  -  611,646  -  -  611,646 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  24,701  -  24,701 
Trade and other payables 23  -  932,818  -  2,071,610  3,004,428 
 2,218,513  1,544,464  25,684  2,914,655  6,703,316 
2015
PPP receivables 9  279,074  -  -  -  279,074 
Other financial assets 11  98,488  -  -  -  98,488 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  7,179  -  7,179 
Trade and other receivables 13  945,891  -  -  945,885  1,891,776 
Cash and cash equivalents 14  637,212  -  -  -  637,212 
Borrowings 18  -  597,322  -  -  597,322 
Derivative financial instruments 19  -  -  50,688  -  50,688 
Trade and other payables 23  -  907,012   1,988,809  2,895,821 
 1,960,665  1,504,334  57,867  2,934,694  6,457,560 150 – 20163.4  Fair value estimation 
The fair value of financial instruments not quoted in an active market is measured using valuation techniques. 
The Group uses various techniques and makes assumptions based on market conditions on balance sheet date. 
The valuation also includes (changes in) the credit risk of the counter party and the credit risk of the Group in 
conformity with IFRS 13. 
One of these techniques is the calculation of the net present value of the expected cash flows (discounted cash flow 
projections). The fair value of the interest rate swaps is calculated as the net present value of the expected future cash 
flows. The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is measured based on the ‘forward’ currency exchange rates 
on balance sheet date. In addition, valuations from banks are requested for interest rate swaps. 
Financial instruments valued at fair value consist of only interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. In line 
with the current accounting policies the derivatives are classified as ‘level 2’. 
It is assumed that the nominal value (less estimated adjustments) of ‘borrowings’ (current part), ‘trade and other 
receivables’ and ‘trade and other payables’ approximate to their fair value.
3.5  Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of 
financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
A master netting agreement is applicable to a part of ‘cash and cash equivalents’. At 31 December 2016 a positive 
balance of €344 million has been offset against a negative balance of €0.5 million (2015: positive balance of €437 
million offset against a negative balance of €111 million).
4.  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, 
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
The critical judgements including those involving estimations assumptions concerning the future, that the Group has 
made in the process of applying the accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements are addressed below. 
(a) Contract revenue and costs 
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be 
profitable, contract revenue and costs are recognised over the period of the contract by reference to the stage of 
completion using the ‘percentage-of-completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a 
given period. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is 
recognised as an expense immediately.
In determining the stage of completion the Group has efficient, coordinated systems for cost estimating, forecasting 
and revenue and costs reporting. The system also requires a consistent judgment (forecast) of the final outcome of the 
project, including variance analyses of divergences compared with earlier assessment dates. Estimates are an inherent 
part of this assessment and actual future outcome may deviate from the estimated outcome, specifically for major and 2016  – 151complex construction contracts. However, historical experience has also shown that estimates are, on the whole, sufficiently reliable. See 
paragraph 2.24 for further explanation regarding the valuation of construction contracts.
(b) Claims receivable
In the normal course of business the Group recognises amounts receivable in connection with claims for completed work due from the 
principal and/or insurance claims as reimbursement for certain loss events on projects. Project related claims on principals are recognised 
when it is probable that the claim amount will be received. Insurance claims can be recognised only if it is virtually certain that the amount 
recognised will be reimbursed. See paragraph 2.24.
(c) Income tax 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income 
taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax  determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities 
for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is 
different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the 
period in which such determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carry-forwards, temporary differences and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of 
the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Estimates are an inherent part of this process and they may differ from 
the actual future outcome.
(d) Pension obligations 
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of 
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these 
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the 
present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining the appropriate 
discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds (AA) that are denominated in the currency in which 
the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed in note 
20.
(e) Impairment of land and building rights and property development
The valuation of land and building rights and property development is based on the outcome of the related calculations of the land’s net 
realisable value. These calculations are based on assumptions relating to the future market developments, decisions of governmental 
bodies, interest rates and future cost and price increases. In most cases the Group uses external valuations (by rotation) to benchmark the 
net realisable value. Partly because estimates relate to projects with a duration varying from one year to more than thirty years, significant 
changes in these assumptions might result in an impairment.
(f) Impairment of goodwill 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use 
calculations. These calculations are determined using discounted cash flow projections and require estimates in connection with the future 
development of revenues, profit before tax margins and the determination of appropriate discount rates. An impairment loss is recognised 
if the carrying amount of an asset of CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.152 – 20165. Segment information
The segment information reported to the Executive Board is measured in a manner consistent with the financial 
statements. 
Revenue and results 2
Construction 
and
PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2016
Construction contracts  3,520,728  2,752,838  175,230  -  6,448,796 
Property development  355,922  -  -  -  355,922 
Service concession arrangements  94,828  -  21,442  -  116,270 
Services and other  15,085  36,922  -  3,095  55,102 
Revenue from external customers  3,986,563  2,789,760  196,672  3,095  6,976,090 
Sector revenue  137,809  109,358  -  (247,167)  - 
Revenue  4,124,372  2,899,118  196,672  (244,072)  6,976,090 
 
Operating result  (46,027)  88,418  35  (9,487)  32,940 
Finance result  (3,716)  611  12,220  (1,795)  7,320 
Share of result of investments  3,046  1,797  4,849  10,135  19,827 
Result before tax  (46,697)  90,826  17,104  (1,147)  60,087 
Exceptional items  (50,187)  7,439  -  164  (42,584)
Adjusted result before tax  3,490  83,387  17,104  (1,311)  102,670 
 
2015  
Construction contracts  3,541,329  3,104,162  163,200  -  6,808,691 
Property development  463,493  -  -  -  463,493 
Service concession arrangements  74,802  -  22,178  -  96,981 
Services and other  34,336  16,375  -  3,066  53,777 
Revenue from external customers 4,113,961  3,120,537  185,378  3,066  7,422,942 
Sector revenue  88,276  139,723 -  (227,999)  - 
Revenue 4,202,237  3,260,260  185,378  (224,933)  7,422,942 
Operating result  (34,255)  38,626  3,275  (18,338)  (10,692)
Finance result  (1,624)  3,167  12,067  (2,605)  11,005 
Share of result of investments  8,198  1,800  3,030  -  13,028 
Result before tax  (27,681)  43,593  18,372  (20,943)  13,341 
Exceptional items  (42,814)  (22,983)  (298)  (8,744)  (74,839)
Adjusted result before tax  15,133  66,576  18,670  (12,199)  88,180 
1 Including non-operating segments.
2 The comparative figures have been adjusted to the new identified segments.
Besides combining the Construction and Property sectors, construction activities in Ireland, BAM Belgium and BAM 
International have been reclassified from Civil Engineering to Construction and Property. In 2015 these reclassifications 
amounted to €665 million revenue and €6.9 million result before tax. Revenue from property development includes 
both revenue from development of residential and commercial property. In earlier years only revenue from commercial 
property was reported here. Revenue from residential property was shown under revenue from Construction 
contracts. Comparative figures 2015 have been adjusted accordingly.2016  – 153Balance sheet disclosures 2
Construction 
and
PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2016
Assets  2,973,794  1,945,160  488,956  (681,682)  4,726,228 
Investments  67,519  6,978  9,144  2,225  85,866 
Total assets  3,041,313  1,952,138  498,100  (679,457)  4,812,094 
Liabilities  2,853,054  1,435,740  395,599  (711,609)  3,972,784 
Group equity  188,261  516,398  102,500  32,151  839,310 
Total equity and liabilities  3,041,315  1,952,138  498,099  (679,458)  4,812,094 
2015
Assets  2,817,753  2,023,813  503,632 (587,001) 4,758,197
Investments  76,327  6,892  8,796  2,037  94,052 
Total assets  2,894,080  2,030,705  512,428 (584,964) 4,852,249
Liabilities  2,695,471  1,503,833  358,162 (611,004) 3,946,464
Group equity  198,609  526,872  154,266  26,038  905,785 
Total equity and liabilities  2,894,080  2,030,705  512,428 (584,964) 4,852,249
1 Including non-operating segments.
2 The comparative figures have been adjusted to the new identified sectors.
Other disclosures 2
Construction 
and
PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2016
Additions to property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets  14,367  43,917  10  8,603  66,897 
Depreciation and amortisation charges 18,214 39,868  12  6,354  64,449 
Average number of FTE  9,031  11,010  89  240  20,370 
Number of FTE at year-end  8,944  10,213  86  243  19,486 
2015
Additions to property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets 17,277 44,854 3 8,901 71,035
Depreciation and amortisation charges 18,144 47,875 9 4,499 70,527
Average number of FTE 3 9,715  11,861  95  245  21,916 
Number of FTE at year-end  9,700  11,246  90  212  21,248 
1 Including non-operating segments.
2 The comparative figures have been adjusted to the new identified sectors.
3 Fulltime equivalent.154 – 2016Revenues from external customers by country, based on the location of the projects 2
Construction 
and
PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther
including
eliminations 1Total
2016
Netherlands  1,405,372  1,173,733  106,739  (154,410)  2,531,434 
United Kingdom  1,319,918  856,780  17,040  (8,605)  2,185,133 
Belgium  496,006  262,960  584  (16,434)  743,116 
Germany  424,413  304,718  2,426  351  731,908 
Ireland  257,993  17,697  69,883  (64,561)  281,012 
Other countries  220,670  283,230  -  (413)  503,487 
 4,124,372  2,899,118  196,672  (244,072)  6,976,090 
2015
Netherlands  1,400,519  1,094,690  89,304  (109,260)  2,475,253 
United Kingdom  1,234,235  1,138,889  16,709  (6,557)  2,383,276 
Belgium  562,205  282,698  691  (10,589)  835,005 
Germany  512,119  285,425  4,291  (3,584)  798,251 
Ireland  236,154  43,554  74,383  (94,163)  259,928 
Other countries  257,004  415,004  - (779) 671,229
 4,202,236  3,260,260  185,378 (224,932) 7,422,942
1 Including non-operating segments.
² The comparative figures have been adjusted to the new identified sectors.
Revenues from the individual countries included in ‘other countries’ are not material.
Total assets and capital expenditures in connection with property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by 
country are stated below:
Total assets 12016 2015
Netherlands  2,126,703  2,171,428 
United Kingdom  967,485  1,051,901 
Belgium  640,398  557,575 
Germany  575,318  536,912 
Ireland  267,826  234,612 
Other countries  786,150  829,279 
Other including eliminations  (551,786) (529,458)
 4,812,094 4,852,249
Investments 22016 2015
Netherlands 29,374  37,633 
United Kingdom  5,834  8,103 
Belgium  6,083  4,408 
Germany  12,336  11,012 
Ireland  2,323  736 
Other countries  10,947  9,143 
Total assets 66,897  71,035 
1 Geographical allocations based on the location of the assets.
2 Gross invesments in tangible and intangible assets based on geographical location.2016  – 1556. Projects
Construction contracts and property development
A major part of the Group’s activities concerns construction contracts and property development which are reflected 
in various balance sheet items. An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to construction contracts and 
property development is stated below:
Construction 
contractsProperty
development Total
2016
Land and buidling rights  -  386,795  386,795 
Property development  -  242,727  242,727 
Amounts due from customers  389,131  7,533  396,664 
Assets  389,131  637,055  1,026,186 
 
Non-recourse property financing  -  (85,678)  (85,678)
Recourse property financing  -  (68,745)  (68,745)
Amounts due to customers  (770,470)  (33,456)  (803,926)
Liabilities  (770,470)  (187,879)  (958,349)
   
As at 31 December  (381,339)  449,176  67,837 
 
2015
Land and building rights  -  429,299  429,299 
Property development  -  310,912  310,912 
Amounts due from customers  417,859  7,831  425,690 
Assets  417,859  748,042  1,165,901 
Non-recourse property financing  -  (116,034)  (116,034)
Recourse property financing  -  (80,083)  (80,083)
Amounts due to customers  (669,297)  (45,131)  (714,428)
Liabilities  (669,297)  (241,248)  (910,545)
   
As at 31 December  (251,438)  506,794  255,356 156 – 2016The breakdown of the balance sheet items ‘amounts due from customers’ and ‘amounts due to customers’ is as follows:
Construction 
contractsProperty
development Total
2016
Costs incurred plus recognised results  11,759,866  60,856  11,820,722 
Progress billings  (11,370,735)  (53,323)  (11,424,058)
Amounts due from customers  389,131  7,533  396,664 
Costs incurred plus recognised results  9,707,580  545,941  10,253,521 
Progress billings  (10,478,050)  (579,397)  (11,057,447)
Amounts due to customers  (770,470)  (33,456)  (803,926)
2015
Costs incurred plus recognised results  12,734,666  143,952  12,878,618 
Progress billings  (12,316,807)  (136,121)  (12,452,928)
Amounts due from customers  417,859  7,831  425,690 
Costs incurred plus recognised results  7,856,248  561,038  8,417,286 
Progress billings  (8,525,545)  (606,169)  (9,131,714)
Amounts due to customers  (669,297)  (45,131)  (714,428)
As at 31 December 2016 advance payments (as included in amounts due to customers) in connection with 
construction contracts and property development amount to €267 million (2015: €245 million) respectively 
€7 million (2015: €4 million).
PPP
The joint venture BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (‘joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM’) invests in PPP 
markets for social and transport infrastructure in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany  
and Switzerland. BAM PPP continues to be fully responsible for issuing new project tenders, rendering services with 
regard to asset management for the joint venture and representing the joint venture in transactions. PGGM provides 
the majority of capital required for existing projects.
An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to PPP projects (excluding joint ventures) is stated below:
Non-current Current Total
2016
PPP receivables  296,395  62,338  358,733 
(Non-)recourse PPP loans  (224,866)  (99,585)  (324,451)
Amounts due from customers  71,529  (37,247)  34,282 
Net assets and liabilities  (7,904)  (32,429)  (40,333)
As at 31 December  63,625  (69,676)  (6,051)
2015
PPP receivables  279,074  5,263  284,337 
(Non-)recourse PPP loans  (233,035)  (14,523)  (247,558)
Amounts due from customers  46,039  (9,260)  36,779 
Net assets and liabilities  (9,269)  3,976  (5,293)
As at 31 December  36,770  (5,284)  31,486 2016  – 1577. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildingsPlant and
equipmentConstruction
 in progressOther
assets Total
As at 1 January 2015
Cost  207,469  581,748  1,969  131,622  922,808 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (94,367)  (414,423)  -  (98,238)  (607,028)
 113,102  167,325  1,969  33,384  315,780 
Additions  12,663  30,387  6,721  14,873  64,644 
Disposals  (8,304)  (10,886)  (1)  (3,782)  (22,973)
Reclassifications  (784)  1,536  (446)  406  712 
Impairment charges  (1,263)  (189)  -  -  (1,452)
Depreciation charges  (6,765)  (45,724)  -  (13,981)  (66,470)
Exchange rate differences  319  1,253  4  342  1,918 
 108,968  143,702  8,247  31,242  292,159 
As at 31 December 2015  
Cost  201,710  540,834  8,247  115,172  865,963 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (92,742)  (397,132)  -  (83,930)  (573,804)
 108,968  143,702  8,247  31,242  292,159 
Additions  3,808  40,579  5,083  12,457  61,927 
Acquisition of subsidiaries  280  491  -  133  904 
Disposals  (10,751)  (6,274)  (14)  255  (16,784)
Reclassifications  (2,052)  2,722  (3,370)  (473)  (3,173)
Impairment charges  (2,213)  -  -  -  (2,213)
Depreciation charges  (6,726)  (40,920)  -  (12,659)  (60,305)
Exchange rate differences  (699)  (1,228)  (8)  (407)  (2,342)
 90,615  139,072  9,938  30,548  270,173 
As at 31 December 2016
Cost  193,604  573,197  9,938  124,610  901,349 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (102,989)  (434,125)  -  (94,062)  (631,176)
 90,615  139,072  9,938  30,548  270,173 
Asset construction in progress mainly comprises plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment is not pledged 
as a security for borrowings, except for leased assets under finance lease agreements. 
Property, plant and equipment includes the following carrying amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2016 2015
Land and buildings  -  6,000 
Property, plant and equipment  11,112  11,536 
Other assets  13  23 
 11,125  17,559 158 – 20168. Intangible assets
GoodwillNon-
integrated
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2015
Cost  697,435  15,526  25,285  738,246 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (297,403)  (10,675)  (20,918)  (328,996)
 400,032  4,851  4,367  409,250 
Additions  -  6,376  15  6,391 
Disposals  -  -  (918)  (918)
Reclassifications  -  (714)  -  (714)
Impairment charges  (3,298)  -  -  (3,298)
Amortisation charges  -  (3,328)  (729)  (4,057)
Exchange rate differences  9,399  (55)  54  9,398 
 406,133  7,130  2,789  416,052 
As at 31 December 2015
Cost  707,340  19,816  23,325  750,481 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (301,207)  (12,686)  (20,536)  (334,429)
 406,133  7,130  2,789  416,052 
Additions  -  3,922  1,071  4,993 
Disposals  (3,639)  (62)  (2)  (3,703)
Reclassifications  -  1,031  -  1,031 
Impairment charges  (176)  -  (657)  (833)
Amortisation charges  -  (3,398)  (746)  (4,144)
Exchange rate differences  (22,933)  (474) 3  (23,404)
 379,385  8,149  2,458  389,992 
As at 31 December 2016
Cost  678,186  24,114  7,301  709,601 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (298,801)  (15,965)  (4,843)  (319,609)
 379,385  8,149  2,458  389,992 
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or 
groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. In 2015, the organisational restructuring that the 
Group was implementing through its Back in Shape programme has resulted in the merger of a number of CGUs in the 
Netherlands and Belgium, all within the segment Civil engineering. This has effectively reduced the associated number 
of CGUs with two CGUs. In 2016 a part of one of the CGU’s in Belgium has been integrated in to another CGU in 
Belgium, because of a change in the management and organisational structure of the activities.
The carrying amount of total goodwill is €379 million (2015: €406 million). 
The decrease of goodwill relates to the sale of one of our CGU’s and an exchange rate effect. The change in exchange 
rate of the pound sterling compared to the prior year had an downward effect of approximately €23 million.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are 
indications that a particular CGU might be impaired. The recoverable amount of each CGU was determined based on 
value-in-use calculations. Value-in-use was determined using discounted cash flow projections that cover a period of 
five years and are based on the financial plans approved by management. The key assumptions for the value-in-use 
calculations are those regarding discount rate, revenue growth rate and profit before tax  margin.2016  – 159Goodwill relates to 16 CGUs, of which BAM Construct UK (€62 million) and BAM Nuttall (€75 million) are deemed 
significant in comparison with the Group’s total carrying amount of goodwill. For each of these CGUs the key 
assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations are as follows:
              BAM Construct UK               BAM Nuttall
2016 2015 2016 2015
Discount rate (post-tax) 7.8% 8.3% 7.8% 8.3%
Growth rate:
- In forecast period (average) 1.9% 3.8% 2.3% (1.1%)
- Beyond forecast period 1.5% 2.0% 1.5% 2.0%
Profit before tax margin
- In forecast period (average) 2.6% 2.0% 2.8% 2.2%
- Beyond forecast period 3.1% 2.2% 3.5% 2.5%
Growth rate used to estimate future performance in the forecast period is the average annual growth rate based on 
past performance and management’s expectations of BAM’s market development referenced to external sources of 
information. The profit before tax margin in the forecast period is the average margin as a percentage of revenue 
based on past performance and the expected recovery to a normalised margin deemed achievable by management in 
the concerning market segment.
For BAM Construct UK, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amount by 
approximately €432 million (2015: €314 million). The sensitivity analyses indicated that if the growth rate of BAM 
Construct UK is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis points or the discount 
rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in isolation, the carrying amount of this CGU 
would still exceed the recoverable amount with sufficient and reasonable headroom.
For BAM Nuttall, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amount by 
approximately €257 million (2015: €197 million). The sensitivity analyses indicated that if the growth rate of BAM 
Nuttall is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis points or the discount rate is 
raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in isolation, the carrying amount of this CGU would 
still exceed the recoverable amount with sufficient and reasonable headroom.
The sensitivity analyses indicated that if the growth rate is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is 
reduced by 50 basis points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in 
isolation, the recoverable amounts of the other CGUs would still be in excess of the carrying amounts with sufficient 
and reasonable headroom, except for one CGU in Germany, representing a goodwill amount of €12 million, with a 
limited headroom.160 – 20169. PPP receivables
2016 2015
As at 1 January 284,337  307,926 
Receivables issued  189,785  195,437 
Finance income 20,679  23,077 
Disposals  (87,313)  (144,941)
Progress billings  (35,048)  (63,820)
Tranfers to assets held for sale  -  (39,391)
Exchange rate differences  (13,707)  6,049 
As 31 December 358,733  284,337 
Note 2016 2015
Non-current  296,395  279,074 
Current 13  62,338  5,263 
 358,733  284,337 
The increase in receivables issued is related to progress on the construction of the PPP projects partly compensated by 
divestment of two projects to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM s. 
The average duration of PPP receivables is 23 years (2015: 22 years). Approximately €263 million of the non-current 
part has a duration of more than five years (2015: €272 million). 
The interest rates on PPP receivables are virtually the same as the interest rates (after hedging) of the related non-
recourse PPP loans. The contractual interest percentages are fixed for the entire duration. The average interest rate on 
PPP receivables is 5.9 per cent (2015: 6.8 per cent). At year-end 2016, the fair value of the non-current part is 
approximately €315 million (2015: approximately €322 million). The fair value of the non-current part is based on the 
value of the hedge of the corresponding loan.
There are no renewal and/or termination options, the assets will flow to the Grantor at the end of the concession 
period.
PPP receivables are pledged as a security for the corresponding (non-) recourse PPP loans included under ‘borrowings’. 
10. Investments 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2016 2015
Associates  22,339  24,914 
Joint ventures  63,527  69,138 
As at 31 December  85,866  94,052 2016  – 16110.1 Investment in associates
Set out below are the associates of the Group as at 31 December 2016 that are individually material to the Group.
Nature of investment in associates in 2016 and 2015:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation   % Interest
2016 2015
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv Exploitation of rail infrastructure Netherlands 10.54% 10.54%
Justinvest bv Lease and exploitation real estate Belgium 33.33% 33.33%
Rabot Invest nv Lease and exploitation real estate Belgium 25.00% 25.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the associates that are material to the Group, including 
reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements. This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of these associates adjusted 
for differences in the Group’s accounting policies and the associates.
          Infraspeed (Holdings) bv          Justinvest nv           Rabot Invest nv
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Current assets  101,675  108,558  13,746  13,355  8,508  8,376 
Non-current assets  830,001  861,161  161,340  170,617  86,573  91,528 
Current liabilities  (22,909)  (21,727)  (12,639)  (12,368)  (7,266)  (7,305)
Non-current liabilities  (856,112)  (893,153)  (161,943)  (171,142)  (87,167)  (91,987)
Net assets  52,655  54,839  504  462  648  612 
Revenue  56,509  50,923  840  578  922  920 
Net result  9,772  10,347  44  51  36  20 
Net assets  52,655  54,839  504  462  648  612 
Share in equity 10.54% 10.54% 33.33% 33.33% 25.00% 25.00%
Carrying amount  5,550  5,780  168  154  162  153 
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv is classified as an associate based on significant influence by the Group through board 
membership.
Set out below are the aggregate information of associates that are not individually material to the Group.  
These associates mainly comprise the Group’s share in structured entities for property development projects.
2016 2015
Share in net result  13,839  1,846 
Share in equity  2,832  5,196 
In 2015 the Group’s share in the net result of associates included a reversal of impairment amounting to €1 million.162 – 2016Reconciliation with the carrying amount of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements, is as follows:
2016 2015
Share in equity associates that are material to the Group  5,880  6,087 
Share in equity associates that are not individually material to the Group  2,832  5,196 
 8,712  11,283 
Recognised as provision for associates  411  122 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables  13,216  13,509 
 22,339  24,914 
Dividend received from associates amounts to €5.8 million in 2016 (2015: €5.8 million). Cash and cash equivalents of a 
number of associates are subject to restrictions. These restrictions mainly concern the priority of loan repayments over 
dividend distribution.
10.2  Investment in joint ventures
Set out below is the joint venture of the Group as at 31 December 2016 that is individually material to the Group.
Nature of investment in the joint venture in 2016 and 2015:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation     % Share
2016 2015
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. Asset management Netherlands 50.00% 50.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the joint venture that is individually material to the Group, 
including reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the joint venture, as recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements. This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of  
the joint venture adjusted for differences in the Group’s accounting policies and the joint venture.
 BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A.
2016 2015
Current assets  130,286  89,712 
Non-current assets  1,841,165  1,028,237 
Current liabilities  (306,107)  (242,707)
Non-current liabilities  (1,962,276)  (1,034,736)
Net assets  (296,932)  (159,494)
Of which:
Cash and cash equivalents  97,106  75,003 
Current financial liabilities  (41,426)  (25,298)
Non-current financial liabilities  (1,949,552)  (1,028,129)
Revenue  44,082  41,093 
Net result  9,673  5,105 
Other comprehensive income  123,982  17,912 2016  – 163Of which:
Finance income  102,561  62,073 
Finance expense  (94,025)  (57,576)
Income tax  (2,511)  (4,222)
Net assets  (296,932)  (159,494)
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 20%
Carrying amount  (42,828)  (31,899)
Negative cash flow hedge reserve not recognised  20,032  9,126 
 (22,796)  (22,773)
The Group’s share in the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM is based on its share in the members’ capital. Contractually, the 
Group predominantly has  a 20 per cent share in profit rights. The Group has a 10 per cent share in profit rights within 
two joint ventures, resulting in a carrying amount of €18 million. In addition, the Group bears the risks in the 
operational phase until completion of the projects which are acquired by the joint venture.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the joint venture, further losses will not be recognised, 
unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation. In 2016 €11 million (2015: €1 million reversal) of losses was not 
recognised. At year-end 2016 unrecognised losses amounted to €20 million (2015: €9 million).
Set out below are the aggregate information of joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group. 
2016 2015
Share in net result property development joint ventures  1,352  7,417 
Share in net result other joint ventures  1,777  1,629 
Share in equity property development joint ventures  34,726  21,912 
Share in equity other joint ventures  (64,886)  (47,605)
Revenue of property development joint ventures amounts to €58 million (2015: €94 million) and property 
development recognised in the balance sheet amounts to €127 million (2015: €134 million) of which an amount of 
€65 million (2015: €72 million) externally financed (share of the Group).
In 2015 the Group’s share in the net result of joint ventures included a reversal of impairment amounting to €1 million.
Reconciliation with the carrying amount of the Group’s share in joint ventures, as recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements, is as follows:
2016 2015
Share in equity joint venture BAM/PGGM  (22,796)  (22,773)
Share in equity property development joint ventures that are not material to the Group  34,726  21,912 
Share in equity other joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group  (64,886)  (47,605)
 (52,956)  (48,466)
Recognised as provision for joint ventures  26,782  21,151 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables  89,701  96,453 
 63,527  69,138 
Dividend received from joint ventures amounts to €7.2 million in 2016 (2015: €7.5 million).
The financial years of many joint ventures run from 1 December up to and including 30 November to ensure timely 
inclusion of the financial information in the Group’s financial statements.164 – 201611. Other financial assets
NotesNon-current
receivables Other Total
As at 1 January 2015  88,359  2,565  90,924 
Loans granted  14,899  -  14,899 
Loan repayments  (3,759)  -  (3,759)
Disposals  -  (75)  (75)
Reversal of impairment charges 25  949  -  949 
Reclassifications  2,292  (110)  2,182 
Exchange rate differences  94  -  94 
 102,834  2,380  105,214 
Of which current:  (6,726)  -  (6,726)
As at 31 December 2015  96,108  2,380  98,488 
Loans granted 11,892 - 11,892
Loan repayments (11,799) - (11,799)
Disposals  (362)  (123)  (485)
Impairment charges 25  (1,152)  (338)  (1,490)
Reversal of impairment charges 25  1,775 -  1,775 
Reclassifications (12,141)  (13) (12,154)
Exchange rate differences  (189) -  (189)
 90,858  1,906  92,764 
Of which current:  (720)  -  (720)
As at 31 December 2016  90,138  1,906  92,044 
The fair value of non-current receivables at year-end 2016 amounts to €96 million (2015: €124 million). 
The effective interest rate is 2.1 per cent (2015: 1.9 per cent).
Category ‘Other’ mainly comprises shares in (unlisted) investments over which the Group has no significant influence.
12. Inventories
2016 2015
Land and building rights  386,795  429,299 
Property development  242,727  310,912 
 629,522  740,211 
Raw materials  14,031  16,169 
Finished products  1,880  2,358 
 645,433  758,738 
Land and building rights are to be presented as current on the balance sheet within the ordinary course of business, 
however by its nature, the realisation will be non-current. The majority of the investments in property development is 
considered to be current by nature.2016  – 165The impairments during 2016 relating to the property portfolio are as follows:
Note 2016 2015
Impairment charges  54,974  37,325 
Reversal of impairment charges  (7,165) -
25  47,809  37,325 
Of the net amount of impairments and reversals, €44 million relates to property developments in the Netherlands. 
Of this, €13.7 million results from the strategic divestment of 47 positions in North East of the Netherlands. The rest is 
attributable to municipality changes in zoning and lowering rental prices for retail property.
Property development includes the following completed and unsold property:
2016 2015
Unsold and finished propertyNumber/m² Carrying
amountNumber/m² Carrying
amount
Houses ¹  33  11,613  84  19,236 
Commercial property - rented  45,031  54,832  52,845  88,080 
Commercial property - unrented  26,980  25,876  26,712  21,954 
 92,321  129,270 
¹  Of which 31 houses (2015: 64 houses) rented in anticipation of sale.
Other inventories were not subject to write-down in 2016 nor 2015.
13. Trade and other receivables
Notes 2016 2015
Trade receivables  943,630 831,728
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables  (28,563) (25,236)
Trade receivables - net  915,067  806,492 
Amounts due from customers 6  396,664  425,690 
Amounts due from related parties 36  13,173  5,353 
Retentions  112,607  126,142 
Amounts to be invoiced work completed  78,407  71,651 
Amounts to be invoiced work in progress  222,489  245,789 
PPP receivables 9  62,338  5,263 
Other financial assets  1,485  7,994 
Other receivables  53,797  73,856 
Prepayments  78,515  123,546 
 1,934,542  1,891,776 
Trade and other receivables are due within one year, except for approximately €33 million (2015: €19 million). 
The fair value of this non-current part is approximately €33 million (2015: approximately €18 million) using an effective 
interest rate of -0.2 per cent (2015: 0.4 per cent).
The concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited, as the Group’s customer base is large 
and geographically spread. As at 31 December 2016 a part of the trade receivables amounting to €193 million 166 – 2016(2015: €173 million) is past due over one year but partly impaired. These overdue payments relate to a number of 
customers, predominantly in the public sector outside the Netherlands where a limited default risk exists. 
Simultaneously, the duration to reach final agreement, including legal proceedings, on invoiced variation orders and 
claims with these customers has further increased in the year. Management assessed that the provision for impairment, 
taking all facts and circumstances into account, is sufficient. None of the other assets were subject to impairment.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 
2016 2015
Trade
receivablesProvision for 
impairmentTrade
receivablesProvision for 
impairment
Not past due  561,006  (491)  431,587  (104)
Up to 3 months  118,395  (917)  165,836  (1,484)
3 to 6 months  21,926  (392)  36,478  (957)
6 to 12 months  49,569  (3,960)  24,438  (1,136)
1 to 2 years  41,174  (575)  21,455  (1,152)
Over 2 years  151,560  (22,228) 151,934 (20,404)
 943,630  (28,563) 831,728  (25,236)
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables  (28,563)  (25,236)
Trade receivables - net  915,067  806,492 
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2016 2015
As at 1 January  25,236  25,445
Provision for impairment  14,850  16,691 
Unused amounts reversed  (4,213)  (6,601)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible  (5,394) (10,466)
Disposals  (1,073)  - 
Reclassifications  (716) 155
Exchange rate differences  (127) 12
As at 31 December  28,563 25,236 
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘Other operating expenses’ in the 
income statement.
Retentions relate to amounts retained by customers on progress billings. In the United Kingdom and Germany in 
particular, it is common practice to retain a previously agreed percentage until completion of the project.
14. Cash and cash equivalents
2016 2015
Cash at bank and in hand  737,545 618,381
Short-term bank deposits  1,032 18,831 
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts)  738,577 637,212 2016  – 167Cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Group. Cash and cash equivalents include the Group’s share in  
cash of joint operations and in PPP entities as part of the conditions in project specific funding agreements and amount  
to €223 million (2015: €181 million) respectively €15 million (2015: €8 million).
The average effective interest on short-term bank deposits is 2.9 per cent (2015: 1.3 per cent). The deposits have an 
average remaining term to maturity of approximately 11 days (2015: approximately 43 days).
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand 
and short-term bank deposits, net of bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as 
reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows is reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statement of 
financial position as follows:
2016 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 738,577 637,212
Bank overdrafts  (2) (3) 
Net cash position 738,575 637,209 
15. Share capital and premium
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of
 treasury
sharesNumber of 
ordinary 
shares
in issueOrdinary
sharesShare
premium Total
As at 1 January 2015  270,998,957 -270,998,957  27,099  812,212 839,311
Repurchased shares  -  604,975  (604,975)  -  - -
As at 31 December 2015  270,998,957  604,975 270,393,982  27,099  812,212  839,311 
Repurchase of ordinairy shares  -  588,170  (588,170)  - - -
Dividends  815,771  -  815,771  82  (82)  - 
As at 31 December 2016  271,814,728  1,193,145 270,621,583  27,181  812,130  839,311 
15.1  General
At year-end 2016, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2015: 400 million) and 
600 million preference shares (2015: €600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2015: €0.10 per share). 
All issued shares have been paid in full (only ordinary shares).
The Company granted Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (‘the Foundation’) a call option to acquire class B 
cumulative preference shares in the Company’s share capital on 17 May 1993. This option was granted up to such an 
amount as the Foundation might require, subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that would result in the total 
nominal amount of class B cumulative preference shares in issue and not held by the Company equalling no more than 
ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9 per cent) of the nominal amount of the issued share capital in the form of shares 
other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by the Company at the time of exercising of the right 
referred to above. The Executive Committee of the Foundation has the exclusive right to determine whether or not to 
exercise this right to acquire class B cumulative preference shares. Additional information has been disclosed in section 
Other information.168 – 201615.2  Ordinary shares
To prevent dilution as a result of the (equity-settled) share-based compensation plan introduced in 2015, 604,975 of 
the Company’s own shares were repurchased on 10 December 2015 for a total consideration of €3.1 million, at a price 
of €5.11. At 28 April 2016 another 588,170 of the Company’s own shares were repurchased for a total consideration of 
€2.5 million, at a price of €4,27.
In 2016, the number of issued ordinary shares increased by 815,771 due to dividend payment in shares. 
16. Reserves
Hedging Translation Total
As at 1 January 2015 (81,202) (53,671) (134,873)
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment
 - Fair value of cash flow hedge  3,809  -  3,809 
 - Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge  (952)  -  (952)
Cash flow hedges
- Fair value movement  1,303  -  1,303 
- Tax on fair value movement  (66)  -  (66)
Exchange rate differences  -  26,243  26,243 
 4,094  26,243  30,337 
   
As at 31 December 2015  (77,108)  (27,428)  (104,536)
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment
 - Fair value of cash flow hedge  12,667  -  12,667 
 - Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge  (3,538)  -  (3,538)
Cash flow hedges
- Fair value movement  (12,354)  -  (12,354)
- Tax on fair value movement  3,180  -  3,180 
Exchange rate differences  -  (65,671)  (65,671)
 (45)  (65,671)  (65,716)
   
As at 31 December 2016  (77,153)  (93,099)  (170,252)
Due to a change in accounting policy, the remeasurements of post-employment benefits are no longer included in the 
reserves, but have been restated to the retained earnings. The comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.2016  – 169The positive movement in the hedge reserve in 2016, €9.1 million as a consequence of disposals and settlements of 
existing contracts was fully offset by the negative effect of €9.2 million due to the fact that the long-term interest in 
2016 is lower than in 2015. 
The hedging reserve may be subsequently reclassified to the income statement. Based on the remaining duration of 
the derivative financial instruments, reclassification will take place between 1 and 30 years. An amount of €57 million 
(2015: €39 million) in the hedging reserve relates to joint ventures. 
The negative movement in the translation reserve in 2016 is linked to the decrease in the value of the pound sterling, 
in contrast to 2015 whereas an increase in the value of the pound sterling was realised. 
17. Capital base
2016 2015
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  834,250  902,147 
Subordinated convertible bonds  112,491  - 
Subordinated loan  -  124,335 
 946,741 1,026,482170 – 201618. Borrowings
2016 Non-current Current Total
Subordinated convertible bonds 1112,491 -  112,491 
Non-recourse PPP loans  211,571  62,777  274,348 
Non-recourse property financing  50,959  34,719  85,678 
Other non-recourse financing  5,917  2,005  7,922 
Recourse PPP loans  13,295  36,808  50,103 
Recourse property financing  59,403  9,342  68,745 
Finance lease liabilities  4,329  2,478  6,807 
Other recourse financing  5,550  -  5,550 
Bank overdrafts  -  2  2 
463,515  148,131 611,646
Up to 1 year  148,131 
1 to 5 years  279,540 
Over 5 years  183,975 
 611,646 
2015 Non-current Current Total
Subordinated loan 1125,000 (665) 124,335
Non-recourse PPP loans 187,673  7,114 194,787
Non-recourse property financing  85,694  30,340 116,034
Other non-recourse financing  6,621  1,300  7,921
Recourse PPP loans  45,362  7,409  52,771
Recourse property financing  44,847  35,236  80,083
Finance lease liabilities  9,973  4,478  14,451
Other recourse financing  6,693 244  6,937
Bank overdrafts  -  3  3 
 511,863  85,459  597,322 
Up to 1 year  85,459 
1 to 5 years  398,448 
Over 5 years  113,415 
 597,322
1  After deduction of finance costs to be amortised.
18.1 Subordinated convertible bonds
In June 2016, the Group placed €125 million subordinated unsecured convertible bonds to repay the existing 
subordinated loan of the same amount. 
The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.50 per cent, an initial conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible 
into ordinary shares of Royal BAM Group nv with a nominal value of €0.10 each. The coupon is payable semi-annually in 
arrear in equal instalments on 13 June and 13 December. The Bonds were issued at 100 per cent of their principal 
amount and, unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at their 
principal amount on or around 13 June 2021. Upon exercise of their conversion rights, holders will receive shares at the 
then prevailing conversion price. At 31 December 2016 the conversion price is €5.2245. The Group will have the option 2016  – 171to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest from 28 
June 2019, if the value of the shares underlying a bond exceeds €130,000 for a specified period of time. The bonds are 
trading on the Open Market (Freiverkehr) segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
All payment obligations to the bondholders are subordinated to the payment obligations towards our senior debt 
holders.
At 31 December 2016 the fair value of the liability component of the subordinated convertible bonds amounts to  
€116 million. The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using a market rate for an equivalent 
non-convertible instrument.
More details of the subordinated convertible bonds are published on the website. 
The reconciliation of the subordinated convertible bonds to the consolidated statement of financial position and the 
consolidated statement of changes in equity is as follows:
Allocated to:
Face value  Liability  
 component Equity 
component
Gross proceeds  125,000  114,253  10,747 
Transaction costs 1 (3,233)  (2,955)  (278)
Net proceeds  121,767  111,298  10,469 
Tax effect equity component  (2,617)
Effective interest method  1,193  
As at 31 December 2016  112,491  7,852
1  Transaction costs include fees and commissions paid to advisors, bankers and lawyers.
18.2 Subordinated loan
The principal sum of the subordinated loan amounted to €125 million and was repaid in June 2016 with the proceeds 
of the subordinated convertible bonds. The subordinated loan had an interest rate that was based on the Group’s 
recourse leverage ratio and was equal to Euribor plus a margin, with a minimum of 400 and a maximum of 675 basis 
points until 30 July 2017, after which date the margin would increase by 150 basis points. At the date of repayment, 
the margin was 400 basis points (year-end 2015: 400 basis points).
The interest risk on the subordinated loan was hedged by interest rate swaps, that fixed Euribor at 1.7 per cent. 
Including the margin and the amortised borrowing costs, the interest for the subordinated loan amounted to  
7.1 per cent (2015: 6.3 per cent).
18.3  Committed syndicated credit facility
In November 2016 the Group renewed its committed revolving credit facility agreement for an amount of €400 million. 
The new facility agreement has a term to maturity of 5.3 years and runs until 31 March 2022. The credit margin and 
commitment fee have been improved.
The facility can be used for general corporate purposes, including the usual working capital financing. As a result of this 
flexible use, the level of draw-downs fluctuates throughout the year. At year-end 2016, the Group did not use the facility 
(year-end 2015: not used).172 – 2016As at 30 June 2016 the Group did not use the facility (30 June 2015: not used). Variable interest rates apply to the 
draw-downs on this facility with a margin between 150 and 275 basis points. As at 31 December 2016 the margin was 
150 basis points (2015: 175 basis points).
18.4  Non-recourse PPP loans
These relate to PPP projects in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Ireland. Of the non-current part, 
approximately €180 million has a term to maturity of more than five years (2015: approximately €110 million). The 
average term to maturity of the PPP loans is 17 years (2015: 18 years).
The interest rate risk on the non-recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps. The average interest rate on PPP 
loans is 5.5 per cent (2015: 6.4 per cent). Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during 
the term of these loans.
The related PPP receivables amount to €338 million in total (2015: €256 million) and represent a security for lenders. 
These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions regarding interest 
coverage, solvency, among other things, are not met.
18.5  Non-recourse property financing
These loans are contracted to finance land for property development and ongoing property development projects. 
The average term of non-recourse property financing is approximately 1.5 years (2015: approximately 2.1 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market 
fluctuations during the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The 
principal sum of these financing loans is €40 million (2015: €60 million).
The carrying amount of the related assets is approximately €225 million at year-end 2016 (2015: approximately €175 
million). The assets are pledged as a security for lenders. These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed 
qualitative and quantitative conditions relating to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
18.6  Recourse PPP loans
Equity bridge loans relating to PPP contracts are recognised under recourse PPP loans. The interest rate risk on the 
recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps.
Recourse PPP loans relate directly to the accompanying assets, but also have an additional security in the form of a 
guarantee provided by the Group, in several cases supplemented by a bank guarantee.
The average term to maturity of the recourse PPP loans is approximately 1.1 years (2015: approximately 1.8 years).
18.7  Recourse property financing
Recourse property financing is contracted to finance land and building rights and property development. 
The average term of recourse property financing is approximately 1.7 years (2015: approximately 1.8 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market 
fluctuations during the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. 
The principal sum of these financing loans is €14 million (2015: €42 million).2016  – 173Recourse property financing relates directly to the accompanying assets, that constitute a security for lenders. 
The carrying amount of the accompanying assets amounts to approximately €125 million at year-end 2016 
(2015: approximately €115 million). Additional securities exist in the form of a guarantee provided by the Group, in 
some cases supplemented by a bank guarantee. These loans will be repayable on demand if the agreed qualitative 
and quantitative conditions relating to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
18.8  Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities mainly consist of financing arrangements for buildings and equipment. The maturity of the 
finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2016 2015
Up to 1 year  2,643 4,684
1 to 5 years  4,311 10,433
Over 5 years  403 -
 7,357 15,117
Future finance charges on financial leases  (550) (666)
Present value of finance lease liabilities  6,807 14,451
The present value of the finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2016 2015
1 to 5 years  3,971 9,973
Over 5 years  358 -
 4,329 9,973
Up to 1 year  2,478 4,478
 6,807 14,451
18.9 Other financing
Other loans relate to financing of property, plant and equipment.
18.10  Bank overdrafts
In addition to the non-current committed syndicated credit facility (note 18.3), the Group holds €163 million in 
bilateral credit facilities (2015: €153 million). At year-end 2016 as well as 2015 these facilities were not utilised.
18.11  Covenants
With regard to the various finance arrangements, the Group is bound by terms and conditions, both qualitative and 
quantitative and including financial ratios, in line with the industry’s practice.
Terms and conditions for project financing, being (non-) recourse PPP loans, (non-) recourse property financing loans, 
are directly linked to the respective projects. A relevant ratio in property financing arrangements is the loan to value, 
i.e. the ratio between the financing arrangement and the value of the project. In PPP loans and recourse property 
financing arrangements the debt service cover ratio is applicable. This ratio relates the interest and repayment 
obligations to the project cash flow. No early payments were made in 2016 as a result of not adhering to the financing 
conditions of project related financing.174 – 2016Terms and conditions for the committed syndicated credit facility are based on the Group as a whole, excluding 
non-recourse elements. The ratios for this financing arrangement (all recourse) are the leverage ratio, the interest 
cover, the solvency ratio and the guarantor covers. The Group complied with all ratios in 2016.
The set requirements and realisation of the recourse ratios described above, can be explained as follows:
Calculation Requirement 2016 2015
Leverage ratio Net borrowings/EBITDA ≤ 2.50 (3.84)  (2.55)
Interest cover EBITDA/net interest expense ≥ 4.00 8.62  8.88 
Solvency ratio Capital base/total assets ≥ 15% 29.0% 29.3%
Guarantor covers EBITDA share of guarantors ≥ 60% 106% 72%
Assets share of guarantors ≥ 70% 99% 96%
An increased recourse leverage ratio of a maximum of 2.75 is permitted under the terms and conditions and applies 
to the second and third quarters of the year. The capital base in our financial covenants (as part of the solvency ratio) 
is adjusted for the hedging reserve and remeasurements of post-employments benefits, among other things.
18.12  Other information
The Group’s subordinated convertible bonds are part of the capital base. Repayment obligations are subordinated 
to not subordinated obligations. 
The non-recourse PPP loans relate directly to the associated receivables from government bodies. Therefore, the 
interest rates are influenced marginally by market adjustments applying to companies. The terms of property loans are 
relatively short, as a consequence of which interest margins are in line with the markets. Therefore, the carrying 
amounts of these loans do not differ significantly from their fair values. 
The effective interest rates (including hedging instruments) are as follows:
2016 2015
Pound
sterlingPound
sterling Euro Euro
Subordinated convertible bonds 6.1% - - -
Subordinated loan 7.1% - 6.3% -
Committed syndicated credit facility 1.8% - 1.9% -
Non-recourse PPP loans 5.0% 6.9% 6.2% 6.9%
Non-recourse property financing 3.4% - 2.9% 4.8%
Recourse PPP loans 2.5% - 3.6% -
Recourse property financing 2.2% - 2.7% -
Finance lease liabilities 4.6% - 3.6% -
Other non-recourse financing 3.1% - 3.1% -
Other recourse financing 3.1% - 3.2% -
The Group contracted interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of borrowings to interest rate fluctuations and 
contractual changes in interest rates.2016  – 175The Group’s unhedged position is as follows:
Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Total borrowings  148,131  279,540  183,975  611,646 
Fixed interest rates  (8,238)  (169,054)  (127,883)  (305,175)
Hedged with interest rate swaps  (100,708)  (39,546)  (54,552)  (194,806)
As at 31 December 2016  39,185  70,940  1,540  111,665 
Total borrowings 85,459 398,448 113,415 597,322
Fixed interest rates (23,248) (53,378) (56,479) (133,105)
Hedged with interest rate swaps (25,336) (283,325) (55,438) (364,099)
As at 31 December 2015 36,875 61,745 1,498 100,118
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2016 2015
Euro  557,211  516,923 
Pound sterling  54,435  80,399 
 611,646  597,322 
19. Derivative financial instruments
 2016  2015
Assets Liabilities Fair value Assets Liabilities Fair value
Interest rate swaps  - 19,688 (19,688)  -  30,521  (30,521)
Forward exchange contracts  983  5,013  (4,030)  7,179  20,167  (12,988)
 983  24,701 (23,718)  7,179  50,688  (43,509)
Of which current:  983  4,354  (3,371)  6,200  16,749  (10,549)
19.1 Interest rate swaps
At year-end 2016, interest rate swaps are outstanding to hedge the interest rate risk on the (non-) recourse PPP loans 
and some property financing loans with a variable interest rate. Total borrowings amount to €612 million (2015: €597 
million), of which an amount of €306 million (2015: €464 million) carries a variable interest rate. Of the borrowings 
with a variable interest rate an amount of €195 million (2015: €364 million) is hedged by interest rate swaps. All 
interest rate swaps are classified as hedge instruments. The fair value of the outstanding interest rate swaps amounts 
to €20 million negative (2015: €31 million negative). Except for four interest rate swaps (2015: one) with a total fair 
value of €0.2 million negative, the duration exceeds one year. The maximum duration of the derivative financial 
instruments is 26 years.
The fixed interest rates of these swaps vary from 0.6 per cent to 6.3 per cent at year-end 2016 (2015: between 0.6 per 
cent and 6.3 per cent). The variable interest rates of the corresponding loans are based on Euribor or Libor plus a 
margin.176 – 2016At year-end 2016, all recognised derivative financial instruments provide an effective compensation for movements in 
cash flows from the hedged positions. Therefore, the movements in 2016 are accounted for in other comprehensive 
income. The fair value of outstanding derivative financial instruments which do not provide an effective compensation 
are accounted for in the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is disclosed in note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
19.2  Forward foreign exchange contracts
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2016 were 
€205 million (2015: €251 million). The fair value amounts to €4 million negative (2015: €13 million negative).
 
The terms to maturity of these contracts are up to a maximum of 1 year for the amount of €190 million (2015: €234 
million), between 1 and 2 years for the amount of €8 million (2015: €17 million) and between 2 to 4 years €7 million 
(2015: nil).
20.  Employee benefits
2016 2015
Defined benefit asset  62,773  74,684 
Defined benefit liability  114,254  121,335 
Other employee benefits obligations  30,454  30,396 
 144,708  151,731 
The Group operates defined benefit pension plans in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Ireland 
under broadly similar regulatory frameworks.
A further description of the post-employment benefit plans per country is as follows:
The Netherlands
In the Netherlands, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit schemes as well as defined contribution schemes.
The pension schemes in the Netherlands are subject to the regulations as stipulated in the Pension Act. Due to the 
Pension Act the pension plans need to be fully funded and need to be operated outside the Company through a 
separate legal entity. Several multi-employer funds and insurers operate the various pension plans. The Group has no 
additional responsibilities for the governance of these schemes. 
The basic pension for every employee is covered by multi-employer funds in which also other companies participate 
based on legal obligations. These funds have an indexed average salary scheme and are therefore defined benefit 
schemes. Specifically, these are the industry pension funds for construction, metal & technology and railways. As these 
funds are not equipped to provide the required information on the Group’s proportionate share of pension liabilities 
and plan assets, the defined benefit plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. The Group is obliged to pay 
the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any excess payment and is not obliged to 
make up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The part exceeding the basic pension 
amount (top-up part), which is not covered by multi-employer funds, is carried out by external parties and relates to 
defined contribution schemes. 2016  – 177At year-end 2016, the (twelve-month average) coverage rate of the industry pension fund for construction is 
105 per cent (2015: 111 per cent). The industry pension fund for metal & technology has a coverage rate of 93 per cent 
at year-end 2016 (2015: 99 per cent). The coverage rate of the industry pension fund for railways is 103 per cent 
(2015: 109 per cent). 
With effect from 2006, the defined benefit scheme is closed for new entrants. The build-up of future pension 
entitlements for these employees is covered by the multi-employer funds or external insurance companies. Defined 
benefit schemes are closed for future accumulation and index-linked to the industry pension fund for Construction. 
Future build-up is solely possible for the top-up pension scheme of BAM, which terminates in 2020; it is financed by 
the employer based on a percentage of the pensionable salaries of the employees.
In a subsidiary of a Dutch operating company pension plan amendments were made, limiting the defined benefit 
obligation above a certain salary level. Above this salary level a defined contribution plan is now applicable. Future 
indexation will be paid from the interest income on a depot placed by an insurer. These amendments led to a reduction 
of the defined benefit obligation and a net one-off gain of €5.2 million.
In the context of accountability for the Group’s pension policy (to be) implemented, with regard to, inter alia, 
supplements and investment performance, the Group has established an accountability committee, with 
representation from the Central Works Council (CWC) and the Socio-Economic Committee of the BAM pensioners 
Associations (SEC).
United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution plans.
Three defined benefit pension schemes are executed by separate trusts. They were closed to new participants in 2004. 
Entitlements in these pension schemes have been changed in 2016 by means of delinkage of pension benefits from 
salaries. These amendments led to a reduction of the defined benefit obligation and a net one-off gain of €13.9 million. 
The Group is still responsible for making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits. 
The plan for supplementary contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds in 
March 2016 and led to supplementary contributions in 2016 to the amount of approximately €10 million  
(2015: €36 million). The Group recognises a net defined benefit asset because it is entitled to a return of surplus at 
the end of the plans' lifes.
The Group replaced the closed defined benefit pension schemes with defined contribution schemes, which are 
executed by an outside insurance company. Following the closure of future accumulation in defined benefit pension 
schemes in 2010, employees who participated in these schemes were invited to participate in the defined contribution 
schemes.
In addition, several defined benefit schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes due to the fact that 
external parties administering them are not able to provide the required information. These schemes have limited 
numbers of members, however. The Group is obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group 
may not reclaim any excess payment and is not obliged to make up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of 
future premiums. The Group did not make any material contributions in 2015 nor 2016.
Belgium
In Belgium, the Group makes contributions to a relatively small defined benefit scheme that is executed by an external 
insurance company. The Group has also made arrangements for employees to participate in a defined contribution 
scheme. Due to new legislation a reservation is made for a certain revenue guarantee.
Germany
In Germany, the Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme financed by the employer. 
The Group closed two schemes to new participants and since 2006, the Group operates a defined contribution 
scheme, into which employees have the opportunity to contribute on an individual basis. 178 – 2016Ireland 
The Group has a defined benefit scheme in Ireland, executed by a company pension fund. The multi-employer pension 
scheme was fully converted from a defined benefit scheme to a defined contribution scheme with effect from 
1 January 2006 for new entrants. 
Employees who entered the company before 2006 remained in the defined benefit scheme. Entitlements to the 
scheme have been adjusted in 2016 by means of a cap on pensionable salary. These amendments led to a reduction of 
the defined benefit obligation and a net one-off gain of €22.5 million.
The Group is still responsible for making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits.
The plan for supplementary contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds 
in 2016 and led to supplementary contributions in 2016 to the amount of approximately €2 million.2016  – 179Movements in the defined benefit pension plans over the year is as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2016
Defined benefit liability  23,282  4,092  3,398  59,163  24,319  114,254 
Defined benefit asset  -  62,773  -  -  -  62,773 
 23,282  (58,681)  3,398  59,163  24,319  51,481 
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2016  426,552  938,083  2,968  73,600  111,703  1,552,906 
Service cost  1,288  -  40  265  1,129  2,722 
Interest expense  9,668  32,209  47  1,503  2,917  46,344 
Remeasurements  31,795  242,384  17,445  7,365  20,937  319,926 
Plan participants contributions  187  -  7  -  505  699 
Benefit payments  (12,101)  (36,740)  (144)  (4,157)  (1,289) (54,431)
Changes and plan amendments  (5,248)  (14,776)  -  -  (21,523)  (41,547)
Settlements  (17,384)  -  -  -  (6,136)  (23,520)
Disposals  (244)  -  -  -  -  (244)
Exchange rate differences  -  (145,857) -  -  - (145,857)
As at 31 December 2016  434,513  1,015,303  20,363  78,576  108,243  1,656,998 
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2016  390,214  1,012,767  1,654  18,297  83,323  1,506,255 
Interest income  8,930  35,312  26  377  2,226  46,871 
Remeasurements  32,988  208,507  15,329  378  165  257,367 
Employer contributions  8,992  12,235  99  4,518  4,145  29,989 
Plan participants contributions  187  -  7  -  505  699 
Benefit payments  (12,101)  (36,740)  (144)  (4,157)  (1,289)  (54,431)
Administration cost  (595)  (968)  (6)  -  -  (1,569)
Settlements  (17,384)  (925)  -  -  (5,151)  (23,460)
Exchange rate differences  - (156,204) -  -  - (156,204)
As at 31 December 2016  411,231 1,073,984  16,965  19,413  83,924 1,605,517
Present value of obligation  434,513  1,015,303  20,363  78,576  108,243  1,656,998 
Fair value of plan assets  411,231 1,073,984  16,965  19,413  83,924 1,605,517
As at 31 December 2016  23,282 (58,681)  3,398  59,163  24,319 51,481
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost  1,288  -  40  265  1,129  2,722 
Net interest expense  738  (3,103)  21  1,126  691  (527)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements  (5,248)  (13,851)  -  -  (22,508)  (41,607)
Administration cost  595  968  6  -  -  1,569 
 (2,627)  (15,986)  67  1,391  (20,688)  (37,843)
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income  (32,988)  (208,507)  (15,329)  (378)  (165)  (257,367)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic 
assumptions  237  2,643  -  -  -  2,880 
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions  32,738  237,052  32  6,559  20,609  296,990 
-  Experience (gains)/losses  (1,180)  2,689  17,413  806  328  20,056 
 (1,193)  33,877  2,116  6,987  20,772  62,559 
Income tax  298  (4,982)  (722)  (1,511)  (2,345)  (9,262)
Remeasurement net of tax  (895)  28,895  1,394  5,476  18,427  53,297 180 – 2016NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2015
Defined benefit liability  36,338  -  1,314  55,303  28,380  121,335 
Defined benefit asset  -  74,684  -  -  -  74,684 
 36,338  (74,684)  1,314  55,303  28,380  46,651 
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2015  481,195  938,240  3,136  79,722  122,641  1,624,934 
Service cost  2,023  -  45  280  3,286  5,634 
Interest expense  9,100  36,677  44  1,630  2,685  50,136 
Remeasurements  (29,071)  (53,706)  (54)  (3,989)  (15,016)  (101,836)
Plan participants contributions  229  -  7  -  516  752 
Benefit payments  (10,667)  (42,097)  (210)  (4,043)  (2,409)  (59,426)
Changes and plan amendments  (2,815)  -  -  -  -  (2,815)
Settlements  (23,442)  -  -  -  -  (23,442)
Disposals - - - - - -
Exchange rate differences  -  58,969   -  -  58,969 
As at 31 December 2015  426,552  938,083  2,968  73,600  111,703  1,552,906 
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2015  432,549  952,540  1,732  18,721  79,292  1,484,834 
Interest income  8,253  37,669  24  375  1,779  48,100 
Remeasurements  (26,676)  (27,503)  49  (18)  (109)  (54,257)
Employer contributions  10,571  35,606  55  3,262  4,254  53,748 
Plan participants contributions  229  -  7  -  516  752 
Benefit payments  (10,667)  (42,097)  (210)  (4,043)  (2,409)  (59,426)
Administration cost (603)  (2,461)  (3)  -  - (3,067)
Settlements (23,442)  -  -  -  - (23,442)
Exchange rate differences  -  59,013  -  -  -  59,013 
As at 31 December 2015  390,214  1,012,767  1,654  18,297  83,323  1,506,255 
Present value of obligation  426,552  938,083  2,968  73,600  111,703  1,552,906 
Fair value of plan assets  390,214  1,012,767  1,654  18,297  83,323  1,506,255 
As at 31 December 2015  36,338  (74,684)  1,314  55,303  28,380  46,651 
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost  2,023  -  45  280  3,286  5,634 
Net interest expense  847  (992)  20  1,255  906  2,036 
Changes and plan amendments and settlements  (2,815)  -  -  -  -  (2,815)
Administration cost 603  2,461  3  -  -  3,067 
 658  1,469  68  1,535  4,192  7,922 
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income  26,676  27,503  (49)  18  109  54,257 
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic 
assumptions  113  (24,355)  -  -  2,493  (21,749)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions  (28,647)  (35,082)  (80)  (4,066)  (13,796)  (81,671)
-  Experience (gains)/losses  (537)  5,731  26  77  (3,713)  1,584 
 (2,395)  (26,203)  (103)  (3,971)  (14,907)  (47,579)
Income tax  598  6,813  35  921  2,116  10,483 
Remeasurements, net of tax  (1,797)  (19,390)  (68)  (3,050)  (12,791)  (37,096)2016  – 181The average duration of the defined benefit obligations per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
Average duration  (in years) 16 22 7 13 23
The significant actuarial assumptions per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
2016
Discount rate 1.70% 2.80% 1.45% 1.40% 1.90%
Salary growth rate 0-1.8% 0-3.6% 1.80% 1.50% 0.00%
Pension growth rate 0-1.60% 2.20 -3.6% - 1.50% 0-1.5%
2015
Discount rate 2.30% 3.90% 1.60% 2.10% 2.20%
Salary growth rate 0 - 1.90% 2.25 - 3.15% 1.90% 1.50% 2,25%
Pension growth rate 0 - 1.70% 2.20 - 3.15% - 1.50% 1.75%
Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics and 
experience in each country.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
• If the discount rate is 0.5 per cent per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will decrease by approximately  
€148 million (increase by approximately €165 million).
• If the expected salary increase is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€5 million (decrease by approximately €6 million).
• If the expected indexation is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€77 million (decrease by approximately €73 million). 
• If the life expectancy increases (decreases) by 1 year, the pension liability will increase by approximately  
€59 million (decrease by approximately €63 million).
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. 
In practice, this is unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the 
sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of 
the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) 
has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the 
previous period.182 – 2016Plan assets are comprised as follows:
NetherlandsUnited
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
2016
Equity instruments (quoted)  -  285,359  -  -  48,345  333,704 
Debt instruments (quoted)  -  648,648  -  -  30,495  679,143 
Property (quoted)  -  41,309  -  -  3,195  44,504 
Qualifying insurance policies 
(unquoted)  411,231  -  16,965  19,413  521  448,130 
Cash and cash equivalents  -  98,668  -  -  1,368  100,036 
 411,231  1,073,984  16,965  19,413  83,924  1,605,517 
2015
Equity instruments (quoted) - 305,418 - - 49,546 354,964
Debt instruments (quoted) - 542,208 - - 28,865 571,073
Property (quoted) - 47,331 - - 2,957 50,288
Qualifying insurance policies 
(unquoted) 390,214 - 1,654 18,297 366 410,531
Cash and cash equivalents - 117,810 - - 1,589 119,399
390,214 1,012,767 1,654 18,297 83,323 1,506,255
Plan assets do not include the Company’s ordinary shares. The Group applies IAS 19.104 for the valuation of the plan 
assets in connection with the insured contracts.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are 
detailed below:
Asset volatility  The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond 
yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Changes in bond yields  A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially 
offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings.
Salary growth   The plan liabilities are calculated based on future salaries of the plan participants, so increases 
in future salaries will result in an increase in the plan liabilities.
Pension growth  The majority of the plan liabilities are calculated based on future pension increases, so these 
increases will result in an increase in the plan liabilities.
Life expectancy  The majority of the plan liabilities are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so 
increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plan liabilities.
With regard to the funded plans, the Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability 
matching (‘ALM’) framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the 
obligations under the pension schemes. Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the 
pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments 
as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The Group monitors how the duration and the expected yield of the 
investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations. The Group has not 
changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. Investments are well diversified, such that the 
failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. 
Employer contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2017 are expected to be 
significantly lower than 2016.2016  – 18321. Provisions
Warranty RestructuringRental 
guaranteesAssociates  
and  
joint ventures Other Total
As at 1 January 2016  62,896  41,234  3,554  21,273  21,234  150,191 
Charged/(credited) to the 
income statement:
 - Additional provisions  13,909  39,523  -  15,512  2,612  71,556 
 - Unused amounts reversed  (8,895)  (5,991)  -  -  (8,670)  (23,556)
Used during the year  (9,400)  (32,841)  (1,471)  (8,575)  (3,457)  (55,744)
Reclassifications  11  -  -  137  793  941 
Other movements  (162)  (31)  -  (1,154)  (110)  (1,457)
Exchange rate differences  -  -  -  -  (68)  (68)
As at 31 December 2016  58,359  41,894  2,083  27,193  12,334  141,863 
Provisions are classified in the balance sheet as follows:
2016 2015
Non-current  86,058  84,933 
Current  55,805  65,258 
 141,863  150,191 
The provision for warranty concerns the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle complaints and deficiencies 
that become apparent after the delivery of projects and that fall within the warranty period. In reaching its best estimate, 
the Group takes into account the risks and uncertainties that surround the underlying events which are assessed 
periodically. Approximately 24 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2015: approximately 27 per cent).
The provision for restructuring concerns the best estimate of the expenditure associated with reorganisation plans 
already initiated. Approximately 89 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2015: approximately 87 per cent). 
The estimated staff restructuring costs to be incurred are recognised under ‘personnel expenses’. Other direct costs 
attributable to the restructuring, including lease termination, are recognised under ‘other operating expenses’. 
The additional provisions in 2016 mainly relate to restructurings predominantly in the Netherlands.
The provision for rental guarantees consists of commitments arising from rental guarantees issued to third parties. 
Approximately 88 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2015: 55 per cent). 
The provision for associates and joint ventures arise from the legal or constructive obligation in connection with 
structured entities for property development projects (associates and joint ventures) and the development of the 
hedging reserves in PPP joint ventures. An amount of €0.4 million (2015: €0.1 million) relates to associates and 
€26.8 million (2015: €21.2 million) to joint ventures. 
Other provisions mainly include continuing rental commitments resulting from (temporarily) unused premises. Amounts 
provided for the liquidation of the old project development activities, claims and legal obligations in Germany are also 
included. The provision of the dividend guarantee amounting to €8.5 million in 2015 related to the divestment of 
21.5 per  cent stake in Van Oord in 2011, has been released in 2016. Approximately 19 per cent of the provision is current 
in nature (2015: approximately 48 per cent).
The non-current part of the provisions has been discounted at an interest rate of approximately 3 per cent 
(2015: approximately 3 per cent).184 – 201622. Deferred tax  assets and liabilities
2016 2015
Deferred tax assets:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months  244,626  245,145 
- To be recovered within twelve months  4,219  6,570 
 248,845  251,715 
Deferred tax liabilities:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months  25,249  20,454 
- To be recovered within twelve months  1,038  10,505 
 26,287  30,959 
  
Deferred tax liabilities (net)  (222,558)  (220,756)
The gross movement on the deferred income tax assets and liabilities is as follows:
2016 2015
As at 1 January  (220,756)  (216,586)
Income statement charge/(credit)  2,201 (17,247)
Tax charge/(credit) relating to components of other comprehensive income  (383) 11,427
Disposal of subsidiary  676  - 
Change of income tax rate  (2,629)  (125)
Transfer to assets/liabilities held for sale  -  1,635 
Reclassifications  (154)  - 
Exchange differences  (1,513)  140 
As at 31 December  (222,558)  (220,756)2016  – 185The movement in deferred income tax  assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the 
offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
ProvisionsTax
losses DerivativesEmployee 
benefit 
obligations Other Total
Deferred tax assets
As at 1 January 2015  2,312  205,769  13,555  25,168  26,558  273,362 
(Charged)/credited to the income 
statement  692  533  (291) (2,259)  6,475 5,150
(Charged)/credited to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  148 (3,600)  - (3,452)
Changes in enacted tax rates  (180)  -  -  -  (1,005)  (1,185)
Transfer to assets held for sale  -  -  (1,635)  -  -  (1,635)
Reclassifications  -  10,591  -  (750)  (10,591)  (750)
Exchange rate differences  123  -  230  55  118  526 
As at 31 December 2015  2,947  216,893  12,007  18,614  21,555  272,016 
(Charged)/credited to the income 
statement  (83)  10,683  (15)  (4,958)  (2,877)  2,750 
(Charged)/credited to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  (7,135)  4,169  -  (2,966)
Disposal of subsidiary  -  (40)  -  (61)  (750)  (851)
Changes in enacted tax rates  23  -  -  -  92  115 
Exchange rate differences  (228)  -  (408)  (40)  (854)  (1,530)
As at 31 December 2016  2,659  227,536  4,449  17,724  17,166  269,534 186 – 2016Construction
 contractsAccelerated
 tax
 depreciation DerivativesEmployee
 benefit 
assets Other Total
Deferred tax liabilities
As at 1 January 2015  20,612  14,249  697  3,556  17,662  56,776 
Charged/(credited) to the income 
statement  (3,893)  (582)  - 3,999  (11,621) (12,097)
Charged/(credited) to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  1,092 6,883  - 7,975
Changes in enacted tax rates  -  (980)  -  (330)  -  (1,310)
Reclassifications  -  -  -  (750)  -  (750)
Exchange rate differences  -  581  -  85  -  666 
As at 31 December 2015  16,719  13,268  1,789  13,443  6,041  51,260 
Charged/(credited) to the income 
statement  247  (955)  -  6,262  (603)  4,951 
Charged/(credited) to other 
comprehensive income  -  -  (1,682)  (5,093)  3,426  (3,349)
Disposal of subsidiary  (175)  -  -  -  -  (175)
Changes in enacted tax rates  -  (441)  -  (2,073)  -  (2,514)
Reclassifications  -  -  -  -  (154)  (154)
Exchange rate differences  -  (1,174)  -  (1,869)  -  (3,043)
As at 31 December 2016  16,791  10,698  107  10,670  8,710  46,976 
Deferred income tax assets in a country are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits 
in that country are available against which the temporary differences and available tax losses carry-forwards can be 
utilised.
 
Tax losses available to the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for carry-forward at year-end 2016 amount to approximately 
€1 billion (2015: €985 million). These unused tax losses relate to the years 2009 up to and including 2016 and include 
an amount of 395 million (2015: €395 million) owing to the liquidation of old property development activities in 
Germany. The increase in the unused tax losses in 2016 is mainly caused by the impairments on property as well as 
restructuring costs. The legal term within which these losses may be offset against future profits is nine years.
 
Based on estimates of the level and timing of future taxable profits within the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for the 
upcoming nine years approximately €850 million (2015: €815 million) of these losses are recognised. Management 
estimates of forecasted taxable profits in the Netherlands are based on financial budgets approved by management, 
extrapolated using growth rates for revenue and profit before tax margins that are based on external market data and 
benchmark information, taking into account past performance. Growth rates for revenue and profit before tax margins 
are in line with the Group’s mid- and long-term expectations. 
Tax losses to a minimum of €593 million (2015: €567 million) are expected to remain available for the companies in 
Germany, which can be offset against future taxable profits in Germany. Based on estimates of the level and timing of 
future taxable profits per operating company and per fiscal unity, approximately €32 million (2015: €32 million) of 
these losses are recognised. The legal term within which these losses may be offset against future profits is indefinite. 
Management estimates of forecasted taxable profits in Germany are based on financial budgets approved by 
management, extrapolated using estimated growth rates that are considered to be in line with the Group’s mid- and 
long-term expectations, taking into account past performance.2016  – 18723. Trade and other payables
Notes 2016 2015
Trade payables  930,851  903,640 
Amounts due to customers 6  803,926  714,428 
Amounts due to related parties 36  44,829  35,506 
Social security and other taxes  119,309  118,622 
Pension premiums  15,219  8,224 
Invoices due for work completed  152,864  147,233 
Invoices due for work in progress  507,394  571,698 
Other financial liabilities  1,967  3,372 
Other liabilities  156,826  150,137 
Accrued expenses and deferred income  271,243 242,961
 3,004,428  2,895,821
24.  Employee benefit expenses
Notes 2016 2015
Wages and salaries 1,070,790 1,095,178
Social security costs  162,884 173,097
Pension costs - defined contribution plans  79,254 80,578
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 20  (37,843) 7,922
Other post-employment benefits  1,129 1,659
1,276,214 1,358,434
Wages and salaries include restructuring costs and other termination benefits of €28.3 million (2015: €21.5 million).
At year-end 2016, the Group had 19,486 employees in FTE (2015: 21,248). The average number of employees in FTE 
amounted to 20,370 (2015: 21,916).
25. Impairment charges
Notes 2016 2015
Property, plant and equipment 7  2,213 1,452
Intangible assets 8  833 3,298
Investments and other financial assets 10,11 (196) (949)
Inventories 12 47,809 37,325 
Impairment charges  50,659 41,126
Share of impairment charges in investments  - (2,040) 
 50,659 39,086 
In 2016, impairment charges in connection with inventories relating to land and building rights are €35 million and 
€13 million to commercial property development. The share in the reversal of impairment charges in investments in 
2015 relates to the favourable development of the associated land and building rights held for property development.188 – 201626.  Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or their nature, or that are non-recurring are considered as 
exceptional and are presented within the line items to which they best relate.
An analysis of the amount presented as exceptional items in these financial statements is given below:
Notes 2016 2015
Impairment charges 25  50,659 39,086
Restructuring costs 21  33,532 27,980
Pension one-off 20  (41,607) (2,815)
Other exceptional costs  - 10,588 
 42,584 74,839 
Pension one-off relates to pension plan amendments in United Kingdom, Ireland and the Netherlands. Pension one-off 
in 2015 relates to a pension plan amendment in the Netherlands. Other exceptional costs in 2015 consist of consultancy 
fees of €11 million directly related to the Back in Shape programme and have been included in ‘other operating 
expenses’ in the income statement of 2015.
27.  Audit fees
The total fees for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 2016 are listed below. 
Expenses for services provided by the Company’s current independent auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (‘EY’) 
and its predecessor in 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (‘PwC’) and its foreign member firms to the 
Group are specified as follows:
2016 2015
 EY  
 Netherlands  EY foreign  
 member  
 firms TotalPwC 
 Netherlands PwC foreign  
 member  
 firms Total
Audit fees  2,800  1,493  4,293  3,084  713  3,797 
Audit-related fees  -  -  -  443  468  911 
Tax fees -  44  44  58  158  216 
Other non-audit fees -  153  153  10  201  211 
 4,490  5,135
The 2015 foreign member firms audit fees did not include the audit of the UK companies, as they were audited by EY.2016  – 18928. Finance income and expense
2016 2015
Finance income
- Interest income - cash at banks  1,285  2,348 
- Interest income - other financial assets  1,976  1,925 
- Interest income - PPP receivables  20,679  23,077 
- Other finance income  7,865  7,145 
 31,805  34,495 
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds  3,599 -
- Subordinated loan  3,585  7,416 
- Bank fees - subordinated loan  665  500 
- Committed syndicated credit facility  109  196 
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility  3,324  4,688 
- Non-recourse PPP loans  13,170  14,198 
- Non-recourse project financing  3,084  4,511 
- Other non-recourse financing  188  287 
- Interest expense - bank overdrafts  376  642 
- Finance lease liabilities  717  915 
- Recourse property financing  1,524  2,056 
- Recourse PPP loans  1,284  2,109 
- Other recourse financing  1,145  787 
- Interest expense - other liabilities  658  335 
- Fair value result interest rate swaps  1,795 -
- Fair value result - forward exchange contracts  422  (1,827)
 35,645  36,813 
Less: capitalised interest on the Group's own projects  (11,160)  (13,323)
 24,485  23,490 
  
Net finance result  7,320  11,005
Included in the finance expense is an amount of €6 million (2015: €7 million) relating to interest rate swaps that was 
reclassified from equity to the income statement. An overview of the applicable weighted average interest rates is 
disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
29. Income tax
2016 2015
Current tax  8,682  19,556 
Deferred tax  2,201  (17,247)
 10,883  2,309 190 – 2016Income tax on the Group’s result before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted 
average tax rate applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows:
2016 2015
Result before tax  60,087  13,341 
Tax calculated at Dutch tax rate  15,022  3,338 
Tax effects of:
- Tax rates in other countries  (9,414)  (4,250)
- Income not subject to tax  (1,040) (5,768)
- Remeasurement of deferred tax – changes in enacted tax rates  (2,542)  (125)
- Tax filings and previously unrecognised temporary differences  1,269  4,541 
- Previously unrecognised tax losses  (5,565) (4,519)
- Tax losses no(t) (longer) recognised  13,153  10,662 
- Results of investments and other participations, net of tax  (5,737)  (4,040)
- Other including expenses not deductible for tax purposes  5,737  1,349 
- Impairment of goodwill  -  1,121 
Tax charge/(gain)  10,883  2,309 
Effective tax rate 18.1% 17.3%
The weighted average tax rate applicable was 9.3 per cent (2015: -6.8 per cent). The difference is attributable to a 
different spread of results over the countries.
In 2016 as well as 2015, the tax burden was influenced predominantly by tax losses which are not recognised (anymore), 
as well as the recognition of tax losses that were previously unrecognised.
As at 1 April 2017, the main rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom will be reduced from 20 per cent to 19 per cent, 
and subsequently to 17 per cent as at 1 April 2020. 
30. Earnings per share
2016 2015
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000)  270,503  270,957 
Net result attributable to shareholders  46,831  10,180 
Basic earnings per share (in €)  0.17  0.04 
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders  46,831  10,180 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations  (in €)  0.17  0.04 
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders  - -
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (in €)  - -2016  – 191Allowing for dilution, the earnings per share are as follows:
2016 2015
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue  (x 1,000)  283,643  270,957 
Net result attributable to shareholders (diluted)  49,530  10,180 
Diluted earnings per share (in €)  0.17  0.04 
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders (diluted)  49,530  10,180 
Diluted earnings from continuing operations per share (in €)  0.17  0.04 
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders (diluted)  -  - 
Diluted earnings from discontinued operations per share  (in €)  -  - 
31. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
The net result for 2016, amounting to €46.8 million, has been accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2016 of 9 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in 
shares, at the option of the shareholders (2015: 2 eurocents). Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 
year-end 2016, a maximum of €24.3 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
The dividends paid to shareholders of ordinary shares in 2016 were €5.4 million, €2.0 million in cash (€0.02 per share) 
and €3.4 million in shares (€0.02 per share). In 2015 the Company has not paid a dividend over the financial year 2014.
32.  Contingencies
32.1  Legal proceedings
In the normal course of business the Group is involved in legal proceedings predominantly concerning litigation in 
connection with (completed) construction contracts. The legal proceedings, whether pending, threatened or 
unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, may have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, operational 
result or cash flows. The Group may enter into discussions regarding settlement of these and other proceedings and 
may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders. 
In accordance with current accounting policies, the Group has recognised provisions with respect to these proceedings, 
where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. Examples of major legal proceedings are given below.
In 2005, during the construction of a drilled tunnel for the SMART North tunnel project in Kuala Lumpur, engineering 
firm Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau was faced with ground conditions that varied from the information provided by 
the client. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau terminated the contract early 2006 as a result of the client’s failure to fulfil 
its payment obligations and refusal to deal with Wayss & Freytag’s claims for an extension of the construction period 
and reimbursement of costs. The client, in turn, also terminated the contract in January 2006. Wayss & Freytag 
Ingenieurbau lodged a claim against the client for more than €20 million as compensation for costs incurred. The 
client lodged provisional counterclaims of €5 million. An independent dispute adjudicator, in the contractually 192 – 2016prescribed procedure, has ruled that Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau was entitled to terminate the contract. This 
verdict has been confirmed by an arbitration. The client appealed before the Federal Court, but meanwhile the parties 
initiated negotiations for settlement. These negotiations were successful. A full and final settlement, in line with the 
amount recognised, was reached in January 2017.
On 3 March 2009, during the construction of a section of the Cologne metro system, several adjacent buildings, 
including the building of the City Archives of the City of Cologne, collapsed. Two persons were killed as a result of this 
accident. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau is a one-third partner in the consortium carrying out this project but was not 
directly involved in the work performed at the site of the accident. The customer has instituted a judicial inquiry 
(known as a Beweisverfahren) before the district court (the Landgericht in Cologne). As part of these proceedings, a 
number of specialists are investigating the cause of the accident. Only when their investigation is complete will it be 
possible to determine if and to what extent the consortium might be held responsible for the accident. The German 
Public Prosecution Service is also carrying out its own investigation to determine whether any criminal offences have 
been committed. The damage to property is considerable and the parties involved have claimed under several 
different insurance policies.
32.2 Guarantees
Bonds and Guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business to our clients, either by the Company (parental 
guarantees), by banks (bank guarantees), or by surety companies (surety bonds), securing due performance of the 
obligations under the contracts by the subsidiaries of the Company. 
It is not expected that any material risks will arise from these securities. These securities are limited in amount and can 
only be called upon in case of (proven) default.
The parent company guarantees issued amount to €151 million (2015: €156 million). Guarantees issued by banks and 
surety companies amount to €1,695 million (2015: €1,776 million). Guarantee facilities amount to €2.7 billion 
(2015: €2.4 billion).
32.3 Other
Based on agreements with the Dutch tax authorities for cooperative compliance (Horizontaal Toezicht), BAM initiated 
enquiries into the wage tax treatment of company cars used by BAM employees in the Dutch operating companies. 
Based on our information to date, the vast majority of company cars is properly treated. A reliable estimate of a 
possible wage tax cash outflow for company cars that are not properly treated from a tax perspective cannot be made. 
Given all facts and circumstances, it is impracticable to estimate the financial effect of a cash outflow.2016  – 19333.  Commitments
33.1  Purchase commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred and conditional contractual 
obligations to purchase land for property development activities is as follows:
2016 2015
Property, plant and equipment 489  232 
Land  104,346  121,272 
104,835  121,504 
The conditional nature of the contractual obligations to purchase land relate to, among other items, the amendment 
of development plans, the acquirement of planning permissions and the actual completion of property development 
projects.
33.2 Lease commitments
The Group leases various office buildings, equipment and company cars from third parties under non-cancellable 
operating lease agreements. The lease agreements vary in duration, escalation clauses and renewable options. 
In 2016 the costs associated with operating leases amount to €57 million (2015: €69 million).
The future aggregate minimum lease payments are as follows:
2016 2015
Up to 1 year  59,657  64,507 
1 to 5 years  117,685  114,167 
Over 5 years  23,401  23,245 
 200,743  201,919 
The future aggregate minimum lease income is as follows:
2016 2015
Up to 1 year  116  1,562 
1 to 5 years  88  7,298 
Over 5 years  -  6,629 
 204  15,489 194 – 201634. Business combinations
No material acquisitions have taken place in 2016 nor 2015.
35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
2016 2015
PPP receivables  -  39,391 
Deferred tax assets  -  1,635 
Investments  4,410  - 
Inventories  34,553  - 
Trade and other receivables  668  367 
Cash and cash equivalents  614  421 
Assets held for sale  40,245  41,814 
Borrowings (non-current)  -  35,470 
Derivative financial instruments  -  6,538 
Borrowings (current)  -  3,983 
Trade and other payables  3,986  471 
Provisions  347  - 
Liabilities held for sale 4,333  46,462 
At year-end 2016, the assets and liabilities held for sale related to the planned disposal of all 47 property development 
positions in the Northeast part of the Netherlands. In 2015 the assets held for sale related to the disposal of one PPP 
project to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM.
During 2016 the Group transferred three operational projects (2015: two projects), to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM 
and, after deduction of costs, realised a net result of €4.4 million (2015: €5.2 million). The total consideration received 
amounted to €19.5 million, of which €16.6 million in cash. The Group retained a 20 per cent share of its original share 
in these projects. 
The Group had no discontinued operations in 2016 nor 2015.2016  – 19536. Related parties
The Group identifies subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements, third parties executing the Group’s defined benefit 
pension plans and key management as related parties. Transactions with related parties are conducted at arm’s length, 
on terms comparable to those for transactions with third parties.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
36.1 Sales and purchase of goods and services
A majority of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements. These activities include the assignment and/or 
financing of land as well as carrying out construction contracts. 
The Group carried out transactions with associates and joint arrangements related to the sale of goods and services  
for €60.4 million (2015: €125.6 million) and related to the purchase of goods and services for €8.0 million  
(2015: €5.2 million).
The 2016 year-end balance of receivables arising from aforementioned transactions amounts to €13.2 million 
(2015: €5.4 million) and the liabilities to €44.8 million (2015: €35.5 million).
36.2 Loans to related parties
At year-end 2016, the Group granted loans to related parties (mainly relating to associates and joint ventures) for 
the amount of €67 million (2015: €76 million). These transactions were made on normal commercial terms and 
conditions, except that for a number of loans there are no fixed terms for the repayment of loans between the parties. 
Interests for these loans are at arm’s length. Loans to related parties are included in ‘Other financial assets’ in the 
statement of financial position.
36.3  Key management compensation
Key management includes members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.
Executive Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Executive Board for services is shown below:
2016
 Management  
 fee Short-term 
incentive Post-  
 employment  
 benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term 
incentive Total
R.P van Wingerden 1 680 408  126  8 119 1,341
T. Menssen 2 480 288  39  8  95 910
E.J. Bax 3 480 288  66 5  99 938
 1,640 984  231  21  313 3,189196 – 20162015
 Management  
 fee Short-term 
incentive Post-  
 employment  
 benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term 
incentive Total
R.P van Wingerden 1 620  350  46  8  371  1,395 
T. Menssen 2 470  265  38  8  266  1,047 
E.J. Bax 3 470  265  52  -  111  898
 1,560 880  136  16  748 3,340
1 Appointed as Chairman of the Executive Board with effect from 1 October 2014, re-appointed as Chairman 20 April 2016.
2 Re-appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 20 April 2016.
3 Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 May 2014.
As at from 2016, the Executive Board receives a management fee instead of a fixed gross salary.
The short-term incentive is part of the remuneration package of the Executive Board with a target pay-out of 55 per 
cent with a maximum of 75 per cent. The STI is based on financial criteria (70 per cent) and non-financial performance 
targets (30 per cent). Performance incentive zones are defined for each of the targets. Pay-out gradually increases with 
performance, starting with a pay-out of 35 per cent of the target at threshold performance and potentially going up to 
75 per cent pay-out at maximum performance per individual target. Performance below the threshold will result in a 
zero pay-out. The Supervisory Board sets the performance ranges (i.e. threshold, at target and maximum performance 
levels) and corresponding payout levels, with the constraint that the STI payout will not exceed 75 per cent of base 
salary. The Supervisory Board determined the pay-out for 2016 at 60.0 per cent (2015: 56.5 per cent).
 
Post-employment benefits relate to the pension costs of the defined benefit plans recognised in the income statement 
and are determined on the basis of the individual pension obligations. Interest results and return on plan assets are not 
allocated on an individual basis. Certain components of the post-employment benefits are conditional and paid if 
employment continues until the retirement age.
Other benefits relate to annual fixed expense allowances and insurance premiums.
The long-term incentive relates to the Performance Share Plan and Phantom Share Plan. Additional information is 
disclosed in note 37.
No share options have been granted to the members of the Executive Board. The members of the Executive Board do 
not hold any shares in the Company, except for the conditionally granted shares under the Performance Share Plan, nor 
have loans or advances been granted.
Supervisory Board
The compensation paid or payable (including annual fixed expense allowance) to the Supervisory Board for services is 
shown below:
2016 2015
P.A.F.W. Elverding, Chairman  58  58 
H. Scheffers, Vice-Chairman  52  52 
J.P. Hansen 47  47 
C.M.C. Mahieu  47  47 
H.L.J. Noy  47  47 
K.S. Wester  47  47 
 298  298 2016  – 197No share options have been granted to the members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board 
do not hold any shares in the Company nor have loans or advances been granted.
Other related parties
The Group has not entered into any material transaction with other related parties.
37. Share-based payments
In 2016, BAM’s long-term incentive plan consisted of a conditional share-based compensation plan called Performance 
Share Plan. This equity-settled plan replaced the cash-settled Phantom Share Plan effective from 2011 through 2014 
and is applicable for members of the Executive Board and selected positions below the Executive Board (‘Participants’) 
whereas the Phantom Share Plan solely included members of the Executive Board. In principle, the content of the plan 
rules will not be altered during the term of the plans.
37.1 Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value 
(expressed as a percentage of gross salary) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’). 
The shares were granted on the fifth trading day following the day of the AGM and vest subject to the achievement of 
pre-determined performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed 
by BAM. Participants are not allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year lock-up period has lapsed and the 
above minimum share ownership requirements are met, with the exception of any sale of shares during the lock-up 
period except to finance tax (and other levies) payable at the date of vesting. The maximum value at the date of vesting 
of the Performance Share Plan is capped at 2.5 times the award value.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to ten other listed 
construction companies in Europe, measured over a three-year period using total shareholder return (‘TSR’), which is 
the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. The peer group on balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, 
Boskalis, Carillion, Heijmans, Hochtief, Eiffage, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci and YIT. TSR is complemented with an additional 
financial target and a non-financial target. On top, the TSR measure will function as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting 
part linked to the other two criteria. When BAM ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer group, the other parts 
will not payout regardless of the performance in this area.198 – 2016The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined 
performance conditions:
TSR Financial Non-financial
Ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below threshold 0% Below threshold 0%
6 25%
7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%
At the end of each reporting period, BAM revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based 
on the non-market vesting conditions (financial and non-financial) and recognises the impact of the revision to original 
estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, disability or death, the same vesting conditions as described 
above apply. Upon termination of employment without cause in certain circumstances (e.g., restructuring or 
divestment), a pro rata part of the granted shares will vest on the date of termination of employment. For the 
performance shares, the most recent performance results will be applied to calculate the number of vested shares.
The status of the Performance Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2016 for the members of the Executive Board 
and for all other participants is shown below:
As at
1 January
2016 Granted Vested ForfeitedAs at
31 December
2016
R.P. van Wingerden  114,319  112,711  -  -  227,030 
T. Menssen  74,281  68,195  -  -  142,476 
E.J. Bax  74,281  68,195  -  -  142,476 
Other participants  342,094  339,069  -  56,921  624,242 
 604,975  588,170  -  56,921  1,136,224 
The fair value per share of the 2016 grant, for the Participants, in connection with the TSR performance part amounted 
to €3.17 per share and is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. For the other financial and non-financial 
performance part, the fair value equals the share price at the date of grant, corrected for the expected value of the 
possibility of achieving the ‘circuit breaker’. As participants receive dividend compensation the dividend yield on the 
awards equals nil. 
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2016
Share price at grant date (in €)  4.30 
Risk-free interest rate (in %)  0.31 
Volatility (in %)  48.97 2016  – 199Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of five years. 
In 2016, an amount of €606 thousand was charged to the income statement arising from the Performance Share Plan.
37.2  Phantom Share Plan
Under the Phantom Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value 
(expressed as a percentage of gross salary) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the AGM. 
The shares were granted on the fifth trading day following the day of the AGM and vest subject to the achievement of 
pre-determined performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed 
by BAM.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to five other listed 
construction companies in Europe, measured over a three-year period using TSR, which is the sum of share price 
growth and dividends paid. The peer group on balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, Ballast Nedam (until 
delisting), Bilfinger, Heijmans and Skanska. Participants are not allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year 
lock-up period has lapsed. The maximum cash distribution to the Participants at the date of vesting of the Phantom 
Share Plan is capped at 1.5 times the gross salary of the Participant.
The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined 
performance condition:
TSR 
PerformanceVesting
< 0 0%
0 – 5 35%
5 – 10 45%
10 – 15 55%
15 – 20 65%
20 – 25 75%
25 – 30 85%
≥ 30 100%
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, death or in the event of a restructuring or divestment, the 
granted shares will be reduced for a pro rata part reflecting the period between the date of termination of employment 
and the vesting date. 
The status of the Phantom Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2016 for the individual Executive Board members is 
as follows:
As at
1 January
2016Stock
dividend Vested ForfeitedAs at
31 December
2016
R.P. van Wingerden  218,361  1,114  -  -  219,475 
T. Menssen  130,331  665  -  -  130,996 
E.J. Bax  54,064  276  -  -  54,340 
 402,756  2,055  -  -  404,811 200 – 2016In addition, 190,169 shares are allocated to retired Executive Board members at year-end 2016. The lock-up period for 
the most recent phantom share plan will end at 4 May 2019.
The fair value per share of the conditionally granted shares outstanding amount to €4.09 for the 2014 grant and are 
determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. 
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2016 2015
Risk-free interest rate (in %)  (0.79) (0.26)
Volatility (in %)  52.73 49.31
Assumed dividend yield (in %)  2.00 2.00
In 2016, an amount of €7 thousand (2015: €772 thousand) was charged to the income statement arising from the 
Phantom Share Plan. As at 31 December 2016, the liability amounts to €1,042 thousand (2015: €1,035 thousand).
38. Joint operations
A part of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements classified as joint operations. This applies to all 
activities and all countries in which the Group operates. These arrangements remain in place until a project is finished. 
In practice, the duration of the majority of the joint operations is limited to a period of between 1 and 4 years, with  
the exception of joint operations in connection with land and building rights held for strategic purposes.
The Group’s share of the revenue of these joint operations amounts to approximately €1.2 billion in 2016 
(2015: approximately €1.1 billion), which represents approximately 17 per cent of the Group’s revenue  
(2015: 15 per cent).2016  – 201The Group’s share of the balance sheets of joint operations is indicated below: 
(in € million) 2016
Construction 
and PropertyCivil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets - 60,8 60,8 
 - Current assets 236,7 513,4 750,1 
236,7 574,2 810,9 
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 42,5 6,3 48,8 
 - Current liabilities 216,7 527,1 743,8 
259,2 533,4 792,6 
Net balance (22,5) 40,8 18,3 
2015
Construction 
and PropertyCivil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets - 57,7 57,7 
 - Current assets 224,5 763,7 988,2 
224,5 821,4 1.045,9 
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 53,6 12,7 66,3 
 - Current liabilities 163,8 795,6 959,4 
217,4 808,3 1.025,7 
Net balance 7,1 13,1 20,2 
The Group has no contingencies or capital commitments under joint operations. Transfers of funds and/or other assets 
are made in consultation with the partners of the joint operations.202 – 201639. Service concession arrangements
The Group operates various service concession arrangements, both in the accommodation and infrastructure areas. 
These activities comprise the construction, exploitation, maintenance and divestment of (a part of) concession 
arrangements structured through separate legal entities and are principally carried out by BAM PPP independently 
and/or in collaboration with third parties.
The Group has a stake in the following concession arrangements:
Interest Classification Category Country OperationalAs 
fromConcession 
period
(in years)
Accommodations
East Ayrshire Hospital 100% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2000 25
Wharfedale Hospital 75% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2004 30
Derby Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2000 30
Cheshire Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2003 30
Peacehaven Schools 100% Group company Education United Kingdom Yes 2001 25
Bromsgrove Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2008 30
Solihull Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 25
West Dunbartonshire Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 30
Somerset Schools 17.8% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Camden Schools 18% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Irish Schools Bundle 3 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2014 25
Irish Schools Bundle 4 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2016 25
Irish Courts Bundle 100% Group company Justice Ireland No 2017 25
Gent Universiteit 20% Joint venture Education Belgium Yes 2011 33
Beveren Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Belgium Yes 2013 25
Dendermonde Prison 100% Group company Justice Belgium No 2016 25
Schiphol 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2012 25
High Court 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2015 30
Ministry VROM 100% Group company Other Netherlands No 2017 25
Potsdam 100% Group company Other Germany Yes 2012 30
Bremervoerde Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Germany Yes 2013 25
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein 50% Joint venture Health Germany No 2015 29
Burgdorf Prison 17.6% Joint venture Justice Switzerland Yes 2012 25
Infrastructure
Dundalk By-pass 6.7% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2005 28
Waterford By-pass 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2009 30
Portlaoise 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2010 30
N11/N7 20% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2015 25
M11 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2019 25
N25 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2019 25
A59 14% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2005 15
N31 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2007 15
A12 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2012 25
N33 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2014 20
Infraspeed HSL 10.5% Associate Railway Netherlands Yes 2006 25
Lock Ijmuiden 50% Joint venture Lock Netherlands No 2019 26
A8 5% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2010 30
A9 50% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2014 17
A94 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Germany No 2019 26
Liefkenshoektunnel 10% Joint venture Railway Belgium Yes 2013 38
Brabo II 80.1% Joint venture Tramway Belgium No 2019 252016  – 203The Group is also involved in (accommodation and infrastructure) concession arrangements and energy service 
companies through other group companies.
The Group’s equity investment in PPP projects amount to €66 million (2015: €72 million).
The Group has approximately €35 million (2015: €45 million) of obligations for capital contributions (after deduction of 
the PGGM share) in projects which have been awarded to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM. Construction revenue to 
be realised in connection with PPP projects amounts to approximately €0.8 billion (2015: approximately €1.5 billion).
A further description of the Group’s concession arrangements is as follows:
Accommodation
The accommodation concession arrangements relate to schools, police stations, hospitals, sport complexes, a 
penitentiary institution and a laboratory building. These arrangements are located in the United Kingdom, Ireland, 
Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Switzerland. The concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked 
to the availability of the accommodation. The actual usage of the accommodation does not affect the amount of the 
concession payments. Most arrangements include maintenance and facility management services.
During the concession periods, payments are based on the availability of the related accommodation and the 
maintenance and facility management services. The majority of the concession arrangements are subject to 
indexation. The part of the concession payment that relates to the services will be evaluated every five years in general, 
using a benchmark. There may consequently be a limited settlement with the principal as a result. However, the 
volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
Infrastructure
The infrastructure concession arrangements relate to motorways in Ireland, the Netherlands and Germany, a railway 
tunnel in Belgium, a railway line in the Netherlands and a coastal defence scheme in the United Kingdom. The concession 
arrangements started between 1999 up to and including 2014, for periods varying from 15 to 30 years.
The majority of the concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the related 
infrastructure. This availability is evaluated based on the contractually agreed upon criteria. These criteria cover the 
intensity of usage, temporary closures and maintenance. There may consequently be (temporarily) adjustments to 
the concession payments with the principal as a result. However, the volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
For three motorways in Ireland and one in Germany, concession payments are directly linked to the traffic volume 
(toll collection) and revenue and result are consequently volatile to some extent.
40.  Government grants
Government grants received in 2016, predominantly relating to education, amount to €3.3 million (2015: €3.1 million).204 – 201641.  Research and development
Research and development costs, which predominantly relate to projects, are considered to be part of contract costs. 
Other research and development costs, in the amount of approximately €0.2 million (2015: approximately €0.9 million), 
are recognised in the income statement.
42.  Events after the reporting period
No material events after the reporting period have occurred.2016  – 205Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
(before appropriation of result, x €1,000)
Notes 2016 2015
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2  7,027  20,010 
Intangible assets 3  362,908  386,698 
Financial assets 4  1,627,237  1,568,864 
Deferred tax assets 5  185,457  188,649 
 2,182,629  2,164,221 
Current assets
Receivables 6 33,282  44,432 
Cash and cash equivalents 7  53,025  16,312 
 86,307  60,744 
  
Total assets  2,268,936  2,224,965 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company 8
Issued and paid capital  27,181  27,099 
Share premium  812,130  812,212 
Reserves  (170,252) (104,536)
Retained earnings  118,360 157,192
Net result  46,831  10,180 
 834,250  902,147 
Provisions 9
Employee benefits  47,339  56,060 
 47,339  56,060 
Non- current liabilities
Borrowings 10  112,491  132,104 
 112,491  132,104 
Current liabilities 11
Borrowings  -  1,424 
Other liabilities  1,274,856  1,133,230 
 1,274,856  1,134,654 
  
Total equity and liabilities  2,268,936  2,224,965 206 – 2016Note 2016 2015
Internal charges 12  71,724  74,530
External charges  (7,801)  (4,470) 
Employee benefit expenses 13  (26,863)  (30,453) 
Depreciation and amortisation charges 2,3  (4,117)  (4,175) 
Impairment charges 2  -  (763) 
Other operating expenses  (44,671)  (53,081) 
Exchange rate differences  (296)  (168) 
  (83,748)   (93,110) 
  
Operating result  (12,024) (18,580)
Finance income 14  18,601 18,713
Finance expense 14  (17,884) (18,006)
 717 707
Share of result of investments 4  56,171  29,116  
  
Result before tax  44,864 11,243
Income tax  1,967 (1,063)
Result for the year from operations  46,831 10,180Company income statement
(x € 1,000)2016  – 207Notes to the company financial statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
1.1  Basis of preparation
The company financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’) have been prepared in accordance 
with Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the 
Netherlands Civil Code, the recognition and measurement principles applied in these parent company financial 
statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated financial statements (see note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements).
As a result of a change in section 402, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, the income statement in the company 
financial statements is no longer condensed. BAM has included the full income statement and other additional notes 
resulting from this change, including the comparative figures.
1.2  Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. The net asset value is calculated using the accounting 
policies, as described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The net asset value of subsidiaries comprises 
the cost, excluding goodwill, of BAM’s share in the net assets of the subsidiary, plus BAM’s share in income or losses 
since acquisition, less dividends received. 
2.  Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings Other
assets Total
As at 1 January 2015
Cost  16,360  14,846  31,206 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (4,030)  (9,946)  (13,976)
 12,330  4,900  17,230 
Additions  1,649  6,654  8,303 
Disposals  (350)  (567)  (917)
Depreciation charges  (854)  (2,989)  (3,843)
Impairment charges  (763)  -  (763)
 (318)  3,098  2,780 
As at 31 December 2015
Cost  16,896  17,076  33,972 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (4,884)  (9,078)  (13,962)
 12,012  7,998  20,010 
Additions  -  3,497  3,497 
Disposals  (11,468)  (1,296)  (12,764)
Depreciation charges  (544)  (3,172)  (3,716)
Impairment charges  -  -  - 
 (12,012)  (971)  (12,983)
As at 31 December 2016
Cost  -  18,109  18,109 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  -  (11,082)  (11,082)
 -  7,027  7,027 208 – 20163. Intangible assets
GoodwillNon- 
integrated
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2015
Cost  532,467  1,724  -  534,191 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (155,731)  (1,182)  -  (156,913)
 376,736  542  -  377,278 
Additions  -  375  -  375 
Amortisation charges  -  (332)  -  (332)
Exchange rate differences  9,377  -  -  9,377 
 9,377  43  -  9,420 
As at 31 December 2015
Cost  541,844  2,099  -  543,943 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (155,731)  (1,514)  -  (157,245)
 386,113  585  -  386,698 
Additions  -  -  883  883 
Disposals  (1,357)  -  -  (1,357)
Amortisation charges  -  (335)  (66)  (401)
Exchange rate differences  (22,915)  -  -  (22,915)
 (24,272)  (335)  817  (23,790)
As at 31 December 2016
Cost  518,929  2,099  883  521,911 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (157,088)  (1,849)  (66)  (159,003)
 361,841  250  817  362,908 2016  – 2094.  Financial assets
Shares in 
subsidiariesReceivables 
from 
subsidiariesOther 
participating 
interestsOther loans 
and 
receivables Total
As at 1 January 2015  847,306  621,147  1,543  125  1,470,121 
Net result  29,116  -  -  29,116 
Dividends  (3,595)  -  -  -  (3,595)
Additions  -  -  368  -  368 
Reclassifications  24,068  (24,068)  -  -  - 
Capital contributions  21,000  -  -  -  21,000 
Loans granted and repayments  -  (3,224)  -  (125)  (3,349)
Cash flow hedge  2,932  -  -  -  2,932 
Remeasurements of post-employment  
benefit obligations  35,405  -  -  -  35,405 
Exchange rate differences  16,866  -  -  -  16,866 
As at 31 December 2015  973,098  593,855  1,911  -  1,568,864 
Net result  46,487  -  9,684  -  56,171 
Dividends  (80,311)  -  -  -  (80,311)
Additions  -  -  180  -  180 
Disposals  (510)  -  -  -  (510)
Reclassifications  33,372  (33,372)  (9,684)  -  (9,684)
Capital contributions  55,266  -  -  -  55,266 
Loans granted and repayments  -  136,446  -  -  136,446 
Cash flow hedge  (2,130)  -  -  -  (2,130)
Remeasurements of post-employment  
benefit obligations  (54,299)  -  -  -  (54,299)
Exchange rate differences  (42,756)  -  -  -  (42,756)
As at 31 December 2016  928,217  696,929  2,091  -  1,627,237 
None of the financial assets were subject to impairment.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is disclosed in section Other information.
5.  Deferred tax assets
2016 2015
Deferred tax assets 185,457  188,649 
185,457  188,649 
Deferred tax  assets include the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany and the tax  loss 
carry-forwards of the operations in the Netherlands to the extent that the realisation of the related tax  benefit  
through future taxable profits is probable offset against deferred tax  liabilities.
Additional information on deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial 
statements.210 – 20166. Receivables
2016 2015
Amounts due from subsidiaries 22,495  27,685 
Social security and other taxes -  544 
Prepayments and accrued income 10,787  16,203 
33,282  44,432 
Receivables are due within one year.
7. Cash and cash equivalents
2016 2015
Cash at bank 53,025  16,312 
53,025  16,312 
Cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Company.
8. Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
At year-end 2016, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2015: 400 million) and 
600 million preference shares (2015: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2015: €0.10 per share).  
All issued shares have been paid in full.
Movements in the number of ordinary shares are as follows:
Number of 
ordinary sharesNumber of 
treasury sharesNumber of 
ordinary shares 
in issue
As at 1 January 2015  270,998,957 -  270,998,957 
Repurchased shares  -  604,975  (604,975)
As at 31 December 2015  270,998,957  604,975  270,393,982 
Repurchase of ordinairy shares  -  588,170  (588,170)
Dividends  815,771  -  815,771 
As at 31 December 2016  271,814,728  1,193,145  270,621,583 2016  – 211Movements in shareholders’ equity are as follows:
Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
Issued 
and paid
capitalShare
premium ReservesRetained
earnings Net result Total
As at 1 January 2015  27,099  812,212  (134,873)  231,128  (108,172)  827,394 
Net result for the year  -  -  -  -  10,180  10,180 
Appropriation of result  -  -  -  (108,172)  108,172  - 
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations  -  -  -  37,026  -  37,026 
Cash flow hedges  -  -  4,094  -  -  4,094 
Repurchase of ordinary shares  -  -  -  (3,092)  -  (3,092)
Share-based payments  -  -  -  302  -  302 
Exhange rate differences  -  -  26,243  -  -  26,243 
As at 31 December 2015  27,099  812,212  (104,536)  157,192  10,180  902,147 
Net result for the year  -  -  -  -  46,831  46,831 
Appropriation of result  -  -  -  10,180  (10,180)  - 
Issue of convertible bonds  -  -  -  7,852 -  7,852 
Dividends  82  (82)  -  (1,978)  -  (1,978)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations  -  -  -  (53,226)  -  (53,226)
Cash flow hedges  -  -  (45)  -  -  (45)
Repurchase of ordinary shares  -  -  -  (2,529)  -  (2,529)
Share-based payments  -  -  -  606  -  606 
Exhange rate differences  -  -  (65,671)  -  -  (65,671)
Other - - -  263 -  263 
As at 31 December 2016  27,181  812,130  (170,252)  118,360  46,831  834,250 
Due to a change in accounting policy, the remeasurements of post-employment benefits are no longer included in the 
reserves, but have been restated to the retained earnings. The comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.
8.1 Reserves
Reserves relate to the reserves for (cash flow) hedging, remeasurements of post-employment benefits and translation 
differences. The reserves for (cash flow) hedging and translation differences are legal reserves that are required by 
Dutch law. Distributions to the shareholders of the Company are restricted to the extent of the balance.
The hedging reserve amounts to €77 million negative (2015: €77 million negative) and the translation reserve 
€93 million negative (2015: €27 million negative).
For a further breakdown of the reserves see note 16 in the Consolidated statements.212 – 20168.2 Dividends per share
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2016 of 9 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in 
shares, at the option of the shareholders (2015: 2 eurocents). Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 
year-end 2016, a maximum of €24.3 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
9. Provisions
2016 2015
Employee benefits 47,339  56,060 
47,339  56,060 
The duration of the provisions is more than one year. Provisions with a duration less than one year are included in 
current liabilities.
10. Borrowings
2016 2015
Subordinated convertible bonds 112,491  - 
Subordinated loan  - 125,000
Other loans  - 7,104
112,491 132,104
Additional information on borrowings is disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. Current liabilities
2016 2015
Bank overdrafts - 1,163
Subordinated loan - (665)
Other loans - 926
Amounts due to subsidiaries 1,241,267 1,086,403
Provisions 82 9,647
Other liabilities 33,507 37,180
1,274,856 1,134,654
Provisions include a restructuring provision of €0.1 millon (2015: €1.1 million). In 2015 the provisions also included the 
dividend guarantee provision relating to the disposal of the interest in Van Oord (€8.5 million), which has been released 
in 2016.2016  – 21312. Internal charges
The internal charges represent services that have been charged to the other Group Companies. 
13. Employee benefit expenses
2016 2015
Wages and salaries  22,421  26,599 
Social security costs  2,097  2,594 
Pension costs - defined contribution plans  2,005  3,529 
Pension costs - defined benefit plans  340  (2,269)
 26,863  30,453 
At year-end 2016, the Company had 225 employees in FTE (2015: 210). The average number of employees in FTE 
amounted to 221 (2015: 243).
14. Finance income and expense
2016 2015
Finance income
- Interest income - intercompany  16,115  15,448 
- Interest income - cash at banks  817  2,165 
- Interest income - other financial assets  40  8 
- Dividend income - (8)
- Other finance income  1,629  1,100 
 18,601  18,713 
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds  3,599  - 
- Subordinated loan  3,585  7,416 
- Bank fees - subordinated loan  665  500 
- Committed syndicated credit facility  109  196 
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility  3,324  4,688 
- Other non-recourse financing  44  92 
- Interest expense - intercompany  3,567  4,277 
- Interest expense - bank overdrafts  4  156 
- Recourse property financing  206  - 
- Other recourse financing  986  681 
- Fair value result - interest rate swaps  1,795 -
 17,884  18,006 
  
Net finance result  717  707 
Additional information on finance income and expense is disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.214 – 201615. Related parties
The Company has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course 
of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at 
market prices.
Additional information on key management compensation is disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
16. Commitments and contingencies
16.1 Guarantees
The Company has issued parent company guarantees amounting to €151 million (2015: €156 million) at year-end 2016.
16.2  Third-party liability
The Company is jointly and severally liable for the debts of the subsidiaries based in the Netherlands pursuant to 
section 403, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
The Company, together with other participants, has a joint and several liability for deficits in the Group’s cash pool as  
a whole.
The Company forms a fiscal unity with BAM’s major Dutch and certain other subsidiaries for income tax and 
VAT purposes and, for that reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch income tax and Dutch VAT liabilities 
of the whole fiscal unity. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands
20 February 2017 
Supervisory Board:  Executive Board:
P.A.F.W. Elverding R.P. van Wingerden
H. Scheffers T. Menssen
J.-P. Hansen E.J. Bax
C.M.C. Mahieu
H.L.J. Noy
K.S. Wester2016  – 215216 – 2016
7. Other informationOur conclusions
What we have audited 
Consolidated and company financial statements 
Audit scope 
Reasonable assurance 
Conclusion
• The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a 
true and fair view of the financial position of Royal BAM Group 
nv as at 31 December 2016 and of its result and its cash flows 
for 2016 in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
• The accompanying company financial statements give a true 
and fair view of the financial position of Royal BAM Group nv 
as at 31 December 2016 and of its result for 2016 in 
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.What we have audited 
Material themes, Business conduct and transparency and Safety 
Audit scope 
Reasonable assurance
Conclusion
• The descriptive information in Material themes (page 26-27), 
Business conduct and transparency (page 65) and Safety in 
paragraph Health & Safety (pages 60, 63-64) in BAM’s 
Integrated Report 2016 (the Report) present, in all material 
respects, a reliable and adequate view, in accordance with 
the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version G4 of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the supplemental BAM 
reporting criteria as disclosed on page 239-241 of the Report.
What we have reviewed
Sustainability information 
Review scope 
Limited assurance 
Conclusion
• Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to conclude 
that the Sustainability Information, in all material respects, 
does not present, a reliable and adequate view of the policy 
and business operations with regard to sustainability and the 
thereto related events and achievements for the year ended 
31 December 2016, in accordance with the Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines version G4 of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) and the supplemental BAM reporting criteria 
as disclosed on page 239-241 of the Report.
The other information included in the Integrated Annual Report, including the Reports by the Board of Management and 
Supervisory Board:
• Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements.
• Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Basis for our conclusions
We conducted our assurance engagements in accordance with 
Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing and the 
Dutch Standard 3810N ‘Assurance engagements relating to 
sustainability reports’. Dutch Standard 3810N is a subject 
specific standard under the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other Than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. 
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described 
in the section: ‘Our responsibilities ’ in this report. 
We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions.Royal BAM Group nv Integrated Report 20162016  – 217
7.1  Combined independent auditor’s report on the 
2016  financial statements and Sustainability Information Our Independence
We are independent of Royal BAM Group nv in accordance with 
the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij 
assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence)” and 
other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. This 
includes that we do not perform any activities that could result in 
a conflict of interest with our independent assurance 
engagement. Furthermore, we have complied with the 
‘Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, 
Dutch Code of Ethics) ’. 
Our scope
Our engagements scope
The consolidated financial statements comprise: 
• The consolidated statement of financial position as at 
31 December 2016;
• The following statements for 2016: the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows;
• The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
The company financial statements comprise: 
• The company statement of financial position as at  
31 December 2016;
• The company income statement for 2016;
• The notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies  
and other explanatory information.
The Sustainability Information in scope comprise:
• Reasonable assurance - Descriptive information in the following 
paragraphs/chapters: Material themes (page 26-27), Business 
conduct and transparency (page 65) and Safety in paragraph 
Health and Safety (pages 60, 63, 64);
• Limited assurance - All other information reported in chapters 
chapters 2, 3.1, 3.2, 4.2, 4.3, 9.
Limitations in our scope
The Sustainability Information contains prospective information, 
such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and projections. 
Inherent to this information is that actual future results may differ 
in the future and are therefore uncertain. We do not provide any 
assurance on the achievability and feasibility of prospective 
information. 
Our scope for the group audit of the financial statements 
Royal BAM Group nv is the head of a group of entities. The 
financial information of this group is included in the consolidated 
financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv. Our group audit focused on the significant group entities located 
in BAM’s home countries (the Netherlands, Germany, United 
Kingdom, Ireland and Belgium) and BAM International with its 
various activities abroad. We have performed extensive audit 
procedures ourselves for group entities located in the 
Netherlands, thereby focusing on the key risk areas. Apart from 
focusing on significant group entities, we also reviewed and 
selected projects on a risk basis, thereby taking into consideration 
the size and nature of projects, as well as the countries in which 
projects are being executed. 
For the foreign BAM home countries, we involved EY component 
auditors, who are familiar with local laws and regulations and who 
applied full scope audits. In order to take responsibility as group 
auditor in line with current auditing standards, we visited our 
component auditors in United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and 
Belgium and furthermore, we discussed the outcome of audit 
procedures with all component auditors. 
For BAM International, for purpose of the 2016 audit, we visited 
Tanzania and Costa Rica as key locations ourselves to perform 
audit procedures. For the Middle East business, BAM has involved 
a local audit firm who we also visited and we reviewed their work. 
We concluded that we can rely on their work performed in relation 
to the audit of the consolidated financial statements of Royal 
BAM Group nv. 
As a result of the above mentioned procedures, we have covered 
all entities and foreign locations that are material to the 
consolidated financial statements of BAM. In addition, we have 
performed analytical review procedures and made inquiries with 
management with respect to some smaller locations that are not 
material and made sure that there are no developments or 
exposures that should have been covered. 
By performing the procedures mentioned above at group entities, 
together with additional procedures at group level, we have been 
able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the 
group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the 
consolidated financial statements.
Reporting criteria
The information in the scope of our engagements needs to be 
read and understood together with the reporting criteria, for 
which BAM is solely responsible for selecting and applying, taking 
into account applicable law and regulations related to reporting. 
The criteria used for the preparation of the Report and thus 
relevant for our examination are described below. We consider the 
reporting criteria used relevant and suitable for our assurance 
engagements.2016 – 218Consolidated financial 
statements: International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (EU-IFRS) and 
Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch 
Civil Code. 
Corporate financial 
statements, Report by the 
Board of Management and the 
Supervisory Board: Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch 
Civil Code. 
Sustainability information 
including the CO2 emission 
data 2016: Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines version G4 
(‘comprehensive’ option) of the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
and the supplemental reporting 
criteria developed by BAM as 
disclosed on page 239-241 of the 
Report.
Materiality
General
The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the 
application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to 
provide assurance about whether the financial statements and the 
Sustainability Information are free from material misstatement. 
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered 
to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 
intended users taken on the basis of the financial statements and 
the Sustainability Information. The materiality affects the nature, 
timing and extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation 
of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions.We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible 
misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the 
financial statements for qualitative reasons. 
We agreed with the supervisory board that misstatements in 
excess of €1,750,000, which are identified during the audit, would 
be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our 
view must be reported on qualitative grounds. 
At December 31, 2016 there were no remaining audit differences 
impacting result.
Sustainability Information
For the assurance procedures concerning the Sustainability 
Information as a whole and for each part of the Sustainability 
Information, we have considered the factors that influence the 
relevance for the intended users of the Sustainability Information, 
based on the Royal BAM Group nv’s materiality assessment. Based 
on our professional judgment, we determined the materiality for 
each of the identified key performance indicators at 5 per cent 
deviation, with the exception of BAM Incident Frequency, which 
has been determined at 3 per cent deviation.
Our key audit and review matters
Key audit and review matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in our assurance 
procedures for the financial statements and the Sustainability 
Information. We have communicated the key audit and review 
matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit and review 
matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters 
discussed. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance 
procedures for the financial statements and the Sustainability 
Information as a whole and to conclude thereon. All these matters 
have been audited by us with satisfactory results and we believe 
these have been properly disclosed where applicable. For the 
interest of the reader, we highlight the most important elements 
we focused on in 2016.
Financial statements
Materiality €35 million 
Benchmark used 0.5% of revenue 
Additional explanation Based on our analyses of the common information needs of users of the financial statements, we consider 
profit before tax the most appropriate benchmark to determine materiality. However, profit before tax has 
been volatile in recent years and is not yet at a representative level, given the size of the business. For this 
reason we considered revenues to be a more appropriate benchmark to determine the materiality. The 
percentage applied is 0.5 per cent, which is at the lower end of an acceptable range.  
This materiality is subsequently allocated to and used in the audits of the local operating companies. Since 
this is our first year as auditors of BAM, we also compared these actual materiality levels used in the audits 
of local operating companies to the materiality used by the predecessor auditor at local operating company 
level and noted that materiality levels are not materially different. 2016  – 219Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter
Valuation of projects and revenue recognition   
Refer to page 41 and 55 (Executive Board Report), page 151-152 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties) and page 156-157 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements).Audit of financial statementsBAM is involved in large and complex construction projects for 
which the Company applies the percentage of completion 
method. The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a 
year on projects is dependent, inter alia, on the actual costs 
incurred, the assessment of the percentage of completion of 
(long-term) contracts and the forecasted contract revenue and 
costs to complete of each project. Furthermore, the amount of 
revenue and profit is influenced by the valuation of variation 
orders and claims. This often involves a high degree of 
judgment due to the complexity of projects, uncertainty about 
costs to complete and uncertainty about the outcome of 
discussions with clients on variation orders and claims. In order 
to ensure consistency of positions taken throughout the group, 
BAM has further clarified its accounting policy in 2016 to all 
components and stipulated conditions that need to be fulfilled 
in order to recognise a claim and/or variation order as part of 
the contract revenue. Our audit procedures included an assessment of the internal 
control environment of BAM, testing relevant controls, 
performing site visits, vouching project valuations and testing 
management’s position against supporting documentation and 
BAM’s accounting policy. We also reviewed the reasonableness 
of BAM’s accounting policy and its interpretation of relevant 
accounting standards. 
In cases where a high degree of judgement is involved, we 
gained additional comfort by comparing management’s position 
to opinions from external parties such as lawyers or surveyors 
and/or we looked at BAM’s track record for collecting variation 
orders and claims. 
For long-term contracts, we also compared BAM’s positions taken 
to the previous year, to ensure consistency in the valuation and to 
perform back testing on this estimate. Overall, we agree with the 
valuation of projects and the revenue recognised in the year. 
Valuation of deferred tax assets   
Refer to page 54 (Executive Board Report), page 151-152 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties) 
and page 185-187 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements).Audit of financial statementsThe valuation of deferred tax assets amounting to €249 million 
at 31 December 2016, relates to tax losses carried forward in 
the Netherlands and Germany and is based on expected future 
taxable profits. Management has taken the period for recovery 
into account in the valuation. 
The valuation includes a high degree of judgment as the 
valuation is dependent on the estimation and realisation of 
future taxable profits. Furthermore, the Dutch fiscal unity has 
been in a fiscal loss position in 2014, 2015 and 2016, mainly 
due to impairments and restructuring costs following the back 
in shape program, but does forecast taxable profits going 
forward. Our audit procedures included an assessment of the company’s 
assumptions underlying the estimated future taxable profits for 
their reasonableness and consistency with internal budgets and 
strategic plans for future years. Together with our tax specialists, 
we reviewed the company’s tax positions and declarations over 
recent years and discussions with the tax authorities. We also 
challenged management’s expectations of a taxable profit 
increase for future years. We noted that risk/reward ratio for 
contracts is expected to improve (supported through the Tender 
Stage Gate Procedure introduced in 2015). Furthermore, in the 
current and previous years, there were significant and incidental 
restructuring costs and impairment charges for land held for 
property development that impacted taxable profit in previous 
years. 
IT controls and procedures   
Refer to page 44 (Executive Board Report).Audit of financial statementsWith the introduction of the Back in Shape program, BAM 
committed to reducing the high level of decentralisation in the 
IT landscape and harmonising/centralising IT procedures and 
responsibilities where applicable. Also with a view on the 
digitalization of the industry, there is increasing need to 
upscale IT security procedures, which BAM has identified and 
is acting upon. We assessed the reliability and continuity of electronic data 
processing to the extent necessary within the scope of the audit 
of the financial statements and we involved IT audit specialists to 
support us. Our work consisted of assessing the developments in 
the IT infrastructure and applications and testing of relevant 
internal controls related to IT infrastructure, applications and 
IT management processes. During the year 2016, we noted some 
areas for improvement, which BAM has acted upon. 
Through a combination of reliance on controls and data 
analytical procedures, we concluded that IT procedures worked 
as designed and we were able to rely on IT for purposes of our 
audit of the financial statements. 2016 – 220Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter
Valuation of land and building rights  
Refer to page 44 (Executive Board Report), page 151-152 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties) 
and page 156-157 and 165-166 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements).Audit of financial statementsThe valuation of land held for residential property development 
(‘land’) is based on cost or lower net realisable value. The 
calculations of the net realisable value are based on 
assumptions relating to future market developments, decisions 
of governmental bodies, interest rates and future changes in 
costs and price. 
Because these estimates relate to terms which vary from one 
year to more than thirty years, the estimation uncertainty 
relating to the valuation of land held for residential property 
development is significant. Management has recorded several 
impairments on smaller properties amounting to a net total of  
€48 million. During our audit, amongst others, we have assessed the 
calculations of the land’s net realisable values and challenged the 
reasonableness and consistency of the assumptions used by 
management. We verified that management’s assumptions 
around the possibilities for future residential property 
development are consistent with documentation which include 
the plans and decisions of government bodies and with the 
information included in external appraisals. 
We also compared management’s assumptions concerning the 
development of house prices with independent expectations of 
external parties and institutions. Expected future costs and 
interest expenses are assessed based on underlying 
documentation and assessed based on reasonableness. A part of 
the land portfolio has also been appraised by external appraisers 
to benchmark the net realisable value and we have involved our 
own appraisers as audit experts to assess the underlying 
assumptions and methodology of the appraisals. 
Auditor transition, including the audit of opening balances  
Refer to page 47 (Executive Board Report).Audit of financial statementsInitial audit engagements involve a number of considerations 
not associated with recurring audits. We identified the audit 
transition, including the audit of the opening balance as a key 
audit matter as this involves additional planning activities and 
considerations necessary to establish an appropriate audit plan 
and strategy. This includes gaining an understanding of the 
Company’s control environment and information systems, 
sufficient to make an audit assessment and develop the audit 
strategy and plan. We also participated as observer in several 
closing meetings with the predecessor auditor and 
management and the supervisory board to learn about the 
Company and its key issues and ensure that these are also 
properly addressed by us in 2016.In order to comply with our professional standards to obtain 
sufficient audit evidence about the opening balances and 
comparative numbers, we reviewed the audit files of the 
predecessor auditor and had frequent interaction and a formal 
hand over process with them including performing additional 
procedures on selected projects (and review of subsequent 
project results in particular).
Business conduct, integrity and transparency  
Refer to page 65-66 (Executive Board Report), page 156-157 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements).Audit of financial statements & 
audit of Business Conduct and 
transparancyBusiness conduct and transparency is seen for BAM as highly 
relevant both by stakeholders as well as captured in laws and 
regulations. As described on page 65-66, BAM has taken 
significant steps in 2016 to upgrade its procedures and 
controls around business conduct, sustainability, integrity and 
transparency. BAM has thereby set a minimum standard for 
compliance and integrity that is to be consistently applied 
throughout the group. Business conduct and transparency was in scope of obtaining 
reasonable assurance. We evaluated whether the policies as 
described by BAM in page 65-66 exist and are embedded in the 
organisation as described. This included the governance around 
business conduct and the communication throughout the 
organisation. With respect to bribery and corruption, we 
designed additional audit procedures in line with 2016 NBA 
guidelines and we involved our sustainability and forensic 
specialists to amongst others test the incident registration 
system and the handling of incidents by local compliance 
officers. Our procedures did not reveal issues or deviations.2016  – 221Other information included in the integrated report
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon, the integrated report contains other information that 
consists of: 
• Key figures;
• The Executive Board Report;
• Report of the Supervisory Board;
• Remuneration Report;
•  Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch 
Civil Code;
• Chapter 8 Royal BAM Group nv shares; and
• Chapter 9 Appendices.
We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and 
understanding obtained through our audit of the financial 
statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other 
information contains material misstatements. By performing 
these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of 
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The 
scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those 
performed in our audit of the financial statements or in our review 
of the Sustainability Information. 
Management is responsible for the preparation of the other 
information, including the Executive Board report in accordance 
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and other 
information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 
Engagement
We have been appointed in the shareholders meeting on 22 April 
2015 as auditors of Royal BAM nv as of the audit for the year 2016 
and have operated as statutory auditor since that date.
Responsibilities
Responsibilities of Management and the Supervisory Board
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of the financial statements in accordance with 
EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
Management is also responsible for the preparation of the 
Sustainability Information in accordance with accordance with the 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version G4 of the GRI 
(Comprehensive option) and the supplemental BAM reporting 
criteria, including the identification of the stakeholders and the 
determination of material issues. The choices made by 
Management with respect to the scope of the Report are included in page 239-241 of the Sustainability information. 
Furthermore, Management is responsible for such internal control 
as Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation 
of the financial statements and the Sustainability Information that 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error. 
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, 
Management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting 
frameworks mentioned, Management should prepare the financial 
statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
Management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Management should disclose events and circumstances that may 
cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern in the financial statements. 
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the 
company’s (financial) reporting process. 
Our responsibilities
Our objective is to plan and perform the assurance assignments in 
a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate 
assurance evidence for our conclusions. 
Our assurance procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable 
assurance have been performed with a high, but not absolute, 
level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all 
errors and fraud. 
The procedures performed in obtaining limited assurance are 
focused on the plausibility of information which does not require 
exhaustive gathering of evidence as in engagements focused on 
reasonable assurance. The procedures performed consisted 
primarily of making inquiries of Management and others within 
the entity, as appropriate, applying analytical procedures and 
evaluating the evidence obtained. The level of assurance obtained 
in review engagements is therefore substantially less than the 
assurance obtained in an audit engagement. 
Utrecht, 20 February 2017 
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP 
Signed by G.A.M. Aarnink2016 – 222• Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information 
as disclosed in the Sustainability Information, carrying out internal 
control procedures on the data and consolidating of data in the 
Sustainability Information.
• Visits to multiple sites and offices of BAM’s Operating Companies in 
Belgium, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Costa Rica 
to evaluate the source data and to evaluate the design and 
implementation of control and validation procedures at local level.
• Performing analytical review of the data and trend explanations 
submitted for consolidation at group level.
In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for information 
included in the paragraphs Material themes and Business conduct and 
transparency and for the information on Safety in paragraph Health and 
Safety we performed the following to obtain reasonable assurance:
• Conducting analytical procedures and substantive testing procedures 
on the relevant data.
• Assessing the processing of other information, such as the 
aggregation process of data into the information as presented in the 
sustainability information.
• Investigating internal and external documentation to determine 
whether the applicable sustainability information is reliable.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also 
responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. 
In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit 
procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size 
and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, 
we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried 
out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. 
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other 
matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures and 
significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control 
that we identify during our assurance procedures. 
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that 
may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the financial statements and the review of the Sustainability Information 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit and review 
matters. We describe these matters in our combined auditor’s report 
and assurance report unless law or regulation precludes public 
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
not communicating the matter is in the public interest.Work performed
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance 
engagements, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N ‘assurance 
engagements relating to sustainability reports’, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Annex  to the combined independent auditor’s report
Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial 
statements (consolidated and corporate) included the following: 
• Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and 
performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining 
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as 
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit 
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on 
the effectiveness of the company’s internal control.
• Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by Management.
• Concluding on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s 
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause an 
the company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
financial statements, including the disclosures.
• Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying 
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Our review to obtain limited assurance about the Sustainability 
Information included the following:
• Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining insight 
into relevant social themes and issues and the characteristics of the 
organisation.
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting policy and its 
consistent application, including the evaluation of the results of the 
stakeholders’ dialog and the reasonableness of management’s 
estimates.
• Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting systems 
and processes related to the information in the Sustainability 
Information.
• Interviewing Management and relevant staff at corporate and local 
levels responsible for the sustainability strategy, policies and 
performance.2016  – 223The net result for 2016, amounting to €46.8 million, has been 
accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial 
year 2016 of 9 euro cents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at 
the option of the shareholders. Based on the number of ordinary 
shares outstanding at year-end 2016, a maximum of €24.3 million 
will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the 
dividend proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings 
under equity.7.2 Proposed appropriation of result
Kieldrecht Lock, Port of 
Antwerp. BAM Belgium 
(Galère).
224 – 2016(Summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association)
From the profit realised in any financial year, an amount will first 
be distributed, where possible, on the class B cumulative 
preference shares, calculated by applying the percentage stated 
below to the mandatory amount paid up on those shares as at the 
start of the financial year for which the distribution is made. The 
percentage referred to above will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of twelve 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor refers to 
the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and published by 
the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of this article, equal to an amount 
calculated by applying a percentage to the nominal amount of the 
financing preference share concerned at the start of that financial 
year, plus the amount of share premium paid up on the financing 
preference share issued in the series concerned at the time of 
initial issue of the financing preference shares of that series, less 
the amount paid out on each financing preference share 
concerned and charged to the share premium reserve formed at 
the time of issue of the financing preference shares of that series 
prior to that financial year.
If and to the extent that a distribution has been made on the 
financing preference shares concerned in the course of the year 
and charged to the share premium reserve formed at the time of 
issue of the financing preference shares of the series and 
sub-series concerned, or partial repayment has been made on 
such shares, the amount of the distribution will be reduced pro 
rata over the period concerned according to the amount of the 
distribution charged to the share premium reserve and/or the 
repayment with respect to the amount referred to in the preceding sentence. The calculation of the dividend percentage 
for the financing preference shares of a certain series will be made 
for each of the series of financing preference shares referred to 
below, in the manner set forth for the series concerned.
Series FP1-FP4:
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the 
arithmetical mean of the yield to maturity on euro government 
loans issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining 
term matching as closely as possible the term of the series 
concerned, as published in the digital Official Price List of 
Euronext Amsterdam, plus two percentage points.
Series FP5-FP8:
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of 
12 months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus two percentage points.
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an 
amount of no more than three hundred basis points.
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and 
FP7: seven years; and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a 
period expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance 
with the rules laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles 
of Association.
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal 
by the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. 
The part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of 
the General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further 
dividends will be distributed on the preference shares and with 
due consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the 
Articles of Association.7.3  Articles of Association provisions  
governing the distribution of profit2016  – 225Bridlington Leisure Centre.  
BAM Construct UK. 226 – 2016The Company has taken the following measures to protect itself 
against any undesired developments that might have an impact 
on the independence, continuity and/or identity of the Group. 
Pursuant to a resolution passed by the General Meeting held on 
12 June 1972, the Articles of Association include the possibility of 
issuing preference shares. Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep 
(hereafter referred to as ‘the Foundation’) was founded with a 
view to this possibility in 1978. The objective of the Foundation is 
to look after the interests of the Company and the companies that 
are held by the Company and the group of companies associated 
with the Company. Specifically, the Foundation seeks to ensure 
that the interests of the Company and of those companies and all 
their stakeholders are safeguarded as much as possible. , and that 
influences which could undermine the independence and/or 
continuity and/or identity of the Company and those companies 
and which are in conflict with those interests are averted to the 
best of the Foundation’s ability. The Foundation attempts to 
achieve its objective by acquiring – whether or not by exercising 
the option referred to above – and holding class B cumulative 
preference shares in the Company’s capital, by exercising the 
rights connected with those shares and/or by using its right of 
enquiry.
As announced at the General Meeting held on 4 June 1992 and 
considered at the General Meeting on 8 June 1993, the Company 
granted the Foundation an option to acquire class B cumulative 
preference shares in the Company’s capital on 17 May 1993. This 
option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation 
might require, subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that 
would result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative 
preference shares in issue and not held by the Company equalling 
no more than ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9%) of the 
nominal amount of the issued share capital in the form of shares 
other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by 
the Company at the time of exercising of the right referred to 
above. The Executive Committee of the Foundation has the 
exclusive right to determine whether or not to exercise this right 
to acquire class B cumulative preference shares.
On 6 October 2008, the Company granted the Foundation the 
right, under Article 2:346(c) of the Dutch Civil Code, to submit a 
petition as referred to in Article 2:345 of the Dutch Civil Code 
(right of enquiry).
No class B cumulative preference shares have been issued at this 
time.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board reserve the right, 
in the interests of the Company and its associated companies, to 
resolve to take measures other than the issue of class B preference 
shares in order to protect the Company against influences that might be regarded by the Supervisory Board and the Executive 
Board, after balancing the interests of the Company and all of the 
stakeholders in the Group, as being potentially damaging to the 
independence, continuity and/or identity of the Group.
The Foundation’s Executive Committee consists of three members 
who are appointed by the Foundation’s Executive Committee, 
after notification to the Executive Board. 
The current composition of the Executive Committee is:
R. Pieterse, Chairman 
F.K. Buijn 
R. de Jong 
The Chairman of the Foundation’s Executive Committee receives 
an annual fee of €12,000 from the Foundation. The Foundation 
pays an annual fee of €10,000 to each of the other members of its 
Executive Committee.
The particulars of the Executive Committee members are:
R. Pieterse  (1942), Chairman
Mr Pieterse has served on the Foundation’s Executive Committee 
since 2009 and was appointed Chairman in 2012. He is a Dutch 
national. A former Chairman of the Executive Board of Wolters 
Kluwer, Mr Pieterse is a member of the Supervisory Board of 
eVision and is Chairman of the Board of Stichting Preferente 
Aandelen USG People. 
In 2003, Mr Pieterse was a member of the committee that drew 
up the first Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
F.K. Buijn  (1950)
Mr Buijn has been a member of the Foundation’s Executive 
Committee since 2012. He is a Dutch national. As a qualified 
civil-law notary Mr Buijn is well-versed in commercial law. Mr Buijn 
is a member of the Executive Board of the Stichting Preferente 
Aandelen Arcadis N.V. He is involved in various large family 
companies as Chairman or director of foundation trust offices and 
is also Chairman of the Board of the Stichting Instituut Gak.
R. De Jong  RA (1948)
Mr De Jong has been a member of the Foundation’s Executive 
Committee since 2009. He is a Dutch national. He was a member 
of the Executive Board and Chief Financial Officer of Essent.  
Mr De Jong is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse 
Gasunie, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bakeplus Holding 
and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rabobank Arnhem en 
Omstreken. He is a member of the Supervisory Board of 
Hogeschool of Amsterdam and advisor to the Supervisory Board 
of the University of Amsterdam. He is a member of the Executive 
Committee of the Foundation of Holding Preferred Shares in 
Wereldhave.7.4 Anti-takeover measures 2016  – 2272016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue 6,976  7,423  7,314  7,042  7,225 
Operating result  32.9  (10.7)  (104.7)  15.9  (273.1)
Result before tax 60.1  13.3  (122.4)  44.4  (224.3)
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company 46.8  10.2  (108.2)  46.2  (183.8)
Basic earnings per share (in €1) 0.17  0.04  (0.40)  0.19  (0.77)
Diluted earnings per share (in €1) 0.17  0.04  (0.40)  0.19  (0.77)
Dividend per ordinary share (in €1)  10.09 0.02  -  0.05  0.10 
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  834.3  902.1  827.4  929.1  728.6 
Subordinated convertible bonds  112.5 - - - -
Subordinated loan  -  124.3  124.5  124.0  123.5 
Capital base  946.7  1.026.5  951.9  1,053.1  852.1 
Net investment in property, plant and equipment 45.1 41.7  39.0  65.2  94.6 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges of:
- Property, plant and equipment  62.5  67.9  80.8  85.9  80.2 
- Intangible assets  5.0  7.4  3.7  3.2  154.5 
- Other impairment charges  47.6  34.3  114.1  29.5  247.7 
Cash flow before dividend 161.9  119.8  90.5  164.8  298.6 
Total impairment charges  50.7  39.1  115.9  30.0  398.1 
Order book 2 10,193  11,480  10,268  10,021  10,700 
Average number of employees (in FTE)  20,370  21,916  23,325  23,502  23,143 
Number of employees as at 31 December (in FTE)  19,486  21,248  23,137  23,329  23,691 
Ratios (in %)
Result before tax and impairment charges as % of revenue 1.6  0.7  (0.1)  1.2  2.4 
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue 0.7  0.1  (1.5)  0.7  (2.5)
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % average equity 5.4  1.2  (12.3)  5.6  (19.4)
Solvency ratios  (in %)  -  - 
Equity attributable to shareholders as % of total assets 17.3  18.6  16.7  17.5  13.7 
Capital ratio as % of total assets 19.7 21.2  19.2  19.8  16.1 
Current ratio  1.04  1.07  1.09  1.10  1.07 
1 Dividend proposal 2016.
2 Order book comprises both signed contracts and verbally agreed upon orders.
3 Figures are adjusted due to IFRS 11 and IAS 19 (as revised in 2011).7.5  Five-year overview  
(x 1 million, unless otherwise stated)
32016 – 228Subsidiaries  %
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands)  100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Bouw en Techniek bv*, Bunnik  100
 BAM Wonen bv*, Bunnik  100
 AM bv*, Utrecht 100
BAM Infra Nederland bv*, Gouda (Netherlands)  100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Infra bv*, Gouda 100
 BAM Infra Rail bv*, Breda 100
 BAM Infraconsult bv*, Gouda  100
BAM Belgium nv, Brussels (Belgium) 100
uniting the activities of:
 Interbuild nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
 Galère sa, Chaudfontaine  100
 BAM Contractors nv, Brussels  100
 Kairos nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
BAM Construct UK Ltd, Hemel Hempstead (United Kingdom)  100
BAM Nuttall Ltd, Camberley, Surrey (United Kingdom)  100
BAM Deutschland AG, Stuttgart (Germany)  100
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau AG, Frankfurt am Main (Germany) 100
BAM International bv*, The Hague (Netherlands)  100
BAM Contractors Ltd, Kill, County Kildare (Ireland)  100
BAM PPP bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
Joint arrangements
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A  50.0
Associates
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv, Haarlem (Netherlands)  10.5
Justinvest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium)  33.3
Rabot Invest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium)  25.0
A list of associates as referred to in Sections 379 and 414, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code 
has been deposited at the Office of the Trade Register in Utrecht.
*  In respect of these subsidiaries, Royal BAM Group nv has deposited a declaration of joint and  
several liability pursuant to Section 403, Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.7.6  List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements 
and associates2016  – 2297.7 Glossary 1
Adjusted result before tax Result before tax excluding restructuring costs and other exceptional costs, impairment charges 
and pension one-off.
Adjusted pre-tax margin Adjusted result before tax divided by rolling year revenue.
Capital base Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company plus subordinated debt.
Capital employed Non-current assets plus net working capital and cash and cash equivalents.
Capital ratio Capital base divided by total assets.
Carbon footprint Total amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during a defined period, or across the 
total or part of the duration of a project. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide 
equivalents CO2(e) emitted.
Cash flow before dividend Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company adjusted for depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges.
Community engagement The process by which community benefit organisations and individuals build ongoing, 
permanent relationships with the purpose of applying a collective vision for the benefit of a 
(local) community.
Comprehensive income The change in equity during a period resulting from transactions and other events, other than 
those changes resulting from transactions with shareholders in their capacity as shareholders
Current ratio Current assets including assets held for sale divided by current liabilities including liabilities 
held  for sale.
Earnings per share Net result attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year.
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax.
Emissions and waste BAM solely reports CO2 emissions. Other greenhouse substances, such as CH4 (methane), N2O 
(nitrous oxide) are excluded as they are considered not material. BAM reports all waste leaving 
its sites and offices.
General Meeting Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
GHG Greenhouse gases which have a global warming impact.
HSE Health, safety and environment.
IF BAM total Incident frequency including all employees working for BAM (BAM, hired, subcontractors and 
third parties).
Incident frequency (IF) The total number of industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million hours worked 
on construction sites.
Industrial accident An unintended occurrence during a period of paid work that results in physical injury or illness, 
including accidents that occur during business trips (during working hours, no commuting). 
In case of an accident involving multiple victims the number of accidents is considered equal 
to the number of victims.
Net debt Long-term borrowings plus short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net working capital Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) minus current liabilities (excluding 
borrowings)
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Rolling year EBIT divided by the average four-quarter rolling capital employed.
Return on equity (ROE) Rolling year net result divided by the average four-quarter rolling invested equity.
Serious accident An industrial accident that leads to the person involved being admitted to hospital for more than 
24 hours or results in electrocution, amputation or fracture with lost time.
Solvency Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company divided by total assets.
Total shareholder return (TSR) Metric used to compare the performance of companies in BAM’s peer group’s shares over time. 
The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to the 
peer group.
Trade working capital Net working capital excluding land and building rights, property development, PPP receivables, 
other financial assets, other receivables, taxes, derivative financial instruments, provisions, other 
liabilities and assets and liabilities held for sale
Trade working capital efficiency The average four-quarters’ trade working capital divided by rolling year revenue.
1   In 2016, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) published a statement on the use of Alternative Performance Measures (APM’s). An APM is 
a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in 
the applicable financial reporting framework. All APM’s included in the list of definitions above and used by management, are included in this report to 
provide extra information to our stakeholders on the Group’s financial performance on top of information from the consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with IFRS. APM’s defined above, or elsewhere in the report, are fully reconcilable with the notes to the consolidated financial 
statements.2016 – 230BAM PPP and BAM Ireland  build 
four new post-primary schools 
under Schools Bundle 4 of the 
Government’s Public Private 
Partnership (PPP) Programme. High School St. Mary’s College Dundalk.
Skibbereen Community College.Carrick-on-Suir Taekwondo School for sports.
St. Josephs Secondary School Tulla.
Co-educational post primary school Comeragh College.2016  – 231232 – 2016
8.  Royal BAM Group nv 
shares> Graph 65 shows the development of the average number of 
ordinary shares traded in 2016 on Euronext Amsterdam.
Number of traded ordinary shares in 2016
(average per day - Euronext 2016)
j f m a m j j a s o n d0500,0001,000,0001,500,0002,000,0002,500,0003,000,000
number of shares moving average
> Graph 66 shows the development of the average value of traded 
ordinary shares on Euronext Amsterdam in 2016. 
Value of traded ordinary shares in 2016
(average per day - Euronext 2016)
01,000,0002,000,0003,000,0004,000,0005,000,0006,000,0007,000,0008,000,0009,000,00010,000,00011,000,00012,000,000
value of traded
shares per dayj fm a m j j a s o n d
moving average14,000,000
If necessary, ING and Rabobank act as liquidity providers for the 
trade in ordinary shares.Stock exchange listing 
The shares of BAM have been listed on the Euronext Amsterdam 
stock exchange since 1959. BAM is listed on the AMX index (Midkap) 
as well as on the Euronext NEXT-150 Index. Royal BAM Group 
ordinary share options have been traded by Liffe, the Euronext 
derivatives exchange, since 2006.
The market capitalisation of the Group was €1.2 billion at year-end 
2016 (year-end 2015: €1.4 billion).
Share price 
The 2016 closing price of the ordinary share was €4.39, which was 
14 per cent lower compared to the closing price at year-end 2015 
(€5.13). The change in the AMX index was -2 per cent in 2016.  
BAM’s share price rose by about 35 per cent over the last five years. 
By way of comparison, the AEX and the AMX index rose by 
55 per cent and 47 per cent in the same period.
> Graph 64 shows the history of the BAM ordinary share price over 
the past five years.
Ordinary share price movement
(in €)
2016 2015 2013 2014 2012
BAM AEX AMX0123456
Volume of trade on Euronext Amsterdam 
In 2016, the number of ordinary shares traded were 441 million 
(2015: 798 million).
The average daily trade was 1,717,000 ordinary shares (2015: 
3,117,000). The value of ordinary shares traded in 2016 was 
€1,804 million (2015: €3,152 million). In 2016 the average daily 
trade in BAM shares was €7.0 million (2015: €12.3 million). 8 Royal BAM Group nv shares
64
66652016  – 233
Number of ordinary shares in issue in 2016
Ordinary Total
Ordinary shares in issue as at 1 January 2016 270,393,982 270,393,982
99.8% 99.8%
Repurchase of ordinary shares for Performance Share Plan 588,170 588,170
Shares issued for stock dividend 815,771 815,771
Ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2016 270,621,583 270,621,583
99.6% 99.6%
Numbers of ordinary shares
(in € per share, unless otherwise indicated) 
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend 270,621,583 270,393,982  270,998,957 269,424,089 241,524,914
Average number of ordinary shares 270,503,004 270,956,691  270,394,899 245,951,992 238,193,212
Net result ranking for dividend 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.19 (0.77)
Net result from continued operations 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.15 (1.04)
Average number of ordinary shares  (diluted) 283,642,546 270,956,691  270,394,899 245,951,992 238,193,212
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend (diluted) 294,547,317 270,393,982  270,998,957 269,424,089 241,524,914
Net result  (diluted) 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.19 (0.77)
Net result from continued operations (diluted) 0.17 0.04  (0.40) 0.15 (1.04) 
Cash flow before dividend 0.60 0.44  0.33 0.67 1.26 
Equity attributable to shareholders 3.08 3.34  3.05 3.45 3.82
Dividend 0.09 0.02  - 0.05 0.10 
Payout  (in %) 50 50  - 30 - 
Dividend yield (in %) 22.1 0.4  - 1.4 3.1 
Highest closing price 5.02 5.16 4.50 4.73 3.97
Lowest closing price 2.97 2.22 1.65 2.99 1.94 
Price on 31 December 4.39 5.13 2.58 3.78 3.23 
Average daily trade  (in number of shares) 1,717,000 3,117,000 2,742,000 1,439,200 1,198,900
Market capitalisation at year-end (x €1,000) 3 1,193,267 1,387,121 698,093 1,019,321 779,401
1  Comparative figures adjusted to IFRS 11 and IAS 19 (revised).
2  Based on share price at year-end.
3  Based on total number of ordinary shares in issue.6867
12016 – 234Terminal 4 site, Dubai. 
BAM International.2016  – 235Movements in the number of outstanding shares 
In 2016, the number of outstanding ordinary shares increased by 
227,601, due to the issue of shares for stock dividend and the 
repurchase of shares for the long-term incentive plan. The 
movement in the number of outstanding shares in 2016 is shown 
in > table 67. The average number of ordinary shares in 2016 was 
270,503,004 (2015: 270,956,691).
According to the AFM register of substantial shareholdings, four 
institutional investors have real interests of 3 per cent or more.
Changes may have occurred, however, within the disclosure 
thresholds.
> Table 69 shows the interests of 3 per cent or more according to 
the AFM register of substantial shareholdings. 
Dividend policy 
Dividend policy and proposed dividend for 2016
BAM has a dividend policy to distribute a dividend between 
30 and 50 per cent of the net result for the year. When deciding 
upon the dividend, the company takes into account the balance 
sheet structure supporting the strategic agenda ‘Building the 
present, creating the future’ and the interest of the shareholders. 
In accordance with the company’s dividend policy the proposal is 
to distribute a dividend of of 9 euro cents per ordinary share for 
2016 (2015: 2 cents). This equates to a pay-out ratio of 50 per cent 
(2015: also 50 per cent) in line with BAM’s policy to pay out 30 to 
50 per cent of the net result for the year. Subject to approval by 
the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2017, this will be paid in 
cash with a scrip alternative on 17 May 2017.
Subordinated unsecured convertible bonds
In June 2016, BAM placed €125 million subordinated unsecured 
convertible bonds to repay the existing subordinated loan of the 
same amount. The transaction was in line with BAM’s financing 
strategy to strengthen its balance sheet by lengthening the 
maturity and broadening the sources of its funding. It also 
improved BAM’s commercial position and supports the execution 
of its strategy ‘Building the present, creating the future’. 
The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.5 per cent, an initial 
conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible into 
ordinary shares of BAM with a nominal value of €0.10 each. The 
Bonds were issued at 100 per cent of their principal amount and, 
unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and 
cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount 
on or around 13 June 2021. Upon exercise of their conversion 
rights, holders will receive shares at the then prevailing conversion 
price. BAM will have the option to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus accrued but 
unpaid interest from 28 June 2019, if the value of the shares 
underlying a bond exceeds €130.000 for a specified period of 
time. The bonds are trading on the Open Market (Freiverkehr) 
segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. 
More details of the subordinated unsecured convertible bond are 
published on the website.
Investor relations 
BAM attaches great importance to the provision of transparent and 
identical information to all investors. BAM’s investor relations policy 
is geared to informing investors about the Group’s strategy, 
objectives, performance and prospects in good time, fully and in 
clear and unambiguous terms. Business results will not be 
adequately reflected in the value of the shares unless there is 
high-quality communication with investors.
BAM publishes the Group’s results every quarter. The annual and 
half year results are presented at analyst meetings. The trading 
updates for the first quarter and the nine months are presented 
during conference calls. These events are held in English and can be 
followed live or on demand via BAM’s website.
The company organises road shows and participates at investor 
conferences during the year to meet investors. All data and venues 
are published on the website.
For questions or more information concerning BAM, please visit the 
company’s website at www.bam.com. Shareholders (or potential 
shareholders) and financial analysts can address any questions to 
the Investor Relations Manager of Royal BAM Group, Joost van 
Galen, e-mail ir@bam.nl, telephone +31 (0)30 659 87 07.2016 – 236 Interests of 3 per cent or more according to the register of substantial shareholdings  
kept by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM)
Interest in per cent
issued share capitalDate of
last notificationInterest above
3 per cent since *
A. van Herk 9.5 20 August 2015 October 2005
NN Group N.V. 5.5 26 May 2015 February 1992
I.M. Fares 5.0 24 October 2014 July 2013
Danske Invest SICV 4.3 29 June 2016 January 2016
* According to the AFM Register of Substantial Holdings and Gross Short Positions.69
Headoffice INEOS, 
Grangemouth, Scotland. 
BAM Construct UK.2016  – 237238 – 2016
9. AppendicesThis chapter provides specific information on the reporting 
process and reporting methods BAM used to arrive at the 
sustainability figures and topics included in this report.
Target audience
BAM reports its sustainability policy and the associated results to all 
stakeholders. BAM’s stakeholders include clients, the company’s 
employees, suppliers and subcontractors, shareholders, other 
organisations in the construction industry, NGOs and public 
authorities.
Reporting criteria – GRI G4 ‘In accordance’ – Comprehensive 
This report has been compiled ‘in accordance’ with the 
Comprehensive Option of the G4 Guidelines of the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI). Chapter 9.2 includes an overview of the 
GRI G4 and CRESS economic, environmental and social performance 
indicators covered by this report. Certain indicators are reported 
qualitatively rather than quantitatively. Chapter 9.2 discloses the 
nature of reporting per G4 – Comprehensive Indicators e.g. 
quantitatively or qualitatively.
BAM is preparing to adopt the GRI standards and apply these criteria 
for its 2017 Integrated Report.
Reporting period and reporting frequency
This report presents both quantitative and qualitative data for the 
calendar year 2016. An exception is made for all CO2 and waste data 
reported by BAM International which applies a reporting period of 
1 December 2015 to 30 November 2016. BAM allows for this 
different reporting period as BAM International has a complex 
operating and reporting structure and more time is required to 
ensure that the reported data is reliable and adequate. BAM believes 
that the effects of a different reporting period by BAM International 
is not material to the Group’s annual report. All other data is 
reported annually. There have been no significant changes from 
previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries.
Reporting boundaries
This report contains data of all operating companies and thus BAM’s 
own activities. Sustainability performance and data are accounted 
for according to BAM’s share of equity. As an exception to this rule, 
BAM International reports all sustainability data for joint 
arrangement projects in which it is the leading party. In general 
BAM views disclosure regarding acquisitions and divestments on a 
case-by-case basis. 
Reporting process
The Integrated Report, including all material aspects, is approved by 
the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. Data collection 
takes into account BAM’s organisational structure. Both qualitative 
and quantitative information is reported by operating companies to 
the Group. The data is consolidated and validated first at company level and then consolidated and further validated at group level. 
Every reporting entity has a CSR manager, CSR controller and 
director responsible for CSR who are together responsible for 
accurate and reliable reporting. In 2009, a reporting system for CO2 
emissions and waste was launched as an extension of the financial 
reporting system.
The reporting processes and definitions used are formalised in 
BAM’s CSR reporting manual. The sustainability reporting manual 
provides guidance on how to measure, calculate and estimate data.
Reporting indicators
For BAM’s main sustainability indicators this chapter provides 
further insight below. For other quantitative indicators disclosures 
on the reporting scope and methods used are given in the annual 
report itself. Where relevant, figures are presented in a relative way 
(using percentages and ratios) to make it possible for readers to 
monitor and measure progress year-on-year, unless the reporting 
criteria require absolute figures to be disclosed.
Safety
BAM defined its incident frequency (IF) as the number of BAM 
employees involved in reportable incidents per million manhours 
worked on construction sites. Reportable incidents are based on 
actual occurrences and are never extrapolated or estimated. 
Reported hours are measured, calculated or estimated. For all 
companies, except for BAM International, BAM includes only BAM 
employee related accidents and hours. BAM International takes into 
account all persons working under their direct supervision although 
they may not have a labour contract with BAM directly. As a result, 
the accidents and hours worked by all persons working under the 
supervision of BAM International and irrespective of their labour 
contract are included in the reported incident frequency. This is 
inherent to BAM International’s business model. 
Human Resources (HR)
HR data is obtained twice a year using a standardised questionnaire. 
HR data is derived from the HR accounts held by BAM’s operating 
companies. Due to different definitions used, breakdowns in chapter 
‘Employee recruitment, development and retention’ are based on 
figures that do not match the total number of FTE in ‘Key figures’. 
This does not cause different insights. 
Energy consumption and CO2 emissions
Our energy consumption and greenhouse gas inventory is based on 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and
 
Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (2013: ‘Corporate Standard’) as 
issued by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
and the World Resource Institute. For greenhouse gas emissions 
BAM has chosen to report only on CO2. Other greenhouse gases, 
such as CH4 (methane), N2O (nitrous oxide) are excluded from BAM’s 9.1 Sustainability reporting process and methods2016  – 239
and electricity supplied to third parties. This will result in more 
accurate figures of its own CO2 emissions and further insight in 
reduction potential to all involved.
Waste
BAM’s reporting scope includes all waste leaving its sites and offices, 
mainly based on waste tickets and data provided by suppliers. 
Excavation waste and demolition waste are especially difficult to 
measure. Reported waste is either measured, calculated or 
estimated using reliable methods and input data which can be based 
on BAM’s experience in comparable works e.g.  the relation of 
asphalt and aggregates.
The percentage on waste separation relates to BAM’s Dutch 
companies and is based on information from BAM’s waste
management suppliers. 
Materials
In 2011 BAM started reporting on the amount of materials used and 
the recycled content of various materials used by Dutch operating 
companies. BAM has selected the raw materials which are consumed 
in large quantities and which have a significant impact on natural 
resources. The Group reports on concrete, timber, asphalt and steel.
The raw material consumption in the Netherlands was determined 
using supplier reports. The results are verified against BAM’s 
procurement database, internal and external experts. The recycled 
content is determined based on information provided by  suppliers.
 
True Price of asphalt
The True Price calculations of LEAB and STAB in section materials are 
made by a third party and contain inherent estimates and 
specialised supplier data. The methodology has been checked for 
logic and consistency, yet it is known that different visions on the 
cost of CO2 are available and that the cost of CO2 is subjective.
A comparison by True Price has been performed to evaluate the
bandwidth of CO2 cost, in which a conservative estimate is used by 
True Price. LEAB is a product with new data and is compared to 
STAB, of which the most accurate data is five years old.
Water
Potable water consumption volume is based on final settlements 
paid in 2016. 
Local sourcing
For the Dutch companies BAM has investigated the extent to which 
its purchases are sourced locally. BAM has defined local sourcing as 
a purchase done with a supplier who is located in the same country 
as the construction site. Based on the country of residence of its 
suppliers, BAM determined the percentage of local sourcing. emissions inventory as they are considered not material. BAM uses 
country specific emission factors for the calculation of the 
greenhouse gas emissions, or more accurate factors if available. 
BAM uses standardised conversion factors to calculate energy 
consumption. The Group’s reporting scope includes its direct CO2 
emissions (scope 1 emissions, from BAM’s own sources), indirect CO2 
emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed 
by BAM (scope 2 emissions) and three indirect categories of CO2 
emissions that are a consequence of BAM’s business activities from 
sources not owned and controlled by BAM: employee air travel, 
employee car travel with privately owned cars and business travel 
(scope 3 emissions).
The GHG Corporate value chain (scope 3) accounting and reporting 
standard for full scope 3 reporting has not been implemented. 
Contrary to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol BAM reports fuel 
consumption by leased vehicles under scope 1 emissions. Energy 
consumption from district heating and use of public transport are 
considered negligible and therefore not included in BAM’s overall 
energy consumption and related CO2 emissions.
The basis for consolidated energy consumption and CO2 emissions is 
activity data which in turn is based mostly on meter readings, 
invoices and data provided by suppliers. Where reliable data is not 
available, BAM uses calculations or estimations using reliable 
methods and input data. BAM is satisfied that the estimates are 
reliable in all material respects.
Where clients provide BAM with electricity and BAM is able to 
receive reliable information on its client supplied electricity 
consumption, the company includes this consumption in its carbon 
footprint. Also, as BAM only receives information on CO2 emissions 
associated with air travel, which BAM includes in its scope 3 
emissions.
BAM calculates the energy consumption (in TJs) and CO2 emissions 
associated with BAM’s energy consumption, using conversion 
factors from reputable and authoritative sources. The factors follow 
the Kyoto protocol and UNFCCC charter as closely as possible. BAM 
applies country specific conversion factors for electricity and natural 
gas, these are based on GHG emissions reported in national 
inventory reports (NIR). All conversion factors are updated annually.
 
It occurs on its projects that BAM supplies fuel and/or electricity to 
subcontractors. BAM’s CSR reporting instructions state that fuel and 
electricity supplied to subcontractors should be measured and 
excluded from reported figures, unless fuel and electricity is 
supplied under the supervision of BAM, including for rented or 
leased machinery and possibly operating personnel. In practice, 
however, it is not always possible to unambiguously determine how 
much fuel is supplied to subcontractors. In that case BAM accounts 
for all CO2 emissions. BAM continues to encourage measuring fuel 
2016 – 240the Report. As in previous years, BAM obtained reasonable 
assurance for all information with regard to the Safety section as 
included in chapter 4.2, IF. Additionally EY provided reasonable 
assurance over the ‘Material themes’ section in chapter 3.2 and the 
‘Business conduct and transparency’ section in chapter 4.2. For all 
other information reported in chapters 2, 3.1, 3.2, 4.2, 4.3 and 9 
BAM obtained limited assurance.
As BAM applies the ‘best standard’ principle with regard to external 
assurance, the Group asked EY to apply NV COS 3810N, a standard 
explicitly developed to verify sustainability reports.
This standard includes strict requirements for the quality of 
accounts, the indicators used and the wording of the Report. 
Readers can therefore be confident that the report provides a fair 
and true representation of sustainability within BAM. The Group 
aims to achieve the highest level of assurance (reasonable 
assurance) through a staged approach, focusing on the most 
material themes. Increasing the maturity of internal processes in the 
coming years will help in also increasing the level of assurance of the 
report.
Other sources of information
Royal BAM Group welcomes your comments on CSR. If you have any 
questions or remarks, please contact BAM’s CSR department via 
e-mail (csr@bam.eu). NOX
BAM has reported the NOX emissions from asphalt plants, using 
actual NOX emission factor from fuel combustion. In 2014 the 
emission trade system for NOX was terminated. Asphalt plants were 
obliged to report their NOX emissions to the Dutch Emission 
Authority (NEa). An independent auditor determined the NOX 
emissions per consumed unit of fuel. BAM continues to calculate the 
NOX emission factors which were required in previous years. For 
joint arrangement asphalt plants BAM reports the NOX emissions 
based on its share of equity in these asphalt plants.
Business conduct
Business conduct includes information regarding the Group’s 
Business Principles and Code of Conduct, on which BAM reports 
qualitatively. In addition, this report contains quantitative 
information on a mandatory e-learning course to increase awareness 
and understanding of the Code of Conduct and expected ethical 
behaviour. The performance indicator concerned is the percentage 
of these employees that successfully completed the course between 
introduction in 2014 and 31 December 2016.
 
Verification of this report
In order to provide BAM’s stakeholders comfort over BAM’s 
sustainability information, the Executive Board has appointed Ernst 
& Young Accountants LLP (EY) to provide independent assurance of 
Apartment building 
Kraanbolwerk in Zwolle, 
the Netherlands, with 
28 apartments and an 
underground carpark.  
AM, BAM Bouw en Techniek 
and BAM Wonen.2016  – 2419.2 GRI Disclosures
Page Omissions
General Standard Disclosures
G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about 
the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s 
strategy for addressing sustainability.5  
G4- 2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 28-34, 40-46  
G4- 3 Name of the organisation. 3  
G4- 4 Primary brands, products and services. 3, 17  
G4- 5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. 254  
G4- 6 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of  
countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that  
are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report.3, 17  
G4- 7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 129, 233-234  
G4- 8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types 
of clients and beneficiaries).3, 17  
G4- 9 Scale of the organisation. 2  
G4- 10 A. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender.
B. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender.
C. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender.
D. Total workforce by region and gender.
E.  Whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by 
workers who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals 
other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and 
supervised employees of contractors.
F.  Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal 
variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries).2, 3, 69 F.  Not applicable, as this does not 
directly relate to BAM’s business 
operations.
G4 - 11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 
agreements.242  
G4- 12 Description of supply chain. 21  
G4- 13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 
organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain.22, 59  
G4- 14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by  
the organisation.74, 76, 78, 79, 
84, 240 
G4- 15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 
principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which  
it endorses.250-251  
G4- 16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national  
or international advocacy.250-251  
G4- 17 A.  All entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial  
statements or equivalent documents.
B.  Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial 
statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report.229  
G4- 18 A.  The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries.
B.  How the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for 
defining report content.25-26  
G4- 19 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report 
content.27  
Explanatory notes 
G4- 10 C.  Supervised workers in 2016: 1487. Of these workers 233 were female and 1254 male. 
E.  Work performed by workers who are legally recognised as self-employed mainly applies to the Netherlands.
G4 - 11 60 per cent
G4- 14 Please refer to G4-EC2, G4-EN18, G4-en23 and G4-EN26.2016 – 242Page Omissions
G4- 20 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary within the organisation. 25-35  
G4- 21 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation. 25-35  
G4- 22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports  
and the reasons for such restatements.127, 169, 212  
G4- 23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and  
Aspect Boundaries.239  
G4- 24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 25  
G4- 25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 25  
G4- 26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement  
by type and by stakeholder group and an indication of whether any of the 
engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation 
process.25-26  
G4- 27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 
engagement and how the organisation has responded to those key topics  
and concerns, including through its reporting. The stakeholder groups  
that raised each of the key topics and concerns.25-26  
G4- 28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 239  
G4- 29 Date of most recent previous report. 243  
G4- 30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 239  
G4- 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 241  
G4- 32 A. ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen.
B. GRI content index for the chosen option (see tables below).
C.  Reference to the external assurance report, if the report has been  
externally assured.239, 242-249, 
217-223 
G4- 33 A.  Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance  
for the report.
B.  If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability 
report, the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
C.  Relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers.
D.  Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved  
in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report.241, 98-99  
G4- 34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the 
highest governance body; committees responsible for decision making on 
economic, environmental and social impacts.87-96, 98-101  
G4- 35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social 
topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other 
employees.95, 96  
G4- 36 Whether the organisation has appointed an executive-level position or 
positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 
and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body.95, 96  
G4- 37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest  
governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If 
consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes  
to the highest governance body.25, 26, 98, 99  
Explanatory notes 
G4- 29 25 February 20162016  – 243Page Omissions
G4- 38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees by:
- Executive or non-executive
- Independence
- Tenure on the governance body
-  Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments 
and the nature of the commitments
- Gender
- Membership of under-represented social groups
-  Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts
- Stakeholder representation101-102  
G4- 39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 
officer.244  
G4- 40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and  
its committees and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest 
governance body members.87-90  
G4- 41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest  
are avoided and managed; Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to 
stakeholders.102  
G4- 42 The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the 
development, approval and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value 
or mission statements, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, 
environmental and social impacts.87-96  
G4- 43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s 
collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics95,96  
G4- 44 A.  Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance  
with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social 
topics.  
Report whether such evaluation is independent or not and its frequency. 
Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment.
B.  Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance 
body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, 
environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in 
membership and organisational practice.95-96  
G4- 45 A.  The highest governance body’s role in the identification and 
management  
of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities; 
The highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due 
diligence processes. 
B.  Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest 
governance body’s identification and management of economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities.87-96, 38-39, 
25, 95-96 
G4- 46 The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the 
organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental  
and social topics.95,96  
G4- 47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities.95-96  
G4- 48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves  
the organisation’s sustainability report and ensures that all material  
aspects are covered.95-96  
Explanatory notes 
G4- 39 The Chair of the highest governance body is not an executive officer. 2016 – 244Explanatory notes 
G4 - 50 There have been no significant critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body.
G4- 54 BAM calculated the ratios with average annual total compensation instead of median annual total compensation  
because of incomplete data.
G4- 55 BAM calculated the ratios with average annual total compensation instead of median annual total compensation  
because of incomplete data.Page Omissions
G4- 49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance 
body.95-96  
G4- 50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to  
the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and 
resolve them. 
G4- 51 A.  Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior 
executives for the below types of remuneration:
 - fixed pay and variable pay
 - Performance-based pay
 - Equity-based pay
 - Bonuses
 - Deferred or vested shares
 - Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments
 - Termination payments
 - Clawbacks
 -   Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes 
and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior 
executives and all other employees
B.  How performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the 
highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, 
environmental and social objectives.104-109  
G4- 52 Process for determining remuneration; Whether remuneration consultants 
are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are 
independent of management; Any other relationships which the 
remuneration consultants have with the organisation.104-109  
G4- 53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding 
remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and 
proposals, if applicable.99  
G4- 54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid 
individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual  
total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid 
individual) in the same country.70
G4- 55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the 
organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant 
operations to the median percentage increase in annual total 
compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in 
the same country.70
G4- 56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of 
conduct and codes of ethics.65, 37  
G4- 57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 
behaviour and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines  
or advice lines.65, 40  
G4- 58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical  
or unlawful behaviour and matters related to organisational integrity, such  
as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or 
hotlines.40, 87  2016  – 245Page Omissions
Specific standard disclosures
Disclosures on Management Approach
EC Economic performance 29  
EN Materials 29, 31  
EN Energy 29  
EN Emissions 29, 31  
EN Effluents and Waste 29, 32  
EN Transport 29, 32  
EN Supplier environmental assessment 32  
LA Occupational Health and Safety 28  
LA Training and Education 29  
LA Diversity and Equal Opportunity 28, 29  
LA Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices 32, 33  
HR Supplier Human Rights Assessment 32, 33
SO Anti-corruption 28, 29  
SO Anti-competitive Behaviour 28, 29  
SO Compliance 28, 29  
PR Compliance 28, 29  
G4- EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 2, 55-58, 188  
G4- EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the  
organisation’s activities due to climate change.74, 76, 84, 79, 
82 
G4- EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. 180-182, 
177-179 
G4- EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 204, 145  
G4- EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 81  
G4- EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 81  
G4- EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 2, 239-240  
G4- EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation. 75, 239-241  
G4- EN5 Energy intensity. 74  
G4- EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 74  
G4- EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 83  
G4- EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1). 74 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as 
other greenhouse gas emissions are 
considered not material.
G4- EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2). 74 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as 
other greenhouse gas emissions are 
considered not material. 
G4- EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3). 74 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as 
other greenhouse gas emissions are 
considered not material. 
G4- EN18 Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity. 74 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as 
other greenhouse gas emissions are 
considered not material.
G4- EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. 74 BAM only reports CO2 emissions, as 
other greenhouse gas emissions are 
considered not material.
Explanatory notes 
G4- EC4 The most significant subsidies received by BAM (approximately €7 million) are part of funding from the  
European Commission for environmental initiative.2016 – 246Page Omissions
G4- EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods). 239-241 This indicator is not applicable, as ozone 
depleting gasses and SO2 (sulphur 
dioxide) are not emitted in material 
amounts.
G4- EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions. 239-242 Significant air emissions other than NOX 
emissions are considered not material.
G4- EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Information outside the Netherlands is 
not yet available, therefore water 
dicharges by quality and destination have 
been omitted for BAM’s operations 
outside the Netherlands. BAM aims to 
expand its scope by reporting country by 
country in the next years.
G4- EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 2, 240, 78, 79  
G4- EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills.  
G4- EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention annex i, ii, iii and viii  
and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.Information been omitted, as this 
indicator does not directly relate to 
BAM’s business operations.
G4- EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and 
related habitats significantly affected by the organisation’s discharges of 
water and runoff.Information been omitted. BAM works 
according to national environmental 
legislation. This information is therefore 
not significant.
G4- EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other  
goods and materials for the organisation’s operations and transporting 
members of the workforce. 
G4- EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental 
criteria.Information has been omitted. BAM 
aims to seek long term, mutually 
preferred relationships with partners 
who can help BAM improve its supply 
chain in the coming years.
G4- EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken.Information has been omitted. BAM 
aims to seek long term, mutually 
preferred relationships with partners 
who can help BAM improve its supply 
chain in the coming years.
G4- LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management 
worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on 
occupational health and safety programmes.
G4- LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days  
and absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by  
region and by gender.64-65 Due to the nature of BAM’s business and 
composition of its workforce, BAM does 
not monitor information by gender, as 
this is less relevant for BAM’s 
management processes
G4- LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 
occupation.60  
G4- LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.  
G4- LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by  
employee category.70  
Explanatory notes 
G4- EN21 32 tonnes NOX
G4- EN24 No spills are included in BAM’s financial statements (such as due to resulting liabilities) or recorded as a spill by BAM.
G4- LA8 Laid down in Collective Labour Agreements.
G4-LA5 87 per cent of total workforce is represented in health and safety committees.2016  – 247Page Omissions
G4 - LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support  
the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 
career endings.29  
G4 - L A11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews, by gender and by employee category.
G4 - LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 
employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 
membership and other indicators of diversity. 
G4 - LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices 
criteria.Information has been omitted. BAM 
aims to seek long term, mutually 
preferred relationships with partners 
who can help BAM improve its supply 
chain in the coming years.
G4 - LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in  
the supply chain and actions taken.Information has been omitted. BAM 
aims to seek long term, mutually 
preferred relationships with partners 
who can help BAM improve its supply 
chain in the coming years.
G4- HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human right criteria Information has been omitted. BAM 
complies with local legislation in the 
countries where it operates. In countries 
with poor human rights record, BAM 
internally and externally audits labour 
practices of its suppliers and 
subcontractors.
G4 - HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the suppy 
chain an actions takenInformation has been omitted. BAM 
complies with local legislation in the 
countries where it operates. In countries 
with poor human rights record, BAM 
internally and externally audits labour 
practices of its suppliers and 
subcontractors.
G4- SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 
impact assessments and development programmes.71
G4- SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 
communities.21  
G4- SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption and the significant risks identified.40  
G4- SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 65  
G4- SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 65  
G4- SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and 
monopoly practices and their outcomes.65  
G4- SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 
sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.66  
Explanatory notes 
G4 - L A11 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews: 81 per cent (female); 82 per cent (male)
G4 - LA12 The composition of BAM governance bodies is based on the same principles for equal opportunity as all team compositions within 
BAM and complies with BAM’s Business Principle on employee equality and diversity.
G4- HR10
G4 - HR11In its General Purchase and Subcontract Conditions BAM warrants its suppliers to respect the Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights of the United Nations and to monitor complience in the chain of its own suppliers and contractors
G4 - SO3 All operations are sensitive to corruption risk due to the nature of contracting business.
G4- SO8 BAM defines ‘significant’ as ‘of more than €5 million (passive), of more than €1 million (active) or with potential reputational damage’.2016 – 248Explanatory notes 
G4- PR9 There are no material fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 
The operating companies have not reported any non-compliance with laws or regulations to BAM's headoffice. BAM defines 
‘significant’ as ‘of more than €5 million (passive), of more than €1 million (active) or with potential reputational damage’.
CRE3 Only in the Netherlands.
CRE5 BAM has no known locations which are in need of remediation due to BAM’s activities, or its land that has been remediated or  
needs to be remediated. 
CRE6 A total of 96 percent of BAM was operating in verified compliance with OHSAS 18001 in 2016.
CRE7 BAM is not aware of any operations that have led to voluntarily or involuntarily displacements.Page Omissions
G4- PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 
regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.66  
Specific Standard Disclosures for Sector
CRE1 Building energy intensity. 76  
CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. 76  
CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and  
redevelopment activity.76  
CRE5 Land remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended 
land use, according to applicable legal designations. 
CRE6 Percentage of the organisation operating in verified compliance with an 
internationally recognised health and safety management system. 
CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled  
by development, broken down by project. 
CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling 
schemes for new construction, management, occupation and 
redevelopment.77  2016  – 249Name Operating company
Global
BWI (Building and Wood Workers’ International) Royal BAM Group
CDP: A List, CDLI Royal BAM Group
CE100 (Ellen MacArthur Foundation) Royal BAM Group
CEMARS: ISO 14064 BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
ISO 14001 BAM Contractors nv, BAM Contractors Ltd, BAM 
Construct UK, BAM Infra Nederland, Galère, BAM 
International, BAM Nuttall, BAM Bouw en Techniek, 
Interbuild, Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
ISO 26000 Royal BAM Group
ISO 9001 BAM Infra Nederland, BAM Construct UK, BAM 
Contractors Ltd, BAM Deutschland, BAM International, 
BAM Materieel, BAM Nuttall, BAM Bouw en Techniek, 
BAM Wonen, BAM Contractors nv, Galère, Interbuild, 
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau, Pennings
OHSAS 18001 BAM Construct UK, BAM Contractors, 
BAM Deutschland, BAM Infra Nederland, BAM 
International, BAM Nuttall, BAM Bouw en Techniek, 
BAM Wonen, BAM Contractors nv, Galère, Interbuild, 
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Europe
E2BA (Energy Efficient Buildings Association) Royal BAM Group
STTC (European Sustainable Tropical Timber Coalition) Royal BAM Group
Belgium
Recy Liège (Recycle Construction Waste Center - Liège) Galère
Sideco (Industrial society for construction waste) Galère
WTCB (BBRI, Belgian Builders, Research Institute) BAM Contractors nv
Germany
Central Federation Building Industry BAM PPP
Hauptverband der Deutschen Bauindustrie e.V. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau
Ireland
American Chamber of Commerce BAM Contractors
Business in the Community (BITC) BAM Contractors
Chambers Ireland BAM Contractors
Constructing Industry Federation Ireland (CIRI) BAM Contractors
Construction Employers Federation (CEF) BAM Contractors
Construction Industry Federation (CIF) BAM Contractors
Construction ITA Alliance (CITA) BAM Contractors
Engineers Ireland BAM Contractors
Society of Chartered Surveyors Ireland (SCSI) BAM Contractors
Netherlands
Amsterdam Economic Board AM
Bewuste Bouwers Royal BAM Group
Bouwen met Staal BAM Infraconsult
Bouwend Nederland BAM Infra Nederland, BAM Bouw en Techniek,  
BAM Wonen
CO2 Prestatieladder BAM Bouw en vastgoed
Initiatiefgroep Ketenintegratie BAM Bouw en Techniek
Dutch Green Building Council Royal BAM Group
Duurzaam Gebouwd BAM Bouw en Techniek9.3  Charters, memberships and certifications2016 – 250Name Operating company
Energy Valley BAM Infra Nederland, BAM Bouw en Techniek
Expertgroep ABC Meldpunt (Aanpak Bouwincidenten  
Constructieve Veiligheid)BAM Bouw en Techniek
FSC BAM Bouw en Vastgoed
MVO Nederland Royal BAM Group
MVO Prestatieladder: Niveau 3 BAM Bouw en Techniek
Nabu (Netherlands Association of International Contractors) Royal BAM Group
Nederlandse Klimaat Coalitie Royal BAM Group
Neprom AM, BAM Bouw en Techniek
NVDO BAM Bouw en Techniek
Platform Constructieve Veiligheid BAM Bouw en Techniek
Platform Gezond Binnen BAM Bouw en Techniek
Coöperatie GEN (Gebieden Energie Neutraal) Royal BAM Group
SKAO BAM Infra Nederland
Stichting Beoordeling Integriteit Bouwnijverheid Royal BAM Group
Stichting Klantgericht Bouwen BAM Wonen, Pennings
Stichting Sportive4Kids AM
STUTECH BAM Infraconsult
SWK BAM Bouw en Techniek, BAM Wonen, AM, Pennings
VCA BAM Bouw en Techniek, Pennings, BAM Infra 
Nederland
Veilig en Duurzaam op weg Royal BAM Group
Vernieuwing Bouw Royal BAM Group
VNO-NCW Royal BAM Group
United Kingdom
BRE (Building Research Establishment) BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
BS11000 BAM Nuttall
CBI BAM Nuttall
CECA (Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors) BAM Nuttall
Chartered Institute of Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM) BAM Nuttall
CIWM (Chartered Institution of Waste Management) BAM Nuttall
Considerate Constructors Scheme BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
Constructing Better Health BAM Nuttall
Construction Health and Safety Group (CHSG) BAM Nuttall
Green Construction Board BAM Construct UK
ICE (Institute of Civil Engineers) BAM PPP, BAM Nuttal
RoSPA (The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents) BAM Nuttall
Investors in People: Gold BAM Nuttall
RoSPA (The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents) BAM Nuttall
Supply Chain Sustainability School BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall
UK Green Building Council (UK-GBC) BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall 
Women in Science Technology and Engineering (WISE) BAM Nuttall
Check the website www.bam.com for the full list of charters, memberships and certifications.2016  – 2512016 – 252Office project ‘Tic Tric Trac’, 
Zurich. BAM Swiss.2016  – 253 2016 – 2532016 – 2542016  – 255
Key financial dates
19 April 2017 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
11 May 2017 Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
24 August 2017 Publication of half-year results 2017
9 November 2017  Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
22 February 2018 Publication of annual results 2017
18 April 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
3 May 2018  Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
23 August 2018 Publication of half-year results 2018
8 November 2018  Interim management statement under Article 5:25e of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act
Colophon
Layout :
Boulogne Jonkers Vormgeving, Zoetermeer, the Netherlands.
Printing :
Veenman+, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
Illustrations:
Rick Akkerman, Petra Appelhof, Barrow Coakley Photography, Guido Benschop, Achim Birnbaum, Eva Bloem – atelier PRO, 
Michael Boulogne, Dries van den Brande, CGI by STW Architects (Scott Tallon Walker), Courtesy Trevor Palin, De Beeldredaktie, 
Jean-Luc Deru – Daylight sprl, Marc Detiffe, Tom D’haenens, F22 Photography, Gispen, Marcel van Kerckhoven, Mecanoo 
architecten, David Nortn Photographer, Wolfgang Reiher, Sanoma, Philippe Sanyn and Partners, Andreas Secci, Filip Schepens, 
Gerrit Serne, Raoul Suemondt, Studio Valle Progettazioni – Buro Happold, Walter Saenen, Sasja van Vechgel, Ben Vulkers, 
Neil Warner Photography, Patrick Zier.
Printed on FSC®-certified paper, Tom&Otto Silk from Antalis.
27.02.2017  
  
Follow us onIntegrated Report 2015  Royal BAM Group nv
Royal BAM Group nv
Runnenburg 9
3981 AZ Bunnik
P.O. Box 20
3980 CA Bunnik
The Netherlands
Telephone +31 (0)30 659 89 88
info@bam.com
www.bam.com
Established at Bunnik.
Trade register number 30058019.