Royal BAM Group nv
Runnenburg 93981 AZ BunnikP.O. Box 203980 CA BunnikThe NetherlandsTelephone +31 (0)30 659 89 88info@bam.comwww.bam.com
Established at Bunnik, the Netherlands
Trade register number 30058019
Layout:
Boulogne Jonkers Vormgeving, Zoetermeer, the Netherlands
Printing:
Veenman+, Rotterdam, the Netherlands
Cover:
Coal Drops Yard, King’s Cross, London
Illustrations:
Michael Boulogne, Jurriaan Brobbel, PM Photography  
Printed on FSC
®-certified paper, Multiart Sil from Papyrus
19-02
2
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv6
7
 8
 9Value creation 8
2.1 Business model 9
2.2 Strategy 12
2.3  Stakeholder engagement  
and material themes 16
Supervisory Board 78
6.1  Report of the Supervisory Board  
to shareholders 79
6.2  Remuneration report 90
Financial statements 100Contents
Governance 66
5.1 Corporate governance 67
5.2  Decree on Article 10 of the 
Takeover Directive 70
5.3  Supervisory Board and  
Executive Board 72
5.4 Management Board 76Message from the CEO 6
Risk management 56
2
 3
5
 4
1
Other information 200
8.1  Combined independent auditor’s 
report on the 2018  financial 
statements and Sustainability 
Information 201
8.2  Proposed appropriation of result 210
8.3  Articles of Association provisions 
governing the distribution of 
profit 211
8.4  Anti-takeover measures 212
8.5  List of principal subsidiaries, joint 
arrangements and associates 213 Appendices 214
9.1  Royal BAM Group nv shares 215
9.2 Five-year overview 219
9.3  Non-Financial Information and 
Diversity information reference 
table 220
9.4 Key financial dates 221
9.5 Glossary 222
9.6  Sustainability reporting  
process and methods 223
9.7  Material themes and 
management approach 226Business performance 20
3.1 Financial performance 21
3.2 Social performance 30
3.3  Environmental performance 45
3.4 Outlook 54
BAM is subject to the structure regime as intended in Part 4, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
The Executive Board Report as intended in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code consists of chapters 1-5, 8.4, 9.1 and 9.7.
3
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvKey figures
Profit 2018 2017
Continuing operations
Revenue 7,208  6,535 
Adjusted result before tax 153.2  24.9 
Result before tax 114.5  20.0 
Net result attributable to the shareholders 
of the company 23.8  (13.8)
Earnings per share (in €1) 0.09  (0.05)
Dividends per ordinary share (in €1) 0.14  0.10 
Dividend payout (in %) 140  50 
Number of shares as at 31 December 
 (x 1,000) 273,296  273,213 
Share closing price as at 31 December  
(in €1) 2.51  3.83 
Equity attributable to the shareholders  
of the Company 729.0  721.3 
Capital base 846.7  836.2 
Total assets 4.578.0  4.488.6 
Order book 12,692  11,636 
Net investment in property, plant and 
equipment 72.2  70.7 
Depreciation charges 63.7  55.0 
Amortisation charges 6.1  4.5 
Impairment charges 23.8  4.8 
Cash flow before dividend  117.4  50.5 
RatiosAdjusted result before tax as % of revenue 2.1  0.4 
Net result attributable to the shareholders 
of the Company as % of revenue 0.3  (0.2)
Net result attributable to the shareholders 
of the Company as % of average equity 3.3  (1.6)
Solvency ratios
ROCE (in %) 7.5  0.6 
Equity attributable to the shareholders of 
the Company as % of total assets 15.9  16.1 
Capital base as % of total assets 18.5  18.6 
Earnings per share Dividends per ordinary 
share 
2017 
(0.05)2017 
0.100.14 0.09SHARES TRADE WORKING CAPITALROCE  (in %)
2017 
0.67.5Net result  (x € million)
2017 
(13.8)23.8
Capital ratio as %  
of total assets
2017  
18.618.5Adjusted result before tax
 (x € million)
2017  
24.9153.2
RATIOS
Adjusted resul t before 
tax as % of revenue 
2017 
0.42.1Order book  (x € million)
2017 
11,63612,692
Net result attributable to 
the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue
2017 
(0.2)0.3Revenue (x € million)
2017 
6,5357,208
(in % of revenue)
2017 
(11.1)(8.8)(x € million, unless otherwise stated)
*
* T he comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15.
1 T he dividend payout has been adjusted for a one-off non-cash impairment of deferred tax asset.
4 Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvPeople 2018 2017
Human resource
Average number of employees (in FTE) 20,156 19,720
Number of employees as at 31  December  
(in FTE) 20,194 19,837
Training costs per employee (in €1) 703 614
Female/male employees (in %) 17/83 16/84
SafetyIncident frequency (IF BAM) 4.2 4.6
Safety Behaviour Audit (SBA) 72 72
Planet 2018 2017
Climate positiveCO
2 emissions intensity 
(in tonnes per €  million revenue)26.8 28.1
CO2 emissions (in kilotonnes) 193 186
Energy (in terra joules) 2,744 2,644
Resource positiveConstruction and office waste intensity 
(in tonnes per €  million revenue)17.9 20.3
Construction and office waste 
(in kilotonnes) 129 134
Total waste (in million tonnes) 2.3 1.9
Sustainable certified timber (in %) 94 98Incident frequency
(IF BAM)Safety behaviour audit 
(in %)
2016 - 4.8
2017 - 4.62016  - 70%
2017  - 72%72% 4.2SAFETY
Female/male employees 
(in %) 
2016 -  15/85
2017 - 16/8417/83
Number of employees 
(at 31 December, in FTE)
2016 -  19,486
2017 -  19,83720,194Training costs per employee 
(in €1)
2016 -  667
2017 -  614703HUMAN RESOURCES
Sustainable certified  
timber  (FSC and PEFC) 
 (in %)
2016 - 98%
2017 -  98%94%RESOURCE POSITIVE
Energy consumption 
(in terra joule)
2016 -  3,000
2017 -  2,6442,744CLIMATE POSITIVE
2016 -  29.1
2017 - 28.126.8CO2 emissions  
(in kilotonnes)
2016 - 203
2017 -  186193CO2 emissions intensity   
(in tonnes per €  million revenue)2016 -  148
2017 -  134129Construction and office waste 
(in kilotonnes)Construction and office  
waste intensity (in tonnes 
per €  million revenue)
2016 -  21.3
2017 -  20.317.9
5 Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage from 
the CEO1
Music, theatre,  
conference and exhibition
The Bonus Arena, Hull  
BAM Construct UK completed the Bonus Arena in 2018. The 
new flexible development with a capacity of 3,500 persons is a 
combined music, theatre, and conference and exhibition venue. 
The arena Is located between Hull city centre and the Humber 
estuary.
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv
6To celebrate 150 years of constructing and maintaining some 
of the world’s most iconic buildings and infrastructure projects, 
BAM will plant 150,000 trees in 2019 – giving back to the 
communities in which we work. 
2018 has been a year of good progress for BAM. Most of our 
businesses performed well, which reflected the benefits of 
ongoing improvements in our tendering and project execution. 
Although the sea lock IJmuiden adversely affected our result and 
cash flow, we have made further steps in de-risking the project. 
Our overall cash flow for the year was positive and our financial 
position remained strong.
Adjusted result before tax for the year 2018 improved by €128.3 
million to €153.2 million. The adjusted pre-tax margin was 2.1 per 
cent (0.4 per cent). The overall order book growth (€12,700 million 
at year-end 2018 compared to: €11,600 million at year-end 2017) 
was driven by positive market conditions and winning multiyear 
projects especially in civil engineering in the UK. The margin on the 
new order intake continued to improve and is well within the 
strategic target margin bandwidth of 2 per cent to 4 per cent.
Worldwide safety campaign
In 2018 our safety performance improved again and we launched 
a new campaign: Your Safety is My Safety. We are very grateful to 
all 20,000 BAM employees for their continuous attention to safety 
and their efforts to incorporate safer working conditions.
This year’s Worldwide BAM Safety Day reflected our collective 
responsibility for safety, facilitating an open dialogue to engage 
with all persons involved (employees, supply chain, clients). 
Generating sustainable value for all our stakeholders 
Our purpose as a company is clear: to create sustainable 
environments that enhance people’s lives. Sustainable in terms of 
the quality of experience for the hundreds of thousands of people 
touched by our projects – including our own employees. Providing 
our clients with sustainable solutions across the total lifecycle of an 
asset. Minimising our environmental impact. And generating 
sustainable value for all our stakeholders. To make sure we are 
delivering on our purpose we have defined clear targets in three 
categories: people, planet and profit. People, in terms of safety, 
our employee engagement and enhancing the lives of people by 
creating skills and learning opportunities and through voluntary and charitable work. Planet, in terms of our net positive impact, 
waste and CO2 reduction. And profit, in terms of return on capital 
employed, margin, trade working capital and property investment.
Accelerate strategy execution 
To fulfil our purpose, we need to deliver on our strategy: Building 
the present, creating the future. Doing things better, doing better 
things and doing new things, including innovating through digital 
technologies and digital construction so we can anticipate any 
issues before the implementation phase and make our 
performance more predictable – in other words, we make it 
(digitally) before we make it (physically). Enabling our people, our 
biggest asset, to capitalise on state-of-the-art knowledge and 
resources, talent and training, and rolling-out our uniform project 
approach and uniform business controlling, as well as developing 
an organisational structure and governance to support our One 
BAM way of working, those are the things that enable us to get 
the very best out of our company for all our clients and other 
stakeholders, today and in the future.
Outlook 
For 2019, we expect the revenue to be around €7 billion and aim 
to further improve the adjusted result before tax margin within 
the strategic target range of 2 to 4 per cent.
Also on behalf of Frans den Houter and Erik Bax, I would like to 
thank all our stakeholders for their confidence in BAM and 
especially our employees for their hard work and commitment 
throughout the year. We are confident that more rigorous 
strategy execution will enable us to deliver on our 2020 targets 
supported by our digital and sustainability agenda. 
Rob van Wingerden, 
CEO Royal BAM Group nv  
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 19 February 2019BAM has much to be proud of. With a history stretching back 
150 years, and through a variety of acquisitions, we have 
transformed from a small carpentry business into a truly 
international construction firm – one of the largest in Europe. ‘Focus to perform 
together’
Rob van Wingerden, CEO Royal BAM Group nv
7
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2
Value creation
An icon of
the Netherlands
Afsluitdijk dam
Artist’s impression of the reinforced Afsluitdijk dam, an icon of 
the Netherlands. Levvel, a consortium of BAM, Van Oord and 
Rebel, has started work on the reinforcement of the Afsluitdijk. 
The contract comprises the design, construction, financing and 
maintenance of the seawall over a 25-year period. This includes, 
among other things, applying 80.000 innovative concrete 
elements, the XblocPlus and a sustainable fish migration river 
to enhance ecological development.
8
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvOur organisation
BAM is a large European construction firm with ten operating 
companies active in two business lines, Construction and Property 
and Civil engineering. The company employs 20,000 people in its 
business lines and public private partnership activities.
The Group’s activities are in five home markets:
the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland and 
Germany. The Group also delivers projects in Denmark, 
Luxembourg and Switzerland. In addition, BAM International 
provides services to clients outside Europe: Africa, the Americas, 
Asia Pacific, Australia, the Middle East and Antarctica. In BAM 
home countries BAM International collaborates with local 
operating companies on specific services and competencies.
Construction and Property
BAM operates non-residential construction activities in all its 
home markets, as well as in Switzerland and Denmark. In addition, 
BAM delivers residential construction projects, primarily in the 
Netherlands and Belgium.
Non-residential property development activities are carried out in 
the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Belgium. Family 
homes are developed and built mainly in the Netherlands, where 
development and construction is provided as a full integrated 
solution to clients. The business line Construction and Property 
employs approximately 9,000 professionals.Civil engineering
The civil engineering activities cover all BAM’s home markets, as 
well as Denmark and Luxembourg. BAM International carries out 
civil engineering works in niche markets around the world. The 
business line Civil engineering employs approximately 10,500 
professionals.
Public private partnerships
BAM is a well-respected player in the European market for public 
private partnership (PPP) projects. These projects deliver 
construction and recurring maintenance revenue for BAM’s 
business lines, and operates concessions for roads, rail, education, 
health care and government buildings. BAM PPP employs 
approximately 100 professionals.
In December BAM announced it will change the top structure of the 
company in the first quarter of 2019. BAM will establish an Executive 
Committee in addition to a two-person Executive Board. With the 
appointment of a COO for each of its two business lines, the Group 
will create more focus on its customers and markets as well as 
strategic and operational priorities. By bringing together executives 
in an Executive Committee, each with a clear responsibility, BAM will 
be better able to use its economies of scale in line with the One BAM 
philosophy.
The financial, social and environmental performance of  
BAM’s business lines are described in chapter 3.
Germany
Wayss &
Freytag
Ingenieurbau
United
Kingdom
BAM
Nuttall
Netherlands
BAM Infra
NederlandGermany
BAM
Deutschland
United
Kingdom
BAM
Construct UK
Netherlands
BAM Bouw en
Vastgoed
NederlandBelgium
BAM
Belgium
Ireland
BAM
Contractors
Worldwide
BAM
International
Public Private 
Partnerships
BAM PPPBusiness line
 Civil
engineeringBusiness line
 Construction
and Property1 - Organisational structure2.1 Business model
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
9
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMission
It is BAM’s mission to create sustainable environments that 
enhance people’s lives by enabling the right people to 
capitalise on state-of- the-art knowledge, resources and 
digital technologies, providing solutions across the total 
construction lifecycle for the Group’s clients and generating 
maximum value for its stakeholders.Vision
It’s BAM’s vision that by 2020 the Group will be recognised 
as one of Europe’s leading sustainable and innovative 
construction businesses, with healthy profits and a strong 
balance sheet, active across the total construction lifecycle 
in its European home markets and in selected growing 
economies around the world.2 - Value creation modelWhat we do and how we create value
 Figure 2 is based on the International Integrated Reporting Council’s Integrated Reporting <IR> framework and gives an overview 
of how BAM creates value. BAM uses valuable resources in its primary process and through its activities the Group creates output 
that generate value for stakeholders and society. The cycle of integrated thinking and reporting supports financial and sustainability 
results. BAM discloses a combination of quantitative and qualitative information to describe how value is created.
Design 
and
        Engineering
        Plan
    and Pre-
construction
ConstructionMaintain
    and
          OperateEnd of life/ 
re-use   Develop/
Bid
Public Private Partnerships Civil engineering     Construction and Property              Input
Materials, energy and
equipments
Employees
Intellectual capital
Financial capital
Suppliers of products 
and services
Digital technologiesOutput Impact
• Enhanced local communities
• Motivated and healthy workforce
• Preserving and enhancing the 
    natural environment
• Healthy proﬁt and a strong balance sheet• Deliver resource and energy 
    efﬁcient products and servicesPeople
• Eng aged , skilled and hi gh 
 performing emplo yees
• Enhanc e people’s liv es
• Cre ate saf e working en vironment
Planet
• Reduce construction and ofﬁce waste
• Reduc e lifecycle carbon emis sions
Proﬁt
• Increase ROCE and margin
• Reduce investments in property
• Increase trade working capital
• Improve capital ratio
People: 
creating social value
BAM’s approach to sustainability delivers 
benefits to clients and communities in which 
the Group works. BAM aims to create a safe 
and more sustainable built environment. 
Within communities BAM wants to positively 
enhance the lives of more than one million 
people by 2020 by creating skills and learning 
opportunities and through voluntary and 
charitable work. BAM continues to target 
talent to maintain its position as the best 
company to work for.
  For BAM’s social performance,  
see chapter 3.2.Planet: 
creating environmental value
BAM wants to mitigate the impact of its 
operations on climate change and resource 
consumption. The company is working 
towards having a net positive impact by 
reducing carbon emissions and waste 
intensity, as well as adopting circular 
business principles and implementing 
innovative solutions. BAM will work in close 
collaboration with its supply chain in 
achieving common goals and addressing 
global environmental challenges.
  For BAM’s environmental performance, 
see chapter 3.3.Profit: 
creating financial value
Shareholders and financial institutions 
provide funds that BAM invests in its business 
lines, as well as in PPP, with a divestment 
strategy for a part of BAM’s current land bank 
and property investments. BAM uses free 
working capital from the (non-)residential 
construction and civil engineering activities 
in selected property and PPP projects. These 
projects contribute to BAM’s target of 2 to 4 
per cent range margin.
  For BAM’s financial performance,  
see chapter 3.1.
 Building the present, creating the future   More details on BAM’s primary process and stakeholders can be found in  figure 3.
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
10
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3 - How we create value
Suppliers are a special stakeholder category. Their knowledge, people 
and other resources pr ovide 75 per cent of BAM’s turnover which
BAM brings as value to its clients. Working with BAM provides them the 
opportunity to increase their value through innovation and to deliver net 
positive solutions whilst considering its impact on 'people' and 'planet'.
The approval of the ﬁnal contract is the conclusion
of the bidding process, and the decision is made to
continue the value creation process.
BAM’s employees coordinate workers and subcontractors with BIM and lean 
techniques to reduce all avoidable cost in assembling materials, to create 
maximum ﬁnancial value for BAM’s stakeholders. Hindrance during 
construction hours can have a temporary negative impact on local society.BAM’s suppliers provide the materials that BAM orders, which creates jobs and 
stimulates supply chain innovations. Financial capital is used to ﬁnance materials 
and services before the project is ﬁnished. Preference is given to resources that 
have a higher recycled content.BAM's bid needs to meet the requirements of all relevant 
stakeholders to be sustainable and competitive. Engagement 
provides the opportunity for better decision making by bringing 
together the needs and demands of all parties enabling maximum 
value creation.
Value is described, to be judged by the client, mostly 
in terms of ﬁnancial value and quality. Quality is 
often expressed in sustainability terms, which often 
relate to the impacts on natural and social capital.Some argue that design is where art meets science. For BAM it means: the process 
of optimising resources to meet functional demands, a creative process considering 
laws of physics, economics and society. Financial, human and intellectual capital are 
used to make the project design. An increasing part of design is done digitally.
• Functionality to the client
• Turnover to the suppliers
• Knowledge to the employees
• Shareholder value to the shareholders
• A better world to society
• Financial capital is net positiveSee an opportunity
Propose to the client
Order materialsDigital design, simulate
Assembly on site
Deliver valueEngage with suppliers
The client acceptsEngage with other stakeholders
Maintain asset value
In order to deliver maximum value to clients, 
BAM offers ﬂexibility, adaptability, and expertise, 
considering value retention, not just for the ﬁrst 
life, but with subsequent uses in mind. Learn 
from buildings and improve designs for future 
projects.End of life — Re-use
End of life is generally the starting point of a new 
development. Construction elements and materials 
are assessed for re-entering the value chain.
Customers approach BAM and BAM identiﬁes customers, in business-to-business, 
business-to-consumer and business-to-government relations. It all leads to the question:
will BAM make a proposal to the client? Please refer to the stage gate tender procedure 
on page 60 for a detailed description of the supporting decision making process.
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
11
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBuilding the present, creating the future
To realise Building the present, creating the future, the strategy is 
based on three pillars: focusing the project portfolio, shaping the 
business portfolio and creating the future portfolio. These are 
supported by a strong foundation consisting of two layers: culture 
and capabilities (  figure 4).
In 2018 external influences impacted the construction industry. 
Firstly, economies across BAM’s home markets are growing but 
global geopolitical uncertainties, (looming) trade wars and 
uncertainty about the outcome of the Brexit process makes them 
vulnerable and hesitant. Secondly, (governmental) sustainability 
agendas and mega trends such as urbanisation and energy efficiency 
are creating new areas for increased growth. Thirdly, digitalisation is 
rapidly transforming the construction industry and the built 
environment. Against this background, the main focus of BAM’s 
strategy for 2016-2020 is to continue to improve profitability and 
capital efficiency. 
4 - Strategy 2016-2020
BAM’s unique cultureDifferentiating capabilitiesBuilding the present, creating the future
Focus
project
portfolioCreate
future
portfolioShape
business
portfolio
Strategic targets
BAM’s vision is translated into specific goals for profit, planet and 
people. The objectives of BAM for 2020 are: a return on capital 
employed (ROCE) of more than 10 per cent, an increase of the 
adjusted margin before taxes to between 2 and 4 per cent, 
reduction of the real estate portfolio to less than €500 million  
and a reduction of working capital to less than -10 per cent, to 
have a net positive impact (2050) and reach an incident frequency 
of less than 3.5 (  figure 7 on page 19). 
Focusing project portfolio
BAM is focusing the project portfolio. Using either scale or 
differentiation to win projects will be the main driver of 
performance improvement at the operating companies.Doing things betterBy constantly analysing the current project portfolio, BAM keeps 
focus on its project portfolio (‘doing things better’). The main 
drivers for performance improvement are either scale (‘cost 
leadership’) or skills (‘knowledge partnership’). In market segments 
where BAM is in price-led competition, BAM achieves cost leadership 
through project bundling, industrialisation and/or digitalisation. For 
complex projects, BAM makes use of its knowhow, digital 
leadership, innovative drive and quality assurance as key 
differentiating factors. This focus leads to scalable learning in 
relevant market segments with better propositions for the Group’s 
clients. 
Shaping business portfolio
BAM is shaping the business portfolio by rationalising its 
propositions in selected market segments and developing new 
solutions for clients.Doing better things 
BAM is shaping the business portfolio by supporting the operating 
companies in developing new propositions in the home markets as 
extensions of projects along the lifecycle, and leveraging specialisms 
in international markets. These initiatives will be driven by 
investments in people and systems and developing partnerships. 
At the same time, BAM will continue to exit from operational 
activities not offering sufficient opportunities to use scale or 
distinctiveness as critical success factors. BAM will continue to 
reduce its portfolio of property assets. 
Creating future portfolio
BAM will position itself as leader in the digitalisation of the 
industry. BAM is creating its future portfolio by integrating 
digital construction solutions in its construction process and 
by accelerating innovative solutions for its clients (both digital 
and non-digital).Doing new things
BAM creates its future portfolio by supplying construction 
services using a digital construction platform and by accelerating 
innovative solutions generated within BAM. BAM facilitates this 
transition by investing in innovation to create an attractive 
environment for partnerships and rapid prototyping in order to 
shorten the time to market. 
By creating this future portfolio, BAM strives for: 
• Creating competitive advantage on the basis of innovation,  
and recurring superior financial returns for its shareholders; 
• Improving product and project quality for its clients; 
• Improving the attractiveness of the company on the job market 
and developing and retaining talent; 
• Contributing to innovation at its suppliers and subcontractors; 
• Building a sustainable environment for society in general. 2.2 Strategy
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
12
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDifferentiating capabilities
BAM’s differentiating capabilities and operating model are being 
sharpened, with a focus on employee training and development 
and setting minimum requirements. The operating companies are 
improving their systems, knowledge and expertise for data-driven 
project selection, tendering and execution. At the same time, 
Group synergies are being leveraged in areas such as business 
controls, information management, digital construction, strategic 
sourcing and partnerships and enhancing local entrepreneurship 
to serve clients. 
BAM’s unique culture
Reaching BAM’s strategic goals will be supported by its  
four values:
1. Scalable learning;
2. Predictable performance;
3. Open collaboration;
4. Proactive ownership.
5 - BAM Values
Proactive ownership
‘I take initiative to prevent,  
rather than fix’ Open collaboration
‘I share, so we all gain’
Scalable learning
‘I ask, listen and support, 
so that we learn collectively’Predictable performance
‘I deliver what I promise’
Another fundamental part of BAM’s unique culture is its safety 
ambition of ‘zero accidents’, allowing everyone to go home 
healthy every day, and recognition as a leader in safety in the 
European construction sector. BAM also aims to have a net 
positive impact on climate change, material resources and people 
by 2050. The Group’s approach to sustainability delivers benefits 
to clients and the communities in which it works. It is underpinned 
by a strong focus on innovation and solution-oriented approach to 
delivering BAM’s projects and exceed expectations.
Leader in digital 
construction 
BAM was presented with GEOBIM’s inaugural ‘Leadership 
in Digital Construction’ award, at the Geo|Design+BIM 
conference on 1 November 2018 in Amsterdam. The 
awards celebrate companies who are pioneers in digital 
transformation and have outstanding digital strategies. 
GEOBIM was particularly impressed with BAM’s 
commitment to increasing awareness of digital through 
activities such as Digital Construction Live, as well as our 
culture of innovation and day to day use of technologies 
such as BIM, virtual, mixed and augmented reality, 
robotics, drones and 3D printing.
The trophy was collected by Menno de Jonge, Director 
Digital Construction, who commented: ‘This award 
demonstrates that BAM is well on its way towards 
achieving its goal of becoming Europe’s leading 
sustainable and innovative construction business.’
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
13
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDoing things better  
In 2018, BAM was more selective in tendering and focused only on 
those projects where it could differentiate on scale or knowledge. 
As a result the quality of BAM’s order book improved further in 
those market segments where BAM can leverage its unique 
capabilities. Examples of project awards during 2018 reflecting 
these choices are the reinforcement of the iconic Afsluitdijk dam 
(the Netherlands), construction of the Edge Grand Central building 
(Berlin, Germany), the expansion of London City Airport (United 
Kingdom) and a joint effort of Civil engineering and Construction 
and Property led to the winning of three large maintenance plots at 
Schiphol Airport. During tenders, peer reviews were conducted by 
subject matter experts to ensure that BAM’s global knowledge is 
unlocked to generate the best propositions for the Group’s clients.
BAM’s Project Management Information tool has now been fully 
operational for one year. This tool unlocks all financial data on 
projects in one place and helps colleagues make the best decisions. 
It is used to analyse project performance and to enable data driven 
decision making on projects and tenders. With this information 
BAM can make timely adjustments to retain or improve margins.
Accelerate strategy execution
BAM’s financial, social and sustainable performance illustrate the 
Group’s progress in executing the strategy. Key to accelerating the 
further execution of the strategic agenda is One BAM – a way of 
working that is aimed at getting the best out of the Group by 
unleashing BAM’s collective knowledge and experience. 
To further accelerate the strategic agenda, in 2018 BAM started a 
program to benefit from scale and skills. BAM developed a Uniform 
Project Approach (UPA) based on learnings and best practices of 
BAM’s projects around the globe. This results in one uniform way of 
working on projects for the entire company. With UPA BAM aims to 
provide benefits for all stakeholders. It makes for a common 
(project) language, easier knowledge sharing and increased 
employee engagement. The final goal of UPA is to achieve better 
– more predictable and comparable – forecasts and results. In 2019 
the roll out of UPA will commence in all operating companies.
One BAM also includes changes to the governance and organisational 
(top) structure. Changes will be implemented in early 2019. To 
ensure knowledge and common approaches are shared across the 
Group, support functions will be reinforced with a stronger mandate 
at Group level. This new way of working is kicking off in Finance, HR 
and IT, and will eventually extend to other functions.Doing better things  
BAM remains selective in its investments. In 2018, It acquired a 
company called Tidal Bridge which directly supports BAM’s 
international division to remain a leader in international nearshore 
construction.
BAM and Heijmans are investigating the possibilities to transfer their 
current asphalt plants in the Netherlands to a new joint asphalt 
company. By establishing the new asphalt company, the knowledge, 
expertise and investments in innovation of both companies can be 
combined. 
Accelerate strategy execution 
The Project Management Information tool is used to perform 
additional strategic analysis on operational activities. This tool 
enables BAM to make objective analysis on project performance, 
business units and operating companies. Combined with data 
from the tendering stage gate procedure this enables improved 
assessments on operational activities. BAM will continue to 
build a portfolio of investment opportunities that match its 
criteria.
Doing new things 
Innovation
In 2018, twenty-four innovation initiatives were managed within the 
innovation funnel. The innovation funnel consists of a stage gate 
review process of business innovations by BAM’s innovation 
community based on the Lean startup methodology. 
Some examples in BAM’s innovation funnel are: the modular 
development and production of building installations; robotics to 
lay brick slips on facade elements and deliver pre-engineered 
concrete building blocks that can be 3D printed and assembled; and 
a co-development with startup HARDT to showcase technology and 
enable a high-speed test facility for the hyperloop. 
BAM’s startup named b.Home continued its development of the 
platform to connect suppliers, assistant project managers, foremen 
and sub-contractors in their collaboration around renovation 
projects. In 2018 the startup had its first paying customers and 
received positive feedback from its users.
Digital construction
In BAM’s ambition to become a leader in digital construction, it has 
made good progress in 2018. BAM is externally acknowledged as 
leader in digital construction and have been awarded international 
prizes in the area of digital construction, like the award for Global 
Leadership in Digital Construction from GEO|Design+BIM. BAM has 
also featured in many international reports on digital construction, 
such as Forbes Magazine and EY’s 2018 Global Digital Survey.
The execution of the digital construction programme is well on 
track and successes have been reported, such as the BIM Level 2 
certifications for BAM Bouw en Vastgoed, BAM Deutschland, 
BAM Belgium and Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau. With that, Strategy execution
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
14
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management95 per cent of BAM’s operations are now certified towards BIM 
Level 2. BAM International aims to be certified by Q3-2019, which 
will lead to the first internationally operating BIM Level 2 (ISO 
19650) certified construction company. Other successes are the 
development of maturity measurement dashboards, Return of 
investment (ROI) workshops, development of training and 
e-learning programs and the specific growth of maturity in BAM’s 
projects around the globe.
Differentiating capabilities  
Accelerate strategy execution 
In 2018, BAM put an additional focus on Uniform Business 
Controlling (UBC), aimed to further strengthen accurate 
management and operational information. This will result in one 
dashboard bundling all performance information on projects to 
manageable indicators on detail levels that fit its purpose (from 
project management to OpCo management to Executive Board). 
UBC gives comparable and real-time accessible data for better 
forward looking and uniform reporting. The dashboard makes it 
possible for management to focus where it is most needed to 
improve performance and forecasts. In 2018 the beta version of the 
UBC dashboard is tested at Wayss & Freytag. Further global roll-out 
will take place in 2019.
BAM’s unique culture   
One BAM global safety: Your Safety is My Safety
BAM launched a global safety campaign Your Safety is My Safety, 
within all operating companies. 
One BAM Panel
In 2018 BAM upscaled its HR Analytics tool BAM Panel company-
wide. BAM introduced the Net Engagement Score (NES) as a  
single score indicator per OpCo which can easily be used for 
benchmarking. In this way BAM Panel gives direct insight in 
employee engagement and helps BAM to improve on segments 
as indicated by its employees to further improve as employer.
Sharing skills and knowledge through communities
In 2016 BAM created communities along functions and themes. 
The communities are formed by representatives from all operating 
companies and are chaired by a community lead. In 2018 all 
communities were in full force. The activities of these communities 
reflect BAM’s values and accelerate learning and collaboration 
across all operating companies to operate as One BAM. 
In 2018 BAM set up a Smart City platform. Representatives from 
different operating companies come together to share knowledge 
and initiatives regarding the concept of Smart Cities, with the goal 
to develop products and solutions for cities of the future.
BAM’s sustainability performance has led to several third-party 
recognitions. The company was awarded a leadership score (A-) on 
the CDP climate ranking. BAM recognises more and more market 
and legislative drivers for solution-oriented, innovative and 
collaborative projects.
Award for 
collaboration with 
European startups
Royal BAM Group is one of Europe’s most active 
corporates in terms of open-innovation, according 
the Europe’s Corporate Startup Stars ranking unveiled 
in Brussels on 22 November 2018 at an official 
ceremony at the presence of EU Vice President 
Katainen. Other companies among the 24  Open 
Innovation Challengers that were awarded along with 
BAM were: ABB, ACCIONA S.A., Amazon, Google and 
Virgin.
This recognition for BAM is due to its procurement 
from and investment in EU startups, including HARDT 
Hyperloop and Dutch Analytics, specialists in machine 
learning and AI solutions for the maintenance 
industry.
‘For BAM, collaboration with startups is crucial to 
bring out the right skills, disruptive views, speed and 
creativity to build our future portfolio’, says Céline 
Bent, BAM’s head of Innovation. ‘We will continue to 
work with and invest in them to realise our strategy 
Building the present, creating the future.’
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
15
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.3 Stakeholder engagement and material themes
Suppliers and subcontractors
Supply chain partners are increasingly involved in the early 
stages of the bidding process and in the development and 
planning of BAM projects through lean planning meetings. This 
optimises the efficiency of the construction programme via the 
value chain. By involving its partners in an early stage, BAM 
invests in these relationships. Typical discussions between 
BAM and suppliers are around product and project quality and 
project progress. In projects suppliers and subcontractors play 
a large role in delivering performance on health and safety and 
innovations around circular economy and CO2 reductions. 
Society
By their nature, the construction and civil engineering works of 
BAM have an impact on local communities. BAM builds facilities 
which society needs, such as housing, hospitals, schools, leisure 
and industrial facilities, utilities and infrastructure. Main 
discussion points differ per governmental body, but health and 
safety as well as human rights are common. Chapter 3.2 of this 
report describes BAM’s results and provides examples of its 
activities for social involvement in 2018. BAM’s target of 
enhancing one million lives shows its ambition to increase its 
positive impact on local communities.
Regulators
By delivering projects, BAM is in constant contact with local 
government authorities about issuing permits, compliance with 
regulations and monitoring its activities. BAM is involved in 
many governmental initiatives including several Green Deals in 
the Netherlands. BAM is a member of multiple Green Building 
Councils throughout Europe. BAM aims to engage regulators in 
issues such as health and safety management, carbon-free 
buildings, carbon impact in the infrastructure lifecycle and other 
sustainability-related issues within the built environment. An 
example is Advancing Net Zero, a World Green Business Council 
global project which aims to promote and support the 
acceleration of net zero carbon buildings to 100 per cent by 
2050.
Multi-stakeholder dialogue
In addition to its engagements with individual stakeholder 
groups across the business, the Group organises annual 
multi-stakeholder meetings hosted by CEO Rob van Wingerden. 
A wide range of stakeholders participates in this event. During 
the 2018 annual stakeholder dialogue cross-industry trends and 
movements throughout the entire construction value chain 
were addressed. 
‘Working together towards a sustainable future’ was the central 
theme in the 2018 multi-stakeholder dialogue. At this year’s 
special edition, stakeholders and BAM colleagues were invited 
together with their children. Stakeholders who joined the 
dialogue were some 137 representatives of clients, financial 
institutions, suppliers, architects, startups, NGOs, and knowledge 
institutes that are actively involved with BAM. BAM facilitated Stakeholder engagement
BAM recognises that real business benefits can only be achieved 
by involving all stakeholders. B AM continuously engages with its 
stakeholders to understand their priorities and concerns through 
benchmarking, sector meetings, client surveys and direct contacts. 
The Group has defined its stakeholders as those groups which 
significantly influence or are influenced by the economic, 
environmental and social performance of BAM. The Group has 
identified its stakeholders based on the risks and opportunities 
for its business performance, strategy execution and strategic 
objectives.  BAM’s key stakeholder groups, and its interactions with 
those stakeholders are:
Clients
BAM is in daily conversation with its clients about project 
expectations and projections. In addition, BAM organises client 
meetings to share knowledge, best practices and innovation within 
its value chain. Maximum value for money is of upmost importance 
to BAM’s clients, and this extends beyond simply delivering a project 
for the lowest price. Increasingly BAM has been engaged with clients 
who seek to engage with contractors who’s sustainability 
performance delivers leading safety, innovation and socio-
environmental outcomes with lasting benefits.  
Providers of financial capital
Communication with investors, financial institutions and the 
financial community in general is actively pursued and usually 
takes place through meetings, project visits, road shows, 
seminars, presentations, investment meetings and press 
releases. The main recurring topics of discussion are financial 
performance, transparency and control. All dates and locations 
of road shows, seminars and other investor relations activities 
are published on the BAM website. In terms of environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) performance, BAM has responded 
to CDP’s investor information requests since 2008.
Employees
BAM’s employees are the company’s most important asset. As 
part of the performance management process, personal learning 
and development plans of employees are evaluated annually 
between manager and employee. Progress to meet annual 
targets together with personal growth and career development 
are discussed. BAM has active works councils within the 
operating companies to discuss organisational changes and 
other employee related matters. Employee engagement is 
facilitated through multiple platforms such as Young BAM 
events, open collaboration days, One BAM senior management 
meetings and online surveys through BAM Panel. In those events 
BAM aims to share learnings from projects, inspire employees 
with new ideas and collect feedback on what can be improved. 
In addition BAM is engaged and facilitates more informal 
interaction through the use of internal and external social media 
outlets. This ensures BAM stays connected with the next 
generation of BAM employees.
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
16
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementdiscussion tables around the following themes: smart cities and 
mobility, circular economy, healthy urban living, life cycle values, 
energy transition and digital construction. These themes are all 
big societal challenges that no single party in the value chain can 
solve on its own. The themes are important for BAM’s long-term 
strategy and with innovative solutions BAM shows how it 
contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals. This requires 
cross-sectoral collaboration, which can only be achieved if 
organisations and people from different sectors are willing and 
able to think, learn, communicate and collaborate across the 
boundaries that used to divide them. 
Discussions for both current leaders and children were facilitated 
in dialogue sessions that ran in parallel, H.R.H. Princess 
Laurentien of the Netherlands moderated the session where 
outcomes from all discussion tables were discussed. Suggested 
solutions from the different themes varied widely. However, the 
common denominators from all discussions were on the process 
how to drive change in collaboration. The main outcomes were:
• We need to change, now is the time to start;
• We can learn from children to spark creativity and use 
imagination. The ability to ask the right question improves 
decision making;
• Start small scale, accept to make mistakes, it most likely 
can’t be first time right;
• Create an environment where you can work together and 
share knowledge in an early stage;
• Make sure the goals are aligned with all parties in the team, 
a shared vision and shared interest ensure to reach goals.
The session was concluded with a call to action: Dare to be a 
rebellious and experiment with partners to overcome societal 
challenges to safeguard a bright future for the generations to 
come. The conclusions of the multi-stakeholder dialogue were 
shared with relevant BAM colleagues and participants to ensure 
that the lessons learned will be used in practice.
Follow up of the stakeholder dialogue includes two round table 
sessions with the municipality of Bunnik and Eindhoven around 
urbanisation and mobility. In these sessions smart solutions are 
developed around bike mobility, for instance a digital bicycle 
highway at Schiphol Airport ‘fly + bike’ to reduce car movements 
by 5,000 a day, hubs to increase connectivity and minimise 
parking issues and partnerships to scale up bike sharing 
concepts. A next step on circular economy includes starting a 
‘taskforce’ to develop a circular value proposition for clients.
Material themes
As part of the development of the strategic agenda for 2016-
2020, the Group carried out a materiality assessment. Material 
themes are themes that significantly influence BAM’s ability to 
create value in the short, medium and long term.
To update the 2018 materiality matrix, BAM sent out a survey to 
stakeholders that were invited to the stakeholder dialogue as 
Stakeholder day
On 26 September 2018 BAM organised its stakeholder 
dialogue. Central questions included: What smart 
solutions can we create together to keep the Netherlands 
accessible? Do we still need a driving license, or do we 
have self-driving cars? Not only adults came up with 
ideas, also children – aged 10 to 17 – thought along and 
surprised everyone with their creative insights.
André Kuipers, the Dutch astronaut, opened the day and 
created a sense of urgency with an inspiring story about 
what it is like to work together in a small space capsule. 
Moreover, from space one can see how small and 
vulnerable our Earth is. ‘We can only achieve a 
sustainable future by working together in other ways. 
Together we can do so much more,’ said CEO Rob van 
Wingerden. 
‘Children are uninhibited, honest and curious. They are 
looking at the world in a different way,’ Princess 
Laurentien said. ‘They often have an open, fresh look, 
creativity and imagination. You do not have to have the 
best idea right away, stay open to all possibilities and you 
will be surprised at which smart solutions come up.’  
BAM announced to establish a BAM Council of Children 
– in collaboration with Princess Laurentien and the 
Missing Chapter Foundation – which will help the 
company with complex sustainability themes.
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
17
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management6 - Materiality matrixwell as international stakeholders. A detailed description of all 
material themes, the impact on BAM and the management 
approach can be found in chapter 9.7. The materiality matrix  
(  figure 6) displays the prioritisation of the matters based on 
their relative importance to BAM and to BAM’s stakeholders. 
Stakeholders could identify and prioritise the potential impact of 
material themes on themselves and on society. In comparison to 
last year the prioritisation of material themes remained very 
similar. Most relevant for the client group were project and 
product quality and control and business conduct. The group of 
employees specifically indicated financial performance and 
project and product quality and control as most material themes. 
Providers of financial capital indicated that BAM’s financial 
performance is most relevant to their organisations, in addition 
to business conduct and transparency. BAM’s subcontractors and 
suppliers as well as the group representing society – NGOs, 
government and knowledge institutes – specifically indicated 
innovation and procurement strategy as material themes. 
Regulators indicated the circular economy and community 
engagement as most material. The stakeholders were requested 
to introduce and assess matters that were missing in BAM’s 
original materiality assessment. Topics raised by stakeholder 
include supply chain integration and networking economy  
(page 40), life cycle thinking (page 48) and health & well-being 
(page 78).Sustainable Development Goals
BAM values alignment of its strategy with regard to the 
UN-adopted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 17 goals that 
serve as a roadmap for good growth by 2030. BAM evaluated the 
key areas of alignment of the goals with its corporate strategy and 
the relevant stakeholder material themes. BAM’s business 
potentially impacts all SDGs. However, some have more direct 
influence within current markets, given the nature of BAM’s 
business. BAM has subsequently considered these global issues in 
relation to its 2050 Net Positive strategy and has identified key 
focus areas where progress will be monitored going forward. BAM 
therefore strives to make a positive contribution to seven SDGs in 
particular, because these best fit in with its strategy and impact. 
Results are described in the performance chapters and are 
indicated with SDG symbols.
Impact on stakeholders 
The dot size represents 
the impact of BAM’s 
performance on society 
(manipulated for graphical 
reason). Large dot size reﬂects 
high impact on society.
Impact on BAM2345
2 3 4 5ﬁnancial
performance
health and safety
employee recruitment, 
development and retentioninnovation
circular economy
energy and 
emissionsproject and product 
quality and control
human rights
local community 
engagementprocurement 
strategy
fair tax business conduct 
and transparency
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
18
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
management7 - Link between BAM’s strategy, material themes and performance indicators
Innovation
stage gate
ROCE
ROCE
Diversity of staff
Incident 
Frequency
# trainings on 
Code of conduct
Supplier 
performance 
assessments
Enhancing lives
Compliance with
human right
enforcers
Fair distribution 
of tax
Circular
products and
services
Carbon
emissionsSelect and boost 
strategic 
initiatives
Execute balanced
strategy
Selective tender 
participation
Attract diverse 
workforce
Enforce health
and safety
framework
Enforce Code
of conduct
Long term 
contracts with 
trusted suppliers
Identify 
opportunities 
and act
Ensure compliance
within supply
chain
Execute 
tax policy
Collaborate with
supply chain
Active
management
and reductionInnovation,
IT
Market,
Project, Financial, 
Property 
development
Project,
Financial
Reputation,
People
People, 
Health and 
Safety
Reputation
Project,
Financial,
Supply chain
Reputation,
Health and
Safety
Reputation,
Project
Reputation, 
Financial
Market, 
Sustainability
Market, 
Sustainability
IndicatorPerformance
in chapterMaterial
themes RisksPursued 
policy example3.1
3.22.2
3.3Innovation
Financial 
performance
Project and product 
quality and control
Employee recruitment, 
development and retention
Health and safety
Business conduct 
and transparency
Procurement strategy
Local community 
engagement
Human rights
Fair tax 
Circular economy
Energy and emissionsNet positive
impact
(2050)Safety
benchmark
IF < 3.5Adjusted
pre tax margin
2-4%Property
< €500m
TWC < -10%ROCE 
> 10%
Value
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information Appendices
19
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBusiness performance3
Timber-framed  
city centre
The Pavilion, Manchester
In Manchester, BAM Construct UK has completed The Pavilion, 
a four-storey, timber-framed building which has been greened 
and softened with landscaped edges and trellises, tiered 
seating and street furniture, adding some much needed public 
green space to the urban layout of Manchester City Centre.
20
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv3.1  Financial performance 
8 - Target: Creating return on capital employed above 10 per cent
Targets Performance in 2018 Progress
Return on capital employed (ROCE) >10 per cent by 2020 ROCE in 2018 amounted to 7.5 per cent (2017: 0.6 per cent).   
Key performance indicators (KPIs):
• Return: BAM aims to get its results on projects  
into a 2 to 4 per cent range.The margin on the adjusted result before tax for 2018 
improved to 2.1 per cent, compared to 0.4 at year end 2017.  
• Capital employed: Increase trade working capital  
efficiency below -/- 10 per cent of revenue.The trade working capital efficiency deteriorated to -/- 8.8 
per cent at year-end 2018 compared to -/- 11.1 per cent at 
year- end 2017.  
• Capital employed: Reduce investment in land bank  
and property development below €500 million.BAM achieved net divestments of land bank and property  
for a total of €5 million in 2018 (2017: €35 million).  
Balance sheet value for land bank and property down to  
€564 million (2017: €591 million), including €22 million 
impairments.  
• Improve capital ratio towards 25 per cent by 2020. Capital ratio amounted to 18.5 per cent compared to
18.6 per cent at year-end 2017.  
Management summary
2018 has been a year of good progress for BAM. Most of our business 
performed well , which reflected the benefits of ongoing improvements 
in our tendering and project execution. Although the sea lock IJmuiden 
adversely affected our result and cash flow, we made further steps in 
de-risking the project. 
Our overall cash flow for the year was positive and our financial position 
remained strong. We propose an increased dividend, adjusted for the 
non- operational and non-cash impairment of the Dutch deferred tax 
asset, of 14 cents per share.
Conditions in most of our markets are generally positive, although 
uncertainty over Brexit remains.  
 
We are firmly focused on delivering the targets of our strategy Building 
the present, creating the future. In order to enhance our project 
portfolio, we refrain from tenders where acceptable contract terms 
cannot be achieved. We are in ongoing discussions with public sector 
infrastructure clients which have to lead to improved risk and reward 
balance for new projects in our portfolio. We are shaping our business 
portfolio with our proposed joint venture for asphalt production in the 
Netherlands. And we are shaping our future portfolio by investing in 
modular construction in Ireland and the digital experience center for 
Dutch new build house buyers.9 -  Key financial results  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2018 2017
Revenue 7,208 6,535
Adjusted result before tax 153.2 24.9
Margin (%) 2.1 0.4
Result before tax 114.5 20.0
Net result attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company 23.8 (13.8)
Order book 12,692 11,636
Earnings per share 9 cents -5 cents
Dividend proposal 14 cents 10 cents
* the comparative figures, were applicable, have been restated for IFRS15.*
21
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management10 -  Result before tax  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated) 
2018 2017
Continuing operations
Adjusted result before tax, depreciation  
and amortisation charges 223.0 84.4
Depreciation and amortisation charges (69.8) (59.5)
Adjusted result before tax 153.2 24.9
Impairment charges (23.8) (4.8)
Restructuring and other exceptional costs (3.8) (0.1) 
Pension one-off (11.1) -
Result before tax 114.5 20.0
Income tax (90.1) (32.9)
Result for the year 24.4 (12.9)
Non-controlling interests 0.6 0.9
Net result attributable to shareholders  
of the Company 23.8 (13.8)
* the comparative figures, were applicable, have been restated for IFRS15.
Revenue
The revenue increased by €673 million (10 per cent) to €7,208 
million. There was growth in all geographies reflecting 
generally positive market conditions.
 
Result
The adjusted result before tax for the year 2018 improved by
€128.3 million to €153.2 million. The result in the Netherlands 
improved significantly due to lower impact of sea lock IJmuiden 
and a higher contribution from residential property 
development. There were strong results in the UK and Ireland. 
The performance in Belgium and International remained under 
pressure from market conditions. The PPP result was slightly 
ahead of last year.
The revenue and result included €27 million which had been 
derecognised in the adoption of IFRS 15. There was an 
offsetting effect from revenues which were not recognised in 
2018, but would have been under the old accounting rules. 
Impairments reflected mainly the lower valuation of Dutch 
regional property adjacent to the development of a large wind 
mill park which is now reduced to the value of farmer’s land. 
The pension one-off item related to the equalisation of 
Guaranteed Minimum Pensions for men and women in the UK.
Income tax included a non-cash impairment of €72 million 
(2017: €40 million) on the deferred tax assets. This was related 
to the lower performance of the Dutch fiscal unity and the 
negative effect of the lowering of the future Dutch corporate 
income tax rate.
Dutch Analytics
The Dutch railway system is one of the densest in 
the world. With a total of 91.6 per cent of trains 
running on time in 2017, the Netherlands is 
among the top 3 best performing countries 
worldwide. However, over 4,000 malfunctions 
were detected in 2017.
The market was asking for a predictive 
maintenance solution. This created a need for 
knowledge and skills related to big data and 
artificial intelligence, which was not available 
within BAM at that time. With the help of Dutch 
business incubator the Venture Generator in 
YES!Delft we created and invested in a startup, 
which gave us full flexibility and access to the 
latest disruptive technology as well as young, 
technically skilled talent.
Among other things, this startup, Dutch 
Analytics, has already accommodated BAM with 
a solution to predict future switch malfunctions. 
As a result, maintenance engineers are able to 
respond ahead of time. This solution boosts 
machine uptime of railway assets and reduces 
operational costs.*
22
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2018 amounted to 
€744 million (2017: €696 million), of which €173 million (2017: 
€217 million) concerns the Group’s share of cash and cash 
equivalents in joint operations.
12 - Business cash flow 1
Full year
2018Full year
2017
Group: net cash result 2171 78
Investments (in)tangible fixed assets (71) (83)
Trade working capital 3(60) (39)
Net investment:
- Property 6 80
- PPP 6 1
Other changes in working capital 47 (24)
Business cash flow 99 13
Dividend (11) (7)
Restructuring (11) (25)
Pensions (additional) (12) (12)
Other (17) (12)
Change in cash position 48 (43)
1  These metrics are not directly comparable with the IFRS-based condensed 
cash flow statement.
2  Net cash result is net result excluding depreciation, impairments, cash 
out related to restructuring, movements of provisions and book profit on 
sale of PPP projects.
3  Working capital excluding property positions, PPP receivables, assets and 
liabilities held for sale, derivatives, provisions, taxes, other receivables 
and other payables.
The business cash flow was again positive with €99 million, 
predominantly boosted by the net cash result. Investments in  
(in)tangible assets were below last year, when BAM invested more 
after years of structural lower investments.
The outflow on trade working capital increased in 2018, 
predominantly due to loss financing of OpenIJ EPC VOF, the entity 
in which the construction of sea lock IJmuiden is carried out, and 
by the deconsolidation of German joint arrangements (impact 
€92 million) that are now accounted for as joint ventures based on 
updated accounting interpretations.
Other changes in working capital in 2018 were driven by changes in 
accruals and positive effects from the cash flow in relation to joint 
arrangements, predominantly due to the deconsolidation of 
German joint arrangements. In the same period in 2017 there was a 
negative effect from the cash flow in relation to joint arrangements. 
Total impact of deconsolidation of the German Argen included in 
the business cash flow amounts to a cash out flow of €16 million. Order book
The overall order book growth was driven by positive market 
conditions and winning multiyear projects especially in civil 
engineering in the UK. The margin on the new order intake 
continued to improve and is well within the strategic target 
margin bandwidth of 2 per cent to 4 per cent.
Of the current order book position, €5.9 billion (2017: €5.7 billion) 
is expected to be carried out in 2019 and €6.8 billion (2017: €5.9 
billion) in the years after. The growth is particularly noticeable in 
the civil sector.
Earnings per share
The number of outstanding ordinary shares of the Group 
increased by 0.1 million in 2018 to 273.3 million shares as at 
31 December 2018, due to stock dividend minus the repurchase of 
shares for the conditional performance share plan. (Diluted) 
earnings per share amounted to 9 euro cents (2017: -5 euro cents).
Dividend proposal
BAM’s policy is to pay out 30 to 50 per cent of the net result for the 
year subject to considering the balance sheet structure supporting 
the strategic agenda and the interests of the shareholders. BAM’s 
net result for 2018 of €23.8 million included a charge of €72 million 
for the impairment of deferred tax assets. Since this item is one-off 
non-operational and non-cash in nature, BAM has added back this 
item for the payout calculation. Therefore, BAM proposes a 
dividend of 14 euro cents per ordinary share for 2018 (2017: 10 
euro cents) which equates to a payout ratio of 40 per cent of the 
adjusted net result. Subject to approval by the Annual General 
Meeting on 17 April 2019, this will be paid in cash with a scrip 
alternative. BAM will repurchase and cancel shares to offset the 
dilution due to shareholders taking the scrip alternative.
11 -  Financial position  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2018 2017
Cash and cash equivalents 744 696
Less: borrowings (343) (503)
Net cash 401 193
Add: non-recourse financing 127 265
Recourse net cash 528 458
Capital employed
- Non-current assets 1,271 1,424
- Net working capital (626) (600)
Shareholders’ equity 729 721
Capital base 847 836
Total assets 4,578 4,489
Solvency (%) 18.5 18.6
* the comparative figures, were applicable, have been restated for IFRS15.*
23
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management13 -  Borrowings  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2018 2017
Non-recourse debt
PPP 43 190
Property 79 69
Other 5 6
127 265
Subordinated convertible bonds 118 115
Recourse debt
PPP 14 30
Property 59 80
Financial lease 25 13
98 123
Borrowings 343 503
The recourse net debt, part of the recourse leverage ratio in 
BAM’s financing arrangements, mainly comprising equity bridge 
loans for PPP projects and property loans on a recourse basis 
minus cash and cash equivalents, amounted to a net cash position 
of €528 million as at 31 December 2018, an increase of €70 million 
compared to 2017.
Capital employed
Non-current assets
On balance, non-current assets decreased in the year with 
€154 million (2017: decrease €30 million).
As the net capital expenditures in the year were higher than the 
annual depreciation, the carrying amount of property, plant and 
equipment increased with €8 million to €290 million. The majority 
of the capital expenditures concerned the asset category plant & 
equipment in the sector Civil Engineering.
Intangible assets predominantly contains goodwill with a carrying 
amount of €373 million, an decrease of €2 million compared with 
2017, due to the lower exchange rate of the British pound sterling. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and this did not result in 
an impairment. The sensitivity analyses indicated that for the cash 
generating unit BAM International, representing a goodwill amount 
of €22 million, a limited headroom remains in case of a negative 
change of 50 basis points on the discount rate and / or growth rate 
beyond the forecast period.
The total carrying amount of intangible assets increased with
€4 million, mainly due to investment in non-integrated software.
PPP receivables decreased in 2018 to €90 million from €249 million 
principally due to the divestment of one project to the BAM PPP/ 
PGGM joint venture.Property cash flow was below 2017, when property positions in 
the northeast of the Netherlands and stadium Zwolle were sold.  
In 2018 cash proceeds were partly reinvested in new equity light 
developments. 
Borrowings
As at 31 December 2018 total borrowings amounted to €343 million 
(2017: €503 million) of which €127 million (2017: €265 million) 
concerned non-recourse debt. Non-recourse loans associated with 
PPP projects decreased with €147 million (2017: decrease €84 
million), due to the transfer of a project to the joint venture with 
PGGM. Non-recourse debt related to property development 
increased with €10 million in 2018.
As at 31 December 2018 a net cash position is achieved of 
€401 million (2017: €193 million net cash position). This position 
comprised of cash and cash equivalents of €744 million minus 
borrowings of €343 million.
The Group had two credit facilities as at 31 December 2018: 
unsecured subordinated convertible bonds for €125 million and a 
committed syndicated credit facility of €400 million. The bonds 
will be convertible into ordinary shares of BAM with a nominal 
value of €0.10 each. The bonds are subordinated to BAM’s senior 
payment obligations. The bonds will carry an annual coupon of
3.5 per cent payable semi-annually and a conversion price of
€4.9997. The bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount on 
or around 13 June 2021. BAM will have the option to call all but not 
some of the outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus 
interest from 28 June 2019, if the value of a BAM share exceeds for 
a specified period of time a price which is 30 per cent higher than 
the conversion price.
The committed syndicated credit facility has a duration until 
31 March 2023 and as at 31 December 2018 the committed 
syndicated credit facility was not used, just as in 2017.
24
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDeferred tax assets and liabilities
The Group has a net deferred tax asset of €166 million (2017: €235 
million) principally reflecting the tax losses carried forward in the 
Netherlands and Germany. The decrease is due to tax rate cuts in 
the Netherlands in 2020 and 2021, with an impairment of €26 
million and an impairment of €46 million as a consequence of 
lower performance in the Dutch fiscal unity.
Assets and liabilities held for sale
The assets and liabilities held for sale as at 31 December 2018 
amount to €9 million (2017: €9 million) for the assets and €0 million 
(2017: €0 million) for the liabilities and are fully attributable to one 
remaining property position to be transferred in the Northeast part 
of the Netherlands.
Tax
In 2018, BAM recognised a tax expense of €90.1 million (2017: 
€32.9 million). Excluding the impairment of Dutch deferred tax 
assets of €72 million, the effective tax rate of the Group for 2018 
is 15.8 per cent (2017: -35.6 per cent), influenced predominantly 
by the use of previously unrecognised tax losses outside the 
Netherlands and tax incentives.
On corporate income tax, taxes on wages, social security 
contributions and VAT, the Group paid a total amount of €819 
million in 2018 (2017: €725 million). Relative to the Group’s 
revenue, the share of taxes paid deviates most from the share of 
revenue in the Netherlands. Here, the Group’s share of taxes is 
relatively high compared to revenue.
14 -  Taxes paid in 2018  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Taxes % Revenue %
Netherlands 422 51 2,712 38
United Kingdom 193 24 1,998 28
Belgium 47 6 703 10
Germany 114 14 820 11
Ireland 24 3 474 7
Rest of the world 19 2 501 7
Total 819 100 7,208 100The carrying amounts of investments (accounted for using the 
equity method) and other financial assets increased in the year with 
€14 million (from €96 million to €110 million) respectively increased 
with €9 million (from €92 million to €101 million).
Net working capital
Net working capital (current assets excluding cash and cash 
equivalents minus current liabilities excluding current borrowings) as 
at 31 December 2018 amounted to minus €625 million (2017: minus 
€600 million). Gross investment in property development has been 
reduced with €27 million in 2018 to €564 (2017: €591 million), as a 
consequence of property sales, divestments and an impairment 
charge of €21.9 million (2017: €4 million). Net investment in 
property development, taking into account associated borrowings, 
amounted to €431 million (2017: €446 million).
Shareholders’ equity and capital base
Shareholders’ equity increased by €8 million in 2018 to 
€729 million as at 31 December 2018. This increase is principally 
due to the net result for the year of €23.8 million.
Capital base includes the subordinated convertible bonds of 
€118 million (2017: €115 million). The difference between the 
nominal value of the convertible bonds of €125 million and the 
reported value of €118 million, consists of the valuation of the 
conversion right and transaction cost.
Solvency
As at 31 December 2018 solvency is 18.5 per cent (2017: 18.6 per 
cent) determined by using the capital base. Given the small 
increase in capital base and the higher balance sheet total, 
solvency slightly decreased in 2018. Recourse solvency, the ratio  
in accordance with the bank covenants, slightly decreased to 
27.0 per cent as at 31 December 2018 (2017: 29.6 per cent), which 
comfortably exceeds the required minimum of 15 per cent.
Other balance sheet items
Post-employment benefits
The net benefit asset amounted to €19 million as at 31 December 
2018, a change of €62 million compared to 2017 principally due to 
changes in actuarial assumptions, specifically the discount rate used.
Provisions
Provisions, other than post-employment benefits, increased by 
€15 million to €238 million as at 31 December 2018, predominantly 
due to the net increase of the provision for onerous contracts of €26 
million, mainly related to sea lock IJmuiden. In 2018, €5 million was 
added to the restructuring provision, mainly in Belgium and €11 
million was used for payments on restructuring, mainly in the 
Netherlands.
25
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementConstruction and Property
15 -   Construction and Property  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Domed roof 
Utrecht
In Utrecht’s Central Station area, the Stationsplein 
square has seen its festive opening. The absolute 
eye-catcher here is the 30-metre-high domed roof 
with its round inflatable cushions, which provides 
a rain-free crossing for pedestrians between the 
public transport terminal and the Hoog Catharijne 
shopping mall. Meanwhile, the combination of 
BAM Bouw en Techniek and BAM Infra are in the 
second phase of the world’s largest bicycle park, 
which will eventually have a capacity of 12,500 
bicycles.2018 2017
Revenue 4,043 3,696 
Adjusted result before tax 114.6 68.9
Margin (%) 2.8 1.9
Order book 7,025 6,895
At Construction and Property, revenue increased by €347 million 
(9.4 per cent ) to €4,043 million. Half of this increase was 
attributable to the Dutch residential construction and 
development activities. Revenues in most other business grew, 
driven by improved market conditions. The UK revenue stabilised.
The sector result was up by €45.8 million to €114.7 million 
(margin of 2.8 per cent) due to the larger contribution of Dutch 
property and strong results in Ireland and the UK. The construction 
activities in the Netherlands experienced some margin erosion 
from supply chain pressure. Germany delivered according to plan 
a positive result for the full year after the refocusing of activities in 
2016. The modest result in Belgium included some claim 
settlements and small project losses.
The contribution to the result from property rose to €52.9 million 
(2017: €26.7 million) mostly coming from Dutch residential. Dutch 
house sales were up by 6 per cent to 2,448 despite the ongoing 
constraints in the availability of locations with building permits.
The gross investment in property reduced by €27 million, mainly 
due to the non-cash impairment in the third quarter, to €564 
million at the end of 2018. These investments were financed by 
€53 million recourse property loans (year-end 2017: €75 million) 
and €79 million non-recourse property loans (year-end 2017: 
€69 million).
The year-end order book increased by €130 million (2 per cent) to 
€7,025 million. The increase came mainly from the refocused 
business in Germany, Ireland due to the strong market position 
and the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, the order book grew 
following improved market conditions. The order book was lower 
in Belgium and at BAM International due to selective tendering.
26
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementPPP
17 -  PPP 
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)Civil engineering
16 -  Civil engineering  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
2018 2017
Revenue 3,223 2,907
Adjusted result before tax 19.3 (58.6)
Margin (%) 0.6 (2.0)
Order book 5,577 4,694
In Civil engineering, revenue grew by €316 million (11 per cent) to 
€3,223 million. This increase came in all businesses, mainly the 
Netherlands and the UK. The sector result was €19.3 million after 
a loss of €58.6 million in 2017. Ireland and the UK had strong 
results which were partly offset by losses in the Netherlands, 
International and Belgium.
The Dutch activities were mainly held back by the cost overrun at 
the sea lock IJmuiden and a modest result from the regional 
activities. At the end of 2018, the first caisson which holds the 
door of the sea lock was successfully immersed and the lock doors 
arrived in the Netherlands. The second caisson will be immersed 
in the second half of 2019. The cumulative cost overrun at this 
project at year end 2018 was €106.7 million, of which €31.8 
million was included in the 2018 results, €7.5 million in the IFRS15 
restatement and €67.4 million in the 2017 results. The small losses 
at Belgium and BAM International reflected the challenging 
market conditions.
The order book rose by €882 million (19  per cent ), mainly due to 
multiyear project awards in the UK and the Netherlands while 
maintain tender discipline. 
The order book in Germany grew, although the year end number 
was reduced by the accounting change (deconsolidation) of 
German Argen.2018 2017
Revenue 35 135
Adjusted result before tax 20.2 19.0
Order book 202 210
Average invested equity 128 110
Return on equity (%) 15.8 17.3
PPP had a result of €20.2 million coming mostly from the existing 
portfolio. One project was transferred to the joint venture with 
PGGM and one project was won. The order book reduced due to 
the construction progress and a new project win in joint venture. 
The pipeline of active bids in BAM’s home markets and 
International remains healthy. The total directors’ valuation of the 
PPP portfolio as at the end of 2018 was €261 million, which 
included €75 million of unrealised value.
BAM PPP Portfolio financial performance
At year-end 2018, shareholders equity invested by BAM PPP 
totaled €75 million (2017: €68 million). BAM PPP invested €22 
million and transferred €13 million to the BAM PPP PGGM joint 
venture in 2017. BAM PPP does not invest in projects until their 
structural completion, with the shareholders’ equity part being 
financed with a bridging loan.
Committed equity is €145 million, all by the joint venture.
27
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe invested and committed equity totaled €219 million. New 
projects will mainly be undertaken by the joint venture.
The future asset flow is based on the expected inflow of cash from 
the concessions portfolio for the shareholders’ equity (dividends, 
interest and repayment). The discounted value of this future cash 
inflow is the directors’ valuation and totals €261 million (2017: 
€229 million).
A comparison of the directors’ valuation and the discounted value 
of the invested and committed equity results in an unrealised 
value of the portfolio of €75 million (2017: €75 million).
18 -  Portfolio financial performance 2018  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
Nominal Discounted
Invested equity 75
Committed equity 145
Total invested and committed 
equity (a) 220 186
Future equity cash flows (b) 812 261
Implied forecast unrealised 
value in the portfolio (b)-(a) 75
Reinforcing a  
Dutch icon, the 
Afsluitdijk dam
Levvel, a consortium of BAM, Van Oord and Rebel, has 
started work on the reinforcement of the Afsluitdijk. The 
DBFM contract with Rijkswaterstaat has a net cash value 
of approximately €550 million, 46 per cent of which is for 
BAM (and its partner PGGM). ‘Rijkswaterstaat is looking 
forward to the collaboration with Levvel. The 
consortium’s design is smart and robust and honours 
Lely’s legacy,’ said the government agency’s Director 
General Michèle Blom. Cornelis Lely was the statesman 
and civil engineer behind the creation of the Afsluitdijk 
dam in the early part of the 20th century. 
‘Being part of this iconic project is fantastic,’ said BAM 
PPP’s Project Director Carlo Kuiper, who was involved in 
the tendering process together with his colleagues of 
BAM Infra, Van Oord and Rebel. ‘We are offering the best 
price-quality ratio, based on smart solutions and proven 
technology.’
The contract comprises the design, construction, 
financing and maintenance of the seawall over a 25-year 
period. Kuiper: ‘The Afsluitdijk does not only function as a 
flood barrier, it also plays an important role in 
discharging water from the IJsselmeer into the Wadden 
Sea. In order to increase discharge capacity, we have 
chosen to build additional drainage sluices and new 
pumping stations.’
28
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementInfrastructure asset 
management
The Netherlands
One of BAM Infra’s many projects for its client Rijkswaterstaat, 
the Dutch government agency responsible for the main 
infrastructure networks, involves the management and 
maintenance of three highways in the Middle Netherlands 
region.
29
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvManagement summary
BAM aims for zero accidents. While the IF BAM (Incident Frequency) 
target was not achieved in 2018, despite a declining trend, the Group is 
continuously making progress. In the history of BAM, 2018 was the first 
year with zero fatalities, as well as a year where IF BAM has never been 
lower. The Group is working hard on fostering a genuine and strong 
safety leadership culture within senior management. Nevertheless, to 
achieve this ambition the Group’s strategic objectives are to create the 
right environment for knowledge-sharing and learning, enhancing 
leadership, culture and behavioural performance throughout the 
organisation, create a uniform safety reporting, build relationships and 
create interaction with all stakeholders.
Where we can improve: BAM believes that all accidents are 
preventable. People tend to make errors, but erroneous actions should 
not result in injuries. This is one reason why safety should be 
emphasised in the planning of any human – working or living – 
environment. One of the leading ideas is to learn from those accidents 
that have occurred and to take corrective actions to prevent similar 
accidents occurring again. Learning from accidents and near-miss 
situations but also from best practices and positive developments 
helps people to react to similar situations in the future. Accident 
investigations is a crucial learning tool. Workplaces with positive 
pro-safety attitudes carry out similar investigation to near-miss cases 
as they do for actual accidents. Mental health, stress and well-being 
are a growing concern for BAM as well. BAM will increase the focus on 
health related matters in the construction sector in the coming years.Social value for BAM 
BAM’s activities have an impact on local communities, occupants 
and other users of buildings and infrastructure and society as a 
whole. BAM aims to create sustainable environments that 
enhance people’s lives. This chapter describes how all social 
subjects are interrelated and how BAM actively collaborates with 
all stakeholders to create long-term (social) value. Without any 
doubt health and safety is the most important element of our 
social performance: we want every employee to return home safe 
every day. This requires excellent performance from all employees 
and supply chain partners on thousands of construction sites 
every day. The construction supply chain is increasingly complex 
and fragmented and needs active collaboration to manage 
responsible supply chain management, human rights and ethical 
business conduct. The Group increases intellectual capital and 
human capital by investing in its employees and in the 
development of the supply chain. BAM recognises the importance 
of groupwide development and implementation of its talent 
strategy, based on BAM’s organisational development and 
strategic objectives. The positive legacy to society is increasingly 
important and is reflected in the programme for enhancing lives: 
making a real and positive difference to the lives of people with 
whom BAM comes into contact through its work. 19 - Ambition: to offer added value to clients, employees, business partners and the community
Targets Performance in 2018 Progress
• Fully incorporate safety in daily activities to achieve a  
BAM incident frequency (IF BAM) of ≤ 4.0 for 2018 and  
of ≤ 4.0 for 2019.IF BAM of 4.2 (2017: 4.6).   
• Leadership development programme for top business 
management in 2019.Several design sessions were organised. However, a more 
detailed programme design has been postponed due to the 
One BAM transformation process.  
• Olympus: project management development programme 
for top project managers in 2018.Also in 2018 the Olympus leadership programme was 
organised for three new groups. From the start in 2017, 140 
project directors participated in this leadership journey.  
• Enhance one million lives in local communities by 2020. For the first time in 2018, all operating companies have started 
to report on the number of lives they have enhanced. In this 
report some Enhancing Lives activities are included. In 2019 
we will focus to improve data quality and include actual 
numbers in the report.  3.2 Social performance
30
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementStress
HandAsbestos
DSErSun
Breathe
ListenDermatitis
LeadHazardous
substancesSilica FatigueLeptospirosis Manual handling
20 - Health and Safety - Health risks at work.
Art Fund Museum 
of the Year 2018
Tate St Ives, Cornwall
Designing and constructing a new gallery space has doubled 
the size of the existing Tate Gallery in Cornwall. BAM 
Construct UK refurbished and extended the space in the 
existing gallery, which improved visitor facilities and learning 
spaces. BAM removed large volumes of Blue Elvan rock from 
the tightly restricted site and put in place several retaining 
walls and temporary structures, as well as diverting existing 
services. We created a Cornish Features landscaped roof. The 
building won Art Fund Museum of the Year 2018.
31
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvHealth and safety
Creating the right environment for knowledge-sharing and 
scalable learning in BAM’s complete supply chain is most 
important to reach the Group’s safety targets (See chapter 2.3 
Stakeholder engagement and material themes). This is done by: 
• Strengthening the operating companies to develop leadership 
and behaviour by carrying out safety behaviour audits (SBAs); 
  Every operating company will have at least one Safety 
Behaviour Audit (SBA). The number of safety-related activities 
per operating company is based on turnover (one per €350 
million, rounded up) and performance. The worse the result on 
the lagging indicator (incident frequency: IF), the more control 
is needed and the more SBAs will be planned. The better score 
on the leading indicator (SBA), the less control is needed, but 
the more commitment to share excellent performance is 
expected. Across the Group, 15 SBAs took place in 2018. 
• Recognition of performance by carrying out and follow-up on 
the safety exchanges (SEs); 
 The Safety Exchange or Safety Review is like a Peer Review and 
will have focus on a debate for challenging and learning 
(theme’s from the maturity model). It is a dialogue between 
two Operating Companies and they have to find out together 
what’s going to work best. This will result in a customised 
knowledge exchange. Across the Group, 7 SEs took place in 
2018. 
• Strengthening BAM’s (safety) culture supported by uniform safety 
communication processes, modern methods and channels; 
 On Tuesday 26 June 2018 , BAM launched one uniform, global 
safety campaign for all of BAM under the slogan ‘Your Safety is 
My Safety’.
• Improving the safety performance: IF BAM < 3.5 in 2020. 
 IF BAM (Incident Frequency) is determined by the total number 
of industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million 
hours worked on construction sites (all BAM site employees on 
own work and joint ventures on risk). In 2018 IF BAM decreased 
to 4.2 (2017: 4.6), which is above the 2018 target of 4.0. Safety Exc hange 
proc essSafety Behaviour
Audit proc ess
Determine
visitor and host
by CSO  
Appointme nt of
champion to
organise exchange 
Purpose, agenda
and out comes 
agreed b y par ticipants   
Visitors should be 
operational but yet 
inﬂuential colleagues
Hosts should be
the ‘believers’ 
Follow-up
will be monitoredShort and simple report. 
Outcomes will be shared
widelyImprovement plan 
with corrective actions 
and areas that require 
special attentionAssessment
(audit) 
Interview questions, 
assessment of records 
and compliance analysis 
on site
Benchmarking
and sharing outcomeClose out
and ﬁnal score 
Report21 - Safety  -  A safety activity (SA) can be a safety behaviour 
audit (SBA) or a safety exchange (SE)
32
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThis safety approach is established to continuously improve BAM’s 
safety performance and to meet strategic targets.  
Rewarding excellence
Safety behaviour audits (SBAs) will make excellence count and 
reward (safety) innovations. By disclosing the results through the 
safety portal, safety excellence becomes visible to other operating 
companies with an emphasis on continuous improvement within 
organisations and throughout the Group. 
Safety Behaviour Audit (SBA) scores focus on three areas: safety 
climate, management system and site conditions. In 2018, overall 
SBA performance stabilised on 72 per cent.  Figure 21 shows the 
audit process in detail. 
Excellent performance in leading and lagging indicators (IF) by 
group companies will result in less control by Royal BAM Group’s 
safety behaviour audits, but should increase commitment to share 
excellence performance by organising a safety exchange. A safety 
exchange, or safety review, is like a peer review and focuses on a 
debate for challenge and learning, which are themes from the 
safety maturity model. It is a dialogue between two operating 
companies that want to kwow what works best. This will result in 
a tailor-made knowledge exchange. 
Good practices:  
sharing and learning across the Group 
BAM Nuttall supports Time 2 Talk Day, which was held on 
1 February 2018. This is a day when everyone is encouraged to 
have a conversation about mental health. BAM Nuttall wants 
everyone who works there to feel they can be open about their 
mental health and ask for support if they need it. BAM Nuttall also 
has Mental Health & Wellbeing Champions and an Employee 
Assistance Programme (EAP) which is available 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, 365 days a year. The EAP gives advice and 
support by telephone and one to one sessions with a trained 
counsellor.
BAM Infra Nederland organises a ‘Silver and Gold hard hat 
Competition’ every year to award colleagues with good initiatives 
for improving our safety standards.
BAM International completes a global, safety related survey every 
year. Most organisations limit themselves to objective assessments, 
while BAM International realises that subjective indicators can 
provide valuable information that, when used effectively, can 
continuously improve the company. The key element of the survey 
(and its results) is to provide an insight into company perceptions 
and subsequently to target areas they can improve.
Safety and digitalisation: SAFER is BAM International’s digital 
system to streamline everything related to health and safety.
Many of BAM’s sites in Ireland award a ‘Crew of the Month’ prize 
to say ‘thank you for working safely’.22 -  Good practices  - Themes for knowledge-sharing with 
leading companies
How to drive culture change
Tone at the top
Testimonial
(personal commitment)
Responsibility/
accountability
Proud on being safe
(not a burden)
Chronic Unease Mindset
in managing Safety Risks
33
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementYour Safety is
My Safety
Indonesia
A BAM International team in Indonesia during BAM’s ninth 
Worldwide Safety Day, 9 October 2018. The theme was ‘Your 
Safety is My Safety’, building on BAM’s uniform global safety 
campaign which was successfully launched earlier in 2018. The 
goal is to raise safety awareness, eliminate fatalities and reduce 
accidents by taking individual responsibility and working 
closely together. 
34
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvJelmer Gr olleman
Planner BAM InfraVISIT BAMSAFETY .COM I WANT YOU 
TO BE SAFE
Launching a new 
worldwide campaign: 
Your Safety is My Safety
 
Mark Lockwood, Head of Health and Safety at BAM 
Construct UK, toured the country for a Your Safety is 
My Safety tour. He visited English Martyrs School in the 
North East, the Centre for Student Life in the Western 
Region and Laurus Cheadle Hulme School in the North 
West to start conversations with the teams about how to 
reduce lost time incidents in our high risk areas of slips, 
trips and falls and manual handling. Mark Lockwood 
said: ‘It’s great to see our sites around the country 
embracing the new groupwide safety campaign. I have 
been impressed with the standard of housekeeping and 
how well our teams engage with our supply chain on 
high risk issues.’
BAM Plant is now offering standardised, branded Your 
Safety is My Safety PPE across the business, including a 
ladies range. Jason Reed, Director of BAM Plant, said: ‘The 
new PPE will help strengthen the One BAM ethos we’re 
striving towards, as it will create a consistent look 
throughout the business. Your Safety is My Safety is clearly 
an important campaign and integral to our day-to-day 
operations, and the new PPE helps to emphasise that.’
One global safety campaign for all of BAM
In June 2018 , BAM launched one uniform, global safety campaign 
for all of BAM under the slogan Your Safety is My Safety.
The goal of the campaign is to demonstrate that safety is not only 
a shared responsibility of all BAM employees themselves, but also 
of BAM’s supply chain partners, such as subcontractors, suppliers 
and clients. In total, some 100,000 people. BAM wants all 
employees to return home safely at the end of the day. This means 
zero accidents and that can only be achieved through a joint 
approach. That’s why BAM encourages everyone to address one 
another when you see an unsafe situation, report incidents so that 
we can learn from them and to actively help in preventing 
dangerous situations.
Worldwide BAM Safety Day 
Building on the successfully launched uniform global safety 
campaign, the theme for the ninth Worldwide BAM Safety Day 
was: Your Safety is My Safety. BAM needs to raise safety 
awareness, eliminate fatalities and reduce accidents. Only by 
taking individual responsibility and working closely together, will 
we be able to achieve this. Your Safety is My Safety captures these 
elements as it reflects BAM’s collective responsibility. Creating a 
culture where we feel free to speak up when we see an unsafe 
situation and actively help to prevent dangerous situations, starts 
with an open dialogue around safety. And that’s exactly what took 
place during this year’s Safety Day: honest conversations between 
co-workers. To add a personal touch and visualise what Your 
Safety is My Safety means in BAM’s daily practice, BAM organised 
a so-called Safie campaign. Staff was encouraged to upload a 
photo or short video of e.g. co-workers who stand for great safety 
performance, good examples of a safe situation on site/at the 
office, enroute to work or at home, or of lessons learned. The 
entries will help further enliven and enrich BAM’s safety story. 
23 -  Group incident frequency (IF BAM)  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated) 
2014 2015 2016 2018 2017
4.2
(lost days 4,279)
35
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSerious accidents
BAM is highly committed to prevent all incidents. BAM feels 
responsible for all people who are involved in or are influenced by 
the activities of the Group. This includes BAM’s employees, 
clients, engineers, partners, suppliers, subcontractors and 
members of the public. Despite the fact that zero fatalities 
occurred on BAM sites in 2018, the number of serious accidents 
(BAM employees, hired, subcontractors’ employees, or other) 
stabilised at 121 in 2018 (2017: 119). An accident is classified as 
serious when an employee is admitted to hospital for more than 
24 hours or results in electrocution (with enter and exit mark on 
the body), amputation or a fracture. 
24 -  Incident frequency (IF BAM) by country  
(x €1 million, unless otherwise stated)
0510202530
Ireland 0.6 (lost days: 7)United Kingdom 1.2 (lost days: 89)Germany 8.4
(lost days: 269)
Rest of the world 0.7 (lost days: 226)Royal BAM Group 4.2
(lost days: 4,279)
2014 2016 2017 2018 2015Belgium 23.8
(lost days: 1,920)
The Netherlands 5.7
(lost days: 1,768)
Setting minimum health management requirements
More insidious than the fatal and serious industrial accidents is the 
number of employees with a health damage or a long-term illness 
that has been caused or worsened at work. Many of these diseases 
manifest themselves only years after exposure and many are 
ultimately deadly. BAM believes that all injuries, deaths and 
illnesses can and must be prevented. BAM is in the process of 
setting minimum health management requirements. Within 
ENCORD, Europe’s forum for industry-led research, development 
and innovation in the construction industry, the Group has put 
research and development in the field of quartz dust and asbestos 
inhalation, diabetes and skin cancer on the agenda.Organisational development and employee 
engagement
 
Building the present, creating the future from a human 
resources perspective requires harmonised and modern ways of 
working, standardised and automated processes across all 
operating companies, leveraging self-service and a platform that 
provides (predictive) people analytics and reporting. With this 
strategy HR will support the business with timely attracting the 
best people in the market, whilst ensuring a competent and 
engaged work force that will be Building the present, creating 
the future. 
- BAM People
The strategy that leads us to One BAM is reflected in the 
implementation of BAM’s HR system BAM People. BAM People is 
the new standard within BAM and in 2018 a large number of 
employees started working with it. This path will be continued in 
2019 with companywide implementation. BAM People contributes 
to the achievement of BAM’s strategy through uniform processes, 
digital collaboration, unambiguous reports and access to 
personnel data everywhere and at all times for everyone.
- BAM Panel
BAM employees are intensely committed to their work and proud 
to work for BAM. They have confidence in their managers. These 
are some of the outcomes of the first groupwide analysis via BAM 
Panel, the online poll that has been held among employees of all 
operating companies. The engagement measurement allows 
everyone to share their thoughts and minds four times a year. 
Operating companies make individual analyses and take its own 
measures towards improvement. Looking at trends in BAM Panel 
allows BAM to make predictions about future behaviours of its 
employees.
- Spring and autumn meetings
During two meetings, one in spring and one in autumn, more 
than one hundred staff from all parts of the Group gathered in 
Amsterdam to discuss the strategy and share best practices. The 
spring meeting was devoted to BAM’s 2018 Operating Plan, ‘Focus 
to perform together’. Through facilitated work sessions the 
participants shared knowledge and exchanged ideas about 
– among other topics – a uniform large project approach and 
high-performing teams. ‘One BAM Acceleration’ was the central 
theme for the 2018 autumn meeting, elaborating on the required 
acceleration in terms of strategy execution and financial 
performance and updating staff on the various strategic 
programmes.
- European Works Council
The first meeting of the BAM European Works Council (EWC)
took place on 4 September 2018. BAM considers the contribution 
of all its works councils to be very valuable to its business 
operations. By the establishment of the EWC employee 
participation on a European level can take place in a consistent 
and both practical and workable manner.
36
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSupporting 
International 
Women’s Day 2018 
On 8 March, BAM International celebrated International 
Women’s Day 2018 – themed ‘#Press for Progress’ – at 
its sites and offices around the world. The objective of 
the event was to support the growing diversity in BAM’s 
own workforce and to support women in their career 
paths to higher positions worldwide, both of which are 
among BAM International’s key targets. 
The operating company’s CEO George Mazloumian said: 
‘In my view, the best team is a balanced team consisting 
of men and women. And on top of that, also of a variety 
of ethnical backgrounds.’ BAM will continue its efforts to 
improve gender balance and ethnic diversity within its 
organisation. It will focus on appointing talented women 
at all levels of the organisation and in all departments, 
including – and especially – in technical positions.
Recruitment
BAM strives to diversify its workforce and find potential talent 
with different capabilities, various degrees of experience and 
different genders, age, nationalities and cultural backgrounds. 
Together, they can help BAM mirror its client base and execute its 
strategic agenda. 
Through BAM’s recruitment website www.bamcareers.com and 
recruitment campaigns, BAM continues to target talent and to 
maintain our position as an employer of choice in a scarce labour 
market. The platform showcases the stories of employees, BAM’s 
projects and innovations, and our vacancies worldwide. It is 
another positive step towards better knowledge and expertise 
sharing across the Group and supports BAM’s search for the best 
fitting talent. Furthermore, BAM’s recruiters continually evaluate 
and improve on applicant experience.
Diversity and inclusion
BAM believes that a company with diverse teams at all levels and 
disciplines is made stronger by the different perspectives that 
such diversity brings. This is reflected in BAM’s vision and values 
employment and development processes. BAM supports local 
and national initiatives that want to create opportunities for all 
groups, particularly those who may not have considered civil 
engineering as an accessible career choice. BAM considers there 
to be significant business benefits from integrating equality, 
diversity and inclusion in day-to-day business practice and are 
determined to eliminate discrimination and disadvantage within 
the workplace.
BAM’s inclusive approach means that all stakeholders are treated 
with fairness, dignity and respect. BAM aims to avoid being 
adversely influenced or prejudiced in any way by an individual’s 
age, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, race, 
colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, disability (both physical 
and mental), religion or belief, working patterns, caring 
responsibilities, pregnancy or trade union membership. In the UK 
BAM PPP, BAM Construct UK and BAM Nuttall, have joined forces 
with Building Equality, an alliance of 19 construction and 
construction-related companies working together to drive 
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT+) inclusion in the 
construction industry. More on diversity in the composition of 
BAM’s Executive Board and the Supervisory Board can be found in 
Chapter 5.1 (Corporate Governance).
Learning and development
Over the past year BAM has been developing two business 
leadership programmes to complement the existing project 
management programmes Olympus and Everest. In August the 
Enterprise Leaders Programme, for directors and managers and 
the Future Leaders Programme, for young professionals identified 
as talent with management potential were launched.
The programmes will provide participants with the practical and 
behavioural tools they need to successfully lead their teams and 
the business in line with the BAM strategy and values. They will 
37
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAn impulse to 
diversity
 
The more diverse the workforce, the greater the success 
of a company. In order to give an impulse to its diversity 
policy, BAM recently organised an international event at 
Schiphol Airport, where representatives from all 
operating companies discussed developments related 
to the issue.
‘This is about much more than the male/female balance. 
That remains a point of attention, of course, but also in 
terms of ethnicity, educational background, work 
experience, sexual orientation and age groups. The 
motto is: the more diverse, the better,’ said Niels 
Scholten, manager of the Tender Desk. He was one the 
people behind the initiative. ‘What we learned is that 
good things are happening within BAM, but there is 
room for further improvement. Together we are 
working towards an even more diverse company, where 
all are welcome and all can feel safe and involved.’
25 -  Female/male employees by region  
(in % of total employees) 
2018 2017
Netherlands 13/87 12/88
United Kingdom 26/74 25/75
Belgium 13/87 12/88
Germany 22/78 21/79
Ireland 21/79 23/77
Rest of the world 7/93 6/94
26 -  Employees per gender by employment type  
(in %)
  
 2018  2017  2018  2017
Full-time 94 95 58 57
Part-time 6 5 42 43
27 -   Employees per employment contract  
by gender in 2018 (in %)  
 Permanent contract Temporary contract
87 13
89 11
28 -    Employees per employee category  
by gender in 2018 (in %)
Senior 
managementMiddle 
managementOperational 
staff
6 10 18
94 90 82
29 -  Employees by age group  
(in %) 
Age group 2018 2017
<20 1 1
20-29 14 14
30-39 24 25
40-49 25 26
50-59 26 25
≥60 10 9
38
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management31 -   Annual total compensation by country  
 (in ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s 
highest-paid individual to the average annual total compensation 
for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual))
2018 2017
Ratio of percentage
Increase ratio ratio
Netherlands -4% 12 13
United Kingdom -13% 6 7
Belgium -45% 3 6
Germany -23% 5 7
Ireland 1% 6 6
Rest of the world -14% 27 30
Business conduct and transparency 
BAM is committed to being an ethical company and to live up to 
the highest standards of honesty and integrity in the way BAM 
does business with clients, suppliers and each other. BAM’s code 
of conduct includes principles and guidelines. Furthermore, there 
is an independent Speak up line and procedure for employees to 
report suspicions of misconduct. New employees must sign a 
statement in which they acknowledge to comply with this code as 
part of their employment contract with BAM. An e-learning tool is 
used to train and remind employees of these values and 
standards. The training is available in English, German, French and 
Dutch and is mandatory for new white-collar BAM employees. 
Furthermore, BAM’s blue-collar employees are trained by so called 
tool box meetings. BAM strongly believes in a targeted approach 
for the different working groups within the Group to achieve 
optimum understanding and adaptation. 
BAM’s Governance, Risk and Compliance has further harmonised 
and streamlined the compliance activities. In 2018, BAM has 
embedded the new privacy regulation in Europe (GDPR). 
Therefore, BAM developed new policies, completed data 
inventories, performed data privacy impact assessments and 
arranged data protection agreements with relevant 3rd parties. 
Furthermore training and awareness has been rolled out on the 
changes in regulation, including an e-learning. There has been 
extensive communication via newsletters, e-learning and 
classroom sessions. The global compliance community has been 
working extensively on implementing these new requirements. 
Potential cases of misconduct are discussed on a quarterly basis 
with the Executive Board and every six months with the Audit 
Committee. No material incidents have been reported by 
operating companies to BAM’s head office with regard to the code 
of conduct. Furthermore, on a yearly basis the effectiveness of the 
management approach is assessed and improvement activities are 
captured in the Operating Plan of the GRC function.give participants the opportunity to work with colleagues from 
throughout the Group, building relationships across all BAM’s 
Operating companies, encouraging collaboration and cross-
fertilisation of ideas that will help develop an One BAM attitude 
and mind set. The programmes are designed with a blended 
learning approach, using experiential learning and with personal 
case studies at the heart of the programmes. 
The Olympus programme has continued in 2018, with a total of 
106 project managers and tender managers involved in large and 
complex projects now having attended. Building upon the success 
of Olympus, BAM has developed a complementary programme for 
project managers of less complex projects. 
The Everest Programme provides the same focus on personal, 
team and project leadership as Olympus, but also relates this to 
the ten critical phases of a project. After a successful pilot in the 
Netherlands, BAM is in the process of including the BAM Uniform 
Project Approach in the Business leadership programmes. Early 
next year the Everest programme will be made available across 
the Group and will facilitate the development of all those involved 
in project management. 
30 -  Average hours of training per employee  
(in hours)
2014 2013 2015 2016 2018 201715
13
10152025
Annual total compensation by country
In 2018, the annual total compensation ratios decreased in most 
countries of operation. This indicates that the gap between the 
highest paid individual and the average annual total compensation 
for all employees decreased. Some German and Belgian senior 
managers were replaced in 2018 which explains the heavy decrease 
in salary ratio.
The relatively high ratio for BAM’s international business can be 
explained by the fact that Dutch management members work 
together with local workforce. BAM International’s figures are 
relatively volatile due to the difference in salary standards at the 
project locations / areas.
39
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementpractices. On 26 November 2018 a social audit was carried out by 
BWI and trade union FNV at the Museum of the Future project in 
Dubai. No anomalies were detected in any of the areas that have 
been assessed by the BWI. A report, issued by BWI, confirms that 
there is an extensive safety programme on site, employment is 
freely chosen, there is no discrimination in employment, child 
labour is not used, working hours are not excessive and working 
conditions are decent. These topics are considered as main risk 
areas and are monitored and assessed in the audit.
Combatting slavery
BAM is committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking 
throughout our operations and those associated with our business. 
Modern Slavery is a also key issue for BAM and its supply chains. 
BAM is partner member of the Supply Chain Sustainability School 
(www.supplychainschool.co.uk), where help and advice is freely 
available to assist suppliers within the construction industry. 
Combating slavery is not a standalone issue, but one that is part of 
BAM’s approach to ensure that people are with dignity and respect, 
that goods and services are purchased responsibly, that transparency 
is promoted and that business is done with the highest professional 
and ethical standards. With the BAM Speak Up procedure, BAM has 
an adequate ‘whistleblowing’ process, which encourages to report 
on all suspicions of misconduct. 
Supply chain management
BAM is involved in many stages of the construction value chain, 
from development, engineering and construction to maintenance 
and operation. Large supply categories for BAM are among others 
concrete works, steel construction, mechanical & electrical 
engineering and facades. Construction materials like steel, concrete 
and asphalt are typically sourced close to the sites from preferred 
suppliers. BAM’s supply chain partners are also organised closely to 
the constructions sites and are mainly active in the Netherlands, 
United Kingdom, Belgium, Ireland and Germany.
In 2018 BAM has progressed its procurement strategy that aims to:
• Improve processes, develop people and systems;
• Strengthen partnerships with suppliers;
• Increase early involvement of procurement;
• Leverage BAM scale and expertise.
BAM completed the roll out of a Group spend and contract tool 
(Bravo), which enables BAM to have a global overview of all suppliers 
and subcontractors. This allows BAM to monitor and strategically 
manage its supply chain. BAM aims to strengthen partnerships by 
creating trustworthy and sustainable relationships with vendors. 
Strong partnerships result in more (BIM) innovations and creativity 
to create competitive advantage, better capacity management in 
the market, early collaboration in tender phase and lower total cost 
of use. In 2018, preferred partnerships are established for ready-mix 
concrete in the Netherlands to enhance low carbon and circular 
concrete. To increase early involvement of procurement in projects, 
BAM developed a project procurement strategy as part of the 
strategic initiative UPA (uniform project approach). Key work packages 
in a project are assessed, based on 3 different partnering approaches Corruption Perception Index
The Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is calculated annually by 
Transparency International, which focuses on the strict application 
of the UN Convention against Corruption. The CPI classifies 
countries according to their perceived level of corruption on a 
scale from 0 to 100. In 2018, two home markets (Germany and the 
United Kingdom) scored exactly 80 in the CPI, since these 
countries represent a high construction turnover for BAM. The 
explains the shift from last year. BAM obtains the 98  per cent  of its 
turnover in countries with a very low or low risk of corruption.
32 -   Revenue according to Corruption Perception Index  
(in %)
Very low risk
CPI >80Low risk
80≥ CPI >60Average risk
60≥ CPI >40High risk
40≥ CPI >20Very high risk
CPI ≤20144058
1 10
151617 14151617 14151617 14151617 1415161701020304050607080
18 18 18 18 18
Human rights 
BAM integrated its policy to protect human rights in the code of 
conduct. In addition, BAM underwrites the importance of the 
International Finance Corporation in particularly the labour and 
working conditions and to promote a sound worker-management 
relationship. BAM believes by treating its workers fairly and 
providing them with an extensive safety programme on site, 
avoiding discrimination in employment, not using child labour, 
paying fair wages, giving attention to education and training, 
creating healthy- and decent working conditions, that this creates 
tangible benefits, such as enhancement of efficiency and 
productivity of our business. 
In 2006, BAM and the international federation Building and Wood 
Workers’ International (BWI), signed a framework agreement to 
promote and protect employee’s rights. As part of ‘doing things 
right’ and taking responsibility, BAM facilitates an annual BWI visit 
to a project to audit local working conditions on human right 
40
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management
41
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv
All for Pride
United Kingdom
This year BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall and BAM PPP joined 
forces with the UK construction industry under the banner of 
‘Building Equality’ to support Pride London and Manchester 
Pride. We created a joint social media campaign as we want as 
one BAM supported by branded flags, T shirts and badges.
Pride supports the LGBT+ community and its events are 
attended by people who may identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender, or allies who may not identify themselves in any 
of these ways. 
James Wimpenny, Chief Executive, comments on BAM’s 
involvement: ‘I am supporting Pride because as a company we 
are working to create a more inclusive and diverse culture in 
BAM.’
#BuildingEquality  |  #PrideMatters
Pride
United Kingdom
This year BAM Construct UK, BAM Nuttall and BAM PPP joined 
forces with the UK construction industry under the banner of 
‘Building Equality’ to support Pride London and Manchester Pride. 
We created a ‘One BAM’ social media campaign supported by 
branded flags, T shirts and badges. Pride supports the LGBT+ 
community and its events are attended by people who may 
identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or allies who may 
not identify themselves in any of these ways. James Wimpenny, 
Chief Executive of BAM Construct UK: ‘I supported Pride because 
we are working to create a more inclusive and diverse culture in 
BAM.’BAM decides how to the tender. Using a uniform approach BAM 
maximises its leverage on scale and expertise.
BAM uses the Bravo tool to measure supplier performance in order to 
generate benefits and savings across the Group. During project 
preparation, implementation and follow-up, the tool assesses 
suppliers against the themes safety, quality, total cost, logistics and 
engineering and process. On a scale of 1 to 4, each supplier has to 
score at least 3 for each criterion. In 2018 a total of 872 supplier 
performance assessments were carried out (2017: 538). Also Bravo 
supported BAM’s supplier assessment for BIM Level 2 and contributed 
to certification of the company.
Enhancing lives
BAM will play its part in addressing social issues at local and global 
level. To structure its efforts on community engagement, 
BAM launched its ‘Enhancing lives’ programme in 2016. 
Enhancing lives is about increasing, augmenting or adding value to 
peoples’ lives. BAM aims to enhance lives of people with whom BAM 
comes into contact through its activities and connections with local 
communities. This involves supporting people and communities by 
giving them an opportunity to increase their personal aspirations, 
support broader social ambitions and meet their needs. As part of its 
strategy, BAM has set a target of enhancing 1,000,000 lives by 2020. 
This includes:
• Connecting with, Improving and Transforming the lives of people 
BAM works with – both externally and with regard to our own 
employees;
• Focus on education and skills, employment, charity and 
community engagement;
• Recognising that this is the right thing to do and that it adds value 
to BAM’s business through enhanced reputation, greater skills 
and diversity within the workforce.
In order to start measuring the social value, BAM has started a 
steering group to understand the maturity in different operating 
countries and to develop a consistent methodology and reporting 
framework (roadmap). Ultimately, BAM  wants to demonstrate the 
added value it provides to society through its operations. 
All Operating Companies began to monitor Enhancing Lives 
activities in 2017. The activities varied from one operating company 
to another as some focused on local communities, others on 
training or wellbeing and others on volunteering. BAM has decided 
to sort different activities into categories to improve consistency in 
reporting. Defining what activities contribute to enhancing lives is 
an ongoing process. For the first time in 2018, all Operating 
Companies have started to report on the number of lives they have 
enhanced. This has allowed the steering group to start to 
interrogate the data and assess which activities are enhancing lives 
the most and enhancing the most lives. This has led to changes in 
Support for  
Lombok orphanage
BAM International has initiated a campaign in support of 
the earthquake-stricken orphanage of the Peduli Anak 
Foundation on the Indonesian island of Lombok. 
Buildings of the orphanage were severely damaged by 
last August’s earthquakes and their aftershocks. 
Immediately following the first quake, BAM 
International consulted with the Foundation and sent 
emergency supplies such as tents, blankets and 
ready-to-eat food.
BAM International’s involvement with the Peduli Anak 
Foundation began two years ago, when its subsidiary 
BAM Decorient became a partner in the construction of 
family homes for the children of the orphanage.
BAM colleagues who wish to lend their support can do 
this by making a donation to the Peduli Anak 
Foundation.
For more information, please visit www.pedulianak.org.
42
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementthe categories to ensure the most life enhancing activities are 
focus areas for BAM:
Example 1 - ‘Meet the buyer’
‘Meet the Buyer’ type events was previously a category defined as 
“events providing knowledge and skills to SME’s, local organisations 
and Social Enterprises to help them develop, grow and provide 
opportunities for the people they support”. However, most reported 
examples are business as usual, namely events which were held to 
attract new suppliers/sub-contractors. Therefore, the ‘Meet the 
Buyer’ category is removed from the list of categories. 
Example 2 - ‘Site visits’
In some cases a site visit may involve closing site operations and 
opening it to visitors up to 10,000 people to come onto the site, 
whereas others refer to a 2-3 hour visit to site for a group of 
people (usually between 10 and 30 people) where the project 
team prepares a detailed presentation tailored to the group. To be 
able to differentiate between different types of visits, the 
category ‘Site visits’ now refers to the large visits, and the smaller 
more focused visits are categorised as ‘Education Support’.
Community engagement progress
In 2018, local community engagement programmes that measure 
and manage the impact of building projects on the local 
environment were implemented in 33 per cent of BAM’s projects. 
These were initiatives as part of existing programmes, such as the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme (CCS) and ‘Bewuste Bouwers’, 
as well as unique initiatives of engagement managers on projects 
and site-specific sponsoring or charity work.
Considerate Constructors Scheme and ‘Bewuste Bouwers’
CCS fosters good communication with the local community and 
promotes professionalism on building sites. BAM Construct UK 
and BAM Nuttall sites registered under the CCS scheme are 
monitored to ensure that they comply with the Code of 
Considerate Practice developed to promote good practice, going 
beyond legal requirements. Additionally BAM Construct UK is a 
Partner of the CCS. In the UK 81 projects were registered in 2018 
and 22 awards were won, 3 gold, 11 silver and 8 bronze.
Based on the success of the UK Considerate Constructors Scheme, 
BAM was one of the companies that introduced the scheme 
Bewuste Bouwers in the Netherlands in 2009. After five years of 
BAM participation, Bewuste Bouwers decided to involve BAM in a 
further roll-out of the scheme. During 2018, 74 sites were 
registered under the scheme in the Netherlands (2017: 79).
Social Return
For most public sector clients in the Netherlands Social Return On 
Investment (SROI) is a key element in the tender requirements and 
project delivery. By SROI is meant in general: help people who have 
difficulty in finding a job to gain employment. In order to support 
the projects and to gain insight in requirements and status BAM 
Infra uses the tool WIZZR-BIZZ for reporting on SROI. BAM Infra is 
currently implementing this tool in all projects with a SROI 
requirement and has currently registered 18 projects.Enhancing Lives in action 
2018 saw a year of progress towards understanding the types of 
enhancing lives activities which BAM are delivering. Having laid 
the foundations for all operating companies to understand what 
enhancing lives means, all companies started to report in 2018. 
This has allowed the sustainability community the opportunity to 
interrogate these numbers and ask the questions: Which activities 
is BAM really proud of? Which activities really enhance lives? 
The provided examples start to tell the story of how BAM is 
enhancing lives, with the above questions in mind. There is a 
clear focus on education and sharing the knowledge and 
experience BAM’s employees have gained in their careers. 
Through its activities, BAM aims to add value in addition to 
enhancing lives by strengthening the skills of our workforce and 
helping to develop the workforce of the future. 
Example 1:  – No of lives enhanced: 47
Depth of impact  –  Improving (possibly some transforming if 
refugees get into employment or education) 
Category   – Volunteering / mentoring 
Details:  Helping refugees together with New Dutch Connections 
(29 BAM volunteers and 18 refugees): During nine evening sessions 
and two site visits a group of refugees acquired a better 
understanding of the construction industry. They were also helped 
with practical problems and they could practice the Dutch 
language. The benefits were felt by the refugees as they gained 
confidence, skills, contacts and knowledge. For the BAM 
employees involved, this was a new experience which allowed 
them to develop mentoring skills and gain a deeper understanding 
of issues affecting local and wider communities.
Example 2: – No of lives enhanced: 10
Depth of impact  – Connecting and Improving 
Category   –  Education support (connect),  
Work Placements (improve) and  
training/qualification (improve) 
 
Details:  Working in partnership with Hub West Scotland and 
through the delivery of the new build Blairdardie & Carntyne 
Primary School projects, BAM delivered an introductory 
employability programme called Ready Steady Girls Construct! 
The programme focused on attracting female pupils into the 
construction industry by providing industry insight, training, 
employability skills and work experience. The programme was 
delivered over a ten-week period to a group of ten female pupils 
from Lourdes Secondary School in Glasgow. 
During the programme, pupils gained access to industry talks  
and awareness raising sessions, practical demonstrations on  
site, site visits, a college taster day, an SVQ Level 1 qualification, 
employability skills and a real life work experience placement. 
BAM created a detailed timetable of activities which we felt 
maximised the students’ learning and exposure to industry.
43
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementVictory Boogie 
Woogie tunnel
Rotterdamsebaan, The Hague
BAM Infra connects for the future, in innovative and 
sustainable ways. It all comes together in the 
Rotterdamsebaan project. We are building the new road 
for the City of The Hague, including what is planned to 
become the most sustainable tunnel (Victory Boogie 
Woogie) of the Netherlands. Sustainable solutions 
include solar panels that provide part of the tunnel’s 
energy and dust filters at the tunnel’s entrance and exit: 
the ‘fine dust reduction system’. Road surfaces are 
created using sustainable LEAB asphalt, and noise is 
reduced mechanically.
44
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvManagement summary
BAM’s CO2 footprint strongly depends on BAM’s project portfolio. 
Due to an increase in civil engineering projects, BAM’s reduction in 
CO2 emissions remained slightly behind the company’s 2020 reduction 
target. In order to still meet this ambitious target, BAM needs to 
accelerate CO2 reduction initiatives and measures in the coming years. 
2018 provided more examples of ‘zero carbon products’ and ‘circular 
projects’ initiated in parts of the company. The Group aspires to scale 
up these successful initiatives and roll out more products and projects 
throughout the business.
BAM managed both to reduce the amount of construction and office 
waste and to increase share of construction and office waste being 
recycled or reused. The improved performance reduces waste 
management costs and the environmental burden, and brings the 
company closer to its goal of zero construction and office waste to 
landfill and incineration by 2025. 
BAM increased the completeness of its sustainable timber analysis in 
2018, yet there are still parts of the business where there is limited 
insight in sustainable timber use. BAM will continue to focus on 
improving the completeness of reporting and procurement of 
sustainable timber to be able to source 100 per cent sustainable 
timber by 2020.Sustainability strategy
BAM aims to have a net positive impact on the environment and 
people in the long term (towards 2050), by collaborating with the 
supply chain, encouraging innovative and digital thinking through 
our products, and realising benefits of circular business models. 
This chapter describes BAM’s performance towards creating a 
sustainable built environment from an environmental perspective. 
The sustainability strategy emphasises both climate change 
(climate positive strand) and resource constraints (resource 
positive strand). 
BAM is preparing for a low-carbon economy and needs to reduce 
its own emissions as well as supply chain emissions. BAM has a 
large impact on reductions in life-cycle carbon impact of buildings 
and infrastructure (through material selection, design and/or asset 
management), deploying renewable energy systems or energy 
reduction measures for our clients or communities. 
The company is working towards a circular economy and believes 
the industry will be able to leave a positive legacy to the 
environment if they are able to work from reversible designs that 
are regenerative. BAM has made significant progress on reducing 
construction waste by becoming more efficient, utilising off-site 
manufacturing and by working with its supply chain to eliminate 
waste throughout the life cycle of its projects. 33 - Ambition: to achieve a net positive impact on climate and natural resources
Targets Performance in 2018 Progress
•  To achieve 25 per cent relative emissions reduction scope  
1, 2 and 3 (employee travel) by 2020 (base year 2015).BAM reduced its CO2 intensity by 13 per cent compared 
to 2015.  
• To be included in the CDP Climate A List Leadership Index  
by achieving performance band A.BAM achieved leadership status on CDP’s climate change 
benchmark in 2018 and performance was rated A-.  
• Deliver at least one product or service contributing  
to wider emissions reduction (zero carbon product).BAM delivered two projects in 2018: the collaborative project 
for the ArenA battery at The Johan Cruijff Arena and BAM 
Infra’s proposals for 21 innovations on the N211.  
• Recycle or re-use 100 per cent of construction and office 
wasteBAM reduced the amount of construction and office waste to 
landfill and incineration to 35 kilotonnes (2017: 48 kilotonnes).  
• Deliver at least one BAM circular project, product  
or service in each operating company by 2020.BAM PPP delivered product life extension of existing lighting 
solution at Cheshire Police.   
• Source 100 per cent sustainable timber by 2020. BAM increased the completeness of its timber analysis to 
79 per cent. Of the covered timber, 94 per cent is certified 
sustainable.  3.3 Environmental performance
45
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementClimate positive
BAM aims to have a net positive impact on the climate by 2050, by 
reducing its own carbon emissions and helping others to reduce 
emissions more widely. This means BAM will: 
• Reduce the energy it uses by digitalising its business and by 
improving the efficiency of its operations.
• Use as much power, fuel and heat from renewable or non-
polluting sources as possible.
• Work with clients and supply chain partners to reduce carbon 
emissions in the value chain.
• Bring low or zero carbon products and services to the market to 
scale up its positive impact.
BAM monitors its carbon footprint by measuring its carbon 
emissions using the greenhouse gas (GHG) protocol. The GHG 
protocol defines three scopes for greenhouse gas accounting 
and reporting purposes. BAM includes greenhouse gas directly 
emitted from the company’s own activities (scope 1), indirect 
emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling 
(scope 2) and indirect emissions up- and downstream in the value 
chain (scope 3). BAM reports all material scope 1 and 2 emissions 
and scope 3 employee transport emissions.
34 -  CO2 emissions intensity  
(in tonnes per €1 million revenue)
23.2
CO2 reduction target: 25% reduction in 2020 vs. 201513 14 15 16 17 18 1926.8
20
35 -  Total absolute CO2 emissions  
(in kilotonnes)
193
Scope 3 (employee transport) Scope 1 Scope 214 15 16 17 18
Joining the Car 
Free Challenge
BAM Belgium participated in the European Week 
of Mobility by means of a Car Free Challenge. 
By supporting the challenge we underline our 
ambition to a net positive future, facilitate team 
bonding, reduce the number of cars on the roads 
and parking lots. It raises the awareness to 
continue BAM’s efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. 
BAM is convinced that the week of mobility is a 
starting point for awareness of cleaner mobility. 
The aim is to encourage BAM colleagues to not 
only carpool, take public transport, cycle and/or 
walk during this particular week, but also to 
continue doing this throughout the year.
46
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe largest source of carbon emissions lies in BAM’s construction 
sites, this is further sub-divided into 'building' and 'civil engineering', 
of which the latter is by far the most carbon intensive. In 2018 
absolute emissions from construction sites increased by 11 per cent 
due to a shift in revenue towards civil engineering activities and a 
high carbon output on a limited number of heavy civil projects. This 
is also shown by the CO2 emissions per sector (  figure 36), where 
the increase in CO2 emissions only occurs in civil engineering. BAM 
continues efforts to reduce the reliance on diesel and gasoil on 
construction sites, this is led by steering groups in the business and 
best practices are shared throughout the Group. These efforts 
include an early connection to the grid and more efficient 
equipment, and helped to reduce BAM's CO2 intensity despite the 
slight shift towards civil engineering activities.
37 -  CO2 emissions per source  
(in kilotonnes)
Vehicle 
ﬂeetAir
travelAsphalt
plantConstruction 
sitesOfﬁces141516171814151617181415161718141516171814151617183095
657
5
BAM supports its clients to reduce their footprint and environmental 
impact. In 2018, 19 per cent of BAM’s revenue, approximately  
€1.4 billion (€1.6 billion in 2017), came from projects that have  
been registered with third-party green building or sustainable 
construction rating organisations, such as the US Green Building 
Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
standards, the UK’s Building Research Establishment Environmental 
Assessment Method (BREEAM), Germany’s Passivhaus standards and 
other objective and third-party standards or BAM’s green building 
products. 
BAM has again obtained a leadership status on the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) climate change benchmark (score A-). This global 
ranking evaluates the corporate efforts to address and mitigate 
climate change. The index is produced by CDP, the international 
NGO that promotes sustainable economies, at the request of over 
650 investors (representing more than a third of the invested capital 
in the world). Information provided by more than 7,000 companies 
has been independently assessed on the basis of the CDP scoring 
methodology and ranked accordingly. BAM is recognised for its 
actions to reduce carbon emissions and assessing the potential role 
of climate change on the business strategy and performance. Since 
2012, BAM has been a leader in transparent reporting on impact on 
climate change issues. BAM supports the focus on more ambitious 
targets to drive longer-term progress towards a low-carbon future.To reduce direct impact on climate change, BAM has set a target to 
reduce CO2 emission intensity by 25 per cent by 2020 compared to 
2015 levels (scope 1, 2 and travel-related scope 3). The CO2 intensity 
decreased to 26.8 tonnes per million revenue, a 5 per cent reduction 
to 2017 and a 13 per cent reduction to 2015. The company is slightly 
behind in meeting its 2020 target of 25 per cent reduction to 2015. 
Absolute CO2 emissions increased by 4 per cent to 193 kilotonnes 
(2017: 186 kilotonnes), which is mainly caused by the higher revenue 
and corresponding increase in construction activity.
BAM’s energy intensity was 0.38 TJ per million revenue (2017: 0.40). 
To reduce its carbon footprint, BAM continuously initiates energy 
reduction measures. This is driven by both its own policies and 
the European energy efficiency directive (EED), a set of binding 
measures to help the EU reach its 20 per cent energy efficiency 
target by 2020.
In 2018, emissions from BAM’s offices decreased by 18 per cent 
compared to 2017, as a result of the merging of offices throughout 
BAM, a continued focus on energy efficiency improvements across 
BAM operations and the procurement of green electricity. In 2018, 
BAM used 123 kWh per square metre in its buildings in the 
Netherlands (2017: 119 kWh). The CO2 emissions intensity of BAM’s 
office buildings in the Netherlands was 13.7 kilograms CO2 per 
square metre (2017: 13.1).
The emissions from BAM’s vehicle fleet, which account for 29 per 
cent of BAM’s total CO2 emissions, increased by 3 per cent compared 
to 2017. The increase is smaller than the rise in revenue and activity, 
as BAM continues to pursue a more efficient and sustainable vehicle 
fleet. In 2018, BAM updated its leasing policy in the Netherlands 
promoting low-carbon driving with a range of measures. BAM 
furthermore deploys electric vehicles to reduce fuel consumptions, 
carbon emissions and improve air quality. Electric driving is 
promoted and employees are financially incentivised to choose 
smaller and more fuel-efficient cars (below 90 grams per kilometre). 
More than 4.6 million kilometres were driven in 2018 by the 
company’s fully electric cars and plug-in hybrid cars (4.2 million 
kilometres in 2017). 
36 -  CO2 emissions per business line  
(in kilotonnes)
PPP and 
otherCivil 
engineeringConstruction 
and Property14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 1830161
2
47
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementScope 1
DirectScope 2
IndirectScope 3
Indirect
Employee
transportLeased
vehicles
Purchased goods
and services
Use of
sold productsFuel
consumptionGas
consumptionGrid
electricityCO2 In 2018, BAM further improved its assessment of scope 3 emissions 
in collaboration with a third party. The assessment showed that the 
majority of the emissions in the value chain are scope 3 emissions 
and improved the understanding of BAM’s wider climate change 
impacts. The areas ‘purchased goods and services’ and ‘use of sold 
products’ contribute most to BAM’s scope 3 emissions and BAM 
started to engage with suppliers exploring reduction measurements 
focusing on these areas. In 2019, BAM will continue to engage with 
suppliers, partners and clients in order to further develop a strategy 
and action plan to enhance its scope 3 carbon emissions 
measurement and reduction initiatives. 
38 - CO2 emissions per scope  
In 2018, BAM developed its science-based target to ensure 
CO2 reduction is in line with the latest climate change science. 
The target is set for 2030 and provides a pathway towards the 
long-term climate positive ambition. In 2030, BAM targets to: 
• Reduce scope 1 and scope 2 CO2 intensity by 50 per cent  
compared to 2015
• Reduce scope 3 CO2 emissions by 20 per cent compared to 2017 
(the first year BAM estimated its entire scope 3 emissions).
BAM aims to have its target accepted by the Science Based Target 
Initiative by April 2019. BAM also plans to develop more tangible 
performance indicators related to embodied CO2 of key materials 
(concrete, steel and asphalt) to update its scope 3 reduction 
target in 2020. These new performance indicators will also help to 
more effectively engage with suppliers to reduce CO2 emissions in 
the ‘purchased goods and services’ area. 
Building the first 
climate-positive 
road
The N21, a provincial road between Westland and 
The Hague, has been reconstructed with a special focus 
on climate change. On a 2.5 kilometre stretch, 21 
innovations have been implemented that reduce CO2 
emissions. The N211 is the busiest provincial road in 
the country, with around 70,000 vehicles per day. 
BAM is saving 14,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions during 
the project, taking the full life cycle of the road into 
account. During construction only 4,000 tonnes were 
emitted. Innovations include application of sustainable 
asphalt, heat storage systems, many PV panels and the 
use of low-carbon materials such as timber. BAM’s 
client, the province of Zuid-Holland, set an ambitious 
goal to become carbon neutral in a few years. This road 
serves as a blueprint for the construction of other 
provincial roads.
 
48
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementResource positive
BAM strives to achieve a net positive impact on resources by 2050, 
eliminating waste over the life cycle of developments by the way it 
designs and builds projects. 
BAM aims to preserve raw materials and resources over the life 
cycle of our built environment and deliver projects using safe, 
healthy and natural materials. BAM intends to: 
• Eliminate wasteful construction practices, and deliver projects 
that will produce less waste in operation 
• Promote the circular economy by using products and materials 
than can easily be maintained, reused or repurposed in the 
future, avoiding low grade recycling wherever possible
• Procure materials from certified responsible sources.Circular economy
BAM’s activities in pursuing the objectives of the circular economy 
in 2018 included: 
• Collaboration with Horizon 2020’s BAMB (Buildings as Material 
Banks) by assisting with the detailed design requirements of the 
Green Transformable Building Lab and developing a 
methodology to calculate the social value metrics attributable 
to Circular economy business models
• The organisation by BAM Construct UK of a series of circular 
economy supply chain workshops. BAM is working as an advisor 
on circular economic opportunities for the Greater London 
Authority (GLA) planning policy guidance in the UK
• Involvement in committees and programmes: 
 -  The Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100 programme
 -  London Waste and Recycling Board (LWARB), supporting 
organisation for the Advance London Accelerator programme to 
promote Circular economy investments and funding streams for 
start-up companies in the field of construction
 -  Glasgow Chamber of Commerce, ‘towards a circular city’ 
participant organisation
 -  The Green Construction Board Circular Economy working group. 
BAM PPP 
delivered product life 
extension of existing 
lighting solution at 
Cheshire Police. BAM uses 
performance contracts 
to ensure that clients 
achieve agreed output 
levels.BAM 
is trialling mobility 
as a service concepts 
where users no 
longer own a product 
but rather pay per 
use (shared bikes and 
electric cars).VALUE RECOVERY CIRCULAR INPUTS
PRODUCT-SERVICE SYSTEM
SSHARING PLATFORMS
PRODUCT LIFE EXTENSIONCIRCULAR
BUSINESS MODELSBAM 
continued to 
develop it circular 
asphalt (LE2AP) and 
paved 26,000 tonnes 
on provincial 
roads.
BAM 
completed the 
largest energy storage 
system powered by 
Nissan LEAF second-life 
batteries in the 
Johan Cruijff 
Arena.BAM 
developed 
a minimum viable 
product for a circular 
marketplace for 
construction 
materials.39 - Circular Business Models
Circular procurement
In collaboration with the VMRG (Association for Metal Window and Facade Industry), BAM is developing a circular facade 
proposition to clients. The proposition is based on reuse of facade products. The manufacturer remains the owner of the end 
product. The VMRG and BAM have identified a project in which the ownership model can be applied. 
A second project is a circular elevator solution where it is no longer necessary to own the product. This solution M-Use captures 
the desired and agreed performance contractually. Maintenance takes place on the basis of actual use and predictive insights 
where performance is guaranteed for 40 years. The materials used are recorded in a materials passport which enables reuse of 
parts at any moment in the service life. The M-Use is operational in the Circular Pavilion of ABN Amro.
49
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementIn addition to the above, BAM has developed a minimum viable 
product for a circular building platform (CBP) together with IBM. 
The CBP serves as marketplace for supply and demand of used 
construction materials or assets. BAM wants to stimulate circular 
business models within the construction industry and is currently 
discussing opportunities for its development with key stakeholders.
Waste 
BAM’s waste typically consists of excavation, demolition, 
construction and office waste. In 2018, BAM saw an increase in 
the excavation and demolition waste, mainly in the Netherlands, 
Ireland and Germany. BAM considers excavation and demolition 
waste to be less relevant indicators of operational performance 
and sustainability as these types of waste are present at sites 
before BAM takes on a project. BAM has limited impact in the 
amounts of this waste types and it is merely a part of BAM’s 
business model to efficiently reuse or remove these materials.
BAM focuses on construction and office waste as indicators of 
operational performance, since these outputs are based on the 
Group’s own processes and procurement. All construction and 
office materials are initially brought to BAM’s sites and offices on 
its behalf, in contrast to excavation and demolition waste. In 2018, 
BAM reduced its construction and office waste by 4 per cent 
compared to 2017, from 134 kilotonnes to 129 kilotonnes. The 
construction and office waste intensity was reduced to 17.9 
tonnes per million revenue (2017: 20.3).
A large contribution to this year’s reduction was due to the 
completion of several large construction projects in the United 
Kingdom and in BAM’s International activities. Efficiencies in 
BAM’s production process were achieved through the use of 
prefabricated building elements. Moreover, digital construction 
technologies are helping to reduce construction waste by 
integrating material use in the early design stage.
BAM has set an objective to improve the separation of construction 
waste and to completely avoid landfilling and incineration by 2025. 
In 2018, 14 per cent of BAM’s construction and office waste, a total 
of 18 kilotonnes (2017: 39 kilotonnes) was landfilled or incinerated. 
40 - Material consumption in the Netherlands 
Consumption 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Ready-mix concrete m³ 286,000 265,000 189,000 173,000 208,000
Timber m³ 28,000 32,000 23,500 19,000 19,500
Asphalt t 1,500,000 1,400,000 1,450,000 1,300,000 1,250,000
Steel t 79,000 73,000 54,000 61,000 72,500
Recycled content
Ready-mix concrete % 10% 12% 18% 15% 12%
Timber % 2% 1% 3% 1% 0%
Asphalt % 42% 40% 42% 37% 41%
Steel % 64% 63% 71% 72% 66%41 -   Total waste production per source  
(in kilotonnes)
14 151,485
700
123 6
16 17 18 14 1516 17 18 14 1516 17 1814 1516 17 18
Ofﬁce
wasteConstruction
wasteDemolition
wasteExcavation
waste
42 -  Construction and office waste production per  
destination category (in kilotonnes)
14 15 16 17 18
Recycling / re-use
Incineration with energy recovery
Landﬁll and incineration without energy recovery129
50
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe large reduction of landfilling or incineration is largely the result 
of an increased share in waste to energy incineration. By engaging 
with its waste contractors, BAM pursues to improve the waste 
treatment process and further reduce landfilling and incineration.
BAM also managed to increase the recycle rate of its construction 
and office waste to 93 per cent in 2018 (2017: 87 per cent) by 
engaging with waste contractors and increasing waste separation 
ratios. In 2018, 28per cent of the Group’s construction waste in the 
Netherlands was separated, compared with 23 per cent in 2017. 
Construction materials 
BAM has identified the quantities of materials used in its 
construction projects in the Netherlands since 2011. The Group 
has identified the main categories of procured materials as shown 
in  table 40. The material quantities and recycled content are 
based on supplier data, industry averages and data from BAM’s 
asphalt plants.
Sustainable timber 
BAM considers sustainable timber a valuable construction material 
to support the transition to a circular economy. BAM signed a 
covenant with FSC Netherlands in 2007 and committed to 
exclusively use certified sustainable timber, as the use of sustainable 
timber supports forest conservation and biodiversity and helps to 
combat climate change. In cooperation with FSC Netherlands, BAM 
continues engage with suppliers to encourage them to improve the 
identification and reporting of certified timber. 
BAM has reported on certified sustainable timber use in the 
Netherlands and the United Kingdom for many years. In 2018, BAM 
also started to report certified timber use in Belgium and for BAM 
International, increasing the coverage (based on revenue) of BAM's 
operations to 79 per cent. In the Netherlands, BAM requests 
information from suppliers on the application of certified timber 
twice a year. The supplied information covers 82 per cent of all 
timber use in construction works carried out by BAM in the 
Netherlands, but does not include timber consumption for 
subcontracted projects. Based on the information received from 
16 Dutch suppliers, BAM estimates that 99 per cent of its timber 
use was certified (84 per cent FSC and 10 per cent PEFC). 
43 - Certified sustainable timber use by BAM Group
65% 65% 68% 65% 79%96% 98%98%98%94%
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Sustainable timber
Organisational Coverage
ArenA battery wins 
prestigious 
environmental award
On 12 November 2018, the Green Organisation in London 
announced that Amsterdam’s Johan Cruijff ArenA had won 
the prestigious Green Apple Award for Environmental Best 
Practice. This smart energy storage system consists of 
re-used batteries from electric cars and provides the 
stadium with a reliable source of renewable energy, even 
if the city’s grid were down. The Johan Cruijff ArenA is one 
of the most sustainable stadiums in the world.
ArenA’s future plans for the battery includes sharing its 
capacity with neighbouring venues, such as Ziggo Dome 
and AFAS Live, as well as with the residents of Amsterdam 
South-East. The total storage capacity is 3 megawatt, 
enough to power several thousand households.
In addition, the ArenA battery makes an important 
contribution to the stability of the Dutch energy network, 
by helping to balance the demand of supply of energy. 
At peak demand, for instance during music events, the 
battery reduces the strain on the grid. When supply 
peaks and there is still some room in the storage system, 
excess energy from the grid can be used to top up the 
ArenA battery. The battery also ensures maximum 
utilisation of the energy generated by the 4,200 solar 
panels in the ArenA’s roof.
This unique project is the result of a collaborative effort 
by Nissan, Eaton, BAM, The Mobility House and Johan 
Cruijff ArenA, supported by AKEF (the City of 
Amsterdam’s climate and energy fund) and Interreg.
51
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management92,500Net positive environmental impact
€15,500 € 31,500 €
45,000 € 500 €
Climate change mitigation  Health loss mitigation  
Materials savingEnergy saving
Notes:
-   Scope includes production, transport and end-of-life treatment. The paving process and the use phase are not taken into account.
-   Compared LE2AP ‘Fluisterfalt 8/16 PA-Stone’ to ‘Fluisterfalt 11/16 Bestone 30 per cent PR’.44 -  The positive environmental impact of the applied LE2AP in 2018 compared to conventional asphaltIn the United Kingdom, the origin of certified sustainable timber 
from both FSC and PEFC sources is registered in BAM’s online data 
monitoring system BAM SMART. In 2018, 98 per cent of timber 
used in the United Kingdom was from verified legal and 
sustainable sources, of which 91 per cent was delivered with full 
FSC or PEFC Chain of Custody certification. BAM Belgium started 
measuring its sustainable timber use in 2018 by engaging with 
their suppliers: 69 per cent of its timber use was certified (PEFC). 
BAM International started to measure its timber use in the Middle 
East, Asia Pacific and Africa: based on supplier reports, BAM 
estimates that 19 per cent of its timber use was certified.
In 2018, BAM obtained leadership status on the CDP forest timber 
benchmark (score A-). This global ranking evaluates the corporate 
efforts to address and mitigate deforestation and forest 
degradation. The company is recognised for its business strategy 
to only use certified sustainable timber, transparent reporting and 
progress towards achieving this target. 
Asphalt production 
The production of asphalt is a process that typically requires large 
amounts of natural resources and energy. BAM developed a 
low-energy asphalt concrete (LEAB, after the Dutch name: ‘laag 
energie asfalt beton’), an innovative type of asphalt that requires 
less energy and fewer natural resources and results in lower CO2 
emissions than conventional asphalt. In 2018, BAM applied 
69,000 tonnes of LEAB (6 per cent of the total asphalt production).
Following the ambition to further reduce the environmental 
impact of asphalt production, BAM continued the development 
and testing of low energy and emission asphalt pavement (LE2AP) 
with support of the EU LIFE+ program. LE2AP is the next circular 
milestone towards developing silent (sonic) and sustainable roads 
that optimise traffic flow. It is produced and paved at a low 
temperature of 80 degrees Celsius and reduces traffic noise by an 
average of 7 decibel. In 2018, the application of LE2AP was tested 
at two provincial roads in the Netherlands, for which 26,000 
tonnes of LE2AP was used. The use of LE2AP saved more than 400 tonnes of CO2 compared to the use of conventional asphalt 
(15.7 kg CO2 per tonnes asphalt) and reduced the environmental 
impacts related to asphalt production  (  figure 44).
In 2018 BAM and Heijmans announced that they would investigate 
the possibility to transfer their current asphalt plants in the 
Netherlands to a new joint asphalt company. By establishing the 
new asphalt company, the knowledge, expertise and investments 
in innovation of both companies can be combined. Increasing 
sustainability of the asphalt chain is an important objective, from 
lowering CO2 emissions to circularity and reuse of raw materials 
and semi-finished products. Collaboration offers opportunities to 
make better use of the available capacity and to improve the 
utilisation rate of the asphalt plants, aimed at efficiency and 
better returns. 
Water 
The availability of freshwater is a relevant environmental topic for 
BAM, mainly in the United Kingdom. In 2018, construction sites 
and offices consumed 124.000 cubic metres of potable water in 
the United Kingdom (2017: 138.000 cubic metres). Water use on 
projects is volatile, depending on the need of water-intensive 
activities such as drilling and hydro-demolition. BAM aims to limit 
its water consumption by implementing water recycling or rain 
water harvesting as much as possible where high volumes are 
predicted. 
45 -  Potable water usage in the United Kingdom  
(x 1,000 m³ )
2014 
251,000 m32015 
198,000 m32016 
177,000 m32017 
138,000 m32018 
124,000 m3
52
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management92,500Net positive environmental impact
€15,500 € 31,500 €
45,000 € 500 €
Climate change mitigation  Health loss mitigation  
Materials savingEnergy saving
The future
Museum of the Future, Dubai 
The Museum of the Future is a unique initiative by 
HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum that 
explores the future of science, technology and 
innovation and will be located near the Burj Khalifa. 
In addition to becoming a major tourist destination, 
the museum will offer advanced courses and 
specialised workshops, as well as public talks and 
events. BAM International expects to deliver the 
museum to Meraas Holding by mid-2019.
53
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvHuman resources 
BAM continues to face a tight labour market, especially in the field 
of technology. The Group’s challenge to find technically skilled 
people increases. This will be addressed in BAM’s employer 
branding approach, in which specifically defined key target groups 
are made aware of relevant job opportunities and employee 
stories via recruitment marketing activities. Simultaneously, the 
Group continues the development of its employees by offering 
learning and personal development programmes. To understand 
the needs and interest of BAM’s employees, regular engagement 
surveys are held, and actions are defined based on the outcome. 
BAM focuses on fostering an attractive company culture to offer 
talent a rewarding career. The workforce will develop in line with 
expected market developments.
Financing and investments 
BAM expects no material changes in the financing structure of the 
company in 2019. BAM expects investments in strategic and 
project specific equipment in normal course of business. 
Outlook 2019 
For 2019, we expect the revenue to be around €7 billion and aim 
to further improve the adjusted result before tax margin within 
the strategic target range of 2 to 4 per cent.
Executive Board 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 19 February 2019Markets
In the Netherlands, the residential construction and property 
market for new build homes is charactarised by high demand, 
however growth in the supply of new build homes remains 
constrained by availability of permitted locations. The volumes at 
non-residential construction continues to improve. The pressure 
in the supply chain is ongoing. Both markets are benefiting from 
transition to more energy efficient buildings. At civil engineering 
volumes have started to grow, but the risk and reward balance 
remains challenging. 
The non-residential and civil engineering markets in the United 
Kingdom are relatively stable. Brexit uncertainty remains. 
In Germany, construction and civil engineering markets are stable 
with a positive outlook especially for public infrastructure. 
The Belgium civil engineering market is growing slowly, however 
with postponements of major projects. The Walloon region 
remains at a low level. The construction and property market has 
a mixed picture; the private market is supportive and the public 
market is stagnating. 
In Ireland, residential and non-residential construction continues 
to improve. Civil engineering is stable with a limited number of 
larger projects coming to the market. 
The international oil and gas market is still at a low level and some 
investment decisions coming through. 
The market of Public Private Partnerships offers opportunities in 
most of BAM’s home markets and selected international markets.
Sustainability
BAM sees the effect of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate 
change through national and European regulations. To align with 
the Paris Agreement and climate change science, BAM has 
developed a Science Based CO2 reduction Target (SBT) in 2018, 
focusing on bringing down BAM’s own emissions and helping 
other parties in the value chain to reduce their emissions. BAM is 
involved in many industry bodies to respond to the global 
challenges of climate change mitigation, resulting in greater 
demand for more energy efficient and energy positive solutions. 
Linear consumption patterns (‘take-make-dispose’) of products 
are coming up against constraints on the availability of resources. 
The construction sector needs to develop new opportunities and 
realise circular economy ambitions faster, which requires 
rethinking, redesign and innovative construction methods. BAM 
continues to develop its own medium to long term response to 
climate change and implementation of its sustainability strategy 
to have a net positive impact in the long term.3.4 Outlook
54
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDavid Partridge – Argent LLPCoal Drops Yard, King’s Cross
‘By working and learning together
we can solve challenges’
David Partridge is Managing 
Partner of Argent LLP, a leading 
UK property developer 
specialising in mixed-use 
development with a focus on 
placemaking and regeneration. 
BAM is a long-term partner of 
Argent and among other projects 
was appointed to build Coal Drops 
Yard, King’s Cross, London. What is the added value of open 
collaboration in the construction 
industry?
‘If all parties take time to 
understand each other’s risks there 
is a better chance of finding 
equitable solutions in the best 
interests of all stakeholders. 
Honest, open collaboration is a 
two-way process. So I would say 
to contractors: do not be afraid 
to challenge us. It’s important to 
take time to understand each 
other’s drivers as early as possible 
and be courageous and imaginative 
in offering solutions.’
Can you give an example?
‘We involved BAM and their supply 
chain early on, some twelve 
months before the start of our 
project to create an innovative 
retail quarter at Coal Drops Yard, 
King’s Cross, in London. It was 
important that BAM understood 
the risks associated with a listed 
building and the particular 
geometry and interface of a new 
roof that would overarch and link 
the structure of the former yard 
buildings. Early involvement 
enabled BAM to de-risk the construction and to meet key 
dates.’
How can we learn from each 
other?
‘The way we deliver projects 
and the way the construction 
industry works has to change. 
We need to be innovative and push 
the boundaries of traditional 
contracting. By working and 
learning together we can solve 
challenges and continue to deliver 
exceptionally high quality results.’
What are the benefits of 
digitalisation for the construction 
industry?
‘Looking to the future, the linkage 
between design and off-site 
manufacture is key. But without 
digitalisation, design would be the 
weak link. Although BIM has 
become embedded in what we do, 
there is still some work to do to get 
everyone on the same page.’
What is the benefit of 
digitalisation for your 
organisation?
‘Digitalisation enables us to 
innovate. It offers the opportunity to better co-ordinate the design 
and leads to greater efficiencies 
and less waste in the delivery 
process.’
Can you give an example?
‘We are interested in the 
contribution digitalisation can 
make to asset management by 
extending the digital building 
model to include a fully digitised 
building management system to 
enable efficient facilities 
management. We need to 
consider more fully the potential 
of digitalisation in sequencing and 
managing all projects prior to 
executing them.’
What message would you like  
to give BAM?
‘Argent and BAM have had a 
collaborative relationship 
stretching back more than 22 years. 
We want BAM to continue to push 
boundaries and seek ways to 
embrace circular economy 
principles to deliver a more 
sustainable built environment as 
well as utilising digitalisation to 
improve the design, delivery and 
occupier experience.’
55 Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvBuilding information 
modelling
Worldwide
The advantage of building information modelling (BIM) is that 
models are coordinated, making any issues visible early on. 
These can then be resolved in the design phase, which prevents 
mistakes occurring during construction. The implementation of 
the BIM method does require some extra effort, which is why 
BAM ensures support. BIM standards are a key topic of 
discussion and knowledge exchange at the BAM Digital 
Construction Community Table. BAM is also exploring 4D 
(which includes planning), 5D (which includes costs) and BIM 
360 for construction project management in many of its 
projects. A new development is that the model, including all 
product information, is transferred to the operation phase for 
facility management. This was implemented for the first time 
at the Felix Platter-Spital in Basel, one of the first ever BIM 
projects in Switzerland.
Risk management4
56
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvOperational: BAM seeks to limit the risks that may jeopardise the 
execution of its business activities.
Finance: BAM strives to maintain a solid financial position for 
ensuring access to the financial markets and retaining its 
customers, supply chain and other partners. BAM wants to 
minimise its (financial) reporting risks.
Compliance: Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations 
including BAM’s code of conduct is of fundamental importance for 
the Group.
Risk appetite statements are further underpinned by BAM’s 
strategic agenda, governance, core values, code of conduct and 
policies and procedures. 
Improvements to the risk management framework
The enterprise risk management is embedded in different levels of 
the organisation and has various areas of attention. The core of 
BAM’s risk management at project level covers the full lifecycle of 
the project, from opportunity to tendering, and from execution to 
handover. BAM has further strengthened baseline requirements for 
the management of tenders, worked on the development of a 
unified project approach and using more extensively the business 
intelligence from the tender and project database. BAM continues 
to improve its risk management capabilities in order to realise the 
strategic agenda and guarantee value creation in the long term.
BAM’s risk management framework
At Group level, the BAM strategy is the starting point. The Group’s 
strategy offers guidance on focusing the project portfolio (doing 
things better), shaping the business portfolio (doing better things) 
and the creation of the future portfolio (doing new things). These 
areas and underlying strategic objectives and initiatives form the 
basis for the focus on enterprise risk management, taking into 
account BAM’s risk appetite. The Supervisory Board supervises 
and advises the Executive Board, which has the overall 
responsibility for enterprise risk management within the Group. Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the 
Group is exposed is not unusual or different from what is 
considered acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk 
management system is designed to identify and manage risks. 
Effective risk management enables BAM to capitalise on 
opportunities in a carefully controlled way.
Risk profile and appetite
The focus areas of BAM’s strategy Building the present, creating 
the future have a positive impact on the risk profile of the Group. 
In the current project and business portfolio, BAM has a more 
disciplined focus on market segments and projects where the 
company can use either scale or expertise as a critical success 
factor. For the future business portfolio, BAM is rationalising its 
propositions and developing new solutions for clients and is 
investing in digitalisation to be an industry leader in how and what 
BAM builds. The new strategy also places a stronger emphasis on 
cultural values, to further support the brand and the strategy of 
BAM. Risk appetite is defined as the level at which BAM is willing 
to accept risk in the ordinary course of business in order to achieve 
its objectives. The general approach of BAM is to balance risk and 
reward and limit uncertainties as much as possible, taking into 
account the sector in which managing risk is a necessary core 
competence to survive and to carry out sustainable business.
Key factors in explaining the risk appetite are described in 
accordance with the following risk categories:
Strategy: Based on knowledge and experience in the home 
markets, BAM participates in tenders for complex multidisciplinary 
projects, in which the risks are distributed in a controlled manner 
between the customer and BAM. Outside the home markets, BAM 
operates worldwide in niche areas, provided they are in line with 
the Group’s business principles. In PPP investments, BAM only 
invests in Design Build Finance Maintain Operate contracts in 
home markets where payments are based on availability of the 
asset. BAM invests selectively in property development projects on 
condition that they are profitable and have a clear and predefined 
exit strategy.46 - Main risk areas
Market
TransformationSafety
Property 
developmentInnovation Supply chainInformation
technology
PeopleFinancial
Sustainability ReputationStrategic Operational Finance
Compliance
Project
57
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementperiodic reporting also includes a bandwidth for the best and 
worst case scenarios to be reported to management.
The risk management and control system provides a platform for 
the structured sharing of knowledge and expertise between the 
operating companies, so that risk management plays a key role in 
achieving the strategic objectives. Business functions and topics 
across the Group accelerate the process of acquiring and sharing 
knowledge and expertise through a consistent language and 
approach to risk management.
Operating model supporting internal control 
framework
The BAM strategy is supported by the BAM operating model that 
creates clarity and uniformity in the way the company operates. 
All key processes are identified around strategic enablers and are 
aligned with existing core processes in accordance with these 
enablers. BAM has derived its internal control framework from this 
operating model and underlying core processes and uniform 
guidelines and policies (for accounting, treasury, legal, compliance, 
information security, and so on). The internal control framework 
ensures insight in the effectiveness of internal risk management and 
control systems, as well as the reliability of the financial reporting 
and compliance with laws and regulations. Moreover, the internal 
control framework uses COSO as an external reference framework.
Comfort on the effectiveness of the internal control framework is 
obtained by a semi-annual assessment of the requirements in the 
framework. The Group and operating companies carry out 
self-assessments and the results are reported to the Group 
Governance Risk & Compliance function. No significant deviations 
are identified but improvement areas are defined. The most 
important improvement areas are finance, IT, procurement and 
project execution. The results of these self-assessments are 
challenged by the Group and improvement actions are discussed 
and monitored. Furthermore, Internal Audit has challenged the 
results and provided recommendations to further improve the 
effectiveness of the internal control framework.
In control statement process
BAM has a structured ‘in control statement process’, resulting in 
an end-of-year ‘Executive Board statement’ at the end of this risk 
management chapter. The underlying assessments on operating 
company level form the basis for management’s accountability for 
the effectiveness of the internal control framework, together with 
the formal issuance of a statement and letter of representation to 
the Executive Board. Any deviations from the internal control 
framework are highlighted, including identified follow-up actions 
to resolve these deviations.
All operating companies confirmed and signed the letter of 
representation, which supports the Executive Board in their 
assessment of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the 
internal control and risk management systems. Operating 47 - BAM’s risk management framework
MarketRisk
appetite and
managementOperating
modelIn control
statementGroup
Values that guide
our behaviorHow we mana ge
projec t and 
busine ss riskBAM's w ay of
workin g and
monit oringBAM's st ructured
in control proc essOur risk capacitiesOper ating compan y
Projec t
There is an annual risk assessment for the Group in relation to the 
strategic agenda and operating plans.
BAM’s risk management framework, which is based on COSO 
(Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway 
Commission), addresses strategic, operational, financial and 
compliance risks. Risks are assessed and prioritised on their 
impact and probability and on effectiveness of the controls. 
The cycle is concluded with a risk response and monitoring of 
effectiveness in the organisation. The Executive Board receives 
progress updates on the status of the strategic objectives, 
initiatives and leading indicators through dashboards in periodic 
reports and in management meetings. This is also periodically 
shared with the Supervisory Board.
At the operating company level, there is attention to the 
management of processes, the portfolio and projects in various 
phases. The management of the operating companies closely 
monitors the progress of projects, the risks and the opportunities 
and actions going forward in periodic reports and in project and 
management meetings. Furthermore, there is close attention to 
strengthening processes, systems and its people capabilities.
At project level, the project team manages the contract and the 
expectations of customers in the most effective and efficient way, 
by forming the right team that can make this possible and by 
choosing the right tools and capabilities to support them. Digital 
construction is one of the means to minimise risk and cost. In 
addition, project teams manage risks and opportunities, both 
qualitatively and quantitatively, identified in the tendering phase 
as input for the periodic reporting of project performance. The 
58
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementcompanies confirmed that the deficiencies in the minimum 
requirements framework do not have material impact on their 
level of internal control.
Core values supporting the right risk culture
BAM’s risk management and internal control system is supported 
by BAM’s core values. These elements are instrumental in steering 
the behaviour of BAM’s people and help to ensure that BAM’s risk 
profile remains in line with the risk appetite. The Group’s culture is 
further strengthened by scalable learning from tenders and 
projects, more predictable performance, working together in open 
collaboration and ownership of challenges and opportunities. 
BAM’s people are fundamental to its success. This is why project 
and business careers are being aligned. A stronger culture will be 
promoted to make the Group more attractive as an employer and a 
partner par excellence.
Digital construction 
masterpiece
BAM is constructing the new Museum Boijmans 
Van Beuningen depot, which will become an architectural 
icon for the city of Rotterdam. The design of architectural 
firm MVRDV is incomparable to any other building in the 
world. Its unique shape results in double curved 
formwork panels with very high accuracy. BAM is 
convinced that if it weren’t for BIM, the depot could not 
be constructed.
In accordance with BAM’s digital construction vision, the 
project team focuses on optimising building preparation 
and execution. The team on site has been extensively 
trained and uses these models every day, ‘this is how we 
work’. Supported by 3D models (also from co-makers 
and suppliers), they first build the depot virtually into the 
smallest little detail before the actual building is made 
on the construction site.
The team of model builders and colleagues at the 
construction site learn together and learning from each 
other ensures that they can quickly take the next step in 
digitalisation. Knowledge of how to make it and 
technological developments are combined. ‘I believe that 
it is not possible to achieve the next phase of digitisation 
without each other and that collaboration is the essence 
of digital construction,’ says Timothy Lievendag, BIM 
Manager at the project.
Valuable learnings from the project benefit continuous 
improvement, completely in accordance with the One 
BAM philosophy; ‘I share, so we all gain.’
59
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementStage gate 4
Approval ﬁnal
contract
Stage gate 2
Initial 
validation
Stage gate 3
Decision
to bid
Stage gate 5
If won:
reality checkStage gate 1
Decision 
to tenderCategorisation
Tender submitted Contract awardedTender assessment
PQQ
submitted/
partnerships
formedPeer review
Tender
documents
received
Execution Tendering Sales funnel
Project database Stage gate database CRM systems
The tender stage gate procedure also includes several approval 
rounds depending on the risk profile. The procedure follows a 
governance structure based on tender categories to ensure 
tenders are reviewed and approved by the right level of 
management. Bids for major projects or projects involving 
exceptional risk are submitted and presented to the Executive 
Board and – if necessary – the Supervisory Board for approval.
Peer reviews and tender assessments are performed by experts 
from other operating companies in the Group during the tender 
phase of major projects. These reviews mobilise the full 
knowledge of the Group and contribute in robustness of the 
proposal made to the client. Operational audit performs reviews 
of high-risk-projects shortly contract award to assess the 
effectiveness of the project control system.Data-driven tendering 
Extensive tender data have been collected over the years to make 
better data-driven business decisions. Lessons learned from these 
tenders are shared with the management of the operating 
companies, focusing on product type, client relationship, 
geographical location, contract type and preferred partners for 
the tender at hand. Combining this data with project execution 
data ensures even better focus on business development and 
selective tendering. 
Fundamental behind managing a healthy order intake is BAM’s 
tender stage gate procedure (see scheme below). Material tenders 
are guided through various stage gates based on the complexity 
and size of the tender (tender category). Through the process, 
qualitative and quantitative risks and opportunities that may 
impact the success of the tender are considered. Areas considered 
include client, contract, team, work schedule, finance, partners, 
safety, location et cetera.
48 - Tender stage gate procedure
60
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSeveral risk areas and measures have been identified with respect to BAM’s strategic objectives. Follow-up and feedback are part  
of the regular management reporting cycle. The main risk areas are specified on the following pages.
Risk description Possible impact Management measures
Market risk
The markets in which BAM 
operates are subject to fierce 
competition in most of the 
Group’s home markets.Intense competition may lead 
to a buyer’s market, which 
influences margins, causes a 
shift in design and contract 
risks for the contractor and 
endangers the pre-financing of 
projects by customers.Based on the Group’s strategy, BAM applies a more disciplined 
focus on market segments and projects, where it can use either 
scale or expertise as a critical success factor. For its future 
business portfolio, BAM rationalises its propositions, and thus 
develops new solutions for customers and invests in 
digitalisation to be a market leader in how and what BAM 
builds.
Transformation risk
The strategic programme 
Building the present, creating 
the future involves a transition 
to a new organisation, so that 
BAM can follow the 
developments in the sector 
and be a leader in the selected 
markets.BAM may not realise a 
successful and agile 
implementation of the Group’s 
strategic (One BAM) agenda, 
together with other strategic 
initiatives and targets.The Executive Board is closely steering and monitoring the 
progress of the transformation activities as defined in the 
strategic agenda and translated in the yearly operating plans. 
Furthermore, BAM will change the top structure of the 
company in the first quarter of 2019 to bring it more in line 
with the priorities.
Safety risk
The nature of BAM’s business 
can pose safety risks to its 
people. The well-being and 
safety of the people of BAM 
are of vital importance to the 
company.Safety incidents may lead to 
serious injuries or even fatalities 
and may lead to project 
disturbance. Incidents may lead 
to loss of time, additional costs 
and as a result impact BAM’s 
performance.Chapter 9.7 ‘Material themes and management approach’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section 
Health and safety. 
Property development risk
BAM is involved in property 
development for its own 
account. The level and timing of 
both income (sale/rent) and 
costs (site acquisition and 
building costs) of these projects 
may deviate from the initial 
expectations as a result of 
divergent market and process 
(planning/permits) conditions. 
BAM’s capital employed position 
is important to adequately 
finance the projects. Property development projects 
can be postponed or completed 
at higher costs than budgeted. 
Furthermore the realisable 
value of our land bank and 
property development 
positions may be lower than 
book value. This again has 
consequences for the financial 
results (level and duration of 
the capital employed, profit).If the Group intends to take on property development risks, 
this requires the prior consent of the Executive Board. The 
latter takes a decision on the basis of project proposals from 
the relevant operating company and associated analyses 
carried out by the Group’s Property Investment function. 
The general rule is that construction does not start before 
a significant number of properties have been sold or, for 
non-residential buildings, a large part of the project has been 
rented out or sold. However, the United Kingdom – where 
BAM  only operates in the non-residential property sector –  
is an exception to this. There, the inventory risk is mitigated  
by a system of phased project execution. Main risk areas
61
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementRisk description Possible impact Management measures
Innovation risk
The construction industry is at 
the brink of major technological 
changes. Digital technology is 
beginning to change value 
creation within the industry 
where traditional capabilities 
may become commoditised.Competitors or disruptive 
newcomers on the market can 
marginalise BAM’s distinctive 
capabilities and thus jeopardise 
the existing business model.Chapter 9.7 ‘Material themes and management approach’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section 
Innovation.
Project risk
BAM is active in thousands of 
projects where the company is 
exposed to a wide variety of 
risks, in a sector known for its 
asymmetrical risk profile. 
Selecting the right projects 
against balanced contractual 
conditions is crucial.Failure to achieve a healthy 
order intake and flawless 
project execution leads to 
fluctuations in the project 
results, possible claims and 
litigations and ultimately to the 
failure to achieve BAM’s 
strategic objectives.BAM has implemented several measures to manage the project 
risk. The starting point is selective tendering with a focus on 
portfolio management, a robust tender stage gate procedure 
and peer reviews. During the execution phase, much attention 
is paid to achieving operational excellence with, among other 
things, the right composition of the project team, design 
management, schedule management, contract management, 
working capital management and project monitoring.
Supply chain risk
On an annual basis, the Group 
purchases more than 70 per 
cent of its turnover from 
suppliers and subcontractors. 
These partners have a major 
impact on the projects, both 
financially and technically.Failure to manage the cost of the 
supply chain (subcontractors, 
materials and services) and 
insufficient access to qualified 
and cost-effective vendors has 
impact on successful and 
profitable execution of the 
projects.Chapter 9.7 ‘Material themes and management approach’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section 
Procurement.
People risk
Attracting, training and 
retaining talented people is 
crucial for BAM, because it 
enables the Group to respond 
more effectively to changes in 
the market by exploiting its full 
potential. It is essential that 
BAM remains a preferred 
employer.The inability to attract and keep 
the right talent, expertise and 
human capital within BAM will 
have a negative effect on 
success.BAM strives for an open culture of learning and exchanging 
knowledge in the form of training and education, building on  
the available knowledge and expertise. To attract top talent, 
BAM has a professional recruitment team that works together 
with recruitment agencies through advertisements, but also 
with various training institutes. BAM increases the mobility of 
employees between the core businesses. The Group invests in 
the further development of employees through various training 
programmes, including a programme for management 
trainees, project directors and project managers, and prepares 
candidates for key positions to improve (inclusive) leadership.
62
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementRisk description Possible impact Management measures
Information technology risk
Digitalisation, data, 
communication and 
connectivity are essential for 
BAM. A global presence also 
leads to cyber security 
challenges, which require the 
Group to have the flexibility 
to continuously adapt.Information technology is 
crucial in supporting and 
protecting the core and 
supporting processes. BAM 
increasingly relies on digital 
communication, connectivity 
and the use of technology. 
The Group has to remain alert 
to prevent the use of 
compromised data and the 
unavailability, loss or theft of 
critical strategic, financial and 
operational data.BAM aims to improve the maturity of the IT function to keep up 
with external developments. In addition, BAM has increased its 
security efforts to remain resilient to growing cyber risks. This 
includes implementing and testing of confidentiality and 
continuity measures as well as the integrity of data. Training 
and communication increase familiarity with safe IT use among 
BAM people and partners, as this is considered essential. 
Sustainability risk
The construction industry relies 
heavily on natural resources, 
which will be depleted as soon 
as consumption goes faster 
than the natural supplement. 
Global warming and climate 
change cause more frequent 
extreme weather conditions, 
such as storms, heat waves, 
droughts, heavy rainfall with 
flooding and heavy snowfall.Failure to deliver more 
sustainably and innovatively 
could disrupt BAM’s position 
vis-à-vis customers and chain 
partners. Extreme weather 
events and material shortages 
can lead to disruption of the 
building process. BAM has a strong corporate team to support continuous 
improvement and makes considerable efforts to reduce the 
impact on the environment with the ambition to achieve a net 
positive result. To reduce the impact of BAM on resource use, 
the company works with partners in the supply chain and 
customers to explore circular economic business models. 
Financial risk
The attractiveness of BAM as a 
trusted partner to collaborate 
with or to invest in is strongly 
influenced by its financial 
position and the ability to 
manage financial risks.Failure to achieve the status of 
trusted partner may prevent 
BAM from working with 
preferred parties and lead to 
restrictions on access to 
financial markets. BAM’s financing strategy is based on long-term relationships 
with reputable financial institutions and a well-spread debt 
maturity schedule. A strong centralised focus on cash and 
working capital, including financing by clients and suppliers, 
limits the need for extra capital. The company enters ‘equity-
light’ in property development projects and in PPP 
investments. It is the intention of the company to sell these 
projects to investors. 
Specific financial risk management measures, including those 
in the area of interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk are disclosed in note 3 of the 
financial statements. 
Reputation risk
The trust of customers, 
shareholders, lenders, 
construction partners and 
employees in the Group is vital 
to ensure the continuity of the 
company.BAM’s reputation may be 
damaged if it fails to 
successfully mitigate the main 
reputational risks, such as 
fraud, bribery and corruption.Chapter 9.7 ‘Material themes and management approach’ 
describes BAM’s management measures as part of section 
Business conduct and transparency.
63
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementWhat impacted BAM in 2018?
Some risks and uncertainties related to the nature and complexity 
of BAM’s business environment had an impact on BAM in 2018.  
Some examples are given in this section.
Brexit
The United Kingdom is BAM’s second largest home market after 
the Netherlands. BAM’s UK activities are split between three 
operating companies: BAM Construct UK in non-residential 
construction and property development, BAM Nuttall in civil 
engineering and the UK operations of BAM PPP. They are widely 
diversified by location (strong regional presence across the United 
Kingdom), client base (public and private) and market (retail, office 
and industrial construction, and across all civil sectors). The 
operating companies are among the leaders in their markets.
BAM has performed a risk analysis on the potential scenarios, 
ranging from ‘No Deal’ to ‘No Brexit’. The risk analysis covered 
potential impacts from a contract, supply chain, trade tariffs and 
customs, regulation and people perspective, including follow up 
actions to mitigate risks. The primary exposure for BAM in the 
United Kingdom relates to the short-term ‘No Deal’ scenario, 
creating potential changes in the cost and availability of materials 
and consumables, with foreign exchange being a significant 
secondary contributor. Any new insights and developments are 
being monitored.
Asymmetric risk profile
BAM’s performance in 2018 was impacted by an asymmetric risk 
profile, especially on large infrastructural projects within Belgium, 
Germany and the Netherlands. For example, there was an 
additional cost overrun of about €30 million on the project sea 
lock IJmuiden. The new planning showed a delay in realisation of 
the sea lock and additional cost for realisation. BAM continues to 
be selective in tendering for large projects, and is discussing with 
its public sector clients on ways to improve the risk and reward 
balance and contract conditions.
Impairments
BAM recognised an impairment on its assets. There was a 
non-cash property impairment mainly related to a Dutch regional 
land position adjacent to the development of a large wind farm, 
which is now reduced to the value of farmland. Furthermore, there 
is an impairment taken on the deferred tax assets, triggered by 
changes in the Dutch corporate income tax rates and lower 
performance in the Dutch fiscal unity. Resource pressures
There are positive marked developments in most of BAM’s home 
countries. This resulted in supply chain pressure and increased 
labour costs especially in the Netherlands and Germany.
The HR and Procurement functions work closely together with the 
business to ensure that projects are being executed by the right 
people with the right quality. Furthermore, BAM is more selective 
in tendering for the projects the Group can execute in line with 
internal and external requirements.
Safety
This year, BAM did not have any fatal incidents. Although the focus 
on safety remains high, the company still faces incidents at 
project sites. Besides having the knowledge and tools to work 
safely, it is crucial that employees can always communicate openly 
about unsafe situations with each other and their managers.
Accelerate strategy execution
In 2018, BAM concluded that the implementation of the strategy 
required reinforcement. It was decided to change the top 
structure of BAM to bring it more in line with the priorities, as 
stated in the strategy Building the present, creating the future. 
With the appointment of a COO for each of the two business lines 
and a chief business excellence officer, BAM creates more focus on 
its strategic and operational priorities. This leads to more synergy, 
more efficient working, faster innovations and better project 
management, with the purpose of achieving predictable 
performance in line with BAM’s financial targets.
64
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementExecutive Board statement
The Executive Board is responsible for the design and operation of 
the internal risk management and control systems. In discharging 
this responsibility, the Executive Board has made an assessment of 
the effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal 
control and risk management systems (as described in this risk 
chapter). Furthermore, the Executive Board has determined the 
outlook based on market developments, financing (as described 
in chapter 3.4 Outlook) and orderbook and cash flow.
On the basis of this management report and in accordance with 
best practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch corporate governance code as 
adopted on 8 December 2016, and article 5:25c of the Financial 
Supervision Act (‘Wet op het financieel toezicht’), the Executive 
Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge:
• The management report provides sufficient insights into any 
significant failings in the design and operating effectiveness of 
the internal risk management and control systems of Royal BAM 
Group;
• The aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance 
that the financial reporting does not contain any material 
inaccuracies;
• Based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the 
financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; and
• The management report states those material risks and 
uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of Royal BAM 
Group’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the 
preparation of the management report.
It should be noted that the above does not imply that these 
systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the 
realisation of operational and strategic business objectives, or that 
they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and 
non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. Nor can 
they provide certainty that we will achieve our objectives.
Furthermore, the Executive Board confirms that, to the best of its 
knowledge:
• The financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Royal BAM 
Group and of companies included in the consolidation;
• The management report provides a fair review of the position at 
the balance sheet date, the development and performance of 
the business during the financial year of Royal BAM Group; and
• The management report describes the principal risks and 
uncertainties that Royal BAM Group faces.
Wattway:  
solar panels in  
road surface
In a small and crowded country such as the Netherlands, 
room to create solar parks is scarce. In addition, solar 
parks have an impact on the landscape. But the demand 
for renewable energy is high and will only continue to 
grow. And so the quest for space calls for a bit of 
creativity. What if we could use the existing 
infrastructure? 
With Wattway, developed by the French Colas Group, 
BAM Infra is proposing a solution to use the Dutch road 
network as a generator of renewable energy. Wattway’s 
wafer-thin photovoltaic cells are integrated into the road 
surface and covered in a transparent resin. Without 
interrupting the flow of traffic, the solar mats catch the 
rays of the sun to harvest their energy. The natural 
landscape, meanwhile, stays unspoiled.
The first results of a test in the province of Utrecht (on 
the N401 near Kockengen) show that on an annual basis 
a 50m2 solar mat is enough to harvest the energy to 
power a single household. 
A little further down the road, BAM Infra and 
Rijkswaterstaat have set up a second test section. Here, 
Wattway is integrated in the emergency lane. No 
scarcity there: alongside the Dutch motorways the total 
number of square metres runs into the millions. 
65
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementGovernance5
Enhancing lives
M5 Oldbury Viaduct Renewal, United Kingdom
BAM Nuttall is involved in extensive repairs of the viaduct, 
which opened in 1970. For 3km of the M5, to the west of 
Birmingham between junctions 1 and 2, the waterproofing 
system had reached the end of its lifespan resulting in 
deterioration of the reinforced concrete. This is the highest 
investment for a concrete repair project undertaken in the UK, 
and the largest scaffolding project in Europe. 
The project placed importance on enhancing lives in local Black 
Country communities. The BMV team involved recruitment 
experts Think Sandwell and Women into Construction to find 
the right candidates and attract people from all sectors of the 
community, using both traditional and new approaches to 
recruit.
66
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvLegislative and regulatory developments
The latest version of the Corporate Governance Code was 
published on 8 December 2016 (the ‘Code’). By means of a Decree 
dated 29 August 2017 the Dutch government has designated the 
Code as applicable for Dutch companies with a public listing. The 
Code is based on the comply or explain principle and applies as 
from the financial year 2017.
Decree with respect to the contents of the 
integrated report
This chapter reports on the application of the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code at Royal BAM Group nv. Together with the 
information about the corporate governance structure and  
the BAM Corporate Governance Compliance Overview  
(see www.bam.com/en/about-bam/corporate-governance), 
this comprises the ‘Corporate governance statement’ as 
specified in section 3 sub 1 of the Decree with respect to the 
contents of the Executive Board report (‘Besluit inhoud 
bestuursverslag’).
Information about BAM’s corporate governance structure and 
compliance with the Corporate Governance Code (clause 3.1 of 
the Decree with respect to the contents of the Executive Board 
report), functioning of the General Meeting and the rights of 
shareholders (clause 3a sub b of the Decree with respect to the 
contents of the Executive Board report) can be found on the 
company’s website under the corporate governance heading. 
The most important aspects of BAM’s risk and control systems 
(clause 3a sub a of the Decree with respect to the contents of 
the Executive Board report) are available in chapter 4 of this 
Integrated report. Information about the composition and 
functioning of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board 
(clause 3a sub c of the Decree with respect to the contents of the 
Executive Board report) is described in chapters 5.3 and 6.1 and 
the diversity policy for both boards is explained in this chapter and 
chapter 5.1. A declaration with regard to the Decree on Article 10 
of the Takeover Directive (clause 3d of the Decree with respect to 
the contents of the Executive Board report) can be found in 
chapter 5.2.
Corporate governance review 2018
In the year under review only a limited review of the corporate 
governance structure took place due to the extensive review in 
2017, when, following the publication of the revised Code (see 
www.mccg.nl), the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, 
assisted by the Company Secretary, assessed BAM’s corporate 
governance and the consequences of the new Code for BAM.Diversity 
Best practice 2.1.5 of the Corporate Governance Code stipulates 
that the diversity policy for the Executive Board and Supervisory 
Board should be explained in the Executive Board report as well as 
the way that it was implemented in practice, addressing (1) the 
policy objectives, (2) how the policy has been implemented and 
(3) the results of the policy in the past financial year.
As part of the implementation of the new Corporate Governance 
Code in 2017, the Supervisory Board adopted new rules, which 
included an updated profile for the Supervisory Board. In this profile 
diversity aspects are included, providing a clear target for gender 
participation. This target of at least 30 per cent female and at least 
30 per cent male members of the Supervisory Board does not differ 
from the target set in the previous profile. As per the General 
Meeting in 2017 the composition of the Supervisory Board is in line 
with this target, given that two out of six members are female. 
Besides gender, diversity in background, nationality, expertise and
experience in the Supervisory Board is equally important in order to
provide most value. The Supervisory Board meets these diversity 
requirements.
When adopting the new rules and profile for the Supervisory 
Board, the latter resolved that the diversity aspects set in the 
profile for the Supervisory Board will apply equally to the 
Executive Board. Since Mrs Menssen stepped down as CFO of the 
company per 1 July 2018, the composition of the Executive Board 
is no longer in line with the target as far as gender participation is 
concerned. In the search for her successor, the Supervisory Board 
put a lot of emphasis on identifying female candidates. This was 
expressed in the instructions to the external recruitment agency 
and in the subsequent review of the resumes and candidates. In 
the end however, Mr Den Houter turned out to be the best 
candidate for the position.
The diversity policy as described above will apply equally for the 
Executive Committee, once this corporate body has been 
established in 2019. Also here the added value of a diverse 
composition is clearly acknowledged. 
Although the Company strives for a diverse composition of its 
corporate bodies, it should be noted that especially achieving the 
gender target at the executive level is proving to be difficult due 
to the nature of the business and the lack of female candidates 
with sufficient management experience in the construction 
industry. It is therefore difficult to predict when this target is likely 
to be achieved. To achieve it, the Company pays specific attention 
to women in our management development programs to assure 
that the rise of women to our senior management positions is 
warranted. In addition, external recruitment agencies are 
instructed to identify capable female candidates for senior 
management positions. Finally, the Company will give preference 
to women in case of equal suitability.5.1 Corporate governance
67
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCSR responsibility and delegation
The Executive Board is responsible for defining the CSR policy, in 
consultation with the Director Strategy and Director Sustainability 
and the management of the operating companies.
Meetings with senior management are used to define 
sustainability issues and reach agreement on prioritising 
objectives, monitoring activities, and reporting results. Critical 
concerns are reported to the Executive Board at least in quarterly 
reports, or whenever more urgency is required. The Executive 
Board communicates to the Supervisory Board according planned 
reporting cycles, or whenever more urgency is required. Safety 
ambitions, the reduction of CO2 emissions, waste management, 
and enhancing lives, along with business integrity, apply to all 
BAM operating companies. In addition, each operating company 
measures KPIs addressing issues of relevance to its own business.
Each operating company has a management team member who 
has the responsibility for BAM’s sustainability activity. The 
operating companies report progress quarterly to the Executive 
Board, Director Strategy and Director Sustainability together with 
details of actions taken to support the Group’s business 
objectives. They interpret BAM’s objectives based on their unique 
operating conditions. CSR is part of how managers and employees 
do their day-to-day jobs. It is addressed, for example, at regular 
work discussions and performance reviews. In this way, 
implementing sustainability is shared across all levels of the 
Group, from BAM’s Executive Board to its local champions.
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code is described in 
the BAM Corporate Governance Compliance Overview, which is 
available on the website of BAM (www.bam.com). This is to be 
read in conjunction with this section and is deemed to be 
incorporated into this section. In case there is a difference 
between the content of BAM’s publication and this section, 
this section will prevail.
 
BAM fully complies with the principles and best practises of the 
Code. In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code the 
company will submit any substantial changes in the main 
features of the corporate governance structure to the General 
Meeting for discussion purposes. This includes the changes to 
the top structure of BAM as announced in a press release on 
6 December 2018. The corporate governance structure will be 
discussed with the shareholders during the Annual General 
Meeting on 17 April 2019.
XblocPlus is well 
received
With the arrival of XblocPlus, BAM Infraconsult has 
extended its product line of innovative breakwater armour 
units. XblocPlus is cost-efficient, easier to manufacture  
and even quicker to position than the original Xbloc. 
In advertising terms: it’s new and improved! 
Xblocs have been protecting coastlines across the globe 
since 2003. After initial hesitations, the market has 
embraced the design of Bas Reedijk and this team, and 
today some 400,000 Xblocs are protecting breakwaters 
around the world. And while the Xbloc still sees its 
numbers growing every day, BAM Infraconsult saw enough 
reason to take the product development a step further. 
‘A typical characteristic of the Xbloc is that each new unit 
should be positioned differently from its neighbours – this 
improves their interlocking, which increases protective 
strength,’ says Reedijk, who heads the Coastal Engineering 
and Water Management department at BAM Infraconsult. 
‘Although we always make sure contractors on site are 
properly instructed, we still sometimes see that crane 
operators are inclined to place the elements in a regular 
pattern. This can lead to discussions between clients, 
contractors and ourselves about the desired method of 
placement. For this reason, we have been considering the 
idea of designing a prefab element that is easier to position 
– i.e. in a uniform pattern – while still achieving optimal 
interlocking.’
68
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementProtection by Xblocs
Container Terminal, Moín, Costa Rica
The consortium Van Oord/BAM International is responsible for 
the construction of this new terminal and marine access for 
APM Terminals. The scope of work consists of the construction 
of a 1.5-km rock breakwater (14,000 Xblocs), reclamation of 
an area of 40 hectares, including soil improvement works, 
and the construction of a 650-metre quay wall, as well as the 
pavement, associated buildings and all utilities. In June 2018, 
BAM International’s project team completed the final pour of 
the 650-metre-long and 35-metre-wide concrete wharf deck.
69
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv5.2 Decree on Article 10 of the Takeover Directive
consideration of the provisions of Article 31(6) of the Articles of 
Association, see chapter 7.3 For Articles of Association provisions 
governing the distribution of profit.
Limits on the transfer of shares
The company has no limitation, under the Articles of Association 
or by contract, on the transfer of shares or depositary receipts 
issued with the company’s cooperation, apart from the restriction 
on the transfer of Class B preference shares contained in the 
Articles of Association. Article 13 of the company’s Articles of 
Association stipulates that approval is required from the 
company’s Executive Board for the transfer of Class B preference 
shares. The scheme is included in order to offer the company the 
facility – because of the specific purpose of issuing these shares, 
namely the acquisition of finance or achieving protection – of 
offering the holders of these shares an alternative in the event 
that they wish to dispose of their shares.
As regards the Class B preference shares, the company and 
Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (Foundation Preference 
Shares BAM Group) have agreed that the company will not 
proceed to issue these shares or to grant any rights to purchase 
them to anyone other than the said foundation without the 
foundation’s permission. The foundation will not dispose of or 
encumber any Class B preference shares, nor renounce the voting 
rights relating to them, without permission from the company. 
Please refer to page 212 onward of this Integrated Report with 
regard to the reasons behind protecting the company and the 
manner in which this is done.
Substantial interests
The company is aware of the following interests in its equity, 
which are now reported under the provisions concerning the 
reporting of controlling interests under the Disclosure of the 
Financial Supervision Act. See  table 70.
Special control rights
The shares into which the company’s equity is divided are not 
subject to any special control rights.
Employee share plan or employee option plan
The company does not have any employee share or employee 
option plans. Since 2015 a long-term incentive plan based on 
performance shares has been introduced for the members of the 
Executive Board, which replaces the previous long-term incentive 
plan which was based on phantom shares. The new long-term 
incentive plan is cascaded down to a maximum number of fifteen 
senior executive positions below the Executive Board.
Voting rights
Each share in the company provides entitlement to the casting of 
one vote at shareholders’ meetings. There are no restrictions on 
the exercising of voting rights. The company’s Articles of 
Association contain the usual provisions in relation to intimation 
for the purpose of being acknowledged as a proxy at shareholders’ 
meetings. Where the company’s Articles of Association mention The following information and explanations relate to the 
provisions of the Decree of 5 April 2006 implementing Article 10 
of Directive number 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and 
the Council of the European Union dated 21 April 2004 and lastly 
revised on 13 October 2015.
Capital structure
The company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, 
preference shares B and series of preference shares F. Note 15 of 
the financial statements may be used as a reference for the 
company’s capital structure. At the balance sheet date only 
ordinary shares have been issued. The ordinary shares are traded 
on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The following rights 
attached to the shares into which the company’s capital is divided 
follow from the articles of association and the Dutch Civil Code. 
There is no difference in the voting rights attached to a preference 
share B, a preference share F and an ordinary share. As all ordinary 
shares, preference shares F and preference shares B have the same 
nominal value (EUR 0.10) every issued and outstanding share of a 
class gives the right (i) to cast one (1) vote in the general meeting 
and (ii) to cast one (1) vote in the meeting of holders of that 
specific class. Ordinary shares and preference shares F may only 
be issued against payment in full. Preference shares B may be 
issued against partial payment. Holders of ordinary shares do have 
a pre-emptive right in respect of new ordinary shares to be issued, 
unless restricted or excluded pursuant to a resolution of the 
General Meeting. Holders of ordinary shares do not have a 
pre-emptive right in respect of new preference shares to be 
issued. Holders preference shares B and holders of preference 
shares F do not have a pre-emptive right in respect of shares to be 
issued. The transfer of ordinary shares and preference shares F is 
not restricted by the articles of association. According to the 
articles of association the transfer of preference shares B requires 
the approval of the Executive Board. 
The relevant financial right attached to the shares which follows 
from Article 31 of the Articles of Association concerns the 
application of the profit in relation to Class B and Class F 
preference shares. A brief summary of that article is provided in 
the following subparagraph.
A brief summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association
From the profit realised in any financial year, an amount will first 
be distributed, where possible, on the Class B cumulative 
preference shares, calculated by applying the percentage stated 
below to the amount that must be paid up on those shares as at 
the start of the financial year for which the distribution is made. 
The percentage referred to above will be equal to the average of 
the Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of 
twelve months – weighted according to the number of days for 
which these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which 
the distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor refers 
to the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and published 
by the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
70
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementArticles of Association, or to dissolve the company may only be 
passed by the General Meeting on the basis of a proposal put 
forward by the Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory 
Board.
Change of control provisions in important agreements
BAM differentiates the following categories of agreements as 
referred to in the Decree on Article 10 of the EU Takeover 
Directive:
•  The Group has entered into syndicate revolving credit facilities 
(RCF). See for further details note 18 of the financial 
statements. The RCF agreements stipulate that in the event of a 
change of control, the loans/amounts outstanding under these 
arrangements are immediately due.
•  In June 2016, Royal BAM Group n.v. issued €125 million in 
subordinated unsecured convertible bonds (see note 18 of the 
financial statements). This agreement also contains a change of 
control which gives the holder of each bond the right to require 
BAM to redeem that bond.
•  Royal BAM Group and its subsidiaries have entered into various 
important agreements that contain clauses that in the event of 
a change of control the other party has the right to terminate 
the agreement. These agreements are in itself not considered 
key agreements within the meaning of the Decree on Article 10 
of the Takeover Directive, but jointly they are considered 
significant.
•  The terms and conditions of the conditional performance share 
plan stipulate that, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, 
the Supervisory Board may decide to vest the conditional 
Performance Shares accelerated on a prorated basis, both in 
terms of time and performance. The Supervisory Board is 
however also authorised to withdraw conditional and 
unconditional performance shares in exchange for a cash 
payment at market value.holders of depositary receipts or depositary receipt holders, 
whether named or bearer, this is understood to mean holders of 
depositary receipts issued with the company’s cooperation and 
also individuals who, under the terms of Articles 88 or 89, Book 2 
of the Dutch Civil Code, have the rights accorded to holders of 
depositary receipts for shares issued with the company’s 
cooperation.
Shareholders’ agreements
The company is not aware of any agreements involving one of the 
company’s shareholders and which might provide reasons for:
(i)   Restricting the transfer of shares or of depositary receipts 
issued with the company’s cooperation, or
(ii) Restricting the voting rights.
Appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board and 
members of the Executive Board and amendment of the Articles of 
Association
The company is obliged by law to operate a mitigated two-tier 
structure. The General Meeting appoints the members of the 
Supervisory Board, based on a recommendation from the 
Supervisory Board. The General Meeting also appoints the 
members of the Executive Board, with the Supervisory Board 
having the right of recommendation. A more detailed explanation 
of the appointment and dismissal of members of the Supervisory 
Board and members of the Executive Board can be found in the 
Articles of Association of the Company. Resolutions to amend the 
Articles of Association or to dissolve the Company may only be 
adopted by the General Meeting pursuant to a proposal of the 
Executive Board and subject to the approval of the Supervisory 
Board.
Powers of the Executive Board 
The company is managed by an Executive Board. The Executive 
Board’s powers are those arising from legislation and regulations. 
A more detailed description of the Executive Board’s duties can be 
found in the Executive Board rules. The Executive Board was 
authorised by the General Meeting held on 19 April 2017 to issue 
ordinary shares and Class F preference shares and/or to grant 
options to purchase these shares, subject to approval from the 
Supervisory Board. This authorisation is limited in duration to 
eighteen months. It is also limited in scope to 10 per cent of the 
issued capital, plus an additional 10 per cent, which additional 
10 per cent may be used exclusively for mergers, acquisitions or 
strategic partnerships by the company or by operating companies. 
However, the General Meeting rejected the proposal to authorise 
the Executive Board to restrict or exclude pre-emptive rights in 
the event of an issue of or granting of rights to acquire ordinary 
shares.
The General Meeting held on 18 April 2018 granted authority to 
the Executive Board for a period of eighteen months to repurchase 
shares in the company, within the limitations imposed by the law 
and the Articles of Association and subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. In principle, the General Meeting is asked to 
grant these authorisations every year. Resolutions to amend the 
71
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management5.3 Supervisory Board and Executive Board 
2011. In 2015, following the delisting of Nutreco, he decided to 
leave the company. He is a Dutch national and does not own any 
shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices : Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Albron, 
member of the Supervisory Board of KPMG, lay judge (expert 
member) of the Companies and Business Court (Enterprise 
Chamber), which is part of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal.
Mr Boon was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.
C.M.C. (Carla) Mahieu  (1959)
Mrs Mahieu studied economics at the University of Amsterdam, 
where she graduated in 1984. She began her career at Royal Dutch 
Shell, where she held various management positions dealing with 
human resources, communication and corporate strategy. After 
several years as a consultant, Mrs Mahieu joined Royal Philips 
Electronics as Senior Vice-President Corporate Human Resources 
in 2003. She took up her current position as Executive Vice-
President and Global Head of Human Resources at Aegon in 
September 2010. She became a member of Aegon’s Management 
Board in 2016. Mrs Mahieu is a Dutch national and does not own 
any shares in the company’s capital. 
Other offices:  member of the Supervisory Board of VodafoneZiggo.
Mrs Mahieu was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
reappointed in 2015.
M.P. (Paul) Sheffield  CBE, BSc, CEng, MICE (1961)
Mr Sheffield studied civil engineering at the University of Surrey 
(United Kingdom). He is a Chartered Engineer and Fellow at the 
British Institution of Civil Engineers. From 1983 to 2014 he was 
employed by the Kier Group, a large British construction and 
property development group, listed on the London stock 
exchange, where he held a number of management positions. 
During the first years of his career, Mr Sheffield was involved as an 
engineer in various projects in New Guinea, Turkey and the United 
Kingdom. Thereafter, he was responsible for projects in the United 
Kingdom, Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong as a project manager. In 
1998 he became Director of Operations and in 1999 was 
appointed Managing Director of the Civil Division. In 2005 he 
joined the Board of the Kier Group with responsibility for all 
construction activities and he was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer in 2010. In 2014 Mr Sheffield left the Kier Group for Laing 
O’Rourke, one of the largest private construction companies of 
the United Kingdom, where he was a member of the Group 
Executive Committee until 2017, responsible for their activities in 
Europe and the Middle East. Mr Sheffield is a British national and 
does not own any shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices: Non-Executive Director at Southern Water Services 
Ltd, Industry advisor to the board of Manchester Airport Group 
and Senior Vice President of the Institution of Civil Engineers. 
Mr Sheffield was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.Biographies of the Supervisory Board members
H.L.J. (Harrie) Noy  (1951), Chairman
Mr Noy completed his studies at Eindhoven University of 
Technology in 1974. Mr Noy worked for Arcadis throughout his 
entire career. He joined that company, which at the time still 
operated under the name Heidemij, in 1975 and has since 
occupied various positions. From 1989 to 1994 he was a member 
of the Management Board of Arcadis’ consultancy division in the 
Netherlands, and served as Chairman of that Board from 1992 to 
1994. In 1994, Mr Noy was appointed as a member of the 
Executive Board. From 2000 to May 2012, Mr Noy served as CEO 
and Chairman of the Executive Board of Arcadis. Mr Noy is a Dutch 
national and does not own any shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Fugro; 
Chairman of the Board of Stichting Administratiekantoor TKH 
Group; extraordinary member of the Dutch Safety Board.
Mr Noy was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2012 and 
reappointed in 2016. He was appointed as Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board in 2017.
K.S. (Klaas) Wester  (1946) Vice-chairman
Mr Wester graduated in civil engineering from Delft University of 
Technology in 1969. He then worked briefly for Fugro as a 
geotechnical engineer, after having performed military service. 
He went on to work at Costain Blankevoort and later at Ballast 
Nedam, working in the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates 
and Kuwait. In 1981, he returned to Fugro, where he held various 
management positions before being appointed as a member of 
the Fugro Executive Board under the Articles of Association in 
1996. Mr Wester went on to become Chairman of the Executive 
Board in 2005, a position he held until his retirement in 2012. Mr 
Wester is a Dutch national and does not own any shares in the 
company’s capital.
Other offices:  Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ACTA, 
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Iv-Groep.
Mr Wester was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2011 and 
reappointed in 2015. He was appointed as vice-Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board in 2017.
G. (Gosse) Boon  (1959)
Mr Boon studied both quantitative business economics and Dutch 
law at Erasmus University Rotterdam. He also completed the RA 
(Chartered Accountant) study at the same university. Mr Boon 
started his career at Unilever. From 1983 to 2000, he fulfilled 
various senior positions within the company, lastly as the CFO of 
Unilever Brazil. In 2000, Mr Boon was appointed the CEO of 
DiverseyLever Netherlands, a position he fulfilled until 2004. 
Subsequently, Mr Boon held the position of CFO and member of 
the Executive Board with Rijnmond Waste Processing and Van 
Gansewinkel Group respectively. In 2010, he transferred to 
Nutreco, being appointed CFO and Executive Board member in 
72
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementgraduating as a Master of Engineering at the Technical University 
of Denmark and has held many international executive positions 
within IBM. Mrs Valentin is a Danish national and does not own any 
shares in the company’s capital.
Other offices: Member of the Supervisory Board of IBM Denmark 
Aps, Member of the Board of Directors of PFA Holding and PFA 
Pension.
Mrs Valentin was appointed to the Supervisory Board in 2017.G. (Helle) Valentin  (1967)
Since 2018, Mrs Valentin has served as Managing Director within 
IBM and in that capacity, she is overall responsible for one of IBM’s 
Global Accounts. Prior to this, Mrs Valentin has served as Global 
COO of IBM’s Watson Internet of Things, responsible for founding 
the business and designing and building the business structure 
and product portfolio of this new IBM division. Before that, she 
was the COO of IBM’s Germany/Austria/Switzerland region in the 
period of 2013-2016, also responsible for strategy and business 
transformation. She started her career with IBM in 1992, after 
49 - Retirement schedule for the Supervisory Board
Member CommitteesDate of initial 
appointmentYear of 
reappointmentEnd of  
current termEnd of  
second term
H.L.J. Noy*, Chairman RC, NC 25- 04-2012 2016 2020 2020
K.S. Wester, Vice-chairman AC 20-04-2011 2015 2019 2019
G. Boon AC 19- 04-2017 - 2021 2025
C.M.C. Mahieu* RC, NC 20-04-2011 2015 2019 2019
M.P. Sheffield AC 24- 08-2017 - 2021 2025
H. Valentin RC, NC 19- 04-2017 - 2021 2025
* Right of recommendation of Central Works Council.
From the left: G. Boon, C.M.C. Mahieu, H.L.J. Noy, M.P. Sheffield, H. Valentin and K.S. Wester.
73
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementL.F. (Frans) den Houter (1974), CFO
Mr Den Houter was trained as a 
hydrographic surveyor at the 
Amsterdam University of Applied 
Sciences, earned a degree in business 
economics at the University of 
Amsterdam and an international 
master’s degree in Finance and Control. 
He started his career at Exxon Mobil in 
2000, where he worked as financial 
analyst and controller for the Benelux 
retail operating company. In 2005 he moved to Shell, where he 
worked as controller at Shell Global Real Estate, project manager 
at Shell Energy Europe and financial manager for joint ventures at 
Shell Upstream International. He joined Heerema Marine 
Contractors (HMC) in 2010 as Finance and Control Manager and 
then held the position of Senior Vice President Finance before 
being appointed as CFO in 2012. Mr Den Houter is a member of 
the Executive Board of Royal BAM Group since August 2018. He is 
a Dutch national. Mr Den Houter does not own shares in the 
Company’s capital . Biographies of the Executive Board members
R.P. (Rob) van Wingerden  (1961), CEO
Mr Van Wingerden graduated as a civil 
engineer from Delft University of 
Technology in 1988. He joined the 
Group as a project surveyor in 1988 
and subsequently worked in a variety 
of project management and other 
roles for operating companies in the 
Netherlands and elsewhere (including 
Taiwan and Hong Kong). He completed 
his MBA cum laude at Twente School of 
Management in 1994. During this period he attended the 
Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School, 
Boston, USA. He was appointed Director of HBG Bouw en 
Vastgoed in 2000, became Director at BAM Utiliteitsbouw in 
2002 and was appointed Chairman of the Board of BAM 
Woningbouw in 2005. Mr Van Wingerden has been a member of 
the Executive Board of Royal BAM Group since 2008. In October 
2014 he was promoted to the position of CEO and Chairman of 
the Executive Board. He is a Dutch national. Information about 
Mr Van Wingerden’s shareholding position is on pages 97 - 99.
Other offices:  member of the Supervisory Board of Royal Saan, 
member of the Board of Governors of the Dutch Construction and 
Infrastructure Federation (Bouwend Nederland), member of the 
Taskforce Bouw, member of the Advisory Board of DIMI (Delft 
Deltas, Infratructures & Mobility Initiative).
E.J. (Erik) Bax  (1957), COO
Mr Bax studied engineering, building 
and construction at the Tilburg 
Institute for Technology and obtained 
an MBA at Erasmus University 
Rotterdam and Georgia State University 
in Atlanta, USA. He joined CRH, the 
international leader for production and 
distribution of building materials, in 
1984 and held various management 
positions at CRH’s different operating 
companies and divisions. He  then 
fulfilled a number of positions in CRH’s senior management. As of 
2010 he was Managing Director CRH Europe and member of the 
Executive Committee of CRH in Dublin. Mr Bax has been a 
member of the Executive Board of Royal BAM Group since May 
2014 and COO since October 2014. He will step down from the 
Executive Board with effect from 1 March 2019. Mr Bax is a Dutch 
national and holds no other offices. Information about Mr Bax’ 
shareholding position is on pages 97 - 99 .
74
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management50 - Retirement schedule for the Executive Board
Member Date of birthDate of initial 
appointmentYear of 
reappointmentEnd of  
current term
R.P. van Wingerden, Chairman 21-07-1961 07-05-2008 2012, 2016 2020
E.J. Bax 21-04-1957 01-05-2014 2018 2019
L.F. den Houter 20-05-1974 01-08-2018 2022
From the left: E.J. Bax, R.P. van Wingerden and L.F. den Houter.
75
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementIn a press release issued on 6 December 2018, BAM announced 
that it will change the top structure of the company. This change 
includes the establishment of an Executive Committee that 
consist of the two members of the Executive Board (the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer), two newly to be 
appointed Chief Operating Officers (one for Construction and 
Property and one for Civil Engineering), the Chief HR Officer and a 
new Chief Business Excellence Officer. The latter will be 
responsible for further improvement of tender procedures, the In addition to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, BAM’s 
governance structure is complemented with the Management 
Board. This corporate body was established to strengthen the 
One BAM approach and supports the Executive Board in achieving 
the objectives of the strategic agenda. The Management Board 
consists of the members of the Executive Board, the managing 
directors of the ten operating companies (see the organisational 
structure at page 9) and a number of selected corporate function 
directors.5.4 Management Board
From the left: M. Peeters (BAM Belgium), K. Meade (BAM PPP), T.M. Cullinane (BAM Contractors), R. Vollebregt (BAM Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland), 
M. Koch (BAM Deutschland), S.J.J. van de Wynkele (Director of Human Resources Royal BAM Group), E.J. Bax (COO Royal BAM Group), S.H.A.J. Beckers 
(General Counsel / Company Secretary Royal BAM Group), R.P. van Wingerden (CEO Royal BAM Group), S.C. Fox (BAM Nuttall Ltd), L.F. den Houter 
(CFO Royal BAM Group), J. Wimpenny (BAM Contruct UK Ltd), S. Capper (CIO Royal BAM Group), M.H. Schimmel (BAM Infra Nederland), M. Blaschko 
(Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau AG), T.W. Muntinga (Director of Finance Royal BAM Group) and G.K. Mazloumian (BAM International)
76
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementapproval. The remuneration structure for the Executive 
Committee members will be similar to that for the Executive 
Board. Actual remuneration, including short and long term 
incentives will need approval from the Supervisory Board. 
Amended rules of procedure of the Executive Board and the 
Supervisory Board, to include the functioning of the Executive 
Committee, will be published on the Company’s website.
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 19 February 2019
Executive Board:
R.P. van Wingerden
L.F. den Houter
E.J. Bax
realisation of procurement synergies, the acceleration of digital 
construction and the improvement of project management. The 
Executive Committee will decide on strategic issues and 
groupwide policies, systems and processes and will be responsible 
for strategy implementation and the performance of the Group. 
The final responsibility remains with the Executive Board. 
The change of the top structure is aimed at reinforcing 
implementation of the Group’s strategy by better alignment of 
senior management, creating more focus on the strategic and 
operational priorities and getting more synergies from the 
Group’s scale through the One BAM program. The Supervisory 
Board will meet mostly with the full Executive Committee, but 
might decide to meet with the Executive Board only. Size and 
composition of the Executive Committee need Supervisory Board 
77
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSupervisory Board6
State of the art
WTC, Utrecht
The WTC formula stands for state-of-the-art office space in the 
most accessible locations in the Netherlands. WTC Utrecht is 
the ultimate fulfilment of this ambition: it stands right next to 
the country’s most central location, Utrecht Centraal Station. 
Sustainability has been an essential element of the 
development. WTC Utrecht will be one of the first WELL 
Buildings in the Netherlands, which means the building meets 
the highest standards in health and welfare of its occupants. 
The 18-storey building comprises functionalities such as food 
and beverage, retail, flexible workplaces, and meeting rooms. 
WTC Utrecht is the perfect networking location for 
organisations in the public and private sector as well as the 
general public.
78
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv6.1 Report of the Supervisory Board to shareholders 
The year 2018 marked the halfway point of BAM’s strategy 
Building the present, creating the future. This strategy for the 
period 2016 – 2020 aims to prepare the company for the future 
while improving performance and increasing predictability of 
results. The goal is to transform BAM from a fairly traditional, 
highly decentralised construction company to a much more 
cohesive company that uses internal synergies and its scale to 
improve its competitiveness and that applies digital innovation 
and industrialisation as key elements in the construction process. 
The strategy also includes clear objectives on people, planet and 
profit, with specific and in our view realistic targets.
In our discussions with management as part of the mid-term 
review of this strategy, we jointly concluded that the strategy is 
still valid but that the implementation requires reinforcement. 
To achieve this, it was decided to change the top structure of the 
company by establishing an Executive Committee, in addition to 
a two-person Executive Board. This should lead to more focus on 
the strategic priorities and further enhance the implementation 
of the One BAM philosophy.
Overall, the economies in our home markets in Europe are doing 
well with healthy investment levels in both construction and 
property and in civil, while the oil and gas market, relevant for 
BAM International, is gradually recovering. The outlook however 
shows a mixed picture, with certain developments warranting a 
more cautious approach. Brexit, the trade war between the USA 
and China, social unrest in several countries and political 
instability in general may have a negative impact on the global 
economy. On the other hand, the energy transition that is needed 
in view of climate change will require major investments in the 
built environment with lots of opportunities for BAM. 
Despite an additional €32 million cost overrun at the sea lock 
IJmuiden project, the margin based on adjusted profit before tax 
was above 2 per cent, a considerable improvement compared to 
2017. Cash flow was positive, although financing issues related to 
the sea lock project had a negative impact. We regularly discussed 
cash flow developments with management and agreed with the 
measures taken to reinforce the working capital program. This is 
necessary to maintain a financially healthy condition of the 
Company. 
Due to the volatility and level of profitability, investor confidence 
in BAM and in the construction industry in general is relatively low. 
To become more attractive for investors, improvement of 
profitability and predictable performance are absolutely key. We 
fully support the measures management has taken to achieve this, 
including the tender stage gate process for early identification 
and mitigation of risks, strengthening of project management 
during the execution of projects and structured learning from 
past experiences. Although we are not yet where we want to be, 
we agree with managements’ view that with all the actions taken, 
the company is on the right track to prevent major project losses 
and achieve its strategic and financial targets. Most of the major project losses come from large civil projects for 
the public sector where BAM is not only responsible for the 
construction, design, and in several cases also for financing and 
maintenance. This type of usually unique and complex projects 
should enable BAM to win work through its engineering expertise 
and capability, thus giving access to higher margin work. In addition, 
these projects are important to retain high level expertise, attract 
talented professionals and maintain an internationally competitive 
construction industry. However, these projects need to have a 
better balance in risk distribution and a better balance between 
risks and rewards. We support managements’ position that BAM will 
no longer tender for projects where the rewards are not in line with 
the risks it is willing to assume.
2018 Financial statements and dividend
This annual report, which is based on the International Integrated 
Reporting Framework, includes the 2018 financial statements, 
duly prepared by the Executive Board. The financial statements 
have been audited by the external auditor, Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP; the unqualified independent auditor’s report 
is included on page 201 of this Integrated Report.
The Audit Committee discussed the draft financial statements 
with the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and 
the external auditor. The Audit Committee also discussed the 
auditor’s report, the management letter and the quality of 
internal risk management and control systems and had a 
discussion with the external auditor without BAM’s management 
being present. Subsequently, our full board discussed this annual 
report, including the financial statements with the Executive 
Board in the presence of the external auditor. We took note of the 
reporting from the Audit Committee and reviewed the auditor’s 
report and the quality of internal risk management and control 
systems. We concluded that we agree with the 2018 financial 
statements. We agree with the Executive Board that a predictable 
dividend, based on a solid performance in line with the financial 
targets and taking into account the financial condition of the 
company, is important for the attractiveness of the BAM-share. 
We therefore agree with the proposal of the Executive Board to 
distribute a dividend of €0.14 per share.
We recommend the Annual General Meeting to be held on 
17 April 2019, to adopt the 2018 financial statements. We are of 
the opinion that the financial statements, the report by the 
Executive Board and the report by the Supervisory Board provide 
a solid basis on which to hold the Executive Board accountable for 
the management policies pursued and the Supervisory Board 
accountable for its supervision on these policies. The members of 
the Supervisory Board have signed the financial statements in 
accordance with their statutory obligations under Article 2:101, 
paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Strategy and operational plan
We discussed the status of the implementation of the 2016 – 2020 
strategy extensively with management. To reap the benefits of its 
79
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementscale, the One BAM philosophy was introduced in 2016 as an 
important part of BAM’s strategy. This means sharing knowledge, 
resources, systems, processes and innovation across operating 
companies. Since BAM comes from a very decentralised model 
with a high degree of local autonomy, this One BAM approach 
means a major change. We agreed with management that 
acceleration was required as a consequence of which it was 
decided to change the top structure. By establishing an executive 
committee with – besides the Executive Board – a COO for each of 
the two business lines, a Chief Business Excellence Officer and the 
Chief HR Officer, BAM will be better able to use its economies of 
scale while maintaining local entrepreneurship. This should lead to 
more synergies, additional efficiencies and cost savings, faster 
innovations and better project management, with the ultimate 
goal of achieving predictable performance in line with the 
financial targets.
Based on the BAM strategy, the operating companies and 
corporate functions have prepared operating plans for 2019, 
which were consolidated into the operating plan for the Group. 
We discussed a first draft in our meeting in November and 
approved an updated version in our January 2019 meeting.
Risk management
For a construction company such as BAM, risk management is key 
to achieve predictable performance. Risk management was 
therefore high on our agenda. We regularly discussed the need for 
selective tendering with management. The tender stage gate 
process plays an important role in the early identification of 
potential risks and taking appropriate measures to mitigate these. 
Although this process is continuously being improved, it cannot 
prevent any risk from occurring. But it certainly helps to focus on 
projects where BAM can achieve decent margins without running 
too high risks.
In 2016, the company launched a project database, which 
provides extensive information on projects executed by the 
Group. Management informed us that the database is increasingly 
being used as a source for management decisions. It is a good 
example of sharing information and data driven decision making 
across BAM. We were also informed on the development of a 
uniform project approach for large projects and the establishment 
of a groupwide dashboard for project information, both aimed at 
providing project managers with tools that support them in better 
managing projects. 
The Internal Audit team continued to audit a number of high 
exposure projects, resulting in recommendations to improve risk 
control. Several large projects in the tender phase were presented 
to the Supervisory Board in regular and extra meetings. We 
reviewed these projects by asking critical questions mainly 
focused on risks and how these were managed and how these 
impacted the pricing of the project.
As part of our annual risk management review, we discussed the 
outcome of the 2018 Enterprise Risk Management assessment in our November meeting in the presence of the Governance, Risk 
and Compliance officer. This annual assessment provides an 
overview of the biggest risks the company is facing, including an 
indication of the chances that these risks occur and the impact 
they might have on achieving the company’s objectives, both 
strategic and operational. The top 10 risks and related mitigation 
measures were discussed. In the 2019 operating plans of the 
operating companies and corporate functions specific attention is 
being given to these risks. The Governance, Risk and Compliance 
officer also informed us about the status of the Minimum 
Requirements Framework, which provides minimum standards 
regarding (risk) controls throughout the Group. 
We concluded that the Group has in place internal risk 
management and control systems, financial reporting manuals 
and procedures for drawing up financial reports, as well as an 
established monitoring and reporting system. We expect that the 
introduction of the new governance structure in 2019 will lead to 
further strengthening of the company’s business control 
framework and its ability to manage risks properly.
Safety and sustainability
Safety continues to be a very high priority for the company. 
Although zero fatalities should be the norm, we are very pleased 
that BAM for the first time in many years did not face any fatalities 
throughout the Group. BAM’s safety performance measured by 
the incident frequency, also improved (from IF BAM of 4.6 in 2017 
to IF BAM of 4.2 in 2018). We fully support management in its 
continuous efforts to further increase safety, not only through 
guidelines and instructions but especially by giving it consistent 
management attention and emphasizing the behavioral aspects. 
The safety behaviour audits which are being held throughout the 
company support this effort.
Following the partially collapse of the parking garage at Eindhoven 
Airport in July 2017, the Dutch Safety Board investigated this 
serious incident and published a report in October 2018. We 
discussed this report and particularly the conclusions and 
recommendations with the Executive Board. In addition, 
management of the operating company responsible for the 
project gave a presentation on the lessons learnt and measures 
taken to prevent the issues identified. We concluded that BAM’s 
management acknowledges its responsibility for structural safety 
in general and has taken initiatives in order to ensure sufficient 
attention to structural safety, both internally and industry wide. 
With respect to sustainability, we believe that BAM is a leader in 
the construction industry. BAM’s Corporate Sustainability Director 
gave a presentation on progress regarding the relevant key 
performance indicators included in BAM’s strategy and on the 
roadmap towards the 2020 targets. Management informed us on 
the stakeholder dialogue with clients, partners and suppliers in 
which important challenges in society were addressed, such as 
energy transition, the circular economy and smart cities and the 
impact these challenges will have on all the participants in the 
dialogue.
80
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementKengo Kuma – Kengo Kuma & AssociatesV&A Dundee 
‘I’d love to work again with BAM’
V&A Dundee was designed by 
renowned, award-winning 
Japanese architects Kengo Kuma 
& Associates, following an 
international competition, and is 
Kuma’s first building in the UK. 
BAM completed construction in 
the spring of 2018 and the design 
museum opened to international 
acclaim the following September.The vision
‘The location for this project was 
very unique, between water and 
land. We tried to show the 
uniqueness of this location by 
designing a sea cliff between the 
water and the land, which is the 
result of a conversation between 
nature and artefact. Creating a 
man-made form that could echo 
the wind-swept process of 
erosion from crashing waves 
required a new level of 
technology and engineering. 
We tried to achieve that natural, 
organic quality by designing this 
unique facade and the unique 
shape. New technologies made 
the organic form possible.’
Focus to perform
‘It was a very technically 
challenging project as the form of 
the building was so original and 
had never existed in the past. 
BAM bravely undertook the task 
of constructing it and I enjoyed 
working with BAM enormously.’
‘BAM was an ideal collaborator 
and a partner in realising this 
complicated architecture. They shared my vision not only for the 
V&A building but also for KKAA’s 
philosophy of design. I thought 
our challenge was worthwhile 
and the result was far better than 
expected. It was our first time to 
apply concrete for the 3D 
building. It was a fresh and 
eye-opening experience to see 
that straight lines of pre-cast 
concrete could be installed in the 
complicatedly dimensioned 
structure.’
‘We’ve learned a lot about the 
technique from BAM’s work and 
that of its supply chain, and we 
now think it can be further 
developed in our future works.’
‘When I visited the site in spring 
2016, about a year into its 
construction, I felt very happy 
with its progress. I could feel the 
scale of the spaces and the scale 
was as I expected. I also felt 
certain that BAM had all the skill 
and technical ability to deliver 
the complexity of the form.’
‘When I returned again after the 
exterior had been completed, I felt delighted and satisfied with 
the way the strong façade had 
been realised and the dynamic 
scale of the interior, too – just as 
we had planned.’
The future
‘I really hope the building will 
attract many people from the UK, 
and around the world, to Dundee 
and to the museum.’
‘I hope as well that people from 
Dundee will use it as an everyday 
part of their City; that they will 
go there to enjoy the building 
with its surrounding public space 
and find a harmonious 
relationship between the 
museum, the riverside, the City 
and themselves.’
‘Everyone who worked on the 
design and construction should 
be incredibly proud of what 
they’ve achieved. I give my 
thanks to BAM for their hard work 
in creating this complex 
structure.’
‘I’d love to work again with BAM 
sometime in the future.’
81
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvShareholders and investor relations
We are of the opinion that an open and regular dialogue with 
shareholders and investors is important to explain the 
company’s strategy and performance and to receive their 
feedback. We regularly reviewed the Group’s investor relations 
activities and shareholder base and were informed on the 
feedback given by shareholders, investors and analysts. 
Together with the Executive Board, we prepared the Annual 
General Meeting and evaluated it afterwards. Based on last 
year’s rejection of the proposal to restrict or exclude preferential 
rights upon issuing respectively granting rights to acquire 
ordinary shares, we limited the proposal to authorise the 
Executive Board to issue and/or grant rights to acquire shares up 
to a maximum of 10 per cent. We were pleased to note that this 
amended proposal was adopted by the General Meeting. 
Corporate governance
In April 2018 the outline of our corporate governance structure 
and compliance with the new Dutch Corporate Governance 
Code was submitted to the General Meeting. BAM complies with 
the principles and best practices of this code. A corporate 
governance compliance overview was published on BAM’s 
website, providing transparency on how BAM complies with the 
code. At the meeting shareholders were given the opportunity 
to discuss this topic. 
In addition, the amended profile of the Supervisory Board, 
including a diversity policy which is also applicable to the 
Executive Board were submitted to the General Meeting for 
discussion. The changes to the profile relate particularly to the 
required experience and expertise in the construction industry 
and in the field of information technology and digital innovation 
and the related organisational transformation.
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board are of the 
opinion that Royal BAM Group’s corporate governance is up to 
standard. Please refer to the corporate governance statement in 
this report and the overview on the company’s website 
concerning the company’s compliance with the Code.
Discussions with external auditor
In the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2015 Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP was appointed as external auditor for the 
financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018. In early 2018, we assessed 
the performance of and relationship with the external auditor, 
based on a report from the Executive Board and the evaluation 
and recommendation of the Audit Committee. Based on this 
assessment, our experience with the external auditor and the 
external auditor’s expertise with regard to the construction 
industry in general and Royal BAM Group in particular, we 
recommended the General Meeting to re-appoint Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP as external auditor responsible for auditing the 2019 financial statements of Royal BAM Group, which the 
General Meeting subsequently approved. Ernst & Young 
Accountants LLP attended the Annual General Meeting of 
18 April 2018 and was available to answer questions.
The audit plan for 2018 was presented to and discussed with the 
Audit Committee and our full Board and subsequently approved. 
During our review of the 2017 full year results and the 2018 half 
year results, we met with Ernst & Young Accountants LLP to 
discuss their reports. We established that the external auditor 
had received the financial information on which the financial 
reports were based and noted that the external auditor had 
discussed the information provided with BAM officers and the 
Executive Board. We took note of the reports and management 
letters as prepared by the external auditor. 
In our February 2018 meeting, we discussed with the external 
auditor and the Executive Board the key items as presented by 
the auditor, being: revenue recognition (including variation 
orders and claims), company tied costs, capitalisation of 
development costs, valuation of goodwill, treatment of success 
fees with PPP’s, IFRS 15, classification of German joint 
arrangements, compliance non-financial reporting 
requirements, valuation of deferred tax assets and 
completeness of registration of safety incidents. Several of 
these topics were also discussed with the external auditor 
during our meeting in August. In preparation of that meeting 
several bilateral discussions with the external auditor took place 
on the impact of IFRS 15, on the figures of 2018 and the 
comparable figures of 2017.
Other activities and meetings
In addition to the items mentioned before, in each of our regular 
meetings, we discussed with the Executive Board the state of 
affairs, the financial performance of the Group and the 
operating companies, market developments and order intake, 
working capital and cash flow, the financial condition of the 
Group as reflected by the balance sheet, investments and 
divestments, major projects with a higher risk profile and the 
quarterly press releases. If applicable, our meetings featured a 
report on what had been discussed in meetings of the 
committees of our board.
Other matters discussed included the Integrated Report and 
financial statements for 2017, the 2018 half-year report and 
interim statements, the reserve and dividend policy and the 
dividend proposal for 2017, the various effects of changes in the 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on the 
Group’s financial reports, as well as compliance reports and 
material legal proceedings in which the Group is engaged.
The Executive Board regularly updated us on the situation 
regarding the sea lock IJmuiden project and other critical 
projects and tenders. Management of operating companies and 
key staff involved gave presentations on several large projects, 
82
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementincluding the redevelopment of the Bajes Kwartier in 
Amsterdam, development of the Zalmhaven project in 
Rotterdam and the reconstruction of the Afsluitdijk. Discussions 
focused mainly on the risks in these projects and how these are 
managed and on the financial aspects.
The corporate HR director informed us on the outcomes of the 
first Employee Engagement Survey that was introduced in BAM. 
The corporate Compliance officer gave an update on compliance 
within the Group and we discussed the procedures the company 
has in place for reporting misconduct. The corporate director 
Procurement gave a presentation on what is being done to further 
professionalise procurement.
In September 2018, we stayed in the Netherlands for our annual 
work visit. Key items during this multiple day event were the 
mid-term review of the strategy implementation and the 
preferred governance model going forward. The corporate 
Strategy director gave a presentation on profitability of projects 
which showed that overall the company is making progress 
regarding margin improvement. We had an extensive discussion 
with the Executive Board on the governance changes regarding 
both the business and the functions. Management of BAM 
International presented the strategy for their operating company. 
We met with management and key staff of BAM Bouw en 
Vastgoed and BAM Infra Nederland and got presentations on 
market developments, business performance and major projects. 
We visited the sea lock IJmuiden project and discussed progress 
and lessons learned with the project team. We also visited the 
Homestudios in Utrecht, an initiative of BAM Wonen (part of BAM 
Bouw en Vastgoed) to assist buyers of newbuilt houses with ideas 
and inspiration for the interior of their future home. A delegation of our Board met with the Central Works Council 
on several occasions. In addition, our full Board together with 
the Executive Board met with the Central Works Council to 
discuss developments in BAM.
Our Board actively engages with the Executive Board as well as 
other senior management in order to ensure we receive the 
right information. The chairman of our Board had regular 
contact with the Chief Executive Officer while the chairman and 
other members met with senior managers in order to be briefed 
on specific topics such as HR, Finance, Corporate Governance 
and Operational Audit.
In consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, the chairman of 
our Board together with other board members met with each of 
the managing directors of the operating companies individually 
to get their views on BAM’s strategy, including the One BAM 
philosophy and the intended changes in BAM’s governance 
structure. This provided valuable insights that we shared with 
the Executive Board.
We approved the remuneration report prepared by the 
Remuneration Committee. The remuneration report is included 
in chapter 6.2 of the Integrated Report. The remuneration policy 
was not amended in 2018. 
In 2018, we met on eight occasions in the presence of the 
Executive Board. In addition, one telephone conference call was 
organised. The attendance rate of the individual members at the 
meetings was as follows:
51 - The attendance rate of the individual members at the meetings
SB AC RC NC
Mr H.L.J. Noy 100% 100% 100%
Mr K.S. Wester 100% 100%
Mr G. Boon 100% 100%
Mrs C.M.C. Mahieu 100% 100% 100%
Mr M.P. Sheffield 100% 100%
Mrs H. Valentin 87,5% 100% 100%
We also met without the Executive Board being present, to 
prepare for and evaluate each board meeting. In addition, we met 
without the Executive Board to evaluate the functioning of the 
Executive Board, to perform our self-assessment, to discuss a 
number of strategic and organisational matters and to discuss the 
remuneration of the Executive Board, including the determination 
of the variable portion of their remuneration for 2017 and the 
targets for 2018.
 
83
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Supervisory Board’s committees
The Supervisory Board has three permanent committees: an Audit 
Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination 
Committee. It is the task of these committees to support and 
advise the Supervisory Board concerning items under the 
committees’ responsibility and to prepare the Supervisory Board’s 
decisions regarding those items. The Supervisory Board as a whole 
remains responsible for the way in which it performs its tasks and 
for the preparatory work carried out by the committees. The 
committees submitted reports on their meetings to the 
Supervisory Board.
The Audit Committee
During 2018 the Audit Committee was composed of Mr Boon 
(chairman), Mr Wester and Mr Sheffield. The composition of the 
Audit Committee is in line with the provisions of the Dutch 
corporate governance code.
The Committee met four times. The external auditor was present 
at all of these meetings. The Chairman of the Executive Board, the 
Chief Financial Officer and the Internal Audit Director also 
attended all Audit Committee meetings.
In addition to its regular tasks and responsibilities, the Audit 
Committee addressed the following specific matters in 2018: 
assurance plan 2018 of the external auditor EY, internal audit plan 
for 2019, impact of new reporting standards IFRS 15 and 16, 
material legal proceedings, development of working capital, 
developments and valuation of key projects, valuation of assets, 
accounting treatment of German joint operations, financing of the 
company and developments relating to taxes, IT, insurance and 
governance, risk and compliance. 
The Audit Committee was briefed by the external auditor on 
relevant developments in the audit profession, especially those 
related to new IFRS reporting standards. The committee met with 
the external auditor without the Executive Board being present 
and reported to the Supervisory Board on the performance of 
and the relationship with the external auditor. Furthermore, the 
chairman of the Committee regularly communicated on a one 
to one basis with the external auditor and the CFO. The Audit 
Committee considers the relationship with the external auditor 
to be effective.
Remuneration Committee
During 2018 the Remuneration Committee was composed of 
Mrs Mahieu (Chairwoman), Mrs Valentin and Mr Noy. The 
composition of the Remuneration Committee is in line with 
the provisions of the Dutch corporate governance code.
One of the tasks of the Remuneration Committee is to make 
proposals to the Supervisory Board with regard to the 
remuneration policy, the terms of employment of members of 
the Executive Board and the remuneration of the members of 
the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.The Committee submitted a proposal to the Supervisory Board 
regarding the short term incentive for members of the Executive 
Board, based on the 2017 performance and the applicable criteria. 
The committee also prepared a proposal for the vesting of the 
long term incentive plan 2015-2017. In addition, the Committee 
submitted a proposal for the target setting 2018 for variable 
remuneration (both short and long term incentive). The 
Remuneration Committee prepared the remuneration report 
which explains how the remuneration policy has been 
implemented in practice.
The Remuneration Committee met five times. The Chairman of the 
Executive Board was present during parts of these meetings as was 
the corporate HR director. The committee members consulted 
each other a number of times outside the context of a formal 
meeting. 
Nomination Committee
During 2018, the Nomination Committee was composed of 
Mr Noy (Chairman), Mrs Mahieu and Mrs Valentin. Key task of the 
Nomination Committee is to make proposals to the Supervisory 
Board regarding the size and composition of the Supervisory 
Board and the Executive Board, regarding selection criteria, 
selection procedures, appointments and reappointments to both 
Boards as well as regarding assessment of their performance. The 
committee also monitors the Executive Board’s policy on 
selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior 
management and holds annual appraisals with the individual 
members of the Executive Board.
The Nomination Committee met four times and members 
consulted each other a number of times outside the context of a 
formal meeting. Items discussed were the vacancies in the 
Executive Board, the required profile for the individual positions, 
review of and interviews with a number of candidates and the final 
selection of the preferred candidates. A proposal for the 
re-appointment of Mr Bax and the appointment of Mr Den Houter 
was submitted to the Supervisory Board. The Committee 
discussed with the Chief Executive Officer and with the corporate 
HR director the succession planning process within the company, 
the changes in the top structure and the profile for the members 
of the newly to be established Executive Committee.
Composition and functioning of the Executive 
Board and the Supervisory Board
Executive Board
As announced in a press release on 22 January 2018, Mrs T. Menssen  
stepped down as CFO and member of the Executive Board of the 
company effective 1 July 2018. This decision was reached by 
mutual agreement as the further implementation of the strategic 
agenda required a different fulfilment of the CFO role. We thank 
Thessa Menssen for her contribution and dedication to BAM.
At the General Meeting of 18 April 2018, Mr E. J. Bax was 
re-appointed as a member of the Executive Board for a period of 
84
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCourts Bundle PPP 
Waterford Courthouse, Waterford
The Courts Bundle PPP Project comprises the development of 
new courthouse buildings in Drogheda, Letterkenny, Limerick 
and Wexford and also the refurbishment and extension works 
to existing courthouses in Cork, Mullingar and Waterford.
Five of the sites incorporated protected structures which 
required a lot of work from our team to ensure that the 
surviving fabric and features of the buildings were preserved 
and enhanced as part of a modern courthouse suitable for use 
in the 21st Century.
85
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvStephen Ross - West Dunbartonshire CouncilWest Dunbartonshire Schools 
‘There’s been no drop in standards,
no drop in commitment’
Stephen Ross is Public Private 
Partnership (PPP) Monitoring 
Officer - Asset Management for 
West Dunbartonshire Council, 
in Scotland, where BAM has 
delivered four schools under a 
PPP and is responsible for the 
maintenance of them as part of 
a thirty year concession.
What stood out about BAM?
‘West Dunbartonshire has some of 
the highest levels of social 
deprivation in Scotland and in 
2007 the Council decided to create 
four new schools that would also 
reach out into the communities by 
providing much-needed, improved 
access to community sports and 
leisure activities.’
‘We wanted each school to be 
unique and what stood out about 
BAM from the start was that they 
really listened and understood what we wanted. Other bidders 
tried to shoehorn us into 
off-the-shelf or one-size-fits-all 
solutions.’
Focus to perform
‘I have been manager of the 
concession with BAM for the 
Council since the start of 
procurement. We are one third of 
the way through the 30 year 
concession and what pleases me 
– ten years on – is that there’s 
been no drop in standards, no 
drop in commitment. I think 
BAM’s ability to listen and their 
responsiveness is still a feature of 
the relationship. I don’t really see 
it as client v provider dynamic, 
where we are always on different 
sides of the table, but more as a 
partnership. Of course the 
Financial Close agreement is a 
hard-nosed contractual document. 
Sometimes it limits what I can ask 
for, and it limits what BAM can 
deliver. But BAM often goes over 
and above what they have to do 
contractually. The teachers in the 
schools, for example, feel they can 
go direct to BAM and that they get a high level of service. I think we 
get a first class level of 
responsiveness from BAM. They 
are quick to react and willing to go 
above and beyond the strict terms 
of the contract in order to deliver a 
quality service.’
Adding value and evolving 
together
‘BAM have gone out of their way 
to help us reduce our carbon 
footprint. The WDC Schools were 
among the first to use geo-
thermal renewable energy. And, 
even though the Council is 
responsible for utilities usage, 
BAM constantly prompts us with 
options for better energy 
performance, such as switching to 
LED lighting and educating us in 
best practice on monitoring 
energy usage. They’ve guided us 
on lifecycle maintenance, so that 
we do not necessarily do 
like-for-like replacement but make 
the most of technological 
advances. Even on a practical 
level, they are great in the schools 
in educating the children about 
energy efficiency.’
‘Ten year on, we are at the stage 
where the buildings are getting 
older, so maintaining the schools 
to the highest standard is taking 
more effort. But I feel very 
confident in the level of service 
delivery and our ability to achieve 
that working together. I think it 
helps that BAM can deliver every 
element of a PPP arrangement 
under one roof, from the financial funding, through to the design, 
construction, and then the day to 
day facilities management. Most 
other contractors have to 
outsource some of these 
elements. So, for example, soon 
we will need to undertake some 
substantial remedial work on the 
sports pitches, and it’s good to 
know that the people who have 
been maintaining the school also 
have the capability, capacity and 
technical competence to 
undertake this work.’
Benefits and outcomes
‘I think the Council is achieving its 
vision. From the start, the new 
schools became focal points in the 
communities. The demand for 
community usage of the sports 
facilities has exceeded our 
expectations. We aimed for 2,350 
hours’ usage out of school time 
but last year had to increase the 
provision by 1,400 hours. Head 
teachers, I think, would also say 
that there is a much higher level 
of engagement among pupils.’
‘I am proud that the way we are 
running the concession together 
is highly regarded by our 
stakeholders such as the Scottish 
Futures Trust and the Scottish 
Government. As an asset manager, 
I network with my peers within 
West Dunbartonshire and in other 
Councils to share our experiences 
and I think the partnership with 
BAM stands out as a template of 
how to do it. Much of that is down 
to BAM’s collaborative approach.’
86
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvinstitutions. The Supervisory Board is not aware of any conflicts of 
interest between the company and members of the Supervisory 
Board, or between the company and natural persons or legal 
entities that hold at least 10 per cent of the shares in the company.
In early 2019 we performed our annual self-assessment. It was 
based on an extensive questionnaire that was completed by all 
board members prior to the evaluation session. We concluded 
that the board is operating well, with open discussions and 
constructive contributions from all members. We also assessed 
the expertise of the individual board members and concluded 
that the combined expertise is in line with the characteristics of 
the company and its business. Several suggestions were made for 
further improvement. These relate among others to continuous 
professional development, timely provision of information, 
succession planning and the need for continuous attention to 
strategic matters and compliance.
Diversity
Both the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board recognise 
the importance of diversity in the Group’s managerial bodies. In 
our view diversity is not limited to gender, it also involves age, 
nationality and background. The profile for the Supervisory Board 
includes a minimum 30 per cent target for female and male board 
members. This gender target applies mutatis mutandis to the 
Executive Board.
We note that our present composition is in line with the profile 
for our board. We meet the specific target on gender diversity. 
However, since Mrs Menssen stepped down from the Executive 
Board and was succeeded by Mr Den Houter, this no longer 
applies to the Executive Board.
With the new top structure in place in the first quarter of 2019, 
the gender diversity target should apply to the Executive 
Committee (which includes the Executive Board). In filling the 
vacancies in this Committee, gender diversity got a high priority, 
without compromising on the other criteria for these roles. 
Although serious efforts are being made to find suitable female 
candidates, this appears to be challenging. This is due to the 
nature of the business – the construction industry is traditionally 
male dominated – and the lack of female candidates with 
sufficient managerial experience in this industry. Gender diversity 
at the top should also come from a more balanced composition in 
terms of gender at other layers in the organisation. Therefore, the 
company pays specific attention to women in its management 
development programs to assure that the rise of women to senior 
management positions is warranted. In addition, external 
recruitment agencies are specifically instructed to identify and 
submit capable female candidates for senior management 
positions. Finally, the company will give preference to women in 
case of equal suitability. It will however take time before these 
measures lead to achieving the target on gender diversity at the 
executive level.
 one year. Mr E. J. Bax had informed the Supervisory Board that he 
wished to explore other opportunities and would therefore not 
seek re-appointment for four years. The Supervisory Board 
therefore decided to nominate Mr Bax for re-appointment as 
member of the Executive Board for a term of one year. This also 
ensured continuity and a smooth transition of responsibilities, 
also in light of Mrs Menssen stepping down as described above.
In an extraordinary General Meeting on 26 June 2018, Mr L.F. den 
Houter was appointed as a member of the Executive Board per 
1 August 2018 for a period which will end at the closing of the 
Annual General Meeting in 2022. Mr Den Houter succeeded 
Mrs Menssen as the Chief Financial Officer of the company.
In December 2018 it was announced that in the first quarter of 
2019 an Executive Committee will be established and the size of 
the Executive Board will be reduced to two members, being the 
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. In that 
context, Mr Bax decided to step down as Chief Operating Officer 
and member of the Executive Board of the company, effective 
1 March 2019. We thank Erik Bax for his contribution and 
commitment to BAM.
We reviewed the performance of the Executive Board, also based 
on the discussions we had with management of the operating 
companies. The Nomination Committee met with the individual 
Executive Board members and gave feedback on personal 
performance. The non-financial targets that had been set were 
evaluated as well as the functioning of the Executive Board as a 
team. 
We have established that none of the Executive Board members 
holds more than two supervisory board positions at large 
organisations or a position as chairman of such supervisory body. 
This is in line with the Management and Supervision (Public and 
Private Companies) Act and the Code.
We have no evidence of any conflicts of interest between the 
company and members of the Executive Board.
Information about the individual members of the Executive Board 
is available in chapter 5.3 of the Integrated Report.
Supervisory Board
In 2018 the composition of the Supervisory Board did not change. 
The profile of the board was updated and submitted to the 
General Meeting for discussion in April 2018. There were no 
regular re-appointments. Information about the individual 
members of the Supervisory Board is available in chapter 5.3 of 
the Integrated Report, which is an integral part of this report.
The Supervisory Board meets the requirements of the new Dutch 
corporate governance code with regard to independence. In 2018 
the Supervisory Board members did not have any other 
relationships of a business nature with the company. None of the 
Supervisory Board members had more than five memberships of 
Supervisory Boards at Dutch listed companies or other large 
87
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementZero on the meter 
for Dutch homes
BAM Wonen was the first in the Dutch residential building 
sector to receive full NOM certification. Kajsa Ollongren, 
the Dutch Minister of the Interior, presented the certificate 
to Joost Nelis, Director at BAM Bouw en Vastgoed. ‘This 
confirms that BAM Wonen meets the highest standards in 
zero-on-the-meter housing,’ said Nelis. 
‘NOM Keur’ certification guarantees that a zero-on-the-
meter home (a home that generates enough energy for 
the household that lives in it or even more) meets all the 
standards and performs as promised. In addition to 
technical criteria, performance is measured in terms of 
comfort, health and resident satisfaction. 
When it comes to developing and realising zero-on-the-
meter housing, BAM is a frontrunner in the Netherlands. 
‘We have already hit the 800 mark in building or adapting 
zero-on-the-meter homes. The results are highly positive: 
households have reduced their energy consumption, while 
energy generation exceeds all expectations.’ Final comments
BAM is going through a major transformation process. At the 
same time, winning work and executing projects in cooperation 
with clients, have to continue. We are aware that this causes a 
stretch for many people in the organisation. The company made 
good progress with the implementation of its strategic agenda, 
and although not yet fully visible in the financial results, we are on 
the right track to achieve a better and more predictable 
performance. We want to thank all involved for their contribution 
and dedication to BAM. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 19 February 2019
On behalf of the Supervisory Board, 
Harrie Noy, Chairman
88
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management39 ‘zero on the 
meter’ homes
NOM, Woerden
These 39 homes built in 1960s were transformed into ‘zero on 
the meter’ homes and taken off the gas grid. In addition to the 
usual measures that ensure the houses produce as much energy 
as they consume, we also replaced all floors with ready-made, 
fully insulated floor constructions. This BAM Bouw en Vastgoed 
project saw a further development of the ‘zero on the meter’ 
energy modules, which were installed back to back in the front 
gardens. By storing excess energy not only in individual 
batteries but also in area batteries, the entire Schilderskwartier 
has now been made ‘smart’. Energy from the batteries can be 
fed back into the homes whenever natural sunshine is 
insufficient to power the households. This way, the system 
is prevented from overloading.
89
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvThis remuneration report has been prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee of the Supervisory Board and has been adopted by the 
Supervisory Board in its meeting of 19 February 2019. The 
Remuneration Committee is a permanent committee of the 
Supervisory Board and consists of at least two members of the 
Supervisory Board. The Remuneration Committee is subject to rules 
established by the Supervisory Board. At the end of the year under 
review it consisted of Mrs Mahieu (Chairwoman), Mrs Valentin and 
Mr Noy. The composition of the Remuneration Committee is in line 
with the provisions of the Code. 
This remuneration report contains:
• Remuneration of the Executive Board in 2018, based on 
application of the remuneration policy in 2018
• Internal pay ratio in 2018
• Overview of the remuneration policy and remuneration level for 
the Executive Board
• Term of appointment of the Executive Board members
• Share ownership of members of the Executive Board
• Remuneration of the Executive Board in 2019
• Remuneration of the Supervisory Board
Remuneration Executive Board in 2018
The members of the Executive Board received remuneration in 
the past financial year in line with the remuneration policy adopted 
by the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2015.
Fixed remuneration
A benchmark and adjustment of the fixed remuneration of the 
Executive Board took place in 2016. After the annual evaluation 
beginning 2018 as described in the remuneration policy, it was 
decided not to modify the fixed remuneration in the year 2018. 
The Remuneration Committee took note of the individual Executive 
Board members’ views on their own remuneration. 
Short-term incentive
Based on input from the Remuneration Committee, the 
Supervisory Board evaluated the performance of the Executive 
Board in 2018 in relation to the targets that had been set for the 
year. From the list of financial metrics included in the remuneration 
policy, the metrics that had been selected were: adjusted profit 
before tax (weight 40 per cent), trade working capital (weight 20 
per cent) and business cash flow (weight 10 per cent). The actual 
2018 performance in relation to the performance zones that had 
been set for each of the financial targets resulted in a bonus of 
27.5 per cent of the 2018 fixed remuneration. The non-financial 
targets (weight 30 per cent) were related to the implementation of 
One BAM initiatives for finance, IT and HR. The evaluation of the 
performance of the Executive Board in relation to these non-
financial targets resulted in a bonus of 22.5 per cent of the 2018 
fixed remuneration. In total, the members of the Executive Board 
were awarded a short-term incentive of 50 per cent of the 2018 
fixed remuneration for their performance in 2018.With Mrs Menssen, who stepped down as CFO and member of the 
Executive Board as of 1 July 2018, it had been agreed that she 
received a short-term incentive of €50,000 for the period that she 
served on the Executive Board in 2018. 
Long-term incentive
Before 2015, the Company had a phantom share plan in place for the 
members of the Executive Board. Under that plan Executive Board 
members each year received so-called phantom shares which - 
depending on the TSR performance - vested after three years and 
resulted in a payout of the vested phantom shares two years after 
vesting, based on the share price at that moment. In 2018, the 
lock-up period for the vested phantom shares awarded under the 
2013-2015 plan ended, resulting in a payout that is shown in  
 table 58. The value per the end of 2018 of the vested phantom 
shares awarded under the 2014-2016 plan is shown in  table 59. 
These shares will result in a payout in 2019.  
 
As of 2015, the remuneration policy for Executive Board members 
has been adjusted. This adjusted policy, adopted by the Annual 
General Meeting on 22 April 2015, includes as long-term incentive 
the award of conditional performance shares which vest after three 
years, depending on meeting certain criteria. The conditional 
performance shares granted in 2018 to the members of the 
Executive Board under the performance share plan 2018-2020 are 
stated in  table 63.  Table 61 and  table 62 show the performance 
shares granted in respectively 2016 (performance share plan 
2016-2018) and 2017 (performance share plan 2017-2019). 
The conditional performance shares that were granted under the 
performance share plan 2015-2017 vested on 30 April 2018 based on 
the following performance against measures:
• Relative TSR (weight 1/3): BAM ranked 5th resulting  
in 50 per cent vesting;
• ROCE (weight 1/3): performance below threshold resulting  
in 0 per cent vesting;
• Sustainability (weight 1/3): performance at target resulting  
in 100 per cent vesting. 
In total, 50 per cent of the conditionally granted shares under the 
performance share plan 2015-2017 have become unconditional  
(  table 60. These shares have a lock-up period of two years after 
vesting. 
Remuneration overview
A summary of the remuneration of the individual members of the 
Executive Board can be found in  table 57. 
Mrs Menssen, who stepped down from the Executive Board by 
mutual agreement, was according to her management services 
agreement eligible for a severance payment of one year’s fixed 
remuneration. The phantom shares that vested in 2017 were paid 
out in July 2018. The lock-up period and minimum share 
ownership requirements for the performance shares that vested 
in 2018 ended per 1 July 2018. In line with the Company’s insider 
dealing policy, Mrs Menssen was not allowed to sell the vested 
performance shares during closed periods up until 1 January 2019. 6.2 Remuneration report 
90
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe conditionally granted performance shares in 2016 and 2017 
have lapsed. In 2018 no conditional performance shares were 
awarded to Mrs Menssen.
 
The Company has not awarded any options to members of the 
Executive Board, members of operating company management 
teams or employees. The remuneration of the Executive Board 
members is not affected by a change of control at the Company. 
No loans were issued to members of the Executive Board.
The Supervisory Board did not see any reason during the financial 
year to use its extraordinary powers to adjust or reclaim variable or 
long-term remuneration that was awarded previously.
Internal pay ratio
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code (2016) states that the 
remuneration policy should take into account the internal pay ratio 
within the organisation and that the internal pay ratio should be 
reported in the remuneration report. BAM applies a methodology 
to calculate the internal pay ratio based on the employee benefits 
and the CEO compensation according to the financial statements. 
Furthermore, the approach is in line with common practices in the 
market.
BAM’s internal pay ratio is calculated as the total annual CEO 
compensation divided by the average employee compensation 
(employee benefit expenses excluding restructuring costs and 
termination benefits divided by the average number of FTE). 
Consequently, BAM’s calculated internal pay ratio in 2018 is 23 
(2017: 20), implying that the CEO pay is 23 times the average pay 
within the organisation.
Remuneration policy 
The Supervisory Board draws up the Company’s remuneration policy 
based on advice from its Remuneration Committee. The General 
Meeting adopts the remuneration policy. Once the remuneration 
policy has been adopted, the Supervisory Board determines the 
remuneration for the individual members of the Executive Board, 
again on the basis of recommendations of its Remuneration 
Committee. The Remuneration Committee’s regulations are 
published on BAM’s website. The current remuneration policy was 
adopted by the General Meeting on 22 April 2015 and is applicable 
as of 2015.
Design principles
The remuneration policy is geared to attract and retain qualified 
people and motivating them to achieve Royal BAM Group’s 
objectives. Particular emphasis is placed on experience with the 
Group’s (international) activities and the necessary management 
qualities. In the design of the policy and in determining the 
remuneration levels of the members of the Executive Board, the 
Supervisory Board has benchmarked several remuneration elements 
(fixed remuneration, short-term incentive and long-term incentive) 
BIM, BAM, award
Site Engineer Daryl Charlton won an award for her work 
with BIM 360 Field software at the 2018 BIM Show Live 
conference in Newcastle, UK. 
Charlton (26), who works at BAM Nuttall: ‘On the Blyth 
offshore demonstration project, which involved the 
immersion at sea of gravity base foundations for wind 
turbines, I used BIM 360 Field to set up a system for 
quality assurance and safety.’ 
But that wasn’t all: she also developed a barcode system 
for tracing prefab elements and was in charge of the 
training programme for the project team as well as their 
co-creators of the subcontractors and the client. 
‘I consider this award an encouragement to continue the 
search for innovations that can contribute to the 
digitalisation of the construction process.
91
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management52 - Labour market reference group
Arcadis Heijmans
Balfour Beatty Hochtief
Bauer NCC
Besix Post NL
Boskalis Skanska
Eiffage Strabag
Fugro VolkerWessels
The remuneration levels are presented in  table 53.
53 - Remuneration level
STI (% of fixed remuneration)
CEO 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
Members 55% (target)
75% (maximum)
LTI (Award value as % of fixed remuneration)
CEO 70%
Members 60%
Share ownership guidelines
CEO 1 times fixed remuneration
Members 0.75 times fixed remuneration
Remuneration package
The remuneration of the Executive Board consists of four elements:
a. Fixed remuneration
b. Short-term incentive (STI)
c. Long-term incentive (LTI)
d.   Post-employment benefits and fringe benefits.
Ad a. Fixed remuneration
The Supervisory Board determines the development of the fixed 
remuneration of the individual members of the Executive Board. The 
annual evaluation and change in fixed remuneration generally take 
place per 1 January of each year. The evaluation considers personal 
performance, the results of the past year, the extent to which the 
current fixed remuneration deviates from the benchmark and 
general changes in the market.
Ad b. Short-term incentive
To ensure continued alignment of the short-term incentive with 
BAM’s strategy, flexibility with respect to the STI metrics is 
important to enable adequate responses to the challenges the 
Group is facing. At the start of the financial year the Remuneration 
Committee selects two to three financial metrics for the STI of the 
members of the Executive Board. It also determines their relative 
weighting.against market standards. Also the internal pay differentials have 
been taken into account, as well as scenario analyses which were 
used to determine possible outcomes of the variable remuneration 
elements, including the maximum value of the long-term incentive. 
The remuneration structure and elements take into account that 
risk-taking beyond the risk profile of the Company should not be 
encouraged.
The policy also aims to stimulate profitable growth and long-term 
value creation, to motivate individuals and to increase the 
attractiveness of the Company to highly qualified executives, 
including those from other industries, so as to interest them in Royal 
BAM Group. The policy contributes to long-term value creation by 
not only focusing on financial targets but also on non-financial 
targets like sustainability and safety. In addition, a long-term 
incentive plan is operated for this purpose. The remuneration level 
and structure are based on the development of results, as well as 
other developments that are relevant to the Company, including 
non-financial indicators which are relevant for the Company’s 
long-term objectives.
In order to achieve these design principles, remuneration is set at a 
competitive level for the relevant national general remuneration 
market for directors and other senior managers of large companies. 
The Supervisory Board will regularly review the remuneration 
package to ensure that it complies with the assumptions underlying 
the remuneration policy. The remuneration policy will also be 
evaluated regularly; changes in the policy will be put forward for 
adoption at the General Meeting.
Remuneration level
The Supervisory Board uses external benchmark information to 
assess market comparability of the remuneration levels. 
Remuneration levels are aimed at the median of a labour market 
reference group of fourteen companies as listed in  table 52. 
The reference group was selected based on industry, ownership 
structure, geographical business scope and size parameters. 
Carillion has been removed from the labour market reference 
group as of 2018 due to its liquidation per 15 January 2018.
92
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managemententitled to reclaim (any part of) the variable remuneration paid to a 
member of the Executive Board on the basis of incorrect (financial) 
information.
Ad c. Long-term incentive
Executive Board members participate in a performance share plan. 
The performance shares are conditionally awarded subject to 
performance testing after three years. The number of performance 
shares at award date is calculated by dividing the award value by the 
average closing price of BAM shares on Euronext Amsterdam based 
on the five-day average closing price after the Annual General 
Meeting.
There are two financial performance measures, being relative total 
shareholder return (TSR) and Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 
and one non-financial measure, being sustainability. Realised 
performance results in a vesting percentage for each of the three 
performance targets, each determining one third of the vesting of 
the conditionally granted shares. The TSR measure will also operate 
as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting part linked to the other two 
criteria. In case BAM ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer 
group, the other parts will not vest regardless of the performance.
The minimum share ownership requirement for the CEO amounts to 
100 per cent of fixed remuneration and for the other members of 
the Executive Board to 75 per cent of fixed remuneration. In 
accordance with the Code the three-year vesting period will be 
followed by a two-year lock-up period. Participants are not allowed 
to divest any shareholding until the two-year lock-up period has 
lapsed and the above minimum share ownership requirements are 
met, with the exception of any sale of shares during the lock-up 
period required to meet any tax obligations and social security 
premiums (including any other duties and levies) as a consequence 
of the vesting.The financial metrics will be chosen from the following list:
1. (Adjusted) profit before tax
2. Operational result (EBIT)
3. Working capital
4. Cash flow
5. Cash conversion
6. Cost reduction
7. Divestments.
The selected metrics link remuneration with BAM’s financial 
priorities. As specific targets for each of the metrics may qualify as 
sensitive information, these will in principle not be disclosed.
70 per cent of the STI is based on the selected financial metrics, 
the remaining 30 per cent is linked to non-financial performance 
targets. Performance incentive zones are defined for each of the 
targets. Payout gradually increases with performance, starting with 
a payout of 35 per cent of the fixed remuneration at threshold 
performance, 55 per cent at target performance and potentially 
going up to 75 per cent of fixed remuneration at maximum 
performance. Below threshold there will be zero payout. The 
Supervisory Board sets the performance ranges (i.e. threshold, at 
target and maximum performance levels) and corresponding payout 
levels.
After the end of the financial year, the Remuneration Committee 
determines to what extent the performance targets have been met. 
The Supervisory Board, following a proposal from the Remuneration 
Committee, will decide upon the variable remuneration to be 
awarded over the past financial year.
In cases in which the variable remuneration is awarded on the basis 
of inaccurate (financial) data, the Supervisory Board has the right to 
adjust the variable remuneration accordingly, and the Company is 
54 - The performance incentive zones
Relative TSR ROCE Sustainability
TSR ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below threshold 0% Below threshold 0%
6 25%
Notes:
1)  Vesting is expressed as a percentage of the conditionally granted number of shares.
2)  If TSR would be at position 10 or 11, no vesting can occur for the other parts.7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%
93
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management(or any benefit resulting therefrom) where those have been awarded 
on the basis of incorrect information concerning:
(i) the achievement of the performance conditions concerned or
(ii)  events or conditions on which the shares were conditionally 
awarded.
At the discretionary request of the Supervisory Board, the 
Company’s independent auditor will check the calculations carried 
out and conclusions reached in connection with the long-term 
incentive plan, in which case the independent auditor’s 
assessment will be binding.
Ad d.  Post-employment benefits and fringe benefits 
With respect to pensions, sector regulations are followed wherever 
possible, with surplus schemes based on defined contributions and 
contributions from the participants. Members of the Executive 
Board are subject to a pension scheme and transitional 
arrangements as applicable in the Group from 1 January 2006 for all 
comparable employees. The costs of trend-based indexation of 
underlying pension rights have been included in the pension 
contributions with effect from 2009. The Company does not have 
any early retirement schemes. No pension arrangements were made 
with regard to Mr Bax and Mr Den Houter, who instead will receive a 
contribution for their personal pension arrangements.
As for employees, the Group has a competitive package of fringe 
benefits for the members of the Executive Board. This package 
includes such matters as healthcare and disability insurance, 
personal accident insurance, a car scheme and reimbursement of 
business expenses. The Group does not offer loans, warrants and 
the like to members of the Executive Board or to employees, except 
for the following indemnities and insurances.
Current and former members of the Supervisory Board and 
Executive Board are covered by the indemnity, under the Articles of 
Association, against claims made against them in respect of actions 
or omissions in the performance of the duties of their position, 
unless said actions or omissions constituted wilful, deliberately 
reckless or seriously culpable misconduct and/or consisted of traffic 
offences. This facility also applies to all employees and former 
employees of BAM. The Company has taken out directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance under standard market terms and 
conditions for the members of the Supervisory Board, the members 
of the Executive Board, the members of the operating company 
management teams and all other directors and officers in BAM.
Term of appointment and management services 
agreement s
Members of the Executive Board are appointed for a maximum 
period of four years and deliver their services under a management 
services agreement. The notice period for members of the Executive 
Board can be found in  table 64. If the Company terminates the 
management services agreement of a member of the Executive 
Board, the maximum severance payment will be one year’s fixed 
remuneration.55 - Long-term incentive plan
Financial vs. non-financial measures Financial:  66.7%
Non-financial:  33.3%
Measures and weight TSR:  33.3%
ROCE:  33.3%
Sustainability:  33.3%
Payment mechanism Conditional 
performance shares
Stimulating share ownership Two-year lock-up period 
after vesting plus 
minimum share 
ownership requirements 
TSR is defined as the share price increase, including dividends. 
TSR is measured over a three year period based on the three month 
average share price before the start and the end of the three year 
period. The relative position within the peer group determines the 
vesting percentage. The TSR peer group comprises of Balfour Beatty, 
Boskalis, Eiffage, Heijmans, Hochtief, NCC, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci, 
VolkerWessels (and BAM)*. The composition of the TSR peer group is 
being evaluated on a periodic basis, among other things, in light of 
corporate events.
*  In 2018, the TSR peer group was adjusted for conditional awarded 
performance shares as of 2018 and onwards: due to its liquidation, Carillion 
was replaced by VolkerWessels, YIT was replaced by NCC.
Realised performance against the set targets is assessed by using 
performance incentive zones. For excellent performance, the 
number of performance shares per individual target that may vest 
may amount to a maximum of 150 per cent of the ‘at target’ number 
of performance shares. This percentage may be reduced to zero 
(on a sliding scale) for non-achievement of the individual targets. 
The performance incentive zones are presented in  table 54.
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the 
number of performance shares that will vest and the share price at 
the moment of vesting – that will become unconditional to a 
participant will at vesting never exceed two and a half times the 
award value in order to avoid inappropriate payouts.
The authority to implement the long-term incentive plan lies with 
the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has the right to 
change or terminate the scheme at any time. If the Supervisory 
Board decides to terminate or make material changes to the 
long-term incentive plan, the next General Meeting will be asked to 
adopt a resolution to that effect. Upon a decision of the Supervisory 
Board, following a proposal from the Remuneration Committee, the 
Company has the discretionary power to fully or partially reclaim 
from the participant who is member of the Executive Board the 
conditionally awarded performance shares as well as vested shares 
94
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementHi-tech
One Microsoft Place, Dublin
This hi-tech HQ accommodates up to 2,300 staff and provides 
35,000 m2 of office accommodation over five floors. BAM 
Contractors were responsible for the design, construction, 
completion and defects rectification of the construction and 
fitting out this hi-tech, flexible and agile campus, creating a 
new standard in the workplace environment.
95
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvAn alternative arrangement was concluded in 2018 with Mr Bax as 
part of his re-appointment. Both the appointment as member of the 
Executive Board and the management services agreement apply for 
one year up to the Annual General Meeting in 2019. Each party may 
terminate the management services agreement early, per the end of 
a calendar month taking into account a notice period of two 
months, with the limitation that Mr Bax cannot terminate the 
management services agreement before 1 January 2019. If the 
Company terminates the management services agreement before 
the end of the current appointment period of one year other than 
for an urgent reason, Mr Bax is entitled to a payment equal to the 
remaining fixed remuneration up to the Annual General Meeting in 
2019. More information on the key elements of the individual 
management services agreements of the Executive Board members 
can be found on the Company’s website.
The Company has no other remuneration provisions, beyond the 
remuneration package mentioned above, nor are there any other 
rights to one-time payments.
Securities rules
The Company has rules relating to the possession of and trading in 
BAM securities. These rules are published on the Company’s 
website. The Company also has regulations for members of the 
Executive Board and the Supervisory Board relating to the trading in 
securities other than those issued by the Company.
Share ownership members of the Executive Board
 Table 56 shows the number of shares held by Executive Board 
members on 31 December 2018.
56 - Shares held
 Number of shares on  
 31 December 2018
R.P. van Wingerden 31,862
L.F. den Houter -
E.J. Bax 20,703
Remuneration of the Executive Board in 2019
The remuneration policy described above will remain in effect in the 
financial year 2019. No material changes in the remuneration of the 
Executive Board are foreseen.
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board
The members of the Supervisory Board received remuneration in the 
past financial year in line with the remuneration as adopted by the 
Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2017: an annual fixed 
remuneration of €70,000 for the Chairman, €55,000 for the 
vice-Chairman and €50,000 for the other members of the 
Career-enhancing 
training 
Leading construction and engineering company BAM 
Nuttall has brought seven local operatives, from its 
Freetown Water Rehabilitation project in Sierra Leone, 
to the CITB’s National Construction College (NCC) to 
complete excavator and lifting operations training.
With the project being undertaken on behalf of the 
Department for International Development, all works 
must be completed to UK standards. To ensure the 
correct levels of competency and allow BAM Nuttall to 
employ local residents, seven operatives were chosen to 
attend the NCC in Bircham Newton, Norfolk. For all seven 
operatives this was the first time they had left Sierra 
Leone.
Three of the operatives completed training on excavators, 
both tracked and wheeled, while the other four 
operatives passed the lifting operations programme, 
comprising a week of slinger signaller training, a week 
working with lorry mounted HIABs and two weeks of 
mobile crane operations.
‘This is really important to the Freetown Water 
Rehabilitation project,’ says Ross Cawthorne, general 
foreman on the project. ‘We have no real way of showing 
competency in Sierra Leone and there’s no training like 
this in Africa. This is life changing for the guys from Sierra 
Leone. They now have a proven European certificate of 
training and any employer, once we leave the country, 
would look at that very positively. I think they would be 
chosen for projects by other companies within Sierra 
Leone.’
96
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management57 -  Executive Board remuneration  
Fixed remuneration, short-term incentive, post-employment benefits, other benefits and long-term incentive  
(x €1,000)
Fixed  
remuneration Short-term  
incentivePost-employment 
benefitsOther 
benefits1Long-term
incentive2
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
R.P. van Wingerden 686 684 343 214 151 183 - 3 361 162
L.F. den Houter3203 - 101 - 10 - - - - -
E.J. Bax 486 484 243 152 101 93 - 3 151 -
T. Menssen4243 484 50 152 28 49 491 3 382 -
1  The Other benefits in 2017 consisted of the fixed expense allowance that members of the Executive Board received up until June 2017. As of June 2017, the 
expense allowance policy has been changed into reimbursement of actual incurred business expenses.
2  The amount shown under Long-term incentive consists of the Phantom Share Plans and Performance Share Plans that form taxable income for the Executive 
Board Member in the respective financial year. The value for the Phantom Share Plan is the amount paid out at the payout date, the value for the Performance 
Share Plan is the value of the vested shares at the vesting date. In the integrated report 2017 the amount shown in this column was the value as included in the 
Financial Statements.
3  Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 August 2018.
4   Mrs Menssen has stepped down from the Executive Board with effect from 1 July 2018. Mrs Menssen has received a severance payment of €486 thousand and 
€5 thousand for legal fees, which is included in other benefits. 
 
Long-term incentive plan 
58 -  Phantom share plan 2013-2015 1  
(value in €)
At the award date At the payout date
Number Value Number Vesting %Vested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden 69,272 235,000 71,678 45% 32,255 127,652
E.J. Bax - - - - - -
T. Menssen 69,272 235,000 71,678 45% 32,255 127,652
1  Award has become unconditional on 3 May 2016. The lock-up period has ended as per 3 May 2018, leading to the payout of the award.
2  The value has been based on the average share price of BAM on the five trading days before the end of the lock-up period as per 3 May 2018 (€3.958 ) and on 
the number of vested shares three years after the award. The number of (vested) shares at the payout date include dividend up until the payout date.  
The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.Supervisory Board, with an additional annual fixed remuneration of 
€10,000 (Chairman) or €7,000 (member) for membership of one or 
more Supervisory Board committees. Non-Dutch members received 
an attendance fee of €1,500 per meeting. Actual and necessarily 
incurred costs in the performance of the duties for BAM are 
reimbursed. 
As a policy the Company does not award any options or shares to 
members of the Supervisory Board. This was also the case in 2018. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is not affected 
by the Company’s results, nor by any change of control at the 
Company.
No loans were issued to members of the Supervisory Board.
Supervisory Board
Bunnik, the Netherlands, 19 February 2019
97
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management59 -  Phantom share plan 2014-2016 1  
(value in €)
At the award date At year-end 2018
Number Value Number Vesting %Vested 
shares Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden 60,072 235,000 62,847 45% 28,281 71,099
E.J. Bax 60,072 235,000 62,847 45% 28,281 71,099
T. Menssen 60,072 235,000 62,847 45% 28,281 102,355
1   Award has become unconditional on 1 May 2017; lock-up period up to and including 1 May 2019. The lock-up period for Mrs Menssen ended per 1 July 2018.
2   For Mr Van Wingerden and Mr Bax the potential value is based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2018 (€2.514) and on the number of vested shares 
three years after the award. The number of (vested) shares include dividend up until year-end 2018. For Mrs Menssen the value is based on the average share 
price of BAM on the five trading days before the end of the management services agreement (€3.619 ) and on the number of vested shares three years after 
the award. The number of (vested) shares at the payout date include dividend up until the payout date. The long-term remuneration will never exceed one and 
a half times the annual fixed remuneration of the Executive Board member on the day of the payout.
60 -  Performance share plan 2015-2017 1 
(value in €)
At the award date At year-end 2018
Number Value Number Vesting % 2Vested 
shares Value 3
R.P. van Wingerden 114,319 434,000 119,876 50% 59,939 150,687
E.J. Bax 74,281 282,000 77,892 50% 38,947 97,913
T. Menssen 74,281 282,000 77,892 50% 38,947 97,913
1  Award has become unconditional on 30 April 2018; lock-up period up to and including 30 April 2020. The lock-up period for Mrs Menssen ended per 1 July 
2018, in line with the applicable plan rules.
2 Vesting % explained in remuneration report.
3  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2018 (€2.514) and on the number of vested shares three years after the award. The number 
of (vested) shares include dividend up until year-end 2018. The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares 
that will vest and the share price at the vesting date – that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half (2.5) times the award value.
61 -  Performance share plan 2016-2018 1 
(value in €)
At the award date  At year-end 2018
Number Value Number Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden 112,711 476,000 112,711 283,355
E.J. Bax 68,195 288,000 68,195 171,442
T. Menssen 368,195 288,000 - -
1  Awarded on 28 April 2016; award becomes unconditional on 28 April 2019 if the specified 3-year performance targets are met. Since BAM ranks 10th of the 
TSR peer group for this Performance Share Plan the circuit breaker is applicable. Therefore the conditional shares will be forfeited at the vesting date of the 
plan, 28 April 2019. 
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2018 (€2.514) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional performance shares that 
become unconditional three years after the award. The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that 
will vest and the share price at the vesting date – that become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half times the award value.
3  The conditional shares for Mrs Menssen under the long-term incentive plan 2016-2018 are forfeited.
98
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management62 -  Performance share plan 2017-2019 1 
(value in €)
At the award date  At year-end 2018
Number Value Number Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden 94,651 476,000 94,651 237,953
E.J. Bax 57,268 288,000 57,268 143,972
T. Menssen 357,268 288,000 - -
1  Awarded on 27 April 2017; award becomes unconditional on 27 April 2020 if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2018 (€2.514) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional performance shares that 
become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price at the vesting date – that 
become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half times the award value.
3  The conditional shares for Mrs Menssen under the long-term incentive plan 2017-2019 are forfeited.
63 -  Performance share plan 2018-2020 1 
(value in €)
At the award date  At year-end 2018
Number Value Number Value 2
R.P. van Wingerden 122,469 480,200 122,469 307,887
E.J. Bax 74,369 291,600 74,369 186,964
1  Awarded on 26 April 2018; award becomes unconditional on 26 April 2021 if the specified 3-year performance targets are met.
2  Potential value based on the closing share price of BAM at year-end 2018 (€2.514) and on the ‘at target’ number of conditional performance shares that 
become unconditional three years after the award.  
The value of the performance shares – as the combined result of the number of performance shares that will vest and the share price at the vesting date – that 
become unconditional, will never exceed two and a half times the award value.
64 - Appointment and contractual arrangements
Date of
first
 appointmentStart date
current
appointmentPeriod of
appointmentNotice
period
for the
CompanyNotice
period for
the Executive
Board member Severance
R.P. van Wingerden 7 May 2008 20 April 2016 4 years 6 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration
L.F. den Houter 1 August 2018 1 August 2018 4 years 3 months 3 months 1 year’s fixed 
remuneration
E.J. Bax 1 May 2014 18 April 2018 1 year 2 months 2 months remuneration until end 
of term
99
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFinancial statements7
An intelligent 
characteristic feature
IQ Intelligent Quarters, Hamburg
BAM Deutschland finished the construction of the IQ Intelligent 
Quarters in Hamburg. This project is located in the HafenCity 
district, directly on the banks of the Magdeburger Hafen. 
The project included constructing two storeys of underground 
parking for 400 cars with the seventy metre high office tower 
Watermark, the seven-storey apartment building Freeport, 
including 46 luxury apartments, and the six-storey office 
building Shipyard. A characteristic feature in the design of 
architects Störmer Murphy und Partner, Hamburg, is formed by 
the white ceramic facades of the three buildings.
100
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nv102 Consolidated income statement
103 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
104 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
105 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
106 Consolidated statement of cash flows
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
107 1. General information
107 2. Summary of significant accounting policies
128 3. Financial risk management
134 4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainties
136 5. Segment information
139 6. Projects
142 7. Property, plant and equipment
143 8. Intangible assets
145 9. PPP receivables
146 10. Investments 
150 11. Other financial assets
151 12. Inventories
152 13. Trade and other receivables
154 14. Cash and cash equivalents
155 15. Share capital and premium
156 16. Reserves
157 17. Capital base
157 18. Borrowings
162 19. Derivative financial instruments
163 20. Employee benefits
169 21. Provisions
170 22. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
172 23. Trade and other payables
173 24. Employee benefit expenses
173 25. Impairment charges
173 26. Exceptional items
174 27. Audit fees
175 28. Finance income and expense
176 29. Income tax
177 30. Earnings per share  
178 31. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
178 32. Contingencies
179 33. Commitments
179 34. Business combinations
180 35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
180 36. Related parties
182 37. Share-based payments
186 38. Joint operations
187 39. Service concession arrangements
189 40. Government grants
189 41. Research and development
189 42. Events after the reporting period
190 Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
191 Company income statement
192 Notes to the company financial statementsContents 
101
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe notes on pages 107 to 189  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated income statement
(x €1,000)
Notes 2018 2017
Restated*
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 7,207,751 6,535,092
Raw materials and consumables used (1,683,145) (1,322,539)
Subcontracted work and other external charges (3,746,381) (3,630,419)
Employee benefit expenses 24 (1,338,319) (1,273,614)
Depreciation and amortisation charges 7,8 (69,776) (59,548)
Impairment charges 25 (20,628) (4,579)
Other operating expenses (281,530) (254,142)
Exchange rate differences 1,417 29
(7,138,362) (6,544,812)
Share of result of investments 110 38,947 20,317
Share of impairment charges in investments 110,25 (3,122) (193)
35,825 20,124
  
Operating result 105,214 10,404
Finance income 28 21,221 30,002
Finance expense 28 (11,894) (20,440)
9,327 9,562
  
Result before tax 114,541 19,966
Income tax 29 (90,125) (32,891)
Result for the year from continuing operations 24,416 (12,925)
Discontinued operations   
Result for the year from discontinued operations 35 - -
  
Net result 24,416 (12,925)
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company 23,773 (13,790)
Non-controlling interests
643 865
24,416 (12,925)
Earnings per share  (x €1)
Basic 30
Continuing operations 0.09 (0.05)
Discontinued operations - -
Total 0.09 (0.05)
Diluted 30
Continuing operations 0.09 (0.05)
Discontinued operations - -
Total 0.09 (0.05)
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
1  The results from share of investments (including impairments) have been included in the Operating result as from 2018. The comparative figures have 
been adjusted. Please see Note 2.1.1. 
102
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe notes on pages 107 to 189  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2018 2017*
Restated*
Net result 24,416 (12,925)
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to the income statement
Fair value of cash flow hedge (1,123) 12,629
Tax on fair value of cashflow hedge (108) (3,109)
Cash flow hedges 19 (1,231) 9,520
Fair value movement hedges in joint ventures (3,876) 12,494
Tax on fair value movement hedges in joint ventures 687 (4,395)
Cash flow hedges of investment in joint ventures 19 (3,189) 8,099
Exchange rate differences (6,421) (12,171)
Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to the income statement, net of tax
Movement in remeasurements 25,862 17,365
Tax on movement in remeasurements (3,889) (2,853)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations 20 21,973 14,512
  
Other comprehensive income 11,132 19,960
  
Total comprehensive income 35,548 7,035
Attributable to:
Shareholders of the Company 34,795 6,159
Non-controlling interests 753 876
35,548 7,035
Total comprehensive income attributable to the shareholders of the Company arises from:
Continuing operations 34,795 6,159
Discontinued operations - -
34,795 6,159
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
(x €1,000)
103
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementConsolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December
(x €1,000)
Notes  31 December 
2018 31 December  
 2017 Restated* 1 January  
2017 Restated*
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 289,607 281,874 270,173
Intangible assets 8 407,988 403,718 389,992
PPP receivables 9 85,298 240,687 296,395
Investments 10 109,555 95,594 85,866
Other financial assets 111 101,332 91,903 92,044
Derivative financial instruments 19 1 464 -
Employee benefits 20 111,219 75,020 62,773
Deferred tax assets 22 165,557 235,023 256,597
1,270,557 1,424,282 1,453,839
Current assets
Inventories 12 577,991 606,731 645,433 
Trade and other receivables 13 1,972,040 1,744,655  1,868,069
Income tax receivable 4,564 7,547 4,976
Derivative financial instruments 19 641 1,058 983 
Cash and cash equivalents 14 743,674 695,779 738,577 
3,298,910 3,055,770 3,258,038 
 
Assets held for sale 35 8,516 8,516 40,245 
3,307,426 3,064,286 3,298,283 
   
Total assets 4,577,983 4,488,568 4,752,123 
Equity attributable to the shareholders of Company
Share capital and premium 15 839,311 839,311 839,311 
Reserves 16 (164,966) (152,815) (170,252) 
Retained earnings 54,686 34,760 55,432 
729,031 721,256 724,491 
Non-controlling interests 5,857 5,556 5,061
Total Equity 734,888 726,812 729,552 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 18 280,019 398,146 463,515 
Derivative financial instruments 19 9,691 14,952 20,346 
Employee benefits 20 119,950 118,512 144,708 
Provisions 21 141,803 128,622 124,789 
Deferred tax liabilities 22 39,722 28,062 26,287 
591,185 688,295 779,645 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18 62,758 104,944 148,131
Trade and other payables 23 3,081,135 2,856,021 2,969,184
Derivative financial instruments 19 272 133 4,354 
Provisions 21 95,837 94,849 102,107
Income tax payable 11,908 17,514 14,817 
3,251,910 3,073,461 3,238,593 
Liabilities held for sale 35 - - 4,333 
3,251,910 3,073,461 3,242,926 
   
Total equity and liabilities 4,577,983 4,488,568 4,752,123 
Capital base 17 846,668 836,243 836,982 
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
1 Other financial assets are divided into two classes resulting from the implementation of IFRS 9. See note 2 and 11.
The notes on pages 107 to 189  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
104
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management 
 Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
NotesShare capital 
and premium ReservesRetained
earnings TotalNon-
controlling 
interests Total equity
Restated balance as at 1 January 2017*  839,311  (170,252)  55,432  724,491  5,061  729,552 
Cash flow hedges 19 - 17,505 - 17,505 114 17,619
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 20 - - 14,512 14,512 - 14,512
Exchange rate differences - (12,068) - (12,068) (103) (12,171)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - 5,437 14,512 19,949 11 19,960
Restated net result* - - (13,790) (13,790) 865 (12,925)
Restated total comprehensive income* - 5,437 722 6,159 876 7,035
Dividends 31 - - (7,466) (7,466) (410) (7,876)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 15 - - (2,696) (2,696) - (2,696)
Share based payments - - 818 818 - 818
Development cost - 12,000 (12,000) - - -
Other movements - - (50) (50) 29 (21)
- 12,000 (21,394) (9,394) (381) (9,775)
      
Restated balance as at 31 December 2017* 839,311 (152,815) 34,760 721,256 5,556 726,812
Cash flow hedges 19 - (4,541) - (4,541) 121 (4,420)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations 20 - - 21,973 21,973 - 21,973
Exchange rate differences - (6,410) - (6,410) (11) (6,421) 
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - (10,951) 21,973 11,022 110 11,132
Net result - - 23,773 23,773  643  24,416
Total comprehensive income (10,951) 45,746 34,795 753 35,548
Dividends 31 - - (11,429) (11,429) (451) (11,880)
Repurchase of ordinary shares 15 - - (15,492) (15,492) - (15,492)
Share based payments - - (95) (95) - (95)
Development cost - (1,200) 1,200 - - -
Other movements -  - (4) (4) (1)  (5)
- (1,200) (25,820) (27,020) (452) (27,472)
      
As at 31 December 2018 839,311 (164,966) 54,686 729,031 5,857 734,888 
*The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
The notes on pages 107 to 189  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Consolidated statement of changes in equity
(x €1,000)
105
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementConsolidated statement of cash flows
(x €1,000)
The notes on pages 107 to 189  are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.Notes 2018 2017 Restated*
Net result 24,416 (12,925)
Adjustments for:
 - Income tax 29 90,125 32,890
 - Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7 63,772 55,042
 - Amortisation of intangible assets 8 6,004 4,506
 - Impairment of other financial assets 11,25 (1,292) 153
 - Impairment of intangible assets 8,25 - 703
 - Impairment of inventories 12,25 21,920 3,723
 - Share of impairment charges in investments 10,25 3,122 193
 - Result on sale of PPP projects 35 (4,400) (900)
 - Result on sale of property, plant and equipment (2,045) (4,736)
 - Share based payments 37 (95) 818
 - Share of result of investments 10,11 (38,947) (20,317)
 - Finance income 28 (21,221) (30,002)
 - Finance expense 28 11,894 20,440
Interest received 15,817 9,870
Dividends received from investments 10,11 34,851 23,331
Changes in provisions and pensions 20,21 5,701 (21,835)
Changes in working capital (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 19,606 62,683
Cash flow from operations 229,228 123,637
Interest paid (16,426) (25,179)
Income tax paid (13,335) (10,762)
Net cash flow from ordinary operations 199,467 87,696
Investments in PPP receivables 9 (16,774) (127,161)
Repayments of PPP receivables 9 26,047 104,982
Net cash flow from operating activities 208,740 65,517
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 7,18 (66,503) (72,933)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7 12,959 16,488
Purchases of intangible assets 8 (13,705) (23,513)
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 8 402 60
Investments in non-current receivables 11 (25,433) (23,206)
Repayments of non-current receivables 11 13,657 14,699
Investments in other financial assets 10,11 (15,799) (15,166)
Proceeds from disposal of other financial assets 10,11 1,563 2,634
Proceeds from sale of PPP projects 35 18,700 20,500
Net cash flow from investing activities (74,159) (80,437)
Proceeds from borrowings 18 41,146 175,230
Repayments of borrowings 18 (80,752) (184,327)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the Company 31 (11,429) (7,466)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (451) (410)
Repurchase of ordinary shares (15,492) (2,696)
Net cash flow from financing activities (66.978) (19,669)
Change in cash and cash equivalents 67,603 (34,589)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 14 695,779 738,575
Changes in cash and cash equivalents as a result of change in accounting policy 2 (16,289) -
Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents (3,419) (8,207)
Net cash position at end of year 14 743,674 695,779
*The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
106
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management1. General information
Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’), its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) and the Group’s participations in joint operations 
and investments offers its clients a substantial package of products and services in the sectors Construction and property, Civil 
engineering and Public Private Partnerships (‘PPP’). The Group is mainly active in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland 
and Germany. The Group is also involved in specialist construction and civil engineering projects in niche markets worldwide.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on Euronext Amsterdam, with its registered seat and head office in Bunnik, 
the Netherlands.
On 19 February 2019 the Executive Board authorised the financial statements for issue. The financial statements as presented in this 
report are subject to the adoption by the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2019.
2. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.  
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code, as far as applicable.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in note 4.
2.1.1  Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a) Application of new and revised standards
IFRS 2, ‘Share-based Payment, addresses the classification and measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions. The amendments 
address three main areas: 
• the effects of vesting conditions on the measurement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction;
• the classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement features for withholding tax obligations
• accounting where a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction changes its classification from 
cash-settled to equity-settled. 
These amendments do not lead to significant changes for the Group, given the fact that:
• the Group does not have any ongoing vesting conditions of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction
• the share-based payment transactions do not contain net settlement features;
• no changes in the terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction have occurred, which would change its classification 
from cash-settled to equity-settled. All share-based payment plans with a running vesting period are equity settled.
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities 
and introduces new rules for hedge accounting. IFRS 9 brings together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments 
project: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. The impact of IFRS 9 can be summarised as follows:
• all financial instruments are held to collect and the Group has not applied for the fair value option. As a result of this, for all financial 
instruments that meet the Solely Payments of Principal and Interest (SPPI) criterion, the accounting remains at amortised cost;Notes to the consolidated financial statements
107
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management• part of the non-current receivables (previously included in the other financial assets (carrying amount 2017: €91.9 million) do not meet 
the SPPI criterion; as a result, these are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss (note 11 Financial assets at fair value though 
profit or loss). Based on the assessment made, the difference between the fair value and amortised cost of the non-current receivables 
involved is not material. Note 11 has been adjusted to show a split between receivables based on fair value through profit or loss and 
receivabled based on amortised cost. The comparative figures have been reclassified. 
• the application of the expected credit loss (ECL) approach on assessment of impairment of debt instruments (including contract assets and 
contract receivables) did not result in a material impact, where under IAS 39 Financial Instruments an incurred loss model was applied;
• the foreign exchange and interest hedges comply with IFRS 9.
Since the overall impact of IFRS 9 is not material, the comparative figures have not been restated for IFRS 9 and no additional disclosures 
have been included except for the adjustments made in note 11.
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an 
entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to 
direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18, ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11, ‘Construction 
contracts’ and related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group has 
adopted this standard at the date of initial application. See note 2.24 Revenue recognition for the relevant accounting policies.
The Group used the retrospective method for implementation, which means that the financial statements of 2018 contain comparative 
figures over 2017 based on IFRS 15. For comparison reasons also the impact on the opening balance 2017 has been established.
At the date of publication of the financial statements 2017, certain areas of attention were still outstanding. These specific areas of 
attention and discussions at IFRIC contained the following topics:
• Variable considerations will only be recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that no significant reversal of revenue will occur. 
The valuation threshold therefore increased from ‘more likely than not’ to ‘highly probable’. This means that certain valuations of 
claims, variation orders, bonuses and penalties, which were previously correctly valued under the probable criterium under IAS 11, do 
not qualify in full for recognition under IFRS 15. This has a negative effect on equity upon transition and a negative impact on the 
comparative revenue and result figures of 2017, as shown in the overall impact below. The overall contract profitability is not affected, 
as BAM expects corresponding revenues, and therefore results, will be recognised in future periods. The IFRS 15 impact is in particular 
a matter of timing. 
• IFRIC has released an exposure draft in December 2018, with proposed amendments to IAS 37 regarding the measurement of 
provisions for onerous contracts, as the specific guidance under IAS 11 no longer applies. Previously two  options are allowed: using 
incremental cost or indirect cost. In the exposure draft only the direct contract cost method has been proposed, being ‘the costs that 
relate directly to the contract’. The Group can therefore continue to follow the current method of of using direct contract cost 
regarding the measurement of provisions for onerous contracts, which means that the revenue and contract cost as estimated in 
applying IFRS15 are also used as a basis for determining whether a contract is onerous. This assessment is made for the contract as a 
whole, whereby the interaction between loss making performance obligations and profitable performance obligations within one 
contract has led to a limited impact.
• In general the activities of the Group qualify for recognition of revenue over time in line with current accounting. 
• Bid fees in respect of won PPP-projects are no longer recognised upfront, but during the construction phase of the project. This has a 
limited impact on equity upon transition and result of the comparative figures 2017, as shown in the overall impact below.
• During 2018 the discussion whether land and buildings need to be classified as separate performance obligations has been concluded 
by IFRIC, which states multiple performance obligations apply. Although such separation may affect the accounting for individual 
transactions, it does currently not have a material effect on the Group. Therefore no adjustments have been made.
Significant inefficiencies
The Group does not recognise revenue for costs incurred that are attributable to significant inefficiencies in the entity’s performance 
that were not reflected in the price of the contract since these costs do not contribute to any benefits for the customer. This includes 
costs of unexpected amounts of wasted materials, labour or other resources that were incurred to satisfy the performance obligation. 
Identification of inefficiencies leads to an adjustment in revenue and, in case of loss making projects, a reclassification between project 
result and provisions for onerous contracts. No result impact has been identified during the Groups conversion to IFRS 15. 
Reclassification of onerous contracts
Under the previous standard, the Group reported the net contract position for each contract as either an asset or a liability. A contract 
represented an asset where cost incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) exceed progress billings; a contract represents 
108
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementa liability where the progress billings exceed cost incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses). Provisions for onerous 
contracts were included within the net contract position. Under IFRS 15 the provisions for onerous contracts are reclassified from the net 
contract position to a separate provision for onerous contracts. These provisions show the amount of the onerous contract result which 
relates to future obligations to be fulfilled under the contract. This amount is determined based on the progress of the performance 
obligation identified in the contract.
Input measures for revenue recognition
Based on IFRS 15, only one measurement method for recognising revenue over time may be used for similar contracts with similar 
circumstances throughout the Group: either input based or output based and applied consistently. Under the previous standard both 
methods were applied. Almost all entities within the Group already used the input method, meaning the revenue is based on the entity’s 
efforts or inputs to the satisfaction of a performance obligation relative to the total expected inputs to the satisfaction of that 
performance obligation. One Group company used the output method, for which the impact is shown under the impact Other with no 
impact on the comprehensive income statement. 
Practical expedients
For consistency reasons, a few practical expedients have been applied during the conversion of the Group to IFRS 15. This may have 
resulted in a slightly higher transition impact than if practical expedients would have been applied, for example because the Group has 
not used hindsight for the valuation of variable considerations. The Group has assessed the valuation with the knowledge available at the 
reporting date with the application of the highly probable threshold, meaning the variable considerations have been valued at a later 
moment in time when the highly probable threshold has been reached.
The following table summarises the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position as at 
1 January 2017 for each of the line items affected. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been separately shown. 
The tables show adjustments of revenue from variable considerations, the impact of recognising bid fees during the construction phase, 
a reclassification for onerous contracts to provisions and other impacts. The amounts are shown in €  millions.
Impact on the consolidated statement of financial position:
 
Balance sheet (extract) 1 January 2017Variable 
considerations PPP bid fees Provisions Other1 January 
2017 
Restated
Deferred tax assets 248,8 6,1 1,6 - - 256,6 
Trade and other receivables 1,934,5 (92,7) - 23,5 2,8 1,868,1 
Income tax receivable 6,2 (1,3) - - - 5,0 
Other assets 2,622,5 - - - - 2,622,5 
Total assets 4,812,1 (87,9) 1,6 23,5 2,8 4,752,1
Group equity 839,3 (104,9) (4,9) - - 729,6 
Provisions 141,9 17,0 - 68,0 - 226,9 
Trade and other payables 3,004,4 - 6,5 (44,5) 2,8 2,969,2 
Other liabilities 826,5 - - - - 826,5 
Total equity and liabilities 4,812,1 (87,9) 1,6 23,5 2,8 4,752,1
The following tables summarise the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Group’s consolidated statement of financial position as at 
31 December 2017 and its consolidated income statement for the year then ended for each of the line items affected. Line items that 
were not affected by the changes have not been separately shown. There was no material impact on the Group’s statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2017. The tables show adjustments of revenue from variable considerations, the impact of recognising 
bid fees during the construction phase, a reclassification for onerous contracts to provisions and other impacts. The amounts are shown 
in € millions.
109
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBalance sheet (extract)31 December
2017 Variable 
considerationsPPP
bid fees Provisions Other31 December 
2017
Restated
Deferred tax assets 218,0 15,4 1,6 - - 235,0
Trade and other receivables 1,845,4 (114,1) - 26,2 (12,8) 1,744,7
Income tax receivable 6,5 1,1 - - - 7,5
Other assets 2,501,3 - - - - 2,501,3
Total assets 4,571,2 (97,6) 1,6 26,2 (12,8) 4,488,6
Group equity 857,8 (126,1) (4,8) - - 726,8
Provisions 113,9 17,4 - 92,2 - 223,5
Trade and other payables 2,917,2 11,2 6,4 (66,0) (12,8) 2,856,0
Income tax payable 17,6 (0,1) - - - 17,5
Other liabilities 664,7 - - - - 664,7
Total equity and liabilities 4,571,2 (97,6) 1,6 26,2 (12,8) 4,488,6
Impact on the consolidated income statement 2017:
Full year 2017Variable 
considerationsPPP
bid fees OtherFull year 
2017 
Restated
Revenue 6,603,7 (51,9) - (16,7) 6,535,1
Operating expenses (6,575,1) 13,5 0,1 (16,7) (6,544,8)
Operating result 28,6 (38,4) 0,1 - (9,4)
Result before tax 58,3 (38,4) 0,1 - 20,0
Income tax (44,9) 12,1 (0,0) - (32,9)
Net result for the year 13,4 (26,4) 0,0 - (12,9)
The changes to the accounting policies following IFRS 15 have been adjusted in the respective notes.
IAS 40,’Transfers of Investment Property’, has been amended. The amendments clarify when an entity should transfer property, 
including property under construction or development into, or out of investment property. The amendments state that a change in use 
occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of investment property and there is evidence of the change in use. 
A mere change in management’s intentions for the use of a property does not provide evidence of a change in use. These amendments 
do not have any impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
Classification of German Argen and presentation of share in result of investments
During 2018, further discussions regarding the classification of the German Joint Arrangements (Arbeitsgemeinschaften: ‘Argen’) have 
taken place. Multiple interpretations regarding the classification of the Argen either as Joint Operation or Joint Venture exist. Until 
31 December 2018, the Argen were classified as Joint Operations. As from 31 December 2018, on a prospective basis, the Group will classify 
the Argen as Joint Ventures to fully align with interpretations from German Audit Profession. This regards a change in accounting policy. 
This presentation change per 31 December 2018 results in a decrease of Property, Plant and Equipment (note 7) with €2 million, Trade and 
other receivables (note 13) with €22 million, Trade and other payables (note 23) with €121 million and Cash and cash equivalents (note 14) 
with €16 million, offset by an increase of investment in joint ventures of €5 million (note 10.2) and amounts due to related parties of €85 
million (note 23). Furthermore, in the consolidated statement of cash flows, the change in Cash and cash equivalents with respect to this 
presentation change is separately presented. Based on the limited impact, no changes have been made in the consolidated income 
statement, nor have the comparative figures been adjusted. This means that the revenue and costs from these Argen remain, as in 
previous years, to be included in the consolidated income statement for 2017 and 2018 on a gross basis (2018: €117 million revenue; 2017: 
€78 million revenue). As from 1 January 2019, the revenue and costs from the German Argen will be included on a net basis in the result 
from joint ventures.
110
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFurthermore, while reviewing policies regarding Joint Arrangements, the Group has decided to present the results from share of 
investments (including impairments) in the Operating result as from 2018 given the similar nature of the activities of the investments 
concerned with the activities of the Group. Furthermore, this presentation is more aligned to practices adopted by competitors, and 
better aligns with internal management reporting. As such, this presentation provides more relevant information to the users of the 
financial statements. This only entails a reclassification in the consolidated income statement (2018: €35.8 million, 2017: €20.1 million) 
and has no impact on the valuation of the investments in associates and joint ventures and the results from the share of investments. 
The comparative figures have been adjusted.
The Group has applied the amendments for the first time for their annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2018 in connection with 
the ‘Annual Improvements to IFRSs – 2014-2016 Cycle’. The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current period 
or any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC amendments as per 1 January 2018 that have a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after
1 January 2019 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a 
significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except the following set out below:
IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ was issued by the IASB on 13 January 2016 and replaces IAS 17 ‘Leases’, IFRIC 4 ‘Determining whether an Arrangement 
contains a Lease’, SIC-15 ‘Operating Lease Incentives’ and SIC-27 ‘Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a 
Lease’.
IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account 
for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for finance leases under IAS 17. Under existing rules, lessees 
generally account for lease transactions either off-balance if the lease is classified as operating lease or on balance if the lease is classified 
as finance lease. IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise nearly all leases on balance which will reflect their right to use an asset for a period 
of time and the associated liability to pay rentals. The lessee will recognise a liability reflecting the lease payments (‘lease liability’) and 
an asset reflecting the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term (‘right-of-use asset’). Lessees will be also required to 
remeasure the lease liability upon the occurrence of certain events (e.g., a change in the lease term, a change in future lease payments 
resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine those payments). The lessee will generally recognise the amount of the 
remeasurement of the lease liability as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Lessees also need to separately recognise the interest 
expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, making IFRS 16 approach to lessor accounting, substantially unchanged from 
its predecessor, IAS 17. 
As disclosed in note 33.2, the Group has several operating lease contracts for buildings, equipment and company cars for which the 
accounting will change from off balance to on balance, with the exception of certain low-value or short-term leases. Changes may occur 
due to the present value approach and the timeframe for which the leases need to be taken into account for. 
Transition method
This standard applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early adoption permitted. Transition options 
to apply are either a full retrospective approach or a modified retrospective approach. The Group decided to implement this standard on 
the required date using the modified retrospective approach option 2. This means that the right-of-use-asset will be equal to the lease
liability.
The Group applied the practical expedient not to reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the date of initial application. 
The Group will use the IFRS 16 definition of a lease only to contracts entered into (or changed) on or after the date of initial application.
111
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementKey accounting choices
The Group has chosen to use the following exemptions proposed by the standard:
• non-lease components: non-lease components are not separated from lease components and instead each lease component and any 
associated non-lease components are accounted for as a single lease component. Variable lease payments such as petrol for cars or 
variable maintenance fees for buildings are excluded from the measurement of the lease liability;
• short term exemption: leases shorter than 1 year are excluded from on-balance sheet recognition;
• low-value exemption: leases of assets with a fair value less than €5.000 / £4.000 are excluded from on-balance sheet recognition;
• discount rate: the incremental borrowing rate will be used. When the rate is included in the contract this implicit rate will be used 
otherwise the incremental borrowing rate as periodically provided by the Group will be used.
Expected IFRS 16 impact
The group (as lessee) has a large number of lease contracts that are currently accounted for as operating leases under IAS 17. The Group 
has performed an IFRS 16 contract analysis on all existing lease contracts as per 30 September 2018 and calculated the IFRS 16 impact as 
per that date to give insight in the expected impact from IFRS 16. During 2018, processes have been redesigned, an accounting tool to 
account for IFRS 16 has been implemented and staff has been trained in the application of IFRS 16.
During the first quarter of 2019 the Group will continue to update the lease data for the fourth quarter of 2018, thus calculating the final 
impact on the opening balance of 2019. The identified leases mainly relate to offices, company cars and equipment. The Group is 
currently in the process of evaluating if all leases have been identified, assessing whether renewal options are applicable, validating the 
accuracy of the calculations in the lease accounting tool and gathering all data needed to determine the IFRS 16 impact on the 2019 
opening balance. 
The impact upon transition to IFRS 16 regarding lease contracts, is expected to be the following based on our contract analysis as per 
30 September 2018:
• Assets and liabilities are expected to increase by an amount close to the net present value of future lease payments, which is expected 
to be in the range of €275 million to €325 million. The increase compared to the lease commitments of €235 million is mainly due to 
the effect of including renewal options in the calculations of the lease assets and liabilities.
• Total impact on the retained earnings is expected to be nil as a result of applying the modified retrospective transition approach option 2.
• As the lease payments are presented as depreciation and finance cost instead of operating expenses, operating result is expected to 
increase with approximately €5 million and finance expense is expected to increase with approximately the same amount. 
• As the lease payments (excluding interest) will no longer be considered as operating cash flows but as financing cash flows, the 
operating cash flows reported in the consolidated cash flow statement as of 2019 will be positively affected, while the financing cash 
flows will be negatively affected.
Since the above estimate reflects the lease data as per 30 September 2018, the final impact on the opening balance of 2019 can differ, due 
to new and expiring leases, as well as the completion of the detailed impact analysis as described above. However, the Group considers 
the expected impact as per 30 September 2018 as a reasonable representation of the expected impact on the opening balance 2019.
Calculation of bank covenants are not influenced by the adoption of IFRS 16 due to the application of the agreed upon ‘frozen’ IFRS.
Amendments to IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’ address the accounting when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during a 
period. The amendments specify that current service cost and net interest for the remainder of the annual reporting period after a plan 
amendment, curtailment or settlement are determined based on updated actuarial assumptions. The amendments clarify how the 
accounting for a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement affects applying the asset ceiling requirements. The amendments should be 
applied prospectively to plan amendments, curtailments or settlements that occur on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier application 
permitted. The amendments will only change the method for future impact when amendments to plans apply.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
2.2 Consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the 
Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.  
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
112
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised amounts of 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in 
the income statement.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to 
the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IFRS 9 either in 
the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value 
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the 
total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of 
the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses 
are also eliminated. When necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the Group’s accounting 
policies.
(b) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as 
transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant 
share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling 
interests are also recorded in equity.
(c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, 
with the change in carrying amount recognised in the income statement. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of 
subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related 
assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the profit or loss.
(d) Associates
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, accompanying a shareholding of between 
20 and 50 per cent of the voting rights or based on the representation on the board of directors. Investments in associates are accounted 
for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost and the carrying 
amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The 
Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement, where appropriate.
The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in 
other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of 
the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other 
unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the associate.
113
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. 
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate 
and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Group’s financial statements 
only to the extent of unrelated investor’s interests in the associates. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. When necessary amounts reported by associates have been adjusted to conform 
with the Group’s accounting policies.
(e) Joint arrangements
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint ventures or joint operations depending on the contractual rights and 
obligations. Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement have 
rights to the net assets of the joint venture. The parties to the arrangement have agreed contractually that control is shared and 
decisions regarding relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties which have joint control of the joint venture.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially 
recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in 
other comprehensive income. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures 
(which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the joint ventures), the Group does 
not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the joint 
ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to 
the assets and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the joint operation. The Group recognises its share in the joint operations’ 
individual revenues and expenses, assets and liabilities and includes it on a line-by-line basis with corresponding items in the Group’s 
financial statements.
2.3 Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Board. The Executive Board 
considers the business from a sector perspective and identifies Construction and Property, Civil engineering and PPP as operating segments.
2.4 Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in ‘euro’ (€), 
which is the Group’s presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions 
or valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income 
statement within ‘exchange rate differences’, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
• income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
• all resulting exchange rate differences are recognised separately in equity in ‘other comprehensive income’.
114
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementGoodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate. Exchange rate differences arising are recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’.
(d) Exchange rates
The following exchange rates of the euro against the pound sterling (£) have been used in the preparation of these financial statements:
2018 2017
Closing exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.90025 0.88763
Average exchange rate
Pound sterling 0.88692 0.87420
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Other 
costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual 
values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:
Land improvements 10%-25%
Buildings 2%-10%
Equipment and installations 10%-25%
IT equipment 10%-25%
Furniture and fixtures 10%-25%
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount (note 2.7).
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within ‘other 
operating expenses’ in the income statement.
2.6 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in 
net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the amount of the non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash- 
generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from that business combination. Each unit to which the goodwill is 
allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment. The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in 
use and the fair value less costs of disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
115
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management(b) Non-integrated software
Non-integrated software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation on non-integrated software is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over 
their estimated useful lives (between 4 and 10 years). The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if 
appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
(c) Other
Other intangible assets relate to market positions, including (brand) names, the management of acquired subsidiaries and development 
cost and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Research cost are expensed as incurred. Development cost on an individual project are recognised as an intangible asset when the 
following can be demonstrated:
• technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale;
• its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset;
• how the asset will generate future economic benefits;
• the availability of resources to complete the asset;
• the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development;
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use. 
Additional recognition of cost of development may apply when development continues. It is amortised over the period of expected 
future benefit. Amortisation is recorded in depreciation and amortisation charges. During the period of development, the asset is tested 
for impairment annually.
Amortisation on other intangible assets is calculated over their estimated useful lives. The assets’ useful lives are reviewed and adjusted 
if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
2.7 Impairment of non-financial assets
Intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely 
independent cash inflows (CGUs). Prior impairments of non-financial assets (other than goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at 
each reporting date.
2.8 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its 
present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at 
the lower of the asset’s carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation or amortisation of an asset ceases when it is 
classified as held for sale. Equity accounting ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, and represents a 
separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major 
line of business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the 
component disposed of and that will not be recognised subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the 
income statement. Results and cash flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial 
statements so that the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the 
balance sheet date for the latest period presented.
116
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.9 Financial assets
2.9.1 Classification
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The classification depends on the purpose for 
which the financial assets were acquired or issued. In principle, the financial assets are held in a business model whose objective is to 
collect contractual cash flows over the lifetime of the instrument. The Group’s financial assets comprise ‘PPP receivables’, ‘other financial 
assets’, ‘ (trade) receivables – net’, ‘contract assets’, ‘contract receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in the balance sheet.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the classes ‘debt instruments at amortized costs’, ‘financial assets at fair value through profit 
and loss’ and ‘derivative financial instruments’ (note 2.12). debt instruments at amortized costs are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities 
greater than twelve months after the end of the reporting period which are classified as non-current assets. Debt instruments that do 
not meet Solely Payments of Principal and Interest (SPPI) criterion (for which the test is performed at instrument level) are classified at 
other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
2.9.2 Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or 
loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in 
the income statement, which also applicable for net changes in fair value after initial recognition. Trade receivables that do not contain 
a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are initially measured at the transaction 
price determined under IFRS 15. (See note 2.24 for revenue recognition).
Debt instruments, other than those initially measured in accordance with IFRS 15, are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method and are subject to impairment. The Group measures debt instruments at amortised cost if both of the 
following conditions are met: 
• the debt instruments is held with the objective to hold financial assets in order toto collect contractual cash flows; 
• the contractual terms of the debt instruments give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
Interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and 
the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset 
is derecognised, modified or impaired.
2.10 Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to 
offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in 
the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
2.11 Impairment of financial assets
If the credit risk on a financial asset, not held at fair value through profit or loss, has not increased significantly since initial recognition, 
the loss allowance for that financial instrument is the 12-month expected credit losses (ECL). If the credit risk on a financial asset has 
significantly changed since initial recognition the loss allowance equals the lifetime expected credit losses. A financial asset is written off 
when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.
Indications of increase in credit risk for financial assets are if a debtor or a group of debtors:
• experience significant financial difficulty;
• are in default or delinquency in interest or principal payments;
• have increased probability of default;
• other observable data resulting in increased credit risk.
117
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFor all financial assets, not held at fair value through profit or loss, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest 
rate, taking into account the value of collateral, if any. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement. If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the 
current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial 
recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month 
ECL). For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is 
required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECL).
For trade receivables, contract assets and contract receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs. Therefore, 
the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. 
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors 
specific to the debtors and the economic environment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the income 
statement.
2.12 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of recognising 
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being 
hedged. The Group designates the derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly 
probable forecast transaction (‘cash flow hedge’) or the foreign currency risk of the unrecognised Group’s commitment.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its 
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both 
at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in 
offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if it meets all of the following effectiveness requirements:
• there is ‘an economic relationship’ between the hedged item and the hedging instrument;
• the effect of credit risk does not ‘dominate the value changes’ that result from that economic relationship;
• the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually 
hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 19. Movements on the hedging 
reserve in other comprehensive income are shown in note 16. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset 
or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than twelve months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity 
of the hedged item is less than twelve months.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss 
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income 
statement within ‘finance income/expense’. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward foreign exchange contracts is 
recognised in profit or loss within ‘operating result’.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain 
or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the 
income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is 
immediately transferred to the income statement within ‘finance income/expense’.
118
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.13 Inventories
Land, building rights and property developments are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group capitalises 
interest on finance raised to facilitate the development of specific projects once development commences and until practical 
completion, based on the total actual finance cost incurred on the borrowings during the period. When properties are acquired for 
future redevelopment, interest on borrowings is recognised in the income statement until redevelopment commences. Raw materials 
and finished goods are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the ‘first-in, first-out (FIFO) method’. 
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
2.14 Construction contracts
The Group defines a construction contract as a contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset. On the balance sheet, the 
Group reports the net contract position for each (construction) contract as either an contract asset or a contract liability. A contract asset is 
recognized when the Group has a right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a customer when 
that right is conditioned on something other than the passage of time. A contract receivable is an amount to be billed for which payment is 
only a matter of passage of time. A contract liability is recognized when the Group has an obligation to transfer goods or services to a 
customer for which the entity has received consideration (or the amount is due) from the customer. A provision for onerous contracts is 
recognized when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received 
under it.
For further guidelines regarding construction contracts see paragraph 2.24 revenue recognition under (a).
2.15 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in 
one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade and other receivables, other than those measured in accordance to IFRS 15, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any expected credit loss.
2.16 Cash and cash equivalents
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other 
short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. In the consolidated balance 
sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within ‘borrowings’ in current liabilities.
2.17 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds. When share capital is repurchased in order to prevent dilution as a result of the share-based compensation plan, the 
consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net of tax, is deducted from equity. Repurchased shares (treasury shares) are 
presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or re-issued subsequently, any amount received is recognised 
as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to/from retained earnings.
2.18 Trade and other payables
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts 
payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method.
119
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.19 Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost; 
any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings using the effective interest method (in case not attributable to property development projects).
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some 
or all of the facility will be drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence 
that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and 
amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
The subordinated convertible bonds are separated into liability and equity components based on the terms of the contract. On issuance 
of the subordinated convertible bonds, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent
non-convertible instrument. This amount is classified as a financial liability measured at amortised cost (net of transaction costs) until it 
is extinguished on conversion or redemption. The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised and 
included in equity (after tax). The carrying amount of the conversion option is not remeasured in subsequent years.
Transaction costs are deducted from equity, net of associated income tax. Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and 
equity components of the subordinated convertible bonds, based on the allocation of proceeds to the liability and equity components 
when the instruments are initially recognised.
2.20 Current and deferred income tax
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income respectively directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the 
countries where the Group operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the 
basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred 
income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow 
the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint arrangements, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by 
the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is sufficient taxable 
profit available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on 
either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
120
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management2.21 Employee benefits
(a) Pension obligations
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal 
or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating 
to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on 
one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. 
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Current service costs of defined benefit plans are recognised immediately in the income statement, as part of ‘employee benefit 
expenses’, and reflect the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year, benefit changes, 
curtailments and settlements.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement. Interest expenses are included in the ‘employee benefit expenses’.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or 
voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised 
as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a 
reduction in the future payments is available.
(b) Other employment obligations
Other employment obligations comprise jubilee benefits, retirement gifts, temporary leaves and similar arrangements and have a 
non-current nature. These obligations are stated at present value.
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an 
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits at the earlier of the 
following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognises costs for a 
restructuring and involves the payment of termination benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the 
termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 
12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their present value.
2.22 Share-based payments
(a) Performance Share Plan
The Group operates an equity-settled share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a corresponding credit 
entry of equity. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting 
conditions are to be satisfied. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted:
• including a market performance condition based on the Company’s share price;
• excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions; and
• including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
121
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAt the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the  
non-market vesting conditions and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income 
statement within ‘personnel expenses’, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value 
is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the performance shares and are re-invested.
(b) Phantom Share Plan
The Group operates a cash-settled share-based compensation plan.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as cost with a corresponding credit 
entry of liabilities for the period until the date on which the Executive Board members are unconditionally entitled to payment. The 
valuation of the liability is re-assessed on every reporting date and on the settlement date. Any changes in the fair value of the liability 
are recognised in the income statement within ‘personnel expenses’.
Phantom shares become unconditional three years after the date of grant, while the percentage of phantom shares that become 
unconditional depends on the market performance condition based on the Company’s share price.
These shares contain a dividend right, to which the same conditions apply as to the phantom shares and are re-invested.
Upon vesting date, unconditional phantom shares are locked up for another two years. Cash distribution takes place at the end of the 
lock-up period.
2.23  Provisions
Provisions for warranties, restructuring costs, rental guarantees, associates and joint ventures and onerous contracts are recognised 
when: (a) the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; (b) it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation; and (c) the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision 
due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when a detailed formal plan has been approved, and the restructuring has either commenced or 
has been announced publicly. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Future operating losses are not recognised.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment (including separately presented goodwill and other 
uninsured receivables), further losses will not be recognised, unless the Group has provided securities to the associate or joint venture, 
committed to liabilities or payment on behalf of the associate and joint venture. In that case, the excess will be provided for.
2.24  Revenue recognition
(a) Construction contracts
As per 1 January 2018, the Group has implemented IFRS 15 regarding revenue recognition. IFRS 15 follows a 5-step approach to 
recognise for revenue, which is set out below. Certain specific topics have been included or referred to the applicable note. The standard 
replaces IAS 18, ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11, ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations.
The core principle of IFRS 15 is a 5-step model to distinguish each distinct performance obligation within a contract that the Group has 
with its customer and to recognise revenue on the level of the performance obligations, reflecting the consideration that the Group 
expects to be entitled for, in exchange for those goods or services. 
122
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe following 5 steps are identified within IFRS 15:
• Step 1 ‘Identify the contract with the customer’: Agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights & 
obligations (not necessarily written).
• Step 2 ‘Identify the performance obligations’: A promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a good or service to the customer.
• Step 3 ‘Determine the transaction price’: The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled 
for in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer.
• Step 4 ‘Allocate the transaction price’: The objective of allocating the transaction price is for the Group to allocate the transaction 
price to each performance obligation.
• Step 5 ‘Recognise revenue’: the Group recognises revenue when (or as) the Group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a 
promised good or service (that is, an asset) to a customer.
Step 1 ‘Identify the contract with the customer’
IFRS 15.9 requires that five criteria must be met before an entity accounts for a contract with a customer. Once an arrangement has met 
the criteria, the Group does not assess the criteria again unless there are indicators of significant changes in the facts or circumstances. 
The achievement of the preferred bid status is not considered as a contract. As from the achievement of the preferred bid status, costs 
will be capitalised as an asset if enforceability of right to payment exists. This mainly concerns costs to fulfil the contract. See note 13 for 
further details.
Multiple contracts are combined and accounted for as a single contract when the economics of the individual contracts cannot be 
understood without reference to the arrangement as a whole. Indicators that such a combination is required are:
(a) the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective;
(b) the amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or the performance of the other contract;
(c) the goods or services promised in the contracts (or some goods or services promised in each of the contracts) are a single 
performance obligation.
A change to an existing contract for a project of the Group is a modification. A contract modification could change the scope of the 
contract, the price of the contract, or both. A contract modification exists when the Group and the customer approve the modification 
either in writing, orally, or implied by customary business practices, making the modification enforceable. In accordance with IFRS 15 the 
Group uses three methods to account for a contract modification:
(a) as a separate contract when the modification promises distinct goods (according to IFRS 15.27) or services and the price reflects the 
stand alone selling price;
(b) as a cumulative catch-up adjustment when the modification does not add distinct goods or services and is part of the same 
performance obligation. For the Group, as common within the construction sector, modifications mainly relate to variation orders 
which do not result in additional distinct goods and services and have to be accounted for as cumulative catch-up adjustment. This is 
the most common method within the Group given the nature of the modifications;
(c) or as a prospective adjustment when the considerations from the distinct goods or services do not reflect their standalone selling 
prices.
Step 2 ‘Identify the performance obligations’
The purpose of this step is to identify all promised goods or services that are included in the contract. Examples of performance 
obligations are the construction of a building, the delivery of an apartment, the maintenance of a road and so on.
At contract inception, the Group assesses the goods or services promised to a customer, and identifies each promise as either:
(a) a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct; or
(b) a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. 
Promises in a contract can be explicit, or implicit if they create a valid expectation that the Group will provide a good or service based on 
the Group’s customary business practices, published policies or specific statements.
Building and maintenance contracts are usually considered as separate performance obligations because these promises are 
separately identifiable and the customer can benefit from these promises on their own. Design and build contracts in the context of 
the Group are usually accounted for as one performance obligation because of not meeting criterion IFRS 15.27 (b) The entity’s 
123
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementpromise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.  These promises usually 
represent a combined output for the customer (the construction) for which the design is the input. However if the purpose of the 
contract is to deliver a separate design after which the client is also able to contract another construction company, the design is 
considered to be separately identifiable.
When assets are built at clearly different (unconnected) locations these are generally considered to qualify as separate performance 
obligations. 
Performance obligations with the same characteristics can be bundled into portfolios if the entity reasonably expects that the 
effects on the financial statements of applying IFRS 15 to the portfolio would not differ materially from applying the standard to all 
performance obligations individually (for example: apartments).
Onerous contracts
IFRS 15 does not include specific guidance about the accounting for project losses. For the accounting of provisions for onerous 
contracts, IFRS 15 refers to the guidance relating to provisions in IAS 37. Based on IAS 37, a provision for an onerous contract has to 
be accounted for on the level of the contract as a whole. This is not necessarily the same as if evaluated on project level, because a 
contract may include more performance obligations. 
The provision for onerous construction contracts only relates to the future loss on the performance to be delivered under the 
contract. In determining a provision for an onerous contract, the inclusion of variable considerations in the expected economic 
benefits is based on the same principles as included in step 3 hereafter, including the application of the highly probable constraint for 
the expected revenue. The provision for onerous contracts is presented separately in the balance sheet.
Step 3 ‘Determine the transaction price’
The purpose of this step is to determine the transaction price of the performance obligations promised in the contract. The 
transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised 
goods or services to a customer. The transaction price can be a fixed amount, a variable consideration or a combination of both.
If the consideration promised includes a variable amount such as an unpriced variation order, a claim, an incentive or a penalty, the 
Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services 
to a customer. IFRS 15 provides two methods for estimating variable considerations: the sum of probability-weighted amounts in a 
range of possible consideration amounts or the most likely amount a range of possible consideration amounts. On the level of each 
performance obligation has to be decided which approach best predicts the amount of the consideration to which the Group will be 
entitled.
The Group includes a variable consideration estimated only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the 
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is 
subsequently resolved (called the ‘constraint’).
The Group is often exposed to uncertainties related to variable considerations such as variation orders and contract claims to 
customers. The measurement of variation orders and claims requires knowledge and judgement by the Group. Based on IFRS 15, 
the Group interprets variation orders and contract claims as contract modifications for which the consideration is variable. 
For the accounting of unpriced variation orders and claims the following elements are assessed:
(a) determine whether the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract that are created or changed by the variation order or 
contract claim are enforceable; 
(b) estimate the change to the transaction price for the variation order or contract claim; 
(c) apply the guidance relating the constraint of the estimate of variable considerations (meaning that it is highly probable that no 
significant reversal of revenue will occur);
(d) determine whether the variation order or contract claim should be accounted for on a prospective basis or a cumulative  
catch-up basis.
For considering the effects of constraining estimates of variable considerations, the Group makes a distinction between claims and 
variation orders. Variation orders are changes that are clearly instructed by the client creating enforceable rights to payment but for 
which the price change is not yet determined. Claims however relate to events for which the Group considers to have enforceable 
rights to a compensation from the client but these are not yet approved by the client. The uncertainty relating to claims is usually 
124
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementhigher, because of the absence of an instruction of the client for a change. As a result the risk of a significant reversal of revenue 
relating to claims is considered to be higher and it might be more difficult to prove that a claim amount meets the IFRS 15 ‘highly 
probable’ criterion. Please refer to note 4 b) for the related criteria.
Other variable considerations might include bonuses and penalties, for which penalties are considered to be negative variable 
considerations. The same method as described above needs to be applied, including assessing the constraint.
When determining the transaction price, the Group adjusts the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the time value 
of money if the timing of payments agreed to by the parties to the contract (either explicitly or implicitly) provides the customer or 
the entity with a significant benefit of financing the transfer of goods or services to the customer. In those circumstances, the 
contract contains a significant financing component. A significant financing component may exist regardless of whether the promise 
of financing is explicitly stated in the contract or implied by the payment terms agreed to by the parties to the contract. As a 
practical expedient the Group does not account for a financing component if the entity expects at contract inception that the period 
between the delivery of goods or services and the payment is one year or less. 
Step 4 ‘Allocate the transaction price’
The objective when allocating the transaction price is to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in an amount 
that depicts the amount of consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised goods 
or services to the customer.
To meet the allocation objective, the Group allocates the total transaction price agreed in the contract (or combination of contracts) 
as determined in step 3 to the performance obligations identified in step 2. This allocation is based on the relative stand-alone selling 
price (SSP) of the individual performance obligations.
To allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, the Group determines 
the stand-alone selling price at contract inception of the distinct good or service underlying each performance obligation in the 
contract and allocate the transaction price in proportion to those stand-alone selling prices.
The estimation method of IFRS 15 that best reflects the stand-alone selling price for design-, construction- and maintenance projects 
is the expected cost plus margin approach. This approach requires to forecast its expected costs of satisfying the performance 
obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that type of project or service. Costs included in the estimation should be 
consistent with those costs the Group would usually consider in setting standalone selling prices. Both direct and indirect costs are 
considered. The Group substantiates for example the average margin on bids for similar projects/services on a stand-alone basis (not 
in combination with other performance obligations).
Step 5 ‘Recognise revenue’
The purpose of this step is to determine the amount of revenue to be recognised in a certain period.
The Group recognises revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service 
(i.e. an asset) to a customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that asset. For each performance 
obligation identified in the contract, the Group determines at contract inception whether it satisfies the performance obligation 
over time or satisfies the performance obligation at a point in time. 
Control refers to the ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from the asset. Control includes 
the ability to prevent other entities from directing the use of, and obtaining the benefits from, an asset. The Group needs to 
determine, at contract inception, whether control of a good or service transfers to a customer over time or at a point in time. 
Revenue is recognised over time if any of the following three criteria are met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the entity’s performance as the entity performs;
(b) the entity’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced;
(c) the entity’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity and the entity has an enforceable right to 
payment for performance completed to date.
In general, the Group is building on the land of the customer or improving an asset of the customer, which results in creating an asset 
that the customer controls as the asset is created. This leads to recognising revenue over time. The Group uses the ‘percentage-of-
completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period for a performance obligation. The stage of 
completion is measured by reference to the contract costs of fulfilling the performance obligation incurred up to the end of the 
125
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementreporting period as a percentage of total expected fulfillment costs under the contract, which is an input measure according to IFRS 15. 
Costs incurred in connection with future activity on a contract are excluded from contract costs in determining the stage of completion. 
Payment terms might differ from client to client and country to country, however the Group’s standard payment term states 60 days. 
A contract liability is recognised until the points are redeemed or expired.
When applying a method for measuring progress, the Group excludes the measure of progress of any goods or services for which the 
entity has not transferred control to a customer. Examples of costs which have to be excluded from the progress measurement, include 
uninstalled materials, capitalised cost and costs of inefficiencies. 
Uninstalled materials
If a customer contributes goods or services (for example, materials, equipment or labour) to facilitate the Groups’ fulfilment of the 
contract, the Group assesses whether it obtains control of those contributed goods or services. If so, the Group accounts for the 
contributed goods or services as non-cash consideration received from the customer. This is however rare, since control usually is not 
transferred to the Group and stays with the customer.
Capitalised cost
The capitalised contract cost include cost to obtain the contract, cost to fulfil the contract and set-up cost. The Group recognises 
capitalised contract cost from the costs incurred to fulfil a contract (for example set-up or mobilisation costs) only if those costs meet all 
of the following criteria:
• the costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the entity can specifically identify (for example, costs relating 
to services to be provided under renewal of an existing contract or costs of designing an asset to be transferred under a specific 
contract that has not yet been approved);
• the costs generate or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance 
obligations in the future; and;
• the costs are expected to be recovered (project result should be sufficient to cover the capitalised contract costs).
Capitalised contract costs shall be amortized over the lifetime of the contract.
Costs of inefficiencies
The Group does not recognise revenue for costs incurred that are attributable to significant inefficiencies in the Group’s performance 
that were not reflected in the price of the contract since these costs do not contribute to any benefits for the customer. This includes 
costs of unexpected amounts of wasted materials, labour or other resources that were incurred to satisfy the performance obligation.
Not all cost overruns compared to the project budget relate to inefficiencies. Cost overruns that for example relate to price increases, 
design changes (regardless whether compensated by the client), inaccuracies in the project budget are not inefficiencies. These expenses 
still contribute to value to the customer and making progress in the delivery of the project. Inefficiency costs relate to wasted items or 
work performed, which do not reflect any progress in the satisfaction of the performance obligation nor value to the customer. The costs 
incurred related to significant inefficiencies are directly charged to the income statement. Consequently, significant inefficiency costs 
are excluded from the measurement of the stage of completion.
(b) Property development
Sale of property development are recognised in respect of contracts exchanged during the year, provided that no material conditions 
remain outstanding on the balance sheet date and all conditions are fully satisfied by the date on which the contract is signed.
Further the accounting policies for property development are the same as mentioned under (a).
(c) Service concession arrangements and other
Under the terms of IFRIC 12 ‘Service concession arrangements’ comprise construction and/or upgrade activities, as well as operating and 
maintenance activities. Both activities recognise revenue in conformity with IFRS 15. The consideration (concession payments) received 
is allocated between construction/upgrade activities and operating/maintenance services according to the relative Stand-alone selling 
prices of the individual performance obligations.
126
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe financial assets relating to service concession arrangements (‘PPP receivables’) are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
Interest is calculated using the effective interest method and is recognised in the income statement as ‘finance income’.
Sales of services are recognised when a performance obligations is satisfied. Usually, revenues from services are recognized over time by 
reference to the stage of completion on the basis of the actual service costs realised respective to the total expected service costs under 
the contract.
Other revenue includes, among other items, rental income under an operating lease and (sub)lease of property, plant and/or equipment. 
When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet based on the nature of the asset. Lease 
income on operating leases is recognised over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis.
2.25 Finance income and expenses
Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method. When a loan and receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the 
carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the 
instrument and continues unwinding the discount as interest income. Finance income on impaired loan and receivables is recognised 
using the original effective interest rate.
Finance expenses comprise interest expenses on borrowings, finance lease expenses, gains and losses relating to hedging instruments 
and other financial expenses. Interest expenses on borrowings and finance lease expenses are recognised in the income statement using 
the effective interest method.
2.26  Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group leases certain property, plant and/or equipment. Leases of property, plant and/or equipment where the Group has 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s 
commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included in ‘borrowings’. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to 
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and/or 
equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the usefull life of the asset and the lease term.
2.27  Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to 
them and that the grants will be reviewed.
Government grants that are receivable as a compensation for expenses or losses already incurred are recognised in the income 
statement in the period in which they become receivable.
2.28  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of 
the financial performance of the Group. These are material items of income and expense that have been shown separately due to the 
significance of their nature or amount.
2.29 Statement of cash flows
The statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method. The net cash position in the statement of cash flows consists of cash 
and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts.
127
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementCash flows in foreign exchange currencies are converted using the average exchange rate. Exchange rate differences on the net cash 
position are separately presented in the statement of cash flows. Payments in connection with interest and income tax are included in 
the cash flow from operations. Cash flows in connection with PPP receivables are included in the cash flow from operating activities. Paid 
dividend is included in cash flows from financing activities. The purchase price of acquisitions of subsidiaries are included in the cash flow 
from investing activities as far as payments have taken place. Cash and cash equivalents in the subsidiaries are deducted from the 
purchase price.
Non-cash transactions are not included in the statement of cash flows.
3. Financial risk management
3.1 Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk), 
credit risk and liquidity risk. Risk is inherent to any business venture and the risk to which the Group is exposed is not unusual or different 
from what is considered acceptable in the industry. The Group’s risk management system is designed to identify and manage threats and 
opportunities. Effective risk management enables BAM to capitalise on opportunities in a carefully controlled environment. The Group’s 
overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to limit potential adverse effects on 
the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Financial risk management is carried out by Group treasury under policies approved by the Executive Board, which has the overall 
responsibility for risk management in the Group and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Group treasury identifies, evaluates 
and hedges financial risks in close collaboration with the group companies. The Executive Board provides written principles for overall 
risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
A substantial part of the Group’s activities takes place in the United Kingdom and, to a limited extent, in other non-euro countries. 
The Group’s results and shareholders’ equity are therefore affected by foreign exchange rates. Generally, the Group is active in these 
non-euro countries through local subsidiaries. The exchange risk is therefore limited, because transactions are denominated largely in
the functional currencies of the subsidiaries. The associated translation risk is not hedged. Due to the translation effect the decrease of 
exchange rate of the pound sterling in 2018 has on Group level reduced the reported revenue, results, equity and closing order book for 
the UK companies. Based on the value per end of 2018 of the Group’s UK subsidiaries, an increase or decrease of 10 per cent of the 
exchange rate of the pound sterling, will have an effect on the Group’s equity of approximately €40 million.
A limited number of group companies are active in markets where contracts are denominated in a different currency than their 
functional currency. Group policy is that costs and revenues from these projects are mainly expressed in the same currency, thus limiting 
foreign exchange risks. The Group hedges the residual exchange risk on a project-by-project basis, using forward exchange contracts.
This involves hedging of unconditional project related exchange risks in excess of €1 million as soon as these occur. The Group reports 
these hedges by means of cash flow hedge accounting. Additional exchange risks in the tender stage and arising from contractual 
amendments are assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Procedures have been established for proper recording of hedge transactions. Systems are in place to ensure the regular performance 
and analysis of the requisite hedge effectiveness measurements for hedge accounting.
(ii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk is associated with interest-bearing receivables and cash and cash equivalents, on the one hand and 
interest-bearing borrowings, on the other. If the interest is variable, it presents the Group with a cash flow interest rate risk. If the interest 
rate is fixed, there is a fair value interest rate risk.
128
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Group mitigates the cash flow interest rate risk to the extent possible through the use of interest rate swaps, under which interest 
liabilities based on a variable rate are converted into fixed rates. The Group does not use interest rate swaps under which fixed-rate 
interest liabilities are converted into variable rates in order to hedge the fair value interest rate risk.
The analysis of the cash flow interest rate risk takes into account cash and cash equivalents, the debt position and the usual fluctuations 
in the Group’s working capital requirements. In addition, alternatives are being studied and hedges are being considered. Under Group 
policy, cash flow interest rate risks with regard to long-term borrowings (mainly PPP loans) are largely hedged by interest swaps. As a 
result, the Group is not entirely insensitive to movements in interest rates. At year-end 2018, 71 per cent (2017: 82 per cent) of the 
interest on the Group’s debt position was fixed. The part not covered consists almost entirely of property financing.
If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been an average of 100 basis points higher or lower during 2018, the Group’s net result after 
tax (assuming that all other variables remained equal) would have been approximately €0.1 million higher or approximately €0.8 million 
higher (2017: approximately €0.5 million higher or approximately €0.6 million higher). If the interest rates (Euribor and Libor) had been 
100 basis points higher or lower during 2018, the Group’s cash flow hedge reserves in Group equity (assuming that all other variables 
remained equal) would have been approximately €2.4 million higher or approximately €2.4 million lower (2017: approximately €10 million 
higher or approximately €10 million lower).
(iii) Price risk
The price risk run by the Group relates to the procurement of land and materials and subcontracting of work and consists of the difference 
between the market price at the point of tendering or offering on a contract and the market price at the time of actual performance.
The Group’s policy is to agree a price indexation reimbursement clause with the customer at the point of tendering or offering on major 
projects. The Group also endeavours to manage the price risk by using framework contracts, suppliers’ quotations and high-value 
sources of information. If the Group is awarded a project and no price indexation reimbursement clause is agreed with the customer, the 
costs of land and materials, as well as the costs for subcontractors, are fixed at an early stage by establishing prices and conditions in 
advance with the main suppliers and subcontractors.
While it is impossible to exclude the impact of price fluctuations altogether, the Group takes the view that its current policy reflects the 
optimum economic balance between decisiveness and predictability. The Group occasionally uses financial instruments to hedge the 
(residual) price risks.
(b) Credit risk
The Group has credit risks with regard to financial assets including ‘PPP receivables’, ‘non-current receivables’, ‘derivative financial 
instruments’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘contract assets’, ‘contract receivables’, ’other receivables’ and ‘cash and cash equivalents’.
Regarding the above mentioned financial assets, the Group assessed the credit risk and concluded that no ECL provision is de deemed 
necessary.
‘PPP receivables’ and a substantial part of the ‘trade receivables – net’ consist of contracts with governments or government bodies. 
Therefore, credit risk inherent in these contracts is limited. Furthermore, a significant part of ‘trade receivables – net’ is based on 
contracts involving prepayments or payments proportionate to progress of the work, which limits the credit risks, in principle, to the 
balances outstanding.
The credit risk arising from ‘PPP receivables’, ‘trade receivables – net’, ‘contract assets’ and ‘contract receivables’ is monitored by the 
relevant subsidiaries. Clients’ creditworthiness is analysed in advance and then monitored during the performance of the project. This 
involves taking account of the client’s financial position, previous collaborations and other factors. Group policy is designed to mitigate 
these credit risks through the use of various instruments, including retaining ownership until payment has been received, prepayments and 
the use of bank guarantees. The credit risk of the portfolio is further mitigated by broad spectrum of clients.
The Group’s ‘cash and cash equivalents’ are held in various banks. The Group limits the associated credit risk as a result of the Group’s 
policy to work only with respectable banks and financial institutions. This involves ‘cash and cash equivalents’ in excess of €10 million 
being held at banks and financial institutions with a minimum rating of ‘A’. The Group’s policy aims to limit any concentration of credit 
risks involving ‘cash and cash equivalents’.
129
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe carrying amounts of the financial assets exposed to a credit risk are as follows:
Notes 2018 2017
Non-current assets
PPP receivables 9 85,298 240,687
Non-current receivables 11 99,858 89,982
Derivative financial instruments 19 1 464
Current assets
Trade receivables – net 13 858,946 796,590
Contract assets 13 595,684 442,148
Contract receivables 13 284,135 312,555
Other receivables 13 82,212 53,170
PPP receivables 9,13 4,348 8,411
Other financial assets 11 621 1,726
Derivative financial instruments 19 641 1,058
Cash and cash equivalents 14 743,674 695,779
2,755,418 2,642,570
Non-current receivables predominantly concern loans granted to property and PPP associates and joint ventures. These loans are in 
general not past due at the balance sheet date. Triggering events for impairments are identified based on the financial position of these 
associates and joint ventures, which also include the value of the underlying property development positions. For a part of these loans 
property developments positions are held as securities generally subordinated to the providers of the external financing.
Impairments are included in ‘non-current receivables’ and ‘trade receivables – net’ (notes 11 and 13). None of the other assets were 
overdue at year-end 2018 or subject to impairment; the expected credit loss minus the value of the collateral resulted in an amount of nil. 
The maximum credit risk relating to financial instruments equals the carrying amount of the financial instrument concerned.
(c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risks may occur if the procurement and performance of new projects stagnate and less payments (and prepayments) are 
received, or if investments in land or property development would have a significant effect on the available financing resources and/or 
operational cash flows.
The size of individual transactions can cause relatively large short-term fluctuations in the liquidity position. The Group has sufficient 
credit and current account facilities to manage these fluctuations.
Partly to manage liquidity risks, subsidiaries prepare monthly detailed cash flow projections for the ensuing twelve months. The analysis 
of the liquidity risk takes into account the amount of cash and cash equivalents, credit facilities and the usual fluctuations in the Group’s 
working capital requirements. This provides the Group with sufficient opportunities to use its available liquidities and credit facilities as 
flexible as possible and to indicate any shortfalls in a timely manner.
The first possible expected contractual cash outflows from financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments as at the end of the 
year and settled on a net basis, consist of (contractual) repayments and (estimated) interest payments.
130
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe composition of the expected contractual cash flows is as follows:
 Carrying  
 amount  Contractual  
 cash flows < 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years
2018
Subordinated convertible bonds 117,637 135,938 4,375 131,563 -
Non-recourse PPP loans 43,467 48,661 5,843 18,278 24,540
Non-recourse property financing 79,227 82,032 23,892 58,140 -
Other non-recourse financing 4,469 4,865 2,460 1,325 1,080
Recourse PPP loans 13,984 15,176 973 14,203 -
Recourse property financing 53,447 55,448 24,316 31,132 -
Other recourse financing 5,550 5,758 3,849 1,909 -
Finance lease liabilities 24,995 26,571 7,428 18,402 741
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts) (370) (2,728) (2,728) - -
Derivatives (interest rate swaps) 9,691 10,305 1,975 5,100 3,230
Other current liabilities 981,671 981,671 981,671 - -
1,333,768 1,363,697 1,054,054 280,052 29,591
2017
Subordinated convertible bonds 114,987 140,313 4,375 135,938 -
Non-recourse PPP loans 189,965 215,537 12,014 47,680 155,843
Non-recourse property financing 68,942 72,109 19,385 52,724 -
Other non-recourse financing 5,916 6,431 1,755 3,401 1,275
Recourse PPP loans 29,454 30,016 16,435 13,581 -
Recourse property financing 75,288 77,346 58,631 18,715 -
Other recourse financing 5,550 5,920 170 5,750 -
Finance lease liabilities 12,988 14,360 3,604 10,112 644
Derivatives (forward exchange contracts) (1,389) (482) (452) (30) -
Derivatives (interest rate swaps) 14,952 14,910 3,643 8,834 2,433
Other current liabilities 849,330 849,330 849,330 - -
1,365,984 1,425,790 968,890 296,705 160,195
The expected cash outflows are offset by the cash inflows from operations and (re-)financing. In addition, the Group has committed 
syndicated and bilateral credit facilities of €400 million (2017: €400 million) respectively €163 million (2017: €163 million) available.
3.2 Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group’s aim is for a financing structure that ensures continuing operations and minimises cost of equity. For this, flexibility and 
access to the financial markets are important conditions. As usual within the industry, the Group monitors its financing structure using a 
capital ratio, among other factors.
Capital ratio is calculated as the capital base divided by total assets. The Group’s capital base consists of equity attributable to the 
shareholders of the Company and the subordinated instruments (notes 17 and 18). At year-end 2018, the capital ratio was 18.5 per cent 
(2017: 18.6 per cent). For the strategic objectives regarding the capital ratio, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance of the Executive 
Board Report.
Under the terms of our borrowings facilities the group is required to comply with financial covenants. For information on these financial 
covenants see note 18.
131
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3.3 Financial instruments by categories
The Group has three categories of financial instruments. A significant number of these are inherent to the Group’s business activities  
and are presented in various other balance sheet items. The following summary indicates the values for which financial instruments  
are included for each relevant balance sheet item:
Financial instruments
Notes  Receivables Financial 
liabilitiesHedging Non-financial
instrumentsTotal
2018
PPP receivables 9 85,298 - - - 85,298
Other financial assets 111 101,332 - - - 101,332
Derivative financial instruments 19 - - 642 - 642
Trade and other receivables 13 980,011 - - 992,029 1,972,040
Cash and cash equivalents 14 743,674 - - - 743,674
Borrowings 18 - 342,777 - - 342,777
Derivative financial instruments 19 - - 9,963 - 9,963
Trade and other payables 23 - 981,671 - 2,099,464 3,081,135
1,910,315 1,324,448 10,605 3,091,493 6,336,861
2017
PPP receivables 9 240,687 - - - 240,687
Other financial assets 11 91,903 - - - 91,903
Derivative financial instruments 19 - - 1,522 - 1,522
Trade and other receivables 13 915,473 - - 829,182 1,744,655
Cash and cash equivalents 14 695,779 - - - 695,779
Borrowings 18 - 503,090 - - 503,090
Derivative financial instruments 19 - - 15,085 - 15,085
Trade and other payables 23 - 849,330 - 2,006,692 2,856,022
1,943,842 1,352,420 16,607 2,835,874 6,148,743
1  The other financial assets consist of several types of financial assets. See note 11 for the specification of receivables based on fair value through profit or 
loss, receivables based on amortised cost and other.
All financial instruments are valued at amortised cost, with the exception of a part of the other financial assets (note 11) and the 
derivative financial instruments (note 19), not designated in hedge accounting relationship, which are valued at fair value through profit 
or loss. 
132
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3.4 Fair value estimation 
The fair value of financial instruments not quoted in an active market is measured using valuation techniques. The Group uses various 
techniques and makes assumptions based on market conditions on balance sheet date. The valuation also includes (changes in) the 
credit risk of the counter party and the credit risk of the Group in conformity with IFRS 13.
One of these techniques is the calculation of the net present value of the expected cash flows (discounted cash flow projections). The fair 
value of the interest rate swaps is calculated as the net present value of the expected future cash flows. The fair value of the forward 
exchange contracts is measured based on the ‘forward’ currency exchange rates on balance sheet date. In addition, valuations from 
banks are requested for interest rate swaps.
Financial instruments valued at fair value consist of only interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts. In line with the current 
accounting policies the derivatives are classified as ‘level 2’.
It is assumed that the nominal value (less estimated adjustments) of ‘borrowings’ (current part), ‘trade and other receivables’ and ‘trade 
and other payables’ approximate to their fair value.
3.5 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise 
the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
A master netting agreement is applicable to a part of ‘cash and cash equivalents’. At 31 December 2018 a positive balance of €404 
million has been offset against a negative balance of nil (2017: positive balance of €263 million offset against a negative balance of nil).
133
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management4.  Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainties
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The critical judgements including those involving estimations assumptions concerning the future, that the Group has made in the 
process of applying the accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements are addressed below.
(a) Contract revenue and costs
When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, the contract revenue is highly probable and the contract will be 
profitable, contract revenue and costs are recognised over the period of the contract, usually by reference to the stage of completion 
using the ‘percentage-of- completion method’, to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period. When it is probable 
that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the realised loss based on the ‘percentage-of-completion method’ is 
recognised as an expense immediately, while the future expected loss is included in a provision for onerous contracts. When the 
outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, for instance in the early stages of a contract, but it is expected that the 
cost incurred in satisfying the performance obligation under the contract will be recovered, then revenue will be recognised to the 
extent of the cost incurred, until the outcome of a contract can be reliably measured.
In determining the stage of completion the Group has efficient, coordinated systems for cost estimating, forecasting and revenue and 
costs reporting. The system also requires a consistent judgment (forecast) of the final outcome of the project, including variance 
analyses of divergences compared with earlier assessment dates. Estimates are an inherent part of this assessment and actual future 
outcome may deviate from the estimated outcome, specifically for major and complex construction contracts. However, historical 
experience has also shown that estimates are, on the whole, sufficiently reliable. See paragraph 2.24 for further explanation regarding 
the recognition of revenue for construction contracts. 
(b) Claims receivable
In the normal course of business the Group recognises contract assets in connection with claims for (partly) satisfied performance 
obligations due from the principal and/or insurance claims as reimbursement for certain loss events on projects. Claims for satisfied 
performance obligations are part of the variable considerations under IFRS 15. Project related claims on principals are recognised when it 
is highly probable that no significant reversal in the cumulative revenue recognised regarding to the claim, will occur. The Group 
considers both the likelihood and the magnitude of a possible revenue reversal. Factors that could increase the likelihood or the 
magnitude of a revenue reversal include, but are not limited to, any of the following: 
• the amount of consideration is highly susceptible to factors outside the entity’s influence. Those factors may include the judgement or 
actions of third parties like the court or an arbitration committee or weather conditions;
• the uncertainty about the amount of consideration is not expected to be resolved for a long period of time; 
• the entity’s experience (or other evidence) with similar types of contracts is limited, or that experience (or other evidence) has limited 
predictive value;
• the entity has a practice of either offering a broad range of price concessions or changing the payment terms and conditions of similar 
contracts in similar circumstances; 
• the contract has a large number and broad range of possible consideration amounts.
Insurance claims can be recognised only if it is virtually certain that the amount recognised will be reimbursed. See paragraph 2.24 for 
further explanation regarding the recognition of variable considerations.
(c) Income tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for 
income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises 
liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of 
these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets 
and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.
134
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDeferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carry-forwards, temporary differences and tax credits to the extent that the realisation 
of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Estimates are an inherent part of this process and they may differ 
from the actual future outcome. Additional information is disclosed in note 22.
(d) Pension obligations
The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of 
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these 
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used to determine 
the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining the 
appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds (AA) that are denominated in the 
currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension obligation.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions. Additional information is disclosed  
in note 20.
(e) Impairment of land and building rights and property development
The valuation of land and building rights and property development is based on the outcome of the related calculations of the land’s net 
realisable value. These calculations are based on assumptions relating to the future market developments, decisions of governmental 
bodies, interest rates and future cost and price increases. In most cases the Group uses external valuations (by rotation) to benchmark 
the net realisable value. Partly because estimates relate to projects with a duration varying from one year to more than thirty years, 
significant changes in these assumptions might result in an impairment.
(f) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on 
value-in-use calculations. These calculations are determined using discounted cash flow projections and require estimates in connection 
with the future development of revenues, profit before tax margins and the determination of appropriate discount rates. An impairment 
loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset of CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
135
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management5. Segment information
The segment information reported to the Executive Board is measured in a manner consistent with the financial statements. 
Revenue and resultsConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPP Eliminations 1Total
2018
Construction contracts 3,336,044 3,134,424 - - 6,470,468
Property development 541,326 - - - 541,326
Service concession arrangements and other 132,989 27,608 34,676 684 195,957
Revenue from external customers 4,010,359 3,162,032 34,676 684 7,207,751
Sector revenue 32,967 60,594 - (93,561) -
Revenue 4,043,326 3,222,626 34,676 (92,877) 7,207,751
Operating result 77,133 14,753 11,323 2,005 105,214
Finance result 3,163 269 8,907 (3,012) 9,327
Result before tax 80,296 15,022 20,230 (1,007) 114,541
Exceptional items 2(34,391) (4,288) - - (38,679)
Adjusted result before tax 114,687 19,310 20,230 (1,007) 153,220
 
2017 Restated*
Construction contracts 2,973,432 2,822,649 114,204 - 5,910,285
Property development 450,634 - - - 450,634
Service concession arrangements and other 107,263 44,816 20,935 1,159 174,173
Revenue from external customers 3,531,329 2,867,465 135,139 1,159 6,535,092
Sector revenue 165,017 39,314 - (204,331) -
Revenue 3,696,346 2,906,779 135,139 (203,172) 6,535,092
Operating result 70,357 (60,018) 5,012 (4,947) 10,404
Finance result (4,104) 545 13,996 (875) 9,562
Result before tax 66,253 (59,473) 19,008 (5,822) 19,966
Exceptional items 2(2,616) (869) - (1,445) (4,930)
Adjusted result before tax 68,869 (58,604) 19,008 (4,377) 24,896
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
1  Including non-operating segments.
2  For further explanation see note 26.
136
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management 
Balance sheet disclosures Construction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2018
Assets 2,591,504 1,976,254 211,642 (310,972) 4,468,428
Investments 90,966 65,994 10,523 (57,928) 109,555
Total assets 2,682,470 2,042,248 222,165 (368,900 4,577,983
Liabilities 2,400,521 1,519,757 116,580 (193,763) 3,843,095
Group equity 281,949 522,491 105,584 (175,136) 734,888
Total equity and liabilities 2,682,470 2,042,248 222,164 (368,899) 4,577,983
2017 Restated*
Assets 2,449,595 1,964,702 380,199 (401,522) 4,392,974
Investments 76,419 31,205 12,628 (24,658) 95,594
Total assets 2,526,014 1,995,907 392,827 (426,180) 4,488,568
Liabilities 2,322,071 1,531,100 285,013 (376,428) 3,761,756
Group equity 203,943 464,807 107,814 (49,752) 726,812
Total equity and liabilities 2,526,014 1,995,907 392,827 (426,180) 4,488,568
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
¹ Including non-operating segments.
Other disclosuresConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2018
Additions to property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets 24,625 54,766 19 17,432 96,843
Depreciation and amortisation charges 15,476 43,801 21 10,478 69,776
Share of result of investments in operating result 24,219 2,644 8,962 - 35,825
Average number of FTE 29,262 10,535 95 264 20,156
Number of FTE at year-end 9,300 10,510 99 285 20,194
2017
Additions to property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets 17,418 64,834 7 23,666 105,925
Depreciation and amortisation charges 15,458 35,720 6 8,364 59,548
Share of result of investments in operating result 12,988 1,495 7,141 (1,500) 20,124
Average number of FTE 29,392 10,003 90 235 19,720
Number of FTE at year-end 9,422 10,085 90 240 19,837
1 Including non-operating segments.
² Fulltime equivalent.
137
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management 
Revenues from external customers by country,  
based on the location of the projectsConstruction 
and PropertyCivil 
engineering PPPOther including
 eliminations 1Total
2018
Netherlands 1,391,385 1,340,840 11,543 (31,870) 2,711,898
United Kingdom 1,070,272 921,136 16,638 (9,809) 1,998,237
Belgium 503,115 240,442 969 (41,841) 702,685
Germany 414,644 401,451 5,170 (1,547) 819,718
Ireland 434,337 46,937 356 (7,689) 473,941
Other countries 229,573 271,820  - (122) 501,272
4,043,326 3,222,626 34,676 (92,878) 7,207,751
2017 Restated*
Netherlands 1,235,506 1,116,054 12,665 (60,951) 2,303,274
United Kingdom 1,089,723 823,163 13,837 (8,374) 1,918,349
Belgium 435,650 267,634  - (27,547) 675,737
Germany 413,817 369,637 6,960 (1,022) 789,392
Ireland 351,911 62,260 101,677 (105,171) 410,677
Other countries 169,739 268,031  - (107) 437,663
3,696,346 2,906,779 135,139 (203,172) 6,535,092
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
1 Including non-operating segments.
Revenues from the individual countries included in ‘other countries’ are not material. 
Total assets and capital expenditures in connection with property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by country are stated below:
 
Total assets ¹ 2018 2017  
 Restated*
Netherlands 1,605,223 1,695,234
United Kingdom 1,011,640 898,772
Belgium 681,282 634,742
Germany 622,804 583,271
Ireland 323,809 297,381
Other countries 502,709 632,111
Other including eliminations (169,484) (252,943)
Total assets 4,577,983 4,488,568
Investments ² 2018 2017
Netherlands 51,508 65,880
United Kingdom 8,170 12,125
Belgium 16,019 10,193
Germany 9,598 13,990
Ireland 7,475 2,232
Other countries 4,073 1,505
Total assets 96,843 105,925
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
¹ Geographical allocations based on the location of the assets.
²  Gross invesments in tangible and intangible assets based on geographical location.
138
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management6. Projects
Construction contracts and property development
A major part of the Group’s activities concerns construction contracts and property development which are reflected in various balance 
sheet items. An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to construction contracts and property development is stated below:
Construction 
contractsProperty 
development Total
2018
Land and building rights - 353,586 353,586
Property development - 210,029 210,029
Capitalised contract cost (159) - (159)
Amounts due from customers 464,607 14,521  479,128
Project assets  464,448 578,136 1,042,584 
Non-recourse property financing - (79,227) (79,227)
Recourse property financing - (53,447) (53,447)
Amounts due to customers (559,194) (95,018) (654,212)
Provision for onerous contracts (135,899) - (135,899) 
Project liabilities (695,093) (227,692) (922,785) 
   
As at 31 December (230.645) 350,444 119,799 
2017 Restated*
Land and building rights - 415,504 415,504
Property development - 175,014 175,014
Capitalised contract cost - - -
Amounts due from customers 326,380 7,349 333,729 
Project assets 326,380 597,867 924,247
Non-recourse property financing - (68,942) (68,942)
Recourse property financing - (75,288) (75,288)
Amounts due to customers (643,562) (75,629) (719,191)
Provision for onerous contracts (109,593) - (109,593)
Project liabilities (753,155) (219,859) (973,014)
   
As at 31 December (426,775) 378,008 (48,767) 
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
139
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe breakdown of the balance sheet items ‘amounts due from customers’ and ‘amounts due to customers’ is as follows:
 
Construction 
contractsProperty 
development Total
2018
Revenue 13,079,542 159,510 13,239,052
Progress billings (12,614,935) (144,989) (12,759,924) 
Amounts due from customers 464,607 14,521 479,128 
Revenue 10,610,165 681,030 11,291,195
Progress billings (11,169,359) (776,048) (11,945,408) 
Amounts due to customers (559,194) (95,018) (654,212) 
2017 Restated*
Revenue 11,625,526 69,769 11,695,295
Progress billings (11,299,146) (62,420) (11,361,566)
Amounts due from customers 326,380 7,349 333,729
Revenue 11,073,398 498,017 11,571,415
Progress billings (11,716,960) (573,646) (12,290,606)
Amounts due to customers (643,562) (75,629) (719,191)
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
As at 31 December 2018 advance payments (as included in amounts due to customers) in connection with construction contracts and 
property development amount to €172 million (2017: €213 million) respectively €0 million (2017: €3 million).
PPP
The joint venture BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (‘joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM’) invests in PPP markets for social and 
transport infrastructure in the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland. BAM PPP continues to be 
fully responsible for issuing new project tenders, rendering services with regard to asset management for the joint venture and 
representing the joint venture in transactions. PGGM provides the majority of capital required for existing projects.
An overview of the balance sheet items attributable to PPP projects (excluding joint ventures) is stated below:
Non-current Current Total
2018
PPP receivables 85,298 4,348 89,647
(Non-)recourse PPP loans (52,437) (5,014) (57,451)
Amounts due from customers 32,861 (666) 32,196
Net assets and liabilities (5,817) 8,176 2,359
As at 31 December 27,044 7,510 34,555 
2017
PPP receivables 240,687 8,411 249,100
(Non-)recourse PPP loans (193,707) (25,712) (219,419)
Amounts due from customers 46,980 (17,301) 29,681
Net assets and liabilities (6,164) 12,190 6,026
As at 31 December 40,816 (5,111) 35,707
140
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementOther revenue disclosures
The revenue recognised that was included in the project contract liability balance at the beginning of the period, has been fully 
recognised in the current year. Within the construction business, regular installments will take place but within the Group never 
leading to significant pre-financing longer than a year. Except for PPP projects, however these are disclosed in the finance assets.
The revenue recognised from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods amounts to €75 million. Performance obligations 
could be satisfied once the technical completion is final and control has been fully transferred to the client. It is common however to 
finalise the last pricing discussions regarding variable considerations, of which claims, after the control has been transferred. Due to the 
higher threshold to value variable considerations, claims that are settled for a higher amount than valued, might lead to revenue from 
previously satisfied performance obligations. 
Projects within the construction business might run for a period longer than one year, or might transfer from one calendar year to the 
other. The revenue expected related to unsatisfied performance obligations (running or won projects) are as follows:
 
(x €1 million)  
  
2018 2017
Up to 1 year 5,850 5,697
2 to 5 years 6,842 5,940
12,692 11,636
Over 5 years 1,924 1,806
Total 14,616 13,442
The Group has not used the practical expedient to exclude performance obligations with an original expected duration of one year. 
These are included in the above mentioned time buckets. 
The Group entered in an agreement with a client to realise a project, in joint arrangement with partners. The Group’s expected share in 
the contract revenue of the joint arrangement will be in the range of €150 to €200 million. As a consequence of changes in laws and 
regulations and a large number of variable considerations assigned by the client and other stakeholders, a large number of changes to 
the design have arisen, that are beyond the influence and the contractual responsibility of the joint arrangement. The joint arrangement 
and the client entered into negotiations, but did not reach an agreement yet. As a consequence, it is impossible to make a reliable 
estimate of the ultimate scope of the performance obligation but BAM expects to recover the costs incurred in satisfying the 
performance obligation. Therefore, in accordance with IFRS15.45, only revenue is accounted for in the 2018 financial statements of the 
Group, equal to its share in the cost incurred of the project. Taking into account the uncertainty of the outcome of the negotiations with 
the client, actual outcome can deviate significantly.
141
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management7. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildingsPlant and 
equipmentConstruction 
in progress Other assets Total
As at 1 January 2017
Cost  193,604  573,197  9,938  124,610  901,349 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (102,989)  (434,125)  -  (94,062)  (631,176)
 90,615  139,072  9,938  30,548  270,173 
Additions  17,334  44,160  9,318  11,600  82,412 
Acquisition of subsidiaries  -  -  -  -  - 
Disposals  (2,967)  (6,213)  (349)  (2,223)  (11,752)
Reclassifications  (1,317)  8,579  (8,174)  (563)  (1,475)
Impairment charges  -  -  -  -  - 
Depreciation charges  (6,947)  (35,615)  (440)  (12,040)  (55,042)
Exchange rate differences  (128)  (2,221)  (4)  (89)  (2,442)
 96,590  147,762  10,289  27,233  281,874 
As at 31 December 2017
Cost  193,821  574,191  10,731  126,021  904,764 
 Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (97,231)  (426,429)  (442)  (98,788)  (622,890)
 96,590  147,762  10,289  27,233  281,874 
Additions  13,501  42,720  8,068  18,849  83,138 
Acquisition of subsidiaries  -  -  -  -  - 
Disposals  (3,836)  (6,936)  (18)  (124)  (10,914)
Reclassifications  3,111  1,533  (9,164)  3,996  (524)
Impairment charges  -  -  -  -  - 
Depreciation charges  (6,984)  (40,994)  -  (15,794)  (63,772)
Exchange rate differences  401  (150)  (5)  (441)  (195)
 102,783  143,935  9,170  33,719  289,607 
As at 31 December 2018
Cost  185,744  575,275  9,172  141,733  911,924 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (82,961)  (431,340)  (2)  (108,014)  (622,317)
 102,783  143,935  9,170  33,719  289,607 
Asset construction in progress mainly comprises plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment is not pledged as a security for 
borrowings, except for leased assets under finance lease agreements. 
Property, plant and equipment includes the following carrying amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease:
2018 2017
Land and buildings - -
Property, plant and equipment  26,129  17,796 
Other assets  3,634  3 
 29,763  17,799 
142
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management8. Intangible assets
 
 GoodwillNon-
integrated 
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2017
Cost  678,186  24,114  7,301  709,601 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (298,801)  (15,965)  (4,843)  (319,609)
 379,385  8,149  2,458  389,992
Additions - 10,115 13,398 23,513
Disposals - (60) - (60)
Impairment charges (372) - (331) (703)
Amortisation charges - (3,904) (602) (4,506)
Exchange rate differences (4,382) (43) (93) (4,518)
374,631 14,257 14,830 403,718
As at 31 December 2017
Cost 672,414 32,656 20,342 725,412
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (297,783) (18,399) (5,512)  (321,694)
374,631 14,257 14,830 403,718 
Additions - 10,687 3,018 13,705
Disposals - (401) (1) (402)
Reclassifications - 92 (1,183) (1,091)
Impairment charges - - - -
Amortisation charges - (4,135) (1,869) (6,004)
Exchange rate differences  (1,862) -  (76) (1,938) 
372,769 20,500 14,719 407,988
As at 31 December 2018
Cost 670,451 40,514 22,092 733,057
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (297,682) (20,014) (7,373) (325,069) 
372,769 20,500 14,719 407,988 
The category others consist for € 10.8 million (2017: €12 million) of development cost, capitalised in 2017 for the patented Gravity  
Based Foundations for offshore wind power.
Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition date, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs 
expected to benefit from that business combination. The carrying amount of total goodwill is €373 million (2017: €375 million).
The decrease of goodwill fully relates to the exchange rate effect. The change in exchange rate of the pound sterling compared to the 
prior year had a downward effect of €1.9 million.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that a 
particular CGU might be impaired. The recoverable amount of each CGU was determined based on value-in-use calculations. Value-in-use 
was determined using discounted cash flow projections that cover a period of five years and are based on the financial plans approved by 
management. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding discount rate, revenue growth rate and profit 
before tax margin.
143
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementGoodwill relates to 15 CGUs, of which BAM Construct UK (€61 million) and BAM Nuttall (€73 million) are deemed significant in 
comparison with the Group’s total carrying amount of goodwill. For each of these CGUs the key assumptions used in the value-in-use 
calculations are as follows: 
         BAM Construct UK          BAM Nuttall
2018 2017 2018 2017
Discount rate (post-tax) 8.3% 7.9% 8.3% 7.9%
Growth rate:
- In forecast period (average) 2.5% 4.3% 1.6% 2.1%
- Beyond forecast period 1.1% 1.5% 1.1% 1.5%
Profit before tax margin:
- In forecast period (average) 2.9% 2.9% 3.3% 3.0%
- Beyond forecast period 3.0% 3.1% 3.5% 3.5%
Growth rate used to estimate future performance in the forecast period is the average annual growth rate based on past performance 
and management’s expectations of BAM’s market development referenced to external sources of information. The profit before tax 
margin in the forecast period is the average margin as a percentage of revenue based on past performance and the expected recovery to 
a normalised margin deemed achievable by management in the concerning market segment.
For BAM Construct UK, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amount by approximately  
€418 million (2017: €585 million). 
For BAM Nuttall, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded the carrying amount by approximately €198 million 
(2017: €270 million). 
The sensitivity analysis indicated that if the growth rate is reduced by 50 basis points, the profit before tax margin is reduced by 50 basis 
points or the discount rate is raised by 50 basis points in the forecast period, all changes taken in isolation, the recoverable amounts of 
the other CGUs would still be in excess of the carrying amounts with sufficient and reasonable headroom, except for one CGU BAM 
International, representing a goodwill amount of €22 million, with a limited headroom.
144
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management9. PPP receivables
2018 2017
As at 1 January 249,098 358,732
Receivables issued 16,774 127,161
Finance income 5,446 20,357
Disposals (154,683) (149,718)
Progress billings (26,047) (104,982)
Exchange rate differences (941) (2,452)
As 31 December 89,647 249,098
Note 2018 2017
Non-current 85,298 240,687
Current 13 4.348 8,411
89,647 249,098
The decrease in receivables is mainly related to the divestment of one project to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM.
The average duration of PPP receivables is 15 years (2017: 21 years). Approximately €65 million of the non-current part has a duration of 
more than five years (2017: €195 million).
The interest rates on PPP receivables are virtually the same as the interest rates (after hedging) of the related non-recourse PPP loans. 
The contractual interest percentages are fixed for the entire duration. The average interest rate on PPP receivables is 7.4 per cent (2017: 
5.6 per cent). At year-end 2018, the fair value of the non-current part is approximately €95 million (2017: approximately €256 million). 
The fair value of the non-current part is based on the value of the hedge of the corresponding loan.
There are no renewal and/or termination options, the assets will flow to the Grantor at the end of the concession period. PPP receivables 
are pledged as a security for the corresponding (non-)recourse PPP loans included under ‘borrowings’.
145
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management10. Investments 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
2018 2017
Associates  26,661 25,645
Joint ventures  82,894 69,949
As at 31 December  109,555 95,594
10.1 Investment in associates
Set out below is the associate of the Group as at 31 December 2018 that is individually material to the Group. 
Nature of investment in associate in 2018 and 2017:
Principal activityCountry of 
incorporation          % Interest
2018 2017
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv Exploitation of rail infrastructure Netherlands 10.54% 10.54%
Set out below is the summarised financial information for the associate that is material to the Group, including reconciliation to the 
carrying amount of the Group’s share in the associate, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements. This information reflects 
the amounts presented in the financial statements of this associate adjusted for differences in the Group’s accounting policies and the 
associate.
         Infraspeed (Holdings) bv
2018 2017
Current assets  66,249 105,778
Non-current assets  759,193 796,156
Current liabilities  (22,909) (25,534)
Non-current liabilities  (775,949) (817,871) 
Net assets  26,584 58,529
Revenue  25,109  45,691 
Net result  9,317  9,208 
Share in result  982  971 
Net assets  26,584  58,529 
Share in equity 10.54% 10.54%
Carrying amount  2,802  6,169 
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv is classified as an associate based on significant influence by the Group through board membership.
146
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementReconciliation with net result of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements,  
is as follows:
2018 2017
Share in net result associate that is material to the Group  982  971 
Share in net result associates that are not individually material to the Group  7,986  5,435 
 8,968  6,406 
In 2018 the Group’s share in the net result of associates included an impairment charge amounting to €0.0 million (2017: €0.2 million).
Reconciliation with the carrying amount of the Group’s share in associates, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements,  
is as follows:
2018 2017
Share in equity associate that is material to the Group  2,802 6,169
Share in equity associates that are not individually material to the Group  22,847 6,386
 25,649 12,555
Recognised as provision for associates  105 379
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables  907 12,711
 26,661 25,645
The associates not individually material to the Group mainly comprise the Group’s share in structured entities for property development 
projects.
Dividend received from associates amounts to €11.6 million in 2018 (2017: €7.8 million). Cash and cash equivalents of a number of 
associates are subject to restrictions. These restrictions mainly concern the priority of loan repayments over dividend distribution.
10.2  Investment in joint ventures
Set out below is the joint venture of the Group as at 31 December 2018 that is individually material to the Group.  
Nature of investment in the joint venture in 2018 and 2017:
Principal activity Country of 
incorporation         % Share
2018 2017
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. Asset management Netherlands 50.00% 50.00%
Set out below are the summarised financial information for the joint venture that is individually material to the Group, including 
reconciliation to the carrying amount of the Group’s share in the joint venture, as recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
This information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in the Group’s 
accounting policies and the joint venture.
147
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementBAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. 2018 2017
Current assets  151,132  139,123 
Non-current assets  1,580,874  1,916,019 
Current liabilities  (356,311)  (326,462)
Non-current liabilities  (1,653,549)  (2,010,566)
Net assets  (277,854)  (281,886)
Of which:
Cash and cash equivalents  104,377  99,354 
Current financial liabilities  (53,079)  (56,878)
Non-current financial liabilities  (1,666,297)  (1,973,117)
Revenue  59,016  47,232 
Net result  13,032  12,406 
Other comprehensive income  3,179  21,905 
Of which:
Finance income  125,205  117,177 
Finance expense  (114,410)  (104,132)
Income tax  (3,700)  (2,440)
Net result  13,032  12,406 
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Share in net result  2,618  2,165 
Net assets  (277,854)  (281,886)
Share in profit rights 10% /20% 10% /20%
Carrying amount  (38,478)  (39,794)
Negative cash flow hedge reserve not recognised  17,532  18,840 
 (20,946)  (20,954)
The Group’s share in the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM is based on its share in the members’ capital. Contractually, the Group 
predominantly has a 20 per cent share in profit rights. The Group has a 10 per cent share in profit rights within two joint ventures, 
resulting in a carrying amount of €17 million negative. In addition, the Group bears the risks in the operational phase until completion of 
the projects which are acquired by the joint venture.
If the Group’s share in losses exceeds the carrying amount of the joint venture, further losses will not be recognised, unless the  
Group has a legal or constructive obligation. In 2018 €1 million reversal (2017: €1 million reversal) was not recognised.  
At year-end 2018 unrecognised losses amounted to €18 million (2017: €19 million).
148
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSet out below are the aggregate information of joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group. 
2018 2017
Share in net result joint venture BAM/PGGM  2,618  2,165 
Share in net result property development joint ventures that are not material to the Group  18,584  7,579 
Share in net result other joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group  5,655  3,974 
 26,857  13,718 
In 2018 the Group’s share in the net result of joint ventures included an impairment charge amounting to 
€3.1 million (2017: €0.0 million).
Share in equity joint venture BAM/PGGM  (20,946)  (20,954)
Share in equity property development joint ventures that are not material to the Group  45,336  36,547 
Share in equity other joint ventures that are not individually material to the Group  (51,746)  (53,936)
 (27,356)  (38,343)
Recognised as provision for joint ventures  23,962  24,118 
Recognised as impairment of non-current receivables  86,288  84,174 
 82,894  69,949 
Revenue of property development joint ventures amounts to €101 million (2017: €73 million) and property development recognised in 
the balance sheet amounts to €130 million (2017: €116 million) of which an amount of €45 million (2017: €36 million) externally financed 
(share of the Group).
Dividend received from joint ventures amounts to €23.3 million in 2018 (2017: €15.3 million).
The financial years of many joint ventures run from 1 December up to and including 30 November to ensure timely inclusion of the 
financial information in the Group’s financial statements.
149
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management11. Other financial assets
As of the implementation of IFRS 9, the other financial assets are reclassified between financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
or based on amortised cost. The comparative figures have not been adjusted.
NoteReceivables 
based on fair 
value through 
profit or lossReceivables 
based on 
amortised 
cost Other Total
As at 1 January 2017 - 90,858 1,906 92,764 
Additions - - 16 16
Loans granted - 23,206 - 23,206
Loan repayments - (14,699) - (14,699)
Impairment charges 25 - (356) - (356)
Reversal of impairment charges 25 - 203 - 203
Net result for the year - - 175 175
Dividend received - - (175) (175)
Reclassifications - (7,451) (1) (7,452)
Exchange rate differences - (53) - (53) 
- 91,708 1,921 93,629
Of which current: - (1,726) - (1,726) 
As at 31 December 2017 - 89,982 1,921 91,903 
Reclassified to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 48,452 (48,452) - -
Additions - - 82 82
Loans granted 11,496 13,937 - 25,433
Loan repayments (11,448) (2,209) - (13,657)
Disposals - - (457) (457)
Reversal of impairment charges 25 - - - -
Fair value changes 1,292 - - 1,292
Net result for the year - - (42) (42)
Dividend received - - (30) (30)
Reclassifications (3,867) (351) - (4,218)
Exchange rate differences - (79) - (79) 
45,925 54,554 1,474 101,953 
Of which current: (300) (321) - (621) 
As at 31 December 2018 45,625 54,233 1,474 101,332 
The fair value of non-current receivables at year-end 2018 amounts to €128 million (2017: €109 million for total other financial assets in 
2017). The effective interest rate is 5.0 per cent (2017: 4.3 per cent).
Category ‘Other’ mainly comprises shares in (unlisted) investments over which the Group has no significant influence.
150
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management12. Inventories
2018 2017
Land and building rights 353,586 415,504
Property development 210,029 175,014
563,615 590,518
Raw materials 13,306 14,519
Finished products 1,070 1,694
577,991 606,731
Land and building rights are to be presented as current on the balance sheet within the ordinary course of business, however by its 
nature, the realisation will be non-current. The majority of the investments in property development is considered to be current by 
nature.
The impairments during 2018 relating to the property portfolio are as follows:
Note 2018 2017
Impairment charges 22,341 8,366
Reversal of impairment charges (421) (4,643)
25 21,920 3,723
The net amount of impairments and reversals of €21.9 million relates to property developments in the Netherlands. Impairments 
reflected mainly the lower valuation of Dutch regional property adjacent to the development of a large wind mill park which was reduced 
to the value of farmer’s land. The reversal of impairments relates to Land and buildings rights in the Netherlands based on renewed 
taxation.
Property development includes the following completed and unsold property:
2018 2017
Unsold and finished property Number/m² Carrying 
amountNumber/m² Carrying 
amount
Houses ¹ - - 7 1,602
Commercial property - rented 8,873 10,242 13,083 13,718
Commercial property - unrented 11,031 8,302 13,862 12,007
18,544 27,327
¹ 2017: of which no houses rented in anticipation of sale.
The decrease in carrying amount in 2018 mainly relates to the impairments of Dutch property developments.
Other inventories were not subject to write-down in 2018 nor 2017.
151
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management13. Trade and other receivables
Notes 2018 2017
Restated*
Trade receivables  869,743 808,574
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables  (10,797) (11,984) 
Trade receivables - net  858,946 796,590
Amounts due from customers 6  479,128 333,729
Capitalised contract cost 6  159 -
Retentions  116,397 108,419
Contract assets 595,684 442,148
Amounts to be invoiced work completed  81,915 93,755
Amounts to be invoiced work in progress  202,220 218,800
Contract receivables 284,135 312,555
Amounts due from related parties 36 30,699 10,859
PPP receivables 9  4,348 8,411
Other financial assets  619 2,054
Other receivables  82,212 53,170
Prepayments  115,397 118,868
 1,972,040 1,744,655 
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
Trade and other receivables are due within one year, except for approximately €25 million (2017: €10 million). The fair value of this 
non-current part is approximately €25 million (2017: approximately €10 million) using an effective interest rate of 0.19 per cent 
(2017: 0.15 per cent).
The concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited, as the Group’s customer base is large and geographically 
spread. As at 31 December 2018 a part of the trade receivables amounting to €123 million (2017: €146 million) is past due over one year 
but partly impaired. These overdue payments relate to a number of customers, predominantly in the public sector outside the 
Netherlands where a limited default risk exists. The duration to reach final agreement, including legal proceedings, on invoiced variation 
orders and claims with these customers remains long. With some customers final agreement was reached in 2018 leading to decreased 
trade receivables that were past due over two years. Management assessed that the provision for impairment, taking all facts and 
circumstances into account, is sufficient. 
The significant change in contract assets is due to normal activity in the construction business. Other changes as mentioned in IFRS 15 
(paragraph 118) are not relevant.
With regard to the capitalised contract cost, as at 31 December 2018, no cost to obtain the contract or set-up cost are applicable. This is 
caused due to the timing of financial close compared to the moment a project has reached preferred bidder stage. This timing difference 
is insignificant and, together with The Group’s applied threshold, no cost to obtain the contract or set-up cost had to be capitalised. The 
amount shown as capitalised contract cost regards fully cost to fulfil the contract. No impairments have taken place. The total 
amortisation for the year 2018 amounts to nil (2017: nil). 
Retentions relate to amounts retained by customers on progress billings. In the United Kingdom and Ireland in particular, it is common 
practice to retain a previously agreed percentage until completion of the project.
152
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows:
2018 2017
Trade 
receivablesProvision for 
impairmentTrade 
receivablesProvision for 
impairment
Not past due  544,871  (327)  481,263  (90)
Up to 3 months  137,656  (2,684)  107,185  (954)
3 to 6 months  26,574  (320)  22,902  (831)
6 to 12 months  37,826  (1,729)  51,090  (1,247)
1 to 2 years  35,414  (1,513)  44,073  (631)
Over 2 years  87,402  (4,224)  102,061  (8,231)
 869,743  (10,797)  808,574  (11,984)
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables  (10,797)  (11,984)
Trade receivables - net  858,946  796,590 
Apart from trade receivables none of the other assets were subject to impairment.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2018 2017
As at 1 January  11,984 28,563
Provision for impairment  5,028 11,583
Release  (2,473) (9,928)
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable  (3,030) (18,214)
Disposals - 30
Reclassifications  (697) -
Exchange rate differences  (15) (50)
As at 31 December  10,797 11,984
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘Other operating expenses’ in the income 
statement.
153
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management14. Cash and cash equivalents
2018 2017
Cash at bank and in hand 738,232 692,344
Short-term bank deposits 5,442 3,435
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdrafts) 743,674 695,779
Cash and cash equivalents include the Group’s share in cash of joint operations and in PPP entities as part of the conditions in project 
specific funding agreements and amount to €173 million (2017: €217 million) respectively €7 million (2017: €16 million). Other cash and 
cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Group.
The average effective interest on short-term bank deposits is 4.5 per cent (2017: 3.5 per cent). The deposits have an average remaining 
term to maturity of approximately 10 days (2017: approximately 14 days). 
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term 
bank deposits, net of bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as reported in the consolidated 
statement of cash flows is reconciled to the related items in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows:
2018 2017
Cash and cash equivalents 743,674 695,779
Bank overdrafts - -
Net cash position 743,674 695,779
154
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management15. Share capital and premium
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of 
treasury 
sharesNumber of 
ordinary 
shares 
in issueOrdinary 
sharesShare 
premiumTotal
As at 1 January 2017 271,814,728 1,193,145 270,621,583 27,181 812,130  839,311 
Repurchased shares - 518,940 (518,940) - - -
Dividends 3,110,691 - 3,110,691 312 (312)  - 
As at 31 December 2017 274,925,419  1,712,085 273,213,334 27,493 811,818  839,311 
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 3,940,956 (3,940,956) - - -
Awarded LTI shares - (170,039) 170,039 - - -
Dividends 3,853,600 - 3,853,600 386 (386) -
As at 31 December 2018 278,779,019 5,483,002 273,296,017 27,879 811,432 839,311
15.1 General
At year-end 2018, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2017: 400 million) and 600 million preference 
shares (2017: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2017: €0.10 per share). All issued shares have been paid in full (only 
ordinary shares).
The Company granted Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep (‘the Foundation’) a call option to acquire class B cumulative preference 
shares in the Company’s share capital on 17 May 1993. This option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation might require, 
subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that would result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative preference shares in 
issue and not held by the Company equalling no more than ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9 per cent) of the nominal amount of the 
issued share capital in the form of shares other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by the Company at the time of 
exercising of the right referred to above. The Executive Committee of the Foundation has the exclusive right to determine whether or 
not to exercise this right to acquire class B cumulative preference shares. Additional information has been disclosed in section Other 
information.
15.2 Ordinary shares
To prevent dilution as a result of the (equity-settled) share-based compensation plan introduced in 2015, the Company’s own shares 
were repurchased as follows:
Note Repurchased 
sharesPrice 
(in €)Total 
consideration
(x €1,000)
4 December 2015 302,488 5,10 1,543
5 December 2015 302,487 5,11 1,546
28 April 2016 588,170 4,27 2,512
28 April 2017 15.1 345,000 5,17 1,784
2 May 2017 15.1 173,940 5,23 909
26 April 2018 15.1 87,356 3,88 339
In 2018, the number of issued ordinary shares increased by 3,853,600 due to dividend payment in shares. To prevent dilution all these 
shares were then repurchased.
155
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management16. Reserves
Hedging Translation Development
costTotal
Restated as at 1 January 2017* (77,153) (93,099) - (170,252) 
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment 
- Fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts - - - -
- Fair value of interest rate swaps 34 - - 34
- Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge (9) - - (9) 
Cash flow hedges 
- Fair value movement of forward foreign exchange contracts 8,932 - - 8,932 
- Fair value movement of interest rate swaps 16,020 - - 16,020
- Tax on fair value movement (7,472) - - (7,472) 
Legal reserve for development cost 
- Investments - - 12,000 12,000 
Exchange rate differences - (12,068) - (12,068) 
17,505 (12,068) 12,000 17,437 
    
Restated as at 31 December 2017* (59,648) (105,167) 12,000 (152,815)
Reclassification to the income statement due to divestment 
 Fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts 
- Fair value of interest rate swaps 2,279 - - 2,279
- Tax on fair value of cash flow hedge (285) - - (285)
Cash flow hedges 
- Fair value movement of forward foreign exchange contracts (1,876) - - (1,876)
- Fair value movement of interest rate swaps (5,548) - - (5,548)
- Tax on fair value movement 889 - - 889
Legal reserve for development cost 
- Investments - - - -
- Amortisation - - (1,200) (1,200)
Exchange rate differences - (6,410) - (6,410) 
(4,541) (6,410) (1,200) (12,151)
    
As at 31 December 2018 (64,189) (111,577) 10,800 (164,966) 
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
The legal reserves consists of hedging reserves, translation reserve and a reserve for the capitalisation of development cost.
The negative movement in the hedge reserve in 2018 of €4.5 million was predominantly caused by the fact that the long-term interest 
in 2018 was lower than in 2017. 
The hedging reserve will in due course be subsequently reclassified to the income statement. Based on the remaining duration of the 
derivative financial instruments, reclassification will take place between 1 and 30 years. An amount of €52 million (2017: €48 million) in 
the hedging reserve relates to joint ventures.
156
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe legal reserve for the capitalisation of development cost amounts €11 million (2017: €12 million) and relates to the investments in the 
patented Gravity Based Foundations for the offshore wind power sector.
The negative movement in the translation reserve in 2018 and 2017 is linked to the decrease in the value of the pound sterling.
17. Capital base
2018 2017
Restated*
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company 729,031 721,256
Subordinated convertible bonds 117,637 114,987
846,668 836,243
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
18. Borrowings
 Changes from financing  
cash flows  Other changes 
As at 
1 January 
2018Proceeds 
from
 borrowings Repayments
of
borrowingsEffective
 interest
 methodNew finance
leasesTransfers to/
from joint 
venturesOther
 movementsExchange
rate
differencesAs at
31 December
2018
Non-recourse PPP loans 189,965 1,409 (4,370) - - (142,928) - (608) 43,468
Non-recourse property 
financing 68,942 27,179 (18,891) - - 1,997 - - 79,227
Recourse PPP loans 29,454 - (16,064) 594 - - - - 13,984
Recourse property 
financing 75,288 12,558 (35,399) - - 1,000 - - 53,447
Subordinated convertible 
bonds 114,987 - - 2,650 - - - - 117,637
Finance lease liabilities 12,988 - (4,581) - 16,635 - - (47) 24,995
Other non-recourse 
financing 5,916 - (1,447) - - - - - 4,469
Other recourse financing 5,550 - - - - - - - 5,550
Bank overdrafts - - - - - - - - -
503,090 41,146 (80,752) 3,244 16,635 (139,931) - (655) 342,777
157
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management Changes from financing  
cash flows  Other changes 
As at 
1 January 
2017Proceeds 
from
 borrowings Repayments
of
borrowingsEffective
 interest
 methodNew finance 
leasesTransfers to/
from joint 
venturesOther
 movementsExchange 
rate 
differencesAs at 
31 December 
2017
Non-recourse PPP loans 274,348 109,095 (62,747) 963 - (130,036) - (1,658) 189,965
Non-recourse property 
financing 85,678 64,106 (83,250) - - 2,408 - - 68,942
Recourse PPP loans 50,103 - (20,943) 294 - - - - 29,454
Recourse property 
financing 68,745 2,029 (12,121) - - 16,635 - - 75,288
Subordinated convertible 
bonds 112,491 - 2,496 - - - - 114,987
Finance lease liabilities 6,807 - (3,260) - 9,479 - - (38) 12,988
Other non-recourse 
financing 7,922 - (2,006) - - - - - 5,916
Other recourse financing 5,550 - - - - - - - 5,550
Bank overdrafts 2 - - - - - (2) - -
611,646 175,230 (184,327) 3,753 9,479 (110,993) (2) (1,696) 503,090
18.1 Non-recourse PPP loans
These relate to PPP projects in the United Kingdom. Of the non-current part, €23 million has a term to maturity of more than five years 
(2017: €142 million). The average term to maturity of the PPP loans is 10 years (2017: 21 years). 
The decrease of PPP Loans is mainly related to the divestment of one project to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM.
The interest rate risk on the non-recourse PPP loans is hedged by interest rate swaps. The average interest rate on PPP loans is 4.2 per 
cent (2017: 4.3 per cent). Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during the term of these loans.
The related PPP receivables amount to €67 million in total (2017: €227 million) and represent a security for lenders. These loans will be 
payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions regarding interest coverage, solvency, among other things, are 
not met.
18.2 Non-recourse property financing
These loans are contracted to finance land for property development and ongoing property development projects. The average term of 
non-recourse property financing is approximately 1.4 years (2017: approximately 1.6 years).
Interest on these loans is based on Euribor plus a margin. Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during 
the term of these loans. For several property financing loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The principal sum of these financing loans is 
€34 million (2017: €54 million).
The carrying amount of the related assets is approximately €164 million at year-end 2018 (2017: approximately €160 million). The assets 
are pledged as a security for lenders. These loans will be payable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions relating 
to interest and capital repayments, among other things, are not met.
18.3 Recourse PPP loans
Equity bridge loans relating to PPP contracts are recognised under recourse PPP loans. The interest rate risk on the recourse PPP loans is 
hedged by interest rate swaps.
Recourse PPP loans relate directly to the accompanying assets, but also have an additional security in the form of a guarantee provided 
by the Group, in several cases supplemented by a bank guarantee. The average term to maturity of the recourse PPP loans is 
approximately 3.1 years (2017: approximately 0.7 years).
158
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management18.4 Recourse property financing
Recourse property financing is contracted to finance land and building rights and property development. The average term of recourse 
property financing is approximately 1.2 years (2017: approximately 0.9 years). Interest on these loans is based on Euribor plus a margin. 
Interest margins of these loans do not depend on market fluctuations during the term of these loans. For several property financing 
loans, the interest is (partially) fixed. The principal sum of these financing loans is €6 million (2017: €7 million).
Recourse property financing relates directly to the accompanying assets, that constitute a security for lenders. The carrying amount of 
the accompanying assets amounts to approximately €105 million at year-end 2018 (2017: approximately €125 million). Additional 
securities exist in the form of a guarantee provided by the Group, in some cases supplemented by a bank guarantee. These loans will be 
repayable on demand if the agreed qualitative and quantitative conditions relating to interest and capital repayments, among other 
things, are not met.
18.5  Subordinated convertible bonds
In June 2016, the Group placed €125 million subordinated unsecured convertible bonds. The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.50 per 
cent, an initial conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible into ordinary shares of Royal BAM Group nv with a nominal value 
of €0.10 each. The coupon is payable semi-annually in arrear in equal instalments on 13 June and 13 December. The Bonds were issued at 
100 per cent of their principal amount and, unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be 
redeemed at their principal amount on or around 13 June 2021. Upon exercise of their conversion rights, holders will receive shares at the 
then prevailing conversion price. At 31 December 2018 the conversion price is €4.9997 (31 December 2017: €5.1291). The Group will 
have the option to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest from 28 June 
2019, if the value of the shares underlying a bond exceeds €130,000 for a specified period of time. The bonds are trading on the Open 
Market (Freiverkehr) segment of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
All payment obligations to the bondholders are subordinated to the payment obligations towards our senior debt holders.
At 31 December 2018 the fair value of the liability component of the subordinated convertible bonds amounts to €115 million 
(31 December 2017: €122 million). The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows using a market rate for an equivalent 
non-convertible instrument.
More details of the subordinated convertible bonds are published on the website.
The reconciliation of the subordinated convertible bonds to the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity is as follows:
 
         Allocated to:
Face valueLiability 
componentEquity 
component
Gross proceeds  125,000  114,253  10,747 
Transaction costs 1  (3,233)  (2,955)  (278)
Net proceeds  121,767  111,298  10,469 
Tax effect equity component -  (2,617)
Effective interest method  1,193 - 
As at 31 December 2016  112,491  7,852 
Effective interest method  2,496 - 
As at 31 December 2017  114,987  7,852 
Effective interest method  2,650  - 
As at 31 December 2018  117,637  7,852 
¹ Transaction costs include fees and commissions paid to advisors, bankers and lawyers.
159
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management18.6  Committed syndicated credit facility
In November 2016 the Group renewed its committed revolving credit facility agreement for an amount of €400 million. The facility 
agreement was extended with one year in 2018 and has a remaining term to maturity of 4.3 years and runs until 31 March 2023.
The facility can be used for general corporate purposes, including the usual working capital financing. As a result of this flexible use, the 
level of draw-downs fluctuates throughout the year. At year-end 2018, the Group did not use the facility (year-end 2017: not used).
As at 30 June 2018 the Group did not use the facility (30 June 2017: not used). Variable interest rates apply to the draw-downs on this 
facility with a margin between 150 and 275 basis points. As at 31 December 2018 the margin was 150 basis points (2017: 150 basis points).
18.7 Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities mainly consist of financing arrangements for buildings and equipment. The maturity of the finance lease liabilities 
is as follows:
2018 2017
Up to 1 year  7,428  3,604 
1 to 5 years  18,402  10,112 
Over 5 years  741  644 
 26,571  14,360 
Future finance charges on financial leases  (1,575) (1,372) 
Present value of finance lease liabilities  24,995  12,988 
The present value of the finance lease liabilities is as follows:
2018 2017
1 to 5 years  17,529  9,135 
Over 5 years  721  586 
 18,250  9,721 
Up to 1 year  6,745  3,267 
 24,995  12,988
18.8 Other financing
Other loans relate to financing of property, plant and equipment.
18.9 Bank overdrafts
In addition to the non-current committed syndicated credit facility (note 18.6), the Group holds €163 million in bilateral credit facilities 
(2017: €163 million). At year-end 2018 as well as 2017 these facilities were not utilised.
18.10  Covenants
With regard to the various finance arrangements, the Group is bound by terms and conditions, both qualitative and quantitative and 
including financial ratios, in line with the industry’s practice. 
According to the finance arrangements, the covenant calculation should be based on the International Financial Reporting Standards as of 
December 31, 2015 (frozen IFRS). The implementation of IFRS 15 results in a more prudent accounting of BAM’s project results and therefore 
IFRS 15 will have a prudent approach towards the covenant ratio’s. BAM reverses the impact IFRS 15 has on equity as of at transition date in 
compliance to the covenant’s frozen IFRS. BAM does not revert the negative impacts IFRS 15 has on the results from transition date going 
forward, until IFRS 15 and 16 standards are incorporated in the ratio’s, following a prudent approach towards the covenant ratio’s.
160
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTerms and conditions for project financing, being (non-) recourse PPP loans, (non-) recourse property financing loans, are directly linked 
to the respective projects. A relevant ratio in property financing arrangements is the loan to value, i.e. the ratio between the financing 
arrangement and the value of the project. In PPP loans and recourse property financing arrangements the debt service cover ratio is 
applicable. This ratio relates the interest and repayment obligations to the project cash flow. No early payments were made in 2018 as a 
result of not adhering to the financing conditions of project related financing.
Terms and conditions for the committed syndicated credit facility are based on the Group as a whole, excluding non-recourse elements. 
The ratios for this financing arrangement (all recourse) are the leverage ratio, the interest cover, the solvency ratio and the guarantor 
covers. The Group complied with all ratios in 2018.
The set requirements and realisation of the recourse ratios described above, can be explained as follows:
Calculation Requirement 2018 2017
Leverage ratio Net borrowings/EBITDA ≤ 2.50  (2.70)  (4.82)
Interest cover EBITDA/net interest expense ≥ 4.00  27.48  8.35 
Solvency ratio Capital base/total assets ≥ 15% 27.0% 29.6%
Guarantor covers EBITDA share of guarantors ≥ 60% 75% 80%
Assets share of guarantors ≥ 70% 88% 91%
An increased recourse leverage ratio of a maximum of 2.75 is permitted under the terms and conditions and applies to the second and 
third quarters of the year. The capital base in our financial covenants (as part of the solvency ratio) is adjusted for the hedging reserve 
and remeasurements of post-employments benefits, among other things.
18.11 Other information
The Group’s subordinated convertible bonds are part of the capital base. Repayment obligations are subordinated to not subordinated 
obligations. 
The non-recourse PPP loans relate directly to the associated receivables from government bodies. Therefore, the interest rates are 
influenced marginally by market adjustments applying to companies. The terms of property loans are relatively short, as a consequence 
of which interest margins are in line with the markets. Therefore, the carrying amounts of these loans do not differ significantly from 
their fair values. 
The effective interest rates (including hedging instruments) are as follows:
2018 2017
Euro Pound sterling Euro Pound sterling
Subordinated convertible bonds 6.1% - 6.1% -
Committed syndicated credit facility 1.6% - 1.6% -
Non-recourse PPP loans - 6.8% 3.7% 6.8%
Non-recourse property financing 2.8% - 3.5% -
Recourse PPP loans 2.8% - 2.0% -
Recourse property financing 3.2% - 2.4% -
Finance lease liabilities 4.1% - 4.1% -
Other non-recourse financing 3.4% - 3.3% -
Other recourse financing 3.1% - 3.1% -
The Group contracted interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of borrowings to interest rate fluctuations and contractual changes 
in interest rates.
161
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Group’s unhedged position is as follows:
Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total
Total borrowings  62,758  255,736  24,282  342,776 
Fixed interest rates  (16,763)  (182,760)  (1,741)  (201,264)
Hedged with interest rate swaps  (4,962)  (15,586)  (22,541)  (43,089)
As at 31 December 2018  41,033  57,390  -  98,423 
Total borrowings 104,944 253,895 144,251 503,090
Fixed interest rates (9,217) (180,770) (59,836) (249,823)
Hedged with interest rate swaps (25,799) (53,627) (84,415)  (163,841) 
As at 31 December 2017 69,928 19,498 - 89,426 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2018 2017
Euro  296,375 452,623
Pound sterling  46,401 50,467
 342,776 503,090
19. Derivative financial instruments
2018 2017
Assets Liabilities Fair value Assets Liabilities Fair value
Interest rate swaps - 9,691 (9,691) - 14,952 (14,952)
Forward exchange contracts 642 272 370 1,522 133 1,389
642 9,963 (9,321) 1,522 15,085 (13,563)
Of which current: 641 272 369 1,058 133 925
19.1 Interest rate swaps
At year-end 2018, interest rate swaps are outstanding to hedge the interest rate risk on the (non-) recourse PPP loans with a variable 
interest rate. Total borrowings amount to €343 million (2017: €503 million), of which an amount of €141 million (2017: €253 million) 
carries a variable interest rate. Of the borrowings with a variable interest rate an amount of €43 million (2017: €164 million) is hedged by 
interest rate swaps. All interest rate swaps are classified as hedge instruments. The fair value of the outstanding interest rate swaps 
amounts to €10 million negative (2017: €15 million negative). At year-end 2018 all interest rate swaps have a duration that exceeds one 
year. The maximum duration of the derivative financial instruments is 13 years.
The fixed interest rates of these swaps vary from 1.5 per cent to 6.3 per cent at year-end 2018 (2017: between 1.5 per cent and 6.3 per 
cent). The variable interest rates of the corresponding loans are based on Euribor or Libor plus a margin.
At year-end 2018, all derivative financial instruments of the Group provide an effective compensation for movements in cash flows from 
the hedged positions. Therefore, the movements in 2018 are accounted for in other comprehensive income. The change in fair value of 
outstanding derivative financial instruments which do not provide an effective compensation are accounted for in the income statement 
within ‘finance income/expense’.
The composition of the expected contractual cash flows is disclosed in note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
162
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management19.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2018 were €53 million  
(2017: €194 million). The fair value amounts to €0.4 million positive (2017: €1 million positive).
The terms to maturity of these contracts are up to a maximum of 1 year for the amount of €53 million (2017: €187 million),  
between 1 and 2 years for the amount of nil (2017: €7 million) and between 2 to 4 years nil (2017: nil).
The average forward rates of the FX contracts outstanding are:
2018 2017 
EURGBP 0.8940 0.8871
EURUSD 1.1774 1.1857
EURAED 4.1868 4.0247
EURCHF 1.1300 -
EURDKK 7.4640 -
EURSGD - 1.5946
20. Employee benefits
2018 2017
Defined benefit asset 111,219 75,020
Defined benefit liability 91,740 92,411
Other employee benefits obligations 28,210 26,101
119,950 118,512
The Group operates defined contribution plans in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Ireland under broadly similar 
regulatory frameworks. The legacy defined benefit pension plans in all countries are closed for new entrants. The pension risks in the 
plans have been decreased.
A further description of the post-employment benefit plans per country is as follows:
The Netherlands
In the Netherlands, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit schemes as well as defined contribution schemes.
The pension schemes in the Netherlands are subject to the regulations as stipulated in the Pension Act. Due to the Pension Act the 
pension plans need to be fully funded and need to be operated outside the Company through a separate legal entity. Several multi- 
employer funds and insurers operate the various pension plans. The Group has no additional responsibilities for the governance of these 
schemes.
The basic pension for every employee is covered by multi-employer funds in which also other companies participate based on legal 
obligations. These funds have an indexed average salary scheme and are therefore defined benefit schemes. Specifically, these are the 
industry pension funds for construction, metal & technology and railways. As these funds are not equipped to provide the required 
information on the Group’s proportionate share of pension liabilities and plan assets, the defined benefit plans are accounted for as defined 
contribution plans. The Group is obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any excess payment 
and is not obliged to make up any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The part exceeding the basic pension amount 
(top-up part), which is not covered by multi-employer funds, is carried out by external parties and relates to defined contribution schemes.
163
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAt year-end 2018, the (twelve-month average) coverage rate of the industry pension fund for construction is 118 per cent (2017: 115 per 
cent). The industry pension fund for metal & technology has a coverage rate of 102 per cent at year-end 2018 (2017: 100 per cent).  
The coverage rate of the industry pension fund for railways is 115 per cent (2017: 113 per cent).
With effect from 2006, the defined benefit scheme is closed for new entrants. The build-up of future pension entitlements for these 
employees is covered by the multi-employer funds or external insurance companies. Defined benefit schemes are closed for future 
accumulation and index-linked to the industry pension fund for Construction. Future build-up is solely possible for the top-up pension 
scheme of BAM, which terminates in 2020; it is financed by the employer based on a percentage of the pensionable salaries of the 
employees.
In the context of accountability for the Group’s pension policy (to be) implemented, with regard to, inter alia, supplements and 
investment performance, the Group has established an accountability committee, with representation from the Central Works Council 
(CWC) and the Socio-Economic Committee of the BAM pensioners Associations (SEC).
United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, the Group makes contributions to defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution plans. The Group is 
responsible for making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits. The plan for supplementary 
contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds in March 2016 and led to supplementary 
contributions in 2018 to the amount of approximately €10 million (2017: approximately €10 million). The Group recognises a net defined 
benefit asset because it is entitled to a return of surplus at the end of the plans’ lifes.
The Group replaced the closed defined benefit pension schemes with defined contribution schemes, which are executed by an outside 
insurance company. Following the closure of future accumulation in defined benefit pension schemes in 2010, employees who 
participated in these schemes were invited to participate in the defined contribution schemes.
In addition, several defined benefit schemes are accounted for as defined contribution schemes due to the fact that external parties 
administering them are not able to provide the required information. These schemes have limited numbers of members. The Group is 
obliged to pay the predetermined premium for these plans. The Group may not reclaim any excess payment and is not obliged to make up 
any deficit, except by way of the adjustment of future premiums. The Group did not make any material contributions in 2018 nor 2017.
Following the recent High Court judgement in the Lloyds case, overall pension benefits in the United Kingdom are equalised to eliminate 
inequalities between male and female participants in Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (“GMPs”). This equalization affects all contracted-
out pension schemes with benefits earned between 17 May 1990 and 5 April 1997 and will mean higher benefits for some members and 
therefore higher overall costs. Under IAS 19/FRS 101, the additional liability is immediately recognized in 2018 as a plan amendment. The 
additional liability for the Group amounts to €11.1 million.
Belgium
In Belgium, the Group makes contributions to a relatively small defined benefit scheme that is executed by an external insurance 
company. The Group has also made arrangements for employees to participate in a defined contribution scheme.
Belgian defined contribution plans are subject to the Law of 28 April 2003 on occupational pensions, due to changes in the law in 
December 2015 defined contribution should be classified and accounted for as defined benefit plans under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’.
Germany
In Germany, the Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme financed by the employer.
The Group closed two schemes to new participants and since 2006, the Group operates a defined contribution scheme, into which 
employees have the opportunity to contribute on an individual basis.
Ireland
The Group has a defined benefit scheme in Ireland, executed by a company pension fund. The multi-employer pension scheme was fully 
converted from a defined benefit scheme to a defined contribution scheme with effect from 1 January 2006 for new entrants.
The Group is responsible for making supplementary contributions to recover the historical financing deficits. The plan for supplementary 
contributions was last revised after the most recent actuarial valuations of the funds in 2017. This has led to a yearly supplementary 
contribution of approximately €1 million (2017: €3 million).
164
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMovements in the defined benefit pension plans over the year is as follows:
 
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2018
Defined benefit liability 18,750 - 2,576 52,837 15,577 91,740
Defined benefit asset - 111,219 - - - 111,219
18,750 (111,219) 2,576 52,837 17,577 (19,479)
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2018 428,788 989,194 25,115 72,961 97,138 1,613,196
Service cost 891 76 1,518 126 2,056 4,667
Interest expense 7,166 24,549 342 1,206 2,001 35,264
Remeasurements (8,726) (86,012) (361) 422 (2,161) (96,838)
Plan participants contributions  -  - 597  - 405 1,002
Benefit payments (12,209) (51,886) (1,657) (4,187) (4,068) (74,007)
Changes and plan amendments  - 11,092  -  - - 11,092
Settlements (39,164)  - (169)  - - (39,333)
Disposals  -  - (64)  - - (64)
Exchange rate differences  - (12,359)  -  - - (12,359)
As at 31 December 2018 376,746 874,653 25,321 70,528 95,371 1,442,619
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2018 411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
Interest income 6,952 26,581 308 309 1,681 35,831
Remeasurements (18,242) (49,087) 540 (65) (4,124) (70,978)
Employer contributions 9,637 11,841 1,797 2,772 4,000 30,047
Plan participants contributions  -  - 597  - 405 1,002
Benefit payments (12,209) (51,886) (1,657) (4,187) (4,068) (74,007)
Administration cost (380) (1,820) (38)  - - (2,238)
Settlements (39,164)  - (169)  - - (39,333)
Disposals  -  - (61)  - - (61)
Exchange rate differences  - (13,972) 1  - - (13,971)
As at 31 December 2018 357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
Present value of obligation 376,746 874,653 25,321 70,528 95,371 1,442,619
Fair value of plan assets 357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
      
As at 31 December 2018 18,750 (111,219) 2,576 52,837 17,577 (19,479)
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 891 76 1,518 126 2,056 4,667
Net interest expense 214 (2,032) 34 897 320 (567)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements  - 11,092  -  -  - 11,092
Administration cost 380 1,820 38  - - 2,238
1,485 10,956 1,590 1,023 2,376 17,430
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 18,242 49,087 (542) 65 4,124 70,976
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (3,235) (38,506)  - 980 (40,761)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions (985) (53,924) (1,145) (814) (3,533) (60,401)
-  Experience (gains)/losses (4,506) 6,418 784 256 1,372 4,324
9,516 (36,926) (902) 487 1,963 (25,862)
Income tax (2,379) 6,278 322 (87) (245) 3,889
Remeasurement net of tax 7,137 (30,648) (580) 400 1,718 (21,973)
165
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management 
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
As at 31 December 2017
Defined benefit liability 17,386 - 3,688 54,099 17,238 92,411
Defined benefit asset - 75,020 - - - 75,020
17,386 (75,020) 3,688 54,099 17,238 17,391
Present value of obligation
As at 1 January 2017 434,513 1,015,303 20,363 78,576 108,243 1,656,998
Service cost 969 65 1,361 187 2,539 5,121
Interest expense 7,281 26,686 287 1,071 1,954 37,279
Remeasurements (1,555) 36,517 4,121 (2,626) (4,987) 31,470
Plan participants contributions - - 567 - 445 1,012
Benefit payments (12,420) (56,997) (1,535) (4,247) (3,128) (78,327)
Changes and plan amendments - - - - - -
Settlements - - - - (7,928) (7,928)
Disposals - - (49) - - (49)
Exchange rate differences - (32,380) - - - (32,380)
As at 31 December 2017 428,788 989,194 25,115 72,961 97,138 1,613,196
Fair value of plan assets
As at 1 January 2017 411,231 1,073,984 16,965 19,413 83,924 1,605,517
Interest income 6,953 28,451 249 274 1,531 37,458
Remeasurements (535) 44,022 3,725 462 1,159 48,833
Employer contributions 6,678 10,797 1,719 2,960 3,897 26,051
Plan participants contributions - - 567 - 445 1,012
Benefit payments (12,420) (56,997) (1,535) (4,247) (3,128) (78,327)
Administration cost (505) (1,517) (40) - - (2,062)
Settlements - - - - (7,928) (7,928)
Disposals - - (223) - - (223)
Exchange rate differences - (34,525) - - - (34,525)
As at 31 December 2017 411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
Present value of obligation 428,788 989,194 25,115 72,961 97,138 1,613,196
Fair value of plan assets 411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
      
As at 31 December 2017 17,386 (75,020) 3,688 54,099 17,238 17,391
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Service cost 969 65 1,361 187 2,539 5,121
Net interest expense 328 (1,765) 38 797 423 (179)
Changes and plan amendments and settlements - - - - - -
Administration cost 505 1,517 40 - - 2,062
1,802 (183) 1,439 984 2,962 7,004
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
-  Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 535 (44,022) (3,727) (462) (1,159) (48,835)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in demographic assumptions (4,256) - 188 - - (4,068)
-  (Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions 2,701 30,922 145 (2,694) (3,772) 27,302
-  Experience (gains)/losses - 5,595 3,788 68 (1,215) 8,236
(1,020) (7,505) 394 (3,088) (6,146) (17,365)
Income tax 255 1,303 (113) 640 768 2,853
Remeasurement net of tax (765) (6202) 281 (2,448) (5,378) (14,512)
166
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe average duration of the defined benefit obligations per country were as follows:
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
2018
Average duration (in years) 16 19 16 11 23
2017
Average duration (in years) 16 21 17 13 23
The significant actuarial assumptions per country were as follows:
 
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland
2018
Discount rate 1.8% 2.8-2.9% 1.8% 1.8% 2.2%
Salary growth rate 0-1.9% 0-3.6% 1.9% 1.5% -
Pension growth rate 0-1.8% 2.2-3.3% - 1.5% 0-1.4%
2017
Discount rate 1.7% 2.5-2.6% 1.45% 1.7% 2.1%
Salary growth rate 0-1.9% 0-3.6% 1.80% 1.5% -
Pension growth rate 0-1.7% 2.2-3.3% - 1.5% 0-1.6%
Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in each 
country.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is:
• If the discount rate is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will decrease by approximately €116 million  
(increase by approximately €138 million).
• If the expected salary increase is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately €3 million  
(decrease by approximately €4 million).
• If the expected indexation is 0.5 per cent higher (lower), the pension liability will increase by approximately €67 million  
(decrease by approximately €61 million).
• If the life expectancy increases (decreases) by 1 year, the pension liability will increase by approximately €53 million  
(decrease by approximately €59 million).
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is 
unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit 
obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised 
within the statement of financial position.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
167
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementPlan assets are comprised as follows:
 
NetherlandsUnited 
Kingdom Belgium Germany Ireland Total
2018
Equity instruments (quoted) - 104,289 - - 41,897 146,186
Debt instruments (quoted) - 739,518 - - 31,906 771,424
Property (quoted) - 16,885 - - 3,447 20,332
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted) 357,996 - 22,745 17,691 499 398,931
Cash and cash equivalents - 125,180 - - 45 125,225
357,996 985,872 22,745 17,691 77,794 1,462,098
2017
Equity instruments (quoted) - 252,367 - - 44,188 296,555
Debt instruments (quoted) - 649,436 - - 31,008 680,444
Property (quoted) - 44,554 - - 3,436 47,990
Qualifying insurance policies (unquoted) 411,402 - 21,427 18,862 552 452,243
Cash and cash equivalents - 117,858 - - 716 118,574
411,402 1,064,215 21,427 18,862 79,900 1,595,806
Plan assets do not include the Company’s ordinary shares. The Group applies IAS 19.104 for the valuation of the plan assets in connection 
with the insured contracts.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility
The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets underperform this yield, 
this will create a deficit.
Changes in bond yields
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the 
plans’ bond holdings.
Salary growth
The plan liabilities are calculated based on future salaries of the plan participants, so increases in future salaries will result in an increase 
in the plan liabilities.
Pension growth
The majority of the plan liabilities are calculated based on future pension increases, so these increases will result in an increase in the plan 
liabilities.
Life expectancy
The majority of the plan liabilities are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an 
increase in the plan liabilities.
With regard to the funded plans, the Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (‘ALM’) 
framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the pension schemes. 
Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest 
securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. The Group monitors how the 
duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations. The 
Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. Investments are well diversified, such that the 
failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. 
Employer contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2019 are expected to be slightly lower than 
2018 due to less deficit contributions in the UK.
168
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management21. Provisions
 
Warranty RestructuringRental 
guaranteesAssociates and 
joint venturesOnerous 
contracts Other Total
Restated as at 1 January 2018* 59,940 15,403 289 24,497 109,593 13,749 223,471
Charged/(credited) to the  
income statement:
- Additional provisions 16,945 5,029 - 4,545 44,600 6,138 77,257
- Release (3,466) (1,192) - - (4,864) (5,331) (14,853)
Used during the year (12,403) (10,951) (49) (4,975) (13,384) (6,407) (48,169)
Reclassifications (29,359) - - - - 29,359 -
Changes in discounted value - - - - - (7) (7)
Exchange rate differences - - - - (46) (13) (59)
As at 31 December 2018 31,657 8,289 240 24,067 135,899 37,488 237,640
Provisions are classified in the balance sheet as follows:
 
2018 2017
Restated*
Non-current 141,803 128,622
Current 95,837 94,849
237,640 223,471
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
The provision for warranty concerns the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle complaints and deficiencies that become 
apparent after the delivery of projects and that fall within the warranty period. In reaching its best estimate, the Group takes into 
account the risks and uncertainties that surround the underlying events which are assessed periodically. Approximately 44 per cent of 
the provision is current in nature (2017: approximately 49 per cent). 
The provision for restructuring concerns the best estimate of the expenditure associated with reorganisation plans already initiated. 
Approximately 71 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2017: approximately 93 per cent). The estimated staff restructuring costs 
to be incurred are recognised under ‘personnel expenses’. Other direct costs attributable to the restructuring, including lease 
termination, are recognised under ‘other operating expenses’.
The provision for rental guarantees consists of commitments arising from rental guarantees issued to third parties. Approximately  
67 per cent of the provision is current in nature (2017: 56 per cent).
The provision for associates and joint ventures arise from the legal or constructive obligation in connection with structured entities 
for property development projects (associates and joint ventures) and the development of the hedging reserves in PPP joint ventures. 
An amount of €0.1 million (2017: €0.4 million) relates to associates and €24.0 million (2017: €24.1 million) to joint ventures.
The contract asset or contract liability does not include any provisions for future project losses. Approximately 51 per cent of the 
provision is current in nature (2017: approximately 43 per cent).
169
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementOther provisions mainly include continuing rental commitments resulting from (temporarily) unused premises. Amounts provided for 
the liquidation of the old project development activities, claims and legal obligations in Germany are also included. Approximately 17 per 
cent of the provision is current in nature (2017: approximately 34 per cent).
The non-current part of the provisions has been discounted at an interest rate of approximately 3 per cent (2017: approximately 3 per cent).
22. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
2018 2017
Restated*
Deferred tax assets:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months  141,649  216,801 
- To be recovered within twelve months  23,908  18,222 
 165,557  235,023 
Deferred tax liabilities:
- To be recovered after more than twelve months  38,261  26,967 
- To be recovered within twelve months  1,461  1,095 
 39,722  28,062 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)  (125,835)  (206,961)
The gross movement on the deferred income tax assets and liabilities is as follows:
2018 2017
Restated*
As at 1 January  (206,961)  (230,310)
Income statement charge/(credit)  52,310  18,378 
Tax charge/(credit) relating to components of other comprehensive income  3,905  5,493 
Disposal of subsidiary  -  - 
Changes in enacted tax rates  28,173  (305)
Reclassifications  (2,958)  - 
Exchange rate differences  (304)  (217)
As at 31 December  (125,835)  (206,961)
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
170
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances 
within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Provisions Tax losses DerivativesEmployee 
benefit 
obligations Other Total
Deferred tax assets
Restated as at 1 January 2017  5,248  227,536  4,449  17,724  22,328  277,285 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement  3,587  (21,928)  216  (1,370)  1,915  (17,580)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income  (120)  -  (1,722)  (1,548)  (12)  (3,402)
Changes in enacted tax rates  -  (227)  -  (167)  (13)  (407)
Reclassifications  -  -  (454)  (684)  (375)  (1,513)
Exchange rate differences  (80)  -  (74)  (12)  (201)  (367)
Restated as at 31 December 2017  8,635  205,381  2,415  13,943  23,642  254,016 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement  (3,729)  (42,635)  (1)  (2,401)  1,371  (47,395)
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income  25  (159)  (152)  2,493  -  2,207 
Changes in enacted tax rates  21  (26,971)  -  (29)  (2,811)  (29,790)
Reclassifications  -  2,969  (520)  4  45  2,498 
Exchange rate differences  (12)  (2)  (23)  -  (17)  (54)
As at 31 December 2018  4,940  138,583  1,719  14,010  22,230  181,482 
Construction 
contractsAccelerated
 tax 
depreciation DerivativesEmployee
benefit
assets Other Total
Deferred tax liabilities
As at 1 January 2017  16,791  10,696  107  10,670  8,710  46,974 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement  2,262  (635)  -  2,086  (2,915)  798 
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income  -  -  786  1,305  -  2,091 
Changes in enacted tax rates  (112)  (352)  -  (247)  (1)  (712)
Reclassifications  -  (375)  (454)  (684)  -  (1,513)
Exchange rate differences  -  (208)  -  (376)  -  (584)
As at 31 December 2017  18,941  9,126  439  12,754  5,794  47,054 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement  6,492  (404)  -  (31)  (1,142)  4,915 
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income  -  (298)  28  6,382  -  6,112 
Changes in enacted tax rates  (1,329)  (360)  -  72  -  (1,617)
Reclassifications  -  (132)  (328)  -  -  (460)
Exchange rate differences  -  (83)  -  (274)  -  (357)
As at 31 December 2018  24,104  7,849  139  18,903  4,652  55,647 
171
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDeferred income tax assets in a country are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits in that country 
are available against which the temporary differences and available tax losses carry-forwards can be utilised.
Tax losses available to the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for carry-forward at year-end 2018 amount to approximately €1 billion (2017:  
€1 billion). These unused tax losses relate to the years 2010 up to and including 2017 and result to a large extent from identifiable causes, 
which are unlikely to recur, including a loss relating to the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany, significant 
impairments on properties and restructuring costs during these years. The legal term within which these losses may be offset against 
future profits is nine years.
In December 2018 the Dutch tax plan 2019 was approved by the Dutch Senate reducing the corporate income tax rate to 22.55 per cent 
in 2020 and to 20.5 per cent in 2021. In total this has caused a decrease of the deferred tax asset related to the Dutch fiscal unity tax 
losses of €26 million.
Based on estimates and timing of future taxable profits within the fiscal unity in the Netherlands for the upcoming eight years, 
approximately €490 million (2017: €770 million) of these losses are recognised. Management estimates of forecasted taxable profits in 
the Netherlands are based on financial budgets approved by management, extrapolated using growth rates for revenue and profit 
before tax margins that take into account external market data and benchmark information and taking into account past performance. 
Growth rates for revenue and profit before tax margins are in line with the Group’s mid- and long-term expectations. Subsequently these 
forecasts have been reduced to meet the recognition criteria under IFRS in respect of deferred tax assets. No specific tax planning 
opportunities have been taken into account. The measurement of the deferred tax asset is especially sensitive to the risk of expiry of tax 
loss carry forwards, for which therefore appropriate discounts have been used.
The lower than expected result in 2018 in the Netherlands for the business line Civil engineering and the non-cash impairment on 
property positions caused an impairment of the deferred tax assets of €9 million, because losses incurred in 2009 can no longer be fully 
offset by profits. The aforementioned underperformance in 2018 and in earlier years necessitates a more prudent forecast of taxable 
profits to meet the recognition criteria under IFRS. This leads to a further impairment of €37 million.
Tax losses to a minimum of €600 million (2017: €600 million) are expected to remain available for the companies in Germany, which can 
be offset against future taxable profits in Germany. Based on estimates of the level and timing of future taxable profits per operating 
company and per fiscal unity, approximately €48 million (2017: €32 million) of these losses are recognised. The legal term within which 
these losses may be offset against future profits is indefinite. Management estimates of forecasted taxable profits in Germany are based 
on financial budgets approved by management, extrapolated using estimated growth rates that are considered to be in line with the 
Group’s mid- and long-term expectations, taking into account past performance.
23. Trade and other payables
Notes 2018 2017
Restated*
Trade payables 980,342 847,697
Amounts due to customers (contract liabilities) 6 654,212 719,191
Amounts due to related parties 36 125,542 30,511
Social security and other taxes 157,586 132,828
Pension premiums 10,617 14,223
Amounts due for work completed 160,766 161,827
Amounts due for work in progress 661,976 579,181
Other financial liabilities 1,329 1,633
Other liabilities 92,518 105,511
Accrued expenses and deferred income 236,247 263,420
3,081,135 2,856,022
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
172
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management24. Employee benefit expenses
Note 2018 2017
Wages and salaries 1,075,233 1,032,695
Social security costs 165,883 157,782
Pension costs - defined contribution plans 79,834 76,591
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 20 17,430 7,004
Other post-employment benefits (61) (458)
1,338,319 1,273,614
Wages and salaries include restructuring costs and other termination benefits of €3.8 million (2017: €0.2 million).
At year-end 2018, the Group had 20,194 employees in FTE (2017: 19,837). The average number of employees in FTE amounted  
to 20,156 (2017: 19,720), of which 12,186 in other countries than the Netherlands (2017: 12,072).
25. Impairment charges
Notes 2018 2017
Intangible assets 8 - 703
Other financial assets 11 (1,292) 153
Inventories 12 21,920 3,723 
Impairment charges 20,628 4,579
Share of impairment charges in investments 10 3,122 193
23,750 4,772
Other financial assets for 2018 relate to fair value changes.
In 2018, the net impairment charges in connection with inventories are fully related to land and building rights in the Netherlands. Impairments 
reflected mainly the lower valuation of Dutch regional property adjacent to the development of a large wind mill park which is now reduced to 
the value of farmer’s land.
26. Exceptional items
Items that are material either because of their size or their nature, or that are non-recurring are considered as exceptional and are 
presented within the line items to which they best relate.
An analysis of the amount presented as exceptional items in these financial statements is given below:
Notes 2018 2017
Impairment charges 25 23,750 4,772
Restructuring costs 24 3,837 158
Pension one-off 20 11,092 -
38,679 4,930 
Pension one-off in 2018 relates to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions for men and women in the United Kingdom.
173
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management27. Audit fees
The total fees for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 2018 are listed below. The fees stated below for the audit of the 
financial statements are based on the total fees for the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the procedures were 
already performed in the financial year.
Expenses for services provided by the Company’s current independent auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY) and its foreign 
member firms to the Group are specified as follows: 
2018 2017
EY 
Netherlands  EY foreign
 member firmsTotal EY 
Netherlands EY foreign 
member firmsTotal
Audit fees 4,279 2,234 6,513 3,551 2,690 6,241
Audit-related fees 52 9 61 39 5 44
Tax fees - - - - 26 26
Other non-audit fees - - - - 55 55
6,574 6,366
The increase in the audit fee 2018 compared to 2017 relates to additional audit procedures on the application of new accounting 
standards such as IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
174
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management28. Finance income and expense
2018 2017
Finance income
- Interest income - cash at banks 1,175 1,008
- Interest income - other financial assets 2,579 2,158
- Interest income - PPP receivables 5,446 20,357
- Other finance income 12,021 6,479
21,221  30,002
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds 7,025 6,871
- Committed syndicated credit facility 328 16
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility 2,611 2,708
- Non-recourse PPP loans 3,155 11,165
- Non-recourse property financing 2,185 3,127
- Other non-recourse financing 153 169
- Interest expense - bank overdrafts 253 145
- Finance lease liabilities 556 433
- Recourse property financing 1,222 1,765
- Recourse PPP loans - 916
- Other recourse financing 1,592 1,697
- Interest expense - other liabilities 848 137
- Fair value result interest rate swaps - 561
- Fair value result - forward exchange contracts - 305
19,928 30,015 
Less: capitalised interest on the Group’s own projects (8,034)  (9,575)
11,894  20,440 
  
Net finance result 9,327  9,562 
Included in the finance expense is an amount of €1.8 million (2017: €3 million) relating to interest rate swaps that was reclassified from 
equity to the income statement. An overview of the applicable weighted average interest rates is disclosed in note 18 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
175
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management29. Income tax
2018 2017
Restated*
Current tax 9,642 14,818
Deferred tax 80,483 18,073
90,125 32,891 
Income tax on the Group’s result before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate 
applicable to profits of the consolidated companies as follows:
2018 2017
Restated*
Result before tax 114,540 19,965
Tax calculated at Dutch tax rate 28,633 4,993
Tax effects of:
- Tax rates in other countries (10,592) (1,815)
- Income not subject to tax (1,638) (743)
- Remeasurement of deferred tax – changes in enacted tax rates 27,973 (125)
- Tax filings and previously unrecognised temporary differences (5,108) (5,064)
- Previously unrecognised tax losses (5,718) (4,494)
- Tax losses no(t) (longer) recognised 55,797 42,390
- Results of investments and other participations, net of tax (5,334) (2,702)
- Other including expenses not deductible for tax purposes 6,112 451
Tax charge/(gain) 90,125 32,891
Effective tax rate 78.7% 164.7%
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
The weighted average tax rate applicable was 15.8 per cent (2017: 15.9 per cent). The difference is attributable to a different spread of 
results over the countries. 
In December 2018 the Dutch corporate income tax rate was reduced to 22.55 per cent applicable as of 1 January 2020 and will be 
reduced to 20.5 per cent as of 1 January 2021.
In 2018 the tax charge was influenced predominantly by the reduction of the corporate tax rates in the Netherlands and by tax losses 
which are not recognised (anymore), as well as the recognition of tax losses that were previously unrecognised.
The corporate income tax rate effect related to the losses within the Dutch fiscal unity reduced the deferred tax asset by €26 million. 
An amount of €46 million of the tax charge relates to the impairment of previously valued tax losses of the fiscal unity in the 
Netherlands. 
 
176
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management30. Earnings per share  
2018 2017
Restated*
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000) 273,491 272,215
Net result attributable to shareholders 23,773 (13,790)
Basic earnings per share (in €) 0.09 (0.05)
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 23,773 (13,790)
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (in €) 0.09 (0.05)
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders - -
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (in €) - -
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
Allowing for dilution, the earnings per share are as follows:
2018 2017
Restated*
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (x 1,000) 298,269 296,428
Net result attributable to shareholders (diluted) 29,042 (8,637)
Diluted earnings per share (in €) 0.09 (0.05)
Net result from continuing operations attributable to shareholders (diluted) 29,042 (8,637)
Diluted earnings from continuing operations per share (in €) 0.09 (0.05)
Net result from discontinued operations attributable to shareholders (diluted) - -
Diluted earnings from discontinued operations per share (in €) - -
* The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2.
In 2018 the calculation of the diluted earnings per share stated €0.10 (2017: (€0.03)) however due to IAS 33, no anti-dilutive effect is 
allowed. So in both years diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share.
177
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management31. Dividends per share and proposed appropriation of result
The net result for 2018, amounting to €23.8 million, has been accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2018 of 14 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase of shares to offset dilution (2017: 10 eurocents). Based on the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding at year-end 2018, a maximum of €38.3 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
The dividends paid to shareholders of ordinary shares in 2018 were €27.3 million, €11.4 million in cash (€0.10 per share) and €15.9 million 
in shares (€0.10 per share), these shares are repurchased in 2018 for €15.2 million. In 2017 dividends paid to shareholders of ordinary 
shares were €24.4 million, €7.5 million in cash (€0.09 per share) and €16.9 million in shares (€0.09 per share). 
32. Contingencies
32.1  Legal proceedings
In the normal course of business the Group is involved in legal proceedings predominantly concerning litigation in connection with 
(completed) construction contracts. The legal proceedings, whether pending, threatened or unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, 
may have a material impact on the Group’s financial position, operational result or cash flows. The Group may enter into discussions 
regarding settlement of these and other proceedings and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best 
interests of the Company’s shareholders. In accordance with current accounting policies, the Group has recognised provisions with respect 
to these proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. An example of a major legal proceeding is given below.
On 3 March 2009, during the construction of a section of the Cologne metro system, several adjacent buildings, including the building of 
the City Archives of the City of Cologne, collapsed. Two persons were killed as a result of this accident. Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau is a 
one-third partner in the consortium carrying out this project but was not directly involved in the work performed at the site of the accident. 
The customer has instituted a judicial inquiry (known as a Beweisverfahren) before the district court (the Landgericht in Cologne). As part of 
these proceedings, a number of specialists are investigating the cause of the accident. Only when their investigation is complete will it be 
possible to determine if and to what extent the consortium might be held responsible for the accident. In a criminal law suit against 
5 individuals, none of them an employee of Wayss & Freytag, the German court has found one of those individuals guilty. The others were 
acquitted. The damage to property is considerable and the parties involved have claimed under several different insurance policies.
32.2 Guarantees
Bonds and Guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business to our clients, either by the Company (parental guarantees), by 
banks (bank guarantees), or by surety companies (surety bonds), securing due performance of the obligations under the contracts by the 
subsidiaries of the Company.
It is not expected that any material risks will arise from these securities. These securities are limited in amount and can only be called 
upon in case of (proven) default.
The parent company guarantees issued amount to €160 million (2017: €169 million). Guarantees issued by banks and surety companies 
amount to €1,868 million (2017: €1,735 million). Guarantee facilities amount to €3.2 billion (2017: €2.9 billion).
178
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management33. Commitments
33.1  Purchase commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred and conditional contractual obligations to 
purchase land for property development activities is as follows:
2018 2017
Property, plant and equipment 5,290 1,865
Land 177,090 214,241
182,380 216,106
The conditional nature of the contractual obligations to purchase land relate to, among other items, the amendment of development 
plans, the acquirement of planning permissions and the actual completion of property development projects.
33.2 Lease commitments
The Group leases various office buildings, equipment and company cars from third parties under non-cancellable operating lease 
agreements. The lease agreements vary in duration, escalation clauses and renewable options. In 2018 the costs associated with 
operating leases amount to €72 million (2017: €59 million). 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments are as follows:
2018 2017
Up to 1 year 73,091 71,520
1 to 5 years 140,370 141,130
Over 5 years 21,607 24,368
235,068 237,018
The future aggregate minimum lease income is as follows:
2018 2017
Up to 1 year 86
1 to 5 years - -
Over 5 years - -
- 86
34. Business combinations
No material acquisitions have taken place in 2018 nor 2017.
179
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management35. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
2018 2017
Inventories 8,516 8,516
Assets held for sale 8,516 8,516
  
Liabilities held for sale  - -
At year-end 2018 and 2017, the assets held for sale related to inventories compromising of one remaining property development position 
in the Northeast part of the Netherlands, which are not yet transferred.
During 2018 the Group transferred one operational project (2017: one project), to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM and received several 
one-offs relating to previously transferred projects. After deduction of costs, the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM realised a net result of 
€4.4 million (2017: €0.9 million), of which €2.6 million for the transferred project. The total consideration amounts to €21.8 million, of 
which €18.7 million in cash. The Group retained a 20 per cent share of its original share in these projects.
The Group had no discontinued operations in 2018 nor 2017.
36. Related parties
The Group identifies subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements, third parties executing the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and 
key management as related parties. Transactions with related parties are conducted at arm’s length, on terms comparable to those for 
transactions with third parties.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties:
36.1 Sales and purchase of goods and services
A major part of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements. These activities include the assignment and/or financing of 
land as well as carrying out construction contracts. 
The Group carried out transactions with associates and joint arrangements related to the sale of goods and services for €435.6 million 
(2017: €312.0 million) and related to the purchase of goods and services for €27.8 million (2017: €31.1 million).
The 2018 year-end balance of receivables arising from aforementioned transactions amounts to €30.7 million (2017: €10.9 million) and 
the liabilities to €125.5 million (2017: €30.5 million).
36.2 Loans to related parties
At year-end 2018, the Group granted loans to related parties (mainly relating to associates and joint ventures) for the amount of  
€68 million (2017: €70 million). These transactions were made on normal commercial terms and conditions, except that for a number of 
loans there are no fixed terms for the repayment of loans between the parties. Interests for these loans are at arm’s length. Loans to 
related parties are included in ‘Other financial assets’ in the statement of financial position.
180
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management36.3  Key management compensation
Key management includes members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board.
Executive Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Executive Board for services is shown below:
2018
Fixed
remunerationShort-term
incentivePost-
employment
benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term
incentiveTotal
R.P. van Wingerden ¹ 686 343 151 - (41) 1,139
L.F. den Houter 2 203 101 10 - - 314
E.J. Bax ³ 486 243 101 - (77) 753
T. Menssen 4,5243 50 28 491 (105) 707
1,618 737 290 491 (223) 2,913
2017
Fixed
remunerationShort-term
incentivePost-
employment
benefitsOther
benefitsLong-term
incentiveTotal
R.P. van Wingerden ¹ 684 214 183 3 177 1,261
T. Menssen 484 152 49 3 85 773
E.J. Bax ³ 484 152 93 3 111 843
1,652 518 325 9 373 2,877
1 Appointed as Chairman of the Executive Board with effect from 1 October 2014, reappointed as Chairman 20 April 2016.
2 Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 August 2018.
3  Appointed as a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1 May 2014.
4 Mrs Menssen has stepped down from the Executive Board with effect from 1 July 2018.
5 Mrs Menssen has received a severance payment of €486 thousand and €5 thousand for legal fees, which are included in the other benefits.
The short-term incentive is part of the remuneration package of the Executive Board with a target payout of 55 per cent and a maximum 
of 75 per cent. The STI is based on financial criteria (70 per cent) and non-financial performance targets (30 per cent). Performance 
incentive zones are defined for each of the targets. Payout gradually increases with performance, starting with a payout of 35 per cent of 
the fixed remuneration at threshold performance and potentially going up to 75 per cent of the fixed remuneration payout at maximum 
performance per individual target. Performance below the threshold will result in zero payout. The Supervisory Board sets the 
performance ranges (i.e. threshold, at target and maximum performance levels) and corresponding payout levels. The Supervisory Board 
determined the payout for 2018 at 50 per cent (2017: 31 per cent).
Post-employment benefits relate to the pension costs of the defined benefit plans recognised in the income statement and, if no pension 
arrangements were made, paid contributions for personal pension arrangements. Cost of defined benefit plans are determined on the 
basis of the individual pension obligations. Interest results and return on plan assets are not allocated on an individual basis. Certain 
components of the post-employment benefits are conditional and paid if employment continues until the retirement age.
As from mid-2017, the expense allowance policy has been changed into reimbursement of business expenses, instead of receiving a fixed 
expense allowance.
The long-term incentive relates to the Performance Share Plan and Phantom Share Plan. Additional information is disclosed in note 37.
No share options have been granted to the members of the Executive Board. The members of the Executive Board do not hold any shares 
in the Company, except for the conditionally granted and vested shares under the Performance Share Plan, nor have loans or advances 
been granted.
181
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSupervisory Board
The compensation paid or payable to the Supervisory Board for services is shown below:
2018 2017
H.L.J. Noy, Chairman 80 69
K.S. Wester, Vice-Chairman 62 58
G. Boon 60 42
C.M.C. Mahieu 60 56
M.P. Sheffield 69 24
H. Valentin 68 44
P.A.F.W. Elverding, former Chairman - 18
H. Scheffers, former Vice-Chairman - 17
J.P. Hansen, former member - 14 
399 342
As from mid-2017 actual and necessarily incurred costs in the performance of the duties for the Group are reimbursed, instead of 
receiving a fixed expense allowance.
No share options have been granted to the members of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board do not hold 
any shares in the Company nor have loans or advances been granted.
Other related parties
The Group has not entered into any material transaction with other related parties.
37. Share-based payments
In 2018, BAM’s long-term incentive plan consisted of a conditional share-based compensation plan called Performance Share Plan. 
This equity-settled plan replaced the cash-settled Phantom Share Plan effective from 2011 through 2014 and is applicable for members 
of the Executive Board and selected positions below the Executive Board (‘Participants’) whereas the Phantom Share Plan solely included 
members of the Executive Board. In principle, the content of the plan rules will not be altered during the term of the plans.
37.1 Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value (expressed as a 
percentage of fixed remuneration) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). 
The shares are granted on the sixth trading day following the day of the AGM and vest subject to the achievement of pre-determined 
performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed by BAM. Participants are not 
allowed to divest any shareholding until the two year lock-up period has lapsed and the minimum share ownership requirements are 
met, with the exception of any sale of shares during the lock-up period to finance tax (and other levies) payable at the date of vesting. 
The value at the date of vesting of the Performance Share Plan is capped at 2.5 times the award value.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to ten other listed companies in Europe, 
measured over a three-year period using total shareholder return (‘TSR’), which is the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. The 
peer group on balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, Boskalis, Eiffage, Heijmans, Hochtief, NCC, Skanska, Strabag, Vinci and 
VolkerWessels. TSR is complemented with an additional financial target and a non-financial target. On top, the TSR measure will function 
as a ‘circuit breaker’ for the vesting part linked to the other two criteria. When BAM ranks at the bottom two places of the TSR peer 
group, the other parts will not payout regardless of the performance in this area.
182
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined performance 
conditions:
TSR ROCE Sustainability
Ranking Vesting Score Vesting Score Vesting
1 150% Above maximum 150% Above maximum 150%
2 125% Maximum 150% Maximum 150%
3 100% Target 100% Target 100%
4 75% Threshold 50% Threshold 50%
5 50% Below threshold 0% Below threshold 0%
6 25%
7 0%
8 0%
9 0%
10 0%
11 0%
At the end of each reporting period, BAM revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the non-
market vesting conditions (financial and non-financial) and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, disability or death the participant (or his or her heirs) reserves the right on the pro 
rata number of conditionally granted shares to become unconditionally pursuant to the same vesting conditions as described above (pro 
rata means the number of full months that the participant was engaged by the Company during the performance period divided by
36 months). For the performance shares, the most recent performance results will be applied to calculate the number of vested shares.
The status of the Performance Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2018 for the members of the Executive Board and for all other 
participants is shown below:
As at
1 January
2018Granted Vested
(including 
dividend)Forfeited As at
31 December
2018
R.P. van Wingerden 321,681 122,469 59,939 54,380 329,832
E.J. Bax 199,744 74,369 38,947 35,334 199,833
T. Menssen 199,744 - 38,947 92,603 68,195
Other participants* 911,456 423,451 163,907 198,617 972,382
1,632,625 620,289 301,739 380,934 1,570,242
*The opening balance of the performance share plan has been sligthly adjusted upwards with 5,900 shares for the other participants due to a difference in 
termination of employment.
The fair value per share of the 2018 grant, for the Participants, in connection with the TSR performance part amounted to €2.72 per 
share and is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model. For the other financial and non-financial performance part, the fair  
value equals the share price at the date of grant, corrected for the expected value of the possibility of achieving the ‘circuit breaker’. 
As participants receive dividend compensation the dividend yield on the awards equals nil. 
The Performance Share Plan 2015 has vested and dividend shares have been added to the vested shares according to the plan rules. The 
remaining awarded shares of 273,756, after a vesting percentage of 50% and dividend (13,991 shares) have been included in the forfeited 
shares. For the Performance Share Plan 2016 the ‘circuit breaker’ was applicable, leading to the full plan of 556,101 shares to be forfeited 
as at the vesting date 28 April 2019 and has therefore not yet been included in the table above.
183
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe lock-up period for the 2015 Performance Share Plan for Mrs Menssen ended per 1 July 2018, in line with the applicable plan rules. 
The conditional shares for Mrs Menssen under the long-term incentive plan 2016 and 2017 are forfeited.
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2018
Share price at grant date (in €) 3.89
Risk-free interest rate (in %) (0.03)
Volatility (in %) 44.66
Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of five years. 
In 2018, an amount of €95 thousand was released (2017: €818 charged) to the income statement arising from the Performance Share 
Plan. The release is caused by revising the booked costs for the Performance Share Plan of 2016 due to not meeting the TSR target for the 
plan. Forfeiture of these shares will take place as at 28 April 2019, being the vesting date of the performance share plan.
37.2  Phantom Share Plan
Under the Phantom Share Plan the number of performance shares granted is calculated by dividing the award value (expressed  
as a percentage of fixed remuneration) by the average share price based on the five trading days after the AGM. 
The shares were granted on the sixth trading day following the day of the AGM and vest subject to the achievement of pre-determined 
performance conditions during a three-year period and provided that the participant is still employed by BAM.
The number of shares that will ultimately vest depends on BAM’s performance compared to five other listed construction companies in 
Europe, measured over a three-year period using TSR, which is the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. The peer group on 
balance sheet date consists of Balfour Beatty, Ballast Nedam (until delisting), Bilfinger, Heijmans and Skanska. Vested phantom shares 
are not paid out to participants until the two year lock-up period has lapsed. The maximum cash distribution to the Participants at  
the date of payout of the Phantom Share Plan is capped at 1.5 times the fixed remuneration of the Participant.
The tables below indicate the percentage of conditional shares that could vest in connection with the pre-determined performance 
condition:
TSR Performance Vesting
< 0 0%
0 – 5 35%
5 – 10 45%
10 – 15 55%
15 – 20 65%
20 – 25 75%
25 – 30 85%
≥ 30 100%
Upon termination of employment due to retirement, death or in the event of a restructuring or divestment, the granted shares will be 
reduced for a pro rata part reflecting the period between the date of termination of employment and the vesting date. 
184
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe status of the Phantom Share Plan (in number of shares) during 2018 for the individual Executive Board members is as follows:
As at
1 January
2018Stock 
dividendPayout As at  
31 December 
2018
R.P. van Wingerden 133,042 1,485 71,678 62,847
E.J. Bax 61,362 1,485 - 62,847
T. Menssen 133,042 1,485 134,527 -
327,446 4,455 206,205 125,696
During 2018 the Phantom Share Plan 2013 has been paid out. The value has been based on the average share price of BAM on the 5 
trading days before the end of the blocking period as per 3 May 2018 (€3.958) and on the number of vested shares three years after the 
award against the vesting percentage of 45 per cent. The finalisation of the 2013 grant (end of lock-up period 3 May 2018) has resulted in 
a payout of €343 thousand for the current and retired Executive Board members. In addition, 18,654 shares are allocated to retired 
Executive Board members at year-end 2018. 
In addition to the payout of the 2013 Phantom Share plan, the 2014 Phantom Share plan has been paid out for Mrs Menssen during 2018 
because she stepped down as Executive Board Member, resulting in a payment of €102 thousand. The value has been based on the 
average share price of BAM on the five trading days before the end of the management services agreement per 1 July 2018 (€3.619) and 
on the number of vested shares three years after the award against the vesting percentage of 45%. The number of (vested) shares at the 
payout date include dividend up until the payout date. 
The lock-up period for 2014 Phantom Share will end at 1 May 2019. This is the most recent and final Phantom Share Plan.
The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows:
2018 2017
Risk-free interest rate (in %) (0.83) (0.66)
Volatility (in %) 32.61 30.84
Assumed dividend yield (in %) - 2.00
In 2018, an amount of €82 thousand was released (2017: €36 thousand charged) to the income statement arising from the Phantom 
Share Plan. 
As at 31 December 208, the liability amounts to €245 thousand (2017: €681 thousand).
185
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management38. Joint operations
A part of the Group’s activities is carried out in joint arrangements and classified as joint operations. This applies to all activities and all 
countries in which the Group operates. These arrangements remain in place until a project is finished. In practice, the duration of the 
majority of the joint operations is limited to a period of between 1 and 4 years, with the exception of joint operations in connection with 
land and building rights held for strategic purposes.
Based on assessment of balance sheet total, revenue and result, none of the joint operations is material to the Group, except for OpenIJ 
EPC V.O.F. in which the construction of sea lock IJmuiden is carried out. BAM’s share in the result of OpenIJ EPC V.O.F. amounts to a loss of 
€32 million (2017: €75 million loss).
The Group’s share of the revenue of these joint operations amounts to approximately €1.4 billion in 2018 (2017: approximately €1.3 billion), 
which represents approximately 19 per cent of the Group’s revenue (2017: 20 per cent). 
The Group’s share of the balance sheets of joint operations is indicated below: 
(in € million) 2018
Construction
and Property  Civil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets 0.2 33.4 33.6
 - Current assets 385.5 608.0 993.6
385.7 641.4 1,027.2
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 30.5 17.7 48.2
 - Current liabilities 361.9 676.2 1,038.2
392.6 693.6 1,086.3
Net balance (6.6) (52.5) (59.1)
(in € million) 2017
Construction
and Property  Civil
engineering Total
Assets
 - Non-current assets - 41.2 41.2
 - Current assets 347.6 468.4 816.0
347.6 509.6 857.2
Liabilities
 - Non-current liabilities 40.0 3.7 43.6
 - Current liabilities 342.7 516.4 859.1
382.7 520.1 902.7
Net balance (35.1) (10.5) (45.5)
The Group has no contingencies or capital commitments under joint operations. Transfers of funds and/or other assets are made in 
consultation with the partners of the joint operations. 
As from 31 December 2018, on a prospective basis, the Group will classify the Argen as Joint Ventures to fully align with interpretations 
from German Audit Profession. See 2.1.1. Changes in accounting policies and disclosures.
186
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management39. Service concession arrangements
The Group operates various service concession arrangements, both in the accommodation and infrastructure areas. These activities 
comprise the construction, exploitation, maintenance and divestment of (a part of) concession arrangements structured through 
separate legal entities and are principally carried out by BAM PPP independently and/or in collaboration with third parties.
The Group has a stake in the following concession arrangements:
Interest Classification Category Country Operational As fromConcession 
period 
(in years)
Accommodations
East Ayrshire Hospital 100% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2000 25
Wharfedale Hospital 75% Group company Health United Kingdom Yes 2004 30
Derby Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2000 30
Cheshire Police 100% Group company Justice United Kingdom Yes 2003 30
Peacehaven Schools 100% Group company Education United Kingdom Yes 2001 25
Bromsgrove Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2008 30
Solihull Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 25
West Dunbartonshire Schools 20% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2010 30
Somerset Schools 17.8% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Camden Schools 18% Joint venture Education United Kingdom Yes 2012 25
Irish Schools Bundle 3 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2014 25
Irish Schools Bundle 4 20% Joint venture Education Ireland Yes 2016 25
Irish Courts Bundle 20% Joint venture Justice Ireland Yes 2017 25
Gent Universiteit 20% Joint venture Education Belgium Yes 2011 33
Beveren Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Belgium Yes 2013 25
Dendermonde Prison 100% Group company Justice Belgium No 2016 25
Schiphol 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2012 25
High Court 20% Joint venture Justice Netherlands Yes 2015 30
Ministry VROM 20% Joint venture Other Netherlands Yes 2017 25
Potsdam 100% Group company Other Germany Yes 2012 30
Bremervoerde Prison 20% Joint venture Justice Germany Yes 2013 25
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein 50% Joint venture Health Germany No 2015 29
Burgdorf Prison 17.6% Joint venture Justice Switzerland Yes 2012 25
Infrastructure
Dundalk By-pass 6.7% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2005 28
Waterford By-pass 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2009 30
Portlaoise 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2010 30
N11/N7 20% Joint venture Motorway Ireland Yes 2015 25
M11 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2019 25
N25 50% Joint venture Motorway Ireland No 2019 25
A59 14% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2005 15
N31 66.7% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2007 15
A12 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2012 20
N33 20% Joint venture Motorway Netherlands Yes 2014 20
Infraspeed HSL 10.5% Associate Railway Netherlands Yes 2006 25
Lock IJmuiden 50% Joint venture Lock Netherlands No 2022 26
Afsluitdijk 46% Joint venture Dike Netherlands No 2022 25
A8 5% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2010 30
A9 50% Joint venture Motorway Germany Yes 2014 17
A94 33.3% Joint venture Motorway Germany No 2019 26
A10/A24 70% Joint venture Motorway Germany No 2023 25
Liefkenshoektunnel 10% Joint venture Railway Belgium Yes 2013 38
Brabo II 80.1% Joint venture Tramway Belgium No 2019 25
187
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Group is also involved in (accommodation and infrastructure) concession arrangements and energy service companies through 
other group companies.
The Group’s equity investment in PPP projects amount to €75 million (2017: €68 million).
The Group has approximately €40 million (2017: €31 million) of obligations for capital contributions (after deduction of the PGGM share) 
in projects which have been awarded to the joint venture BAM PPP/PGGM. Construction revenue to be realised in connection with PPP 
projects amounts to approximately €0.8 billion (2017: approximately €0.7 billion).
A further description of the Group’s concession arrangements is as follows:
Accommodation
The accommodation concession arrangements relate to schools, police stations, hospitals, sport complexes, a penitentiary institution 
and a laboratory building. These arrangements are located in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and 
Switzerland. The concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the accommodation. The actual 
usage of the accommodation does not affect the amount of the concession payments. Most arrangements include maintenance and 
facility management services.
During the concession periods, payments are based on the availability of the related accommodation and the maintenance and facility 
management services. The majority of the concession arrangements are subject to indexation. The part of the concession payment that 
relates to the services will be evaluated every five years in general, using a benchmark. There may consequently be a limited settlement 
with the principal as a result. However, the volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
Infrastructure
The infrastructure concession arrangements relate to motorways in Ireland, the Netherlands and Germany, a railway tunnel in Belgium, 
a railway line in the Netherlands and a coastal defence scheme in the United Kingdom. The concession arrangements started between 
2005 up to and including 2015, for periods varying from 15 to 38 years.
The majority of the concession payments are contractually agreed and are linked to the availability of the related infrastructure. This 
availability is evaluated based on the contractually agreed upon criteria. These criteria cover the intensity of usage, temporary closures 
and maintenance. There may consequently be (temporarily) adjustments to the concession payments with the principal as a result. 
However, the volatility of the revenue and result is limited.
For three motorways in Ireland and one in Germany, concession payments are directly linked to the traffic volume (toll collection) and 
revenue and result are consequently volatile to some extent.
188
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management40. Government grants
Government grants received in 2018, predominantly relating to education, amount to €2.6 million (2017: €3.9 million).
41. Research and development
Research and development costs, which predominantly relate to projects, are considered to be part of contract costs. Other research 
and development costs, in the amount of approximately €0.2 million (2017: approximately €0.1 million), are recognised in the income 
statement. 
42. Events after the reporting period
No material events after the reporting period have occurred.
189
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management Notes 31 December 
201831 December 
2017
Restated*
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2  8,760  7,578 
Intangible assets 3  361,955  360,591 
Financial assets 4  1,154,469  1,214,959 
Deferred tax assets 5  124,005  169,229 
 1,649,189  1,752,357 
Current assets
Receivables 6  35,338  32,249 
Cash and cash equivalents 7  172,604  43,516 
 207,942  75,765 
  
Total assets  1,857,131  1,828,122 
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
Issued and paid capital 8  27,879  27,493 
Share premium  811,432  811,818 
Reserves  (164,966)  (152,815)
Retained earnings  30,913  48,549 
Net result  23,773  (13,789)
 729,031  721,256 
Provisions
Employee benefits 9  42,747  41,344 
 42,747  41,344 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 10  117,637  114,987 
 117,637  114,987 
Current liabilities
Other liabilities 11  967,716  950,535 
 967,716  950,535 
Total equity and liabilities  1,857,131  1,828,122 
*The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.Company statement of financial position as at 31 December
(before appropriation of result, x €1,000)
190
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management 
Notes 2018 2017
Restated*
Internal charges 12 105,385 81,877
External charges (7,718) (8,005)
Employee benefit expenses 13 (31,647) (28,766)
Depreciation and amortisation charges 2,3 (5,292) (3,866)
Other operating expenses (61,352) (47,612)
Exchange rate differences 561 (455)
(105,448) (88,704)
  
Operating result (63) (6,827)
Finance income 14 14,793 17,809
Finance expense 14 (13,137) (14,872)
1,656 2,937
Share of result of investments 4 96,218 27,219
  
Result before tax 97,811 23,329
Income tax (74,038) (37,118)
Result for the year from operations 23,773 (13,789)
*The comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15. See note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.Company income statement
(x €1,000)
191
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management1. Summary of significant accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The company financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Company’ or ‘BAM’) have been prepared in accordance with Part 9,  
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and 
measurement principles applied in these parent company financial statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated 
financial statements (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements).
Regarding the implementation of IFRS 9 and applying combination 3, the Group has applied the Dutch ‘RJ-uiting 2018-1’ regarding 
expected credit losses. Therefore the expected credit losses on receivables from subsidiaries have not been included in the company 
financial statements, since these have been eliminated within the book value of the receivables.
1.2 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at net asset value. The net asset value is calculated using the accounting policies, as described 
in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The net asset value of subsidiaries comprises the cost, excluding goodwill, of BAM’s 
share in the net assets of the subsidiary, plus BAM’s share in income or losses since acquisition, less dividends received. Corporate income 
tax is allocated to the subsidiaries forming part of the fiscal unit, as if they were independent taxable entities. 
2. Property, plant and equipment
Other
assets Total
As at 1 January 2017
Cost  18,109  18,109 
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  (11,082)  (11,082)
 7,027  7,027 
Additions 4,188 4,188
Disposals (50) (50)
Depreciation charges (3,587) (3,587)
551 551
As at 31 December 2017
Cost 22,224 22,224
Accumulated depreciation and impairments (14,646) (14,646)
7,578 7,578
Additions  5,594  5,594 
Disposals  (23)  (23)
Depreciation charges  (4,389)  (4,389)
 1,182  1,182 
As at 31 December 2018  27,794  27,794 
Cost  (19,034)  (19,034)
Accumulated depreciation and impairments  8,760  8,760 Notes to the company financial statements
192
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3. Intangible assets
GoodwillNon-
integrated 
software Other Total
As at 1 January 2017
Cost  518,929  2,099  883  521,911 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (157,088)  (1,849)  (66)  (159,003)
 361,841  250  817  362,908 
Additions - 2,346 - 2,346
Amortisation charges - (191) (88) (279)
Exchange rate differences (4,383) - (1) (4,384)
(4,383) 2,155 (89) (2,317)
As at 31 December 2017
Cost 514,546 4,455 883 519,884
Accumulated amortisation and impairments (157,088) (2,050) (155) (159,293)
357,458 2,405 728 360,591
Additions  -  4,128  -  4,128 
Amortisation charges  -  (815)  (88)  (903) 
Exchange rate differences  (1,861)  -  -  (1,861) 
 (1,861)  3,313 (88)  1,364 
As at 31 December 2018
Cost  512,685  6,859  883  520,427 
Accumulated amortisation and impairments  (157,088)  (1,141)  (243)  (158,472) 
 355,597  5,718  640  361,955 
193
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management4. Financial assets
Shares in 
subsidiariesReceivables 
from 
subsidiariesOther 
participating 
interests Total
As at 1 January 2017 Restated*  818,457  696,929  2,091  1,517,477 
Net result  28,719  -  (1,500)  27,219 
Dividends  (25,604)  -  -  (25,604)
Additions  -  -  57  57 
Reclassifications  (196,859)  196,859  -  - 
Adjustments in group structure  (46)  -  (46)
Loans granted and repayments  -  (326,973)  -  (326,973)
Cash flow hedge  16,765  -  -  16,765 
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations  13,747  -  -  13,747 
Exchange rate differences  (7,683)  -  -  (7,683)
As at 31 December 2017 Restated*  647,496  566,815  648  1,214,959 
Net result for the year  96,218  -  -  96,218 
Dividends  (17,255)  -  -  (17,255)
Reclassifications  (13,661)  13,661  -  - 
Adjustments in group structure  (12)  -  -  (12)
Capital contributions  41,000  -  -  41,000 
Loans granted and repayments  -  (200,469)  -  (200,469)
Hedging reserve  (4,532)  -  -  (4,532)
Remeasurements of post-employment benefit obligations  29,110  -  -  29,110 
Exchange rate differences  (4,550)  -  -  (4,550)
As at 31 December 2018  773,814  380,007  648  1,154,469 
The reclassification relates to the entities of the Dutch sector Construction and Property and BAM Services Nederland bv.  
None of the financial assets were subject to impairment.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is disclosed in section Other information.
5. Deferred tax assets
2018 2017
Deferred tax assets  124,005  169,229 
 124,005  169,229 
Deferred tax assets include the liquidation of old property development activities in Germany and the tax loss carry-forwards of the 
operations in the Netherlands to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable offset 
against deferred tax liabilities.
Additional information on deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
194
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management6. Receivables
2018 2017
Amounts due from subsidiaries  21,752  19,600 
Prepayments and accrued income  13,586  12,649 
 35,338  32,249 
Receivables are due within one year.
7. Cash and cash equivalents
2018 2017
Cash at bank and in hand  172,604  43,516 
 172,604 43,516 
Cash and cash equivalents are at the free disposal of the Company.
8. Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company
At year-end 2018, the authorised capital of the Group was 400 million ordinary shares (2017: 400 million) and 600 million preference 
shares (2017: 600 million), all with a nominal value of €0.10 per share (2017: €0.10 per share).
All issued shares have been paid in full.
Movements in the number of ordinary shares are as follows:
Number of 
ordinary 
sharesNumber of 
treasury 
sharesNumber of
ordinary 
shares in issue
As at 1 January 2017  271,814,728 1,193,145  270,621,583 
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 518,940 (518,940)
Dividends 3,110,691 - 3,110,691
As at 31 December 2017 274,925,419 1,712,085 273,213,334
Repurchase of ordinary shares - 3,940,956 (3,940,956)
Awarded LTI shares - (170,039) 170,039
Dividends 3,853,600  -  3,853,600
As at 31 December 2018 278,779,019 5,483,002 273,296,017 
195
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementMovements in shareholders’ equity are as follows:
Attributable to the shareholders of the Company
Issued and 
paid capitalShare 
premium ReservesRetained 
earnings Net result Total
Restated as at 1 January 2017*  27,181  812,130  (170,252)  8,601  46,831  724,491 
Net result for the year - - - - (13,789) (13,789)
Appropriation of result - - - 46,831 (46,831) -
Dividends 312 (312) - (7,466) - (7,466)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - - 14,512 - 14,512
Cash flow hedges - - 17,505 - - 17,505
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - - (2,696) - (2,696)
Share-based payments - - - 818 - 818
Exchange rate differences - - (12,068) - - (12,068)
Development cost - - 12,000 (12,000) - -
Other - - - (51) - (51)
Restated as at 31 December 2017 27,493 811,818 (152,815) 48,549 (13,789) 721,256
Net result for the year - - - - 23,773 23,773
Appropriation of result - - - (13,789) 13,789 -
Dividends 386 (386) - (11,429) - (11,429)
Remeasurements of post-employment 
benefit obligations - - - 21,973 - 21,973
Cash flow hedges - - (4,541) - - (4,541)
Repurchase of ordinary shares - - - (15,492) - (15,492)
Share-based payments - - - (95) - (95)
Exchange rate differences - - (6,410) - - (6,410)
Development cost - - (1,200) 1,200 - -
Other - - - (4) - (4) 
As at 31 December 2018 27,879 811,432 (164,966) 30,913 23,773 729,031 
8.1 Reserves
Reserves relate to the reserves for (cash flow) hedging, translation differences and legal reserve related to the capitalisation of 
development cost. All of these reserves are legal reserves that are required by Dutch law. Distributions to the shareholders of the 
Company are restricted to the extent of the balance.
The hedging reserve amounts to €64 million negative (2017: €60 million negative) and the translation reserve €112 million negative 
(2017: €105 million negative). The total reserves includes as legal reserve for the capitalised development cost of €10.8 million (2017: 
€12.0  million).
For a further breakdown of the reserves see note 16 in the Consolidated statements.
8.2 Dividends per share
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial year 2018 of 14 eurocents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, at the 
option of the shareholders with repurchase of shares to offset dilution (2017: 10 eurocents). Based on the number of ordinary shares 
outstanding at year-end 2018, a maximum of €38.3 million will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the dividend 
proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings under equity.
196
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management9. Provisions
2018 2017
Employee benefits  42,747 41,344
 42,747 41,344
The duration of the provisions is more than one year. Provisions with a duration less than one year are included in current liabilities.
10. Borrowings
2018 2017
Subordinated convertible bonds 117,637 114,987
117,637 114,987
Additional information on borrowings is disclosed in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
11. Current liabilities
2018 2017
Amounts due to subsidiaries 928,118 914,694
Other liabilities 39,598 35,841
967,716 950,535
The other liabilities mainly consist of trade and other payables.
197
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management12. Internal charges
The internal charges represent services that have been charged to the other Group Companies. 
13. Employee benefit expenses
2018 2017
Wages and salaries 26,994 24,695
Social security costs 2,570 2,312
Pension costs - defined contribution plans 1,909 1,529
Pension costs - defined benefit plans 174 230
31,647 28,766
At year-end 2018, the Company had 271 employees in FTE (2017: 230). The average number of employees in FTE amounted to 251  
(2017: 225). There are no employees in other countries than the Netherlands.
14. Finance income and expense
2018 2017
Finance income
- Interest income - intercompany  12,534 14,454
- Interest income - cash at banks  78 1,426
- Interest income - other financial assets  11 6
- Other finance income  2,170 1,923
 14,793 17,809
Finance expense
- Subordinated convertible bonds  7,025 6,871
- Committed syndicated credit facility 328 16
- Bank fees - committed syndicated credit facility  2,611 2,708
- Interest expense - intercompany  1,770 2,999
- Recourse property financing  - 199
- Other recourse financing  1,403 1,518
- Fair value result - interest rate swaps  - 561
 13,137 14,872
  
Net finance result  1,656 2,937
Additional information on finance income and expense is disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
198
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management15. Related parties
The Company has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. 
These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at market prices.
Additional information on key management compensation is disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
16. Commitments and contingencies
16.1 Guarantees
The Company has issued parent company guarantees amounting to €160 million (2017: €169 million) at year-end 2018.
16.2  Third-party liability
The Company is jointly and severally liable for the debts of the subsidiaries based in the Netherlands pursuant to section 403, Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code.
The Company, together with other participants, has a joint and several liability for deficits in the Group’s cash pool as a whole.
The Company forms a fiscal unity with BAM’s major Dutch and certain other subsidiaries for income tax and VAT purposes and, for that 
reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch income tax and Dutch VAT liabilities of the whole fiscal unity. 
Bunnik, the Netherlands
19 February 2019
Supervisory Board:  Executive Board:
H.L.J. Noy  R.P. van Wingerden
K.S. Wester L.F. den Houter
G. Boon E.J. Bax
C.M.C. Mahieu 
M.P. Sheffield 
H. Valentin 
199
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementOther information8
Sport and life 
sciences
City South Campus, Birmingham
BAM Construct UK finished the construction of the new 
Birmingham City University building to facilitate a range of 
new courses in sport and life sciences. The three-storey 
building establishes laboratories and teaching spaces that 
allow the development of new courses in health, nutrition, 
biomedical science and sport. 
The spaces provide teacher training and specialist facilities 
for health sciences including provision for research, a new 
lecture theatre, a multi-purpose hall, speech therapy, 
physiotherapy and ultrasound suites, art and technology 
classrooms and IT hubs.
200
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvTo: the shareholders and Supervisory Board of Royal BAM Group nv
Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the independent auditor’s report, 
which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please refer to the next pages.
Summary
Conclusions
Object of audit or review Outcome of work performed Level of assurance
Financial statements 2018 (consolidated and company financial 
statements)True and fair view Reasonable assurance
Sustainability information 2018 in Material themes, Business 
conduct and transparency and SafetyReliable and adequate view Reasonable assurance
Sustainability information 2018 in selected chapters and 
appendicesReliable and adequate view Limited assurance
Other information, including the reports from the Executive 
Board and the Supervisory BoardNo material misstatements
Main features of our audit and review
What we have done Scope of our work Materiality Key audit and review matters
Audit of financial statements 
2018 (consolidated and company 
financial statements)Worldwide €34 million, based on 0,5  per cent  
of revenueValuation of projects and revenue 
recognition, implementation of 
IFRS 15, valuation of deferred tax 
assets and valuation of land and 
building rights
Audit of the sustainability 
information 2018Material themes, Business 
conduct and transparency 
and SafetySpecific materiality levels for each 
element of the sustainability 
information in scopeCompleteness registration of 
safety incidents
Review of the sustainability 
information 2018Selected chapters and 
appendicesSpecific materiality levels for each 
element of the sustainability 
information in scopeNo areas of specific focus
Procedures for other information Full reports Similar materiality levels as our 
audit and review scopesNo areas of specific focus8.1  Combined independent auditor’s report on the 
2018  financial statements and Sustainability Information 
201
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementOur conclusions
We have audited the financial statements 2018 of Royal BAM Group 
nv based in Bunnik. The financial statements include the 
consolidated financial statements and the company financial 
statements. We have reviewed the sustainability information and 
audited selected sustainability information for the year 2018 of 
Royal BAM Group nv. The scope is described in the section Our 
Scope. A review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. 
An audit is aimed at obtaining a reasonable level of assurance.
In our opinion:
• The consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of 
the financial position of Royal BAM Group nv as at 31 December 
2018 and of its result and its cash flows for 2018 in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code;
• The company financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
financial position of Royal BAM Group nv as at 31 December 2018 
and of its result for 2018 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code;
• The sustainability information in Material themes (pages 17-18), 
Business Conduct and transparency (pages 39-40) and Safety 
(KPI: IF BAM, KPI: number of serious accidents, KPI: Safety 
Behaviour Audit) in chapter Social Performance (pages 30-43) in 
the integrated report 2018 of Royal BAM Group nv (‘the Report’) 
is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (core option) of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the applied supplemental reporting 
criteria as disclosed in appendix 9.6 Sustainability reporting 
process and methods.
Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability 
information does not present, in all material respects, a reliable and 
adequate view of the policy and business operations with regard to 
corporate social responsibility and the thereto related events and 
achievements for the year 2018, in accordance with the 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (core option) of the GRI and the 
applied supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed on pages 
223-225 of the Report.
With respect to procedures performed based on the requirements 
of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 
720, we conclude that the other information included in the Report, 
including the Executive Board Report and the Report from the 
Supervisory Board:
• Is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain 
material misstatements;
• Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the 
Dutch Civil Code.Basis for our conclusions
We performed our assurance engagements in accordance with 
Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch 
Standard 3810N Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke 
verslagen’ (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability 
reports), which is a specified Dutch Standard that is based on the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, 
“Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information”.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in 
the section Our responsibilities in this report.
We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions.
Our independence
We are independent of Royal BAM Group nv in accordance with the 
EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of 
public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties 
(Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the “Verordening inzake de 
onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, 
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with 
respect to independence)” and other relevant independence 
regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not perform 
any activities that could result in a conflict of interest with our 
independent assurance engagements. Furthermore, we have 
complied with the “Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels 
accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics)”. 
Our scope
Our engagements scope
The Report of Royal BAM Group nv consists of the financial 
statements and other information, including the Executive Board 
Report and the Report from the Supervisory Board, that provides 
altogether an overview of the policy, activities, events and 
performances related to both the financial position and the 
sustainable development of Royal BAM Group nv during reporting 
year 2018. The following information in the Report has been in 
scope for our assurance engagements:
The consolidated financial statements comprise:
• The consolidated statement of financial position as at 
31 December 2018;
• The following statements for 2018: the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows;
• The notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2018 financial 
statements and sustainability information
To: the shareholders and Supervisory Board of Royal BAM Group nv
202
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe company financial statements comprise: 
• The company statement of financial position as at 31 December 
2018;
• The company income statement for 2018;
• The notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies  
and other explanatory information.
The sustainability information comprises: 
• Reasonable assurance – Sustainability information in the 
following paragraphs/chapters: Material themes (pages 17-18), 
Business conduct and transparency (pages 39-40) and Safety  
(KPI: IF BAM, KPI: number of serious accidents, KPI: Safety 
Behaviour Audit) in chapter Social Performance (pages 30-43) - 
hereafter: the selected sustainability information;
• Limited assurance – All other sustainability information reported 
in the paragraphs/chapters Business Model (pages 9-11), Strategy 
(pages 12-15), Stakeholder engagement and material themes 
(pages 16-19), Social performance (pages 30-43), Environmental 
performance (pages 45-53), Sustainability reporting processes 
and methods (pages 223-225), GRI Disclosure as disclosed on the 
website of Royal BAM Group nv – hereafter: the other 
sustainability information.
The other information comprises:
• Key figures 
• Executive Board Report
• Report from the Supervisory Board
• Remuneration Report
• Other information pursuant to the requirements of Part 9 of 
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
• Chapter 9: appendices
Limitations to the scope of our assurance engagement on the 
sustainability information
The sustainability information includes prospective information, 
such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and estimates. 
Inherent to prospective information, the actual future results are 
uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and 
achievability of prospective information in the sustainability 
information. 
The references to external sources or websites in the sustainability 
information, except for the GRI Disclosures, which are available on 
the website of Royal BAM Group nv, are not part of the sustainability 
information as reviewed by us. We therefore do not provide 
assurance on this information.
Reporting criteria
The financial statements and the sustainability information need to 
be read and understood together with the reporting criteria. Royal 
BAM Group nv is solely responsible for selecting and applying these 
reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations 
related to reporting. The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the financial 
statements and the sustainability information are presented below.
Consolidated financial 
statementsInternational Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European 
Union (EU-IFRS) and Part 9 of Book 2 of 
the Dutch Civil Code.
Company financial 
statements, the 
Executive Board Report 
and the Report of the 
Supervisory BoardPart 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Sustainability 
informationSustainability Reporting Standards 
(core  option) of the GRI and the applied 
supplemental reporting criteria as 
disclosed i n appendix 9.6 Sustainability 
reporting process and methods on pages 
223-225 of the Report .
Materiality
General
The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the 
application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to 
provide assurance about whether the financial statements and the 
sustainability information are free from material misstatement. 
Misstatements may arise due to fraud or errors. They are considered 
to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the (economic) decisions of 
users taken on the basis of the financial statements and the 
sustainability information. The materiality affects the nature, timing 
and extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation of the 
effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions.
Financial statements
For the audit of the financial statements our considerations regarding 
the materiality are as follows:
Materiality €34 million (2017: €33.5 million)
Benchmark used 0.5 per cent of revenue 
Additional 
explanationBased on our analyses of the common 
information needs of users of the financial 
statements, we consider profit before tax the 
most appropriate benchmark to determine 
materiality. However, profit before tax has 
been volatile in recent years and is not yet at a 
representative level, given the size of the 
business. For this reason we considered 
revenues to be a more appropriate benchmark 
to determine the materiality. The percentage 
applied is 0.5 per cent, which is at the lower 
end of an acceptable range.
203
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementWe have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible 
misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the 
financial statements for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess 
of €1.7 million, which are identified during the audit, would be 
reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view 
must be reported on qualitative grounds.
Sustainability information
Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality 
levels for each relevant part of the sustainability information and for 
the sustainability information as a whole. When evaluating our 
materiality levels, we have taken into account quantitative and 
qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of information for 
both stakeholders and the organisation. 
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements which 
are identified during the review and which in our view must be 
reported on quantitative or qualitative grounds, would be reported 
to them.
Our scope for the group audit of the financial 
statements
Royal BAM Group nv is the head of a group of entities. The financial 
information of this group is included in the consolidated financial 
statements of Royal BAM Group nv.
Our group audit focused on the significant group entities located in 
BAM’s home countries (the Netherlands, Germany, United Kingdom, 
Ireland and Belgium) and BAM International with its various 
activities abroad. We have performed extensive audit procedures 
ourselves for group entities located in the Netherlands, thereby 
focusing on the key risk areas. Apart from focusing on significant 
group entities, we also reviewed and selected projects on a risk 
basis, thereby taking into consideration the size and nature of 
projects, as well as the countries in which projects are being 
executed.
For the foreign BAM home countries, we involved EY component 
auditors, who are familiar with local laws and regulations and who 
applied full scope audits. In order to take responsibility as group 
auditor in line with current auditing standards, we visited our component auditors in United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and 
Belgium and furthermore, we discussed the outcome of audit 
procedures with all component auditors.
For BAM International, for purpose of the 2018 audit, we visited 
Tanzania as key location ourselves to perform audit procedures. For 
the Middle East business and Costa Rica, BAM has involved a local 
audit firm who we also visited and we reviewed their work. We 
concluded that we can rely on their work performed in relation to 
the audit of the consolidated financial statements of Royal BAM 
Group nv. 
As a result of the above mentioned procedures, we have covered all 
entities and foreign locations that are material to the consolidated 
financial statements of Royal BAM Group nv. In addition, we have 
performed analytical review procedures and made inquiries with the 
Executive Board with respect to some smaller locations that are not 
material and made sure that there are no developments or 
exposures that should have been covered.
By performing the procedures mentioned above at group entities, 
together with additional procedures at group level, we have been 
able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the 
group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the 
consolidated financial statements.
Our key audit and assurance matters
Key audit and matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our assurance procedures for 
the financial statements and the sustainability information. We have 
communicated the key audit and assurance matters to the 
Supervisory Board. The key audit and assurance matters are not a 
comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance 
procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability 
information as a whole and to conclude thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate conclusion on these matters. Prior year BAM 
capitalised development costs related to the Gravity Based 
Foundations which was included as a key audit matter. In 2018 there 
were no significant developments related to the capitalised costs 
and therefore this is not included as a key audit matter.
204
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFor the audit of the financial statements we identified the following key audit matters:
Valuation of projects and revenue recognition
(Refer to pages 61-65 (Executive Board Report), page 134 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties) and pages 139-141 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements)
Risk How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
BAM is involved in large and complex 
construction projects for which the company 
applies the percentage of completion 
method. The amount of revenue and profit 
recognised in a year on projects is dependent, 
inter alia, on the actual costs incurred, the 
assessment of the percentage of completion 
of (long-term) contracts and the forecasted 
contract revenue and costs to complete of 
each project. Furthermore, the amount of 
revenue and profit is influenced by the 
valuation of variation orders and claims. This 
often involves a high degree of judgment due 
to the complexity of projects, uncertainty 
about costs to complete and uncertainty 
about the outcome of discussions with 
customers on variation orders and claims, 
thereby taking into account the various parts 
of the world BAM operates in.Our audit procedures included an assessment 
of the internal control environment of BAM, 
testing relevant controls, performing site 
visits, vouching project valuations and 
testing the Executive Board’s position against 
supporting documentation and BAM’s 
accounting policy. In cases where a high 
amount of judgement is involved, we gained 
additional comfort by comparing the 
Executive Board’s positions to opinions from 
external parties such as lawyers or surveyors 
and / or we looked at BAM’s track record for 
collecting claims. For long-term contracts, 
we also compared BAM’s current positions 
taken to the positions taken in previous year, 
to ensure consistency in the valuation and to 
perform back testing on this estimate.Overall, we conclude that projects have been 
valued in accordance with IFRS as adopted by 
the EU, thereby taking into account the 
disclosures with respect to risk and 
uncertainty mentioned on the pages referred 
to above. The Report also includes references 
to those projects valuations considered most 
significant by the Executive Board.
Implementation of IFRS 15
Refer to pages 107-110 and 122-127 (Summary of significant accounting policies), page 134 (Critical accounting judgements and 
key sources of estimation uncertainties) and 139-141 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements)
Risk How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
BAM has adopted IFRS 15 “Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers” with effect from 
1 January 2018, using the full retrospective 
transition approach whereby 2017 financial 
information has been restated in the 2018 
financial statements.
The impact of the accounting change was a 
reduction of shareholders’ equity as at 
1 January 2017 by €110 million and a 
reduction of the 2017 net result by 
€26 million. Our audit procedures included the IFRS 15 
restatement of the balances as of 1 January 
2017 and 31 December 2017. We have paid 
specific attention to the recognition of 
variable considerations, whereby the 
threshold for recognition has increased from 
probable to highly probable. 
Furthermore we have audited whether the 
revenue recognition in 2018 was in 
accordance with IFRS 15 and have audited 
the relevant disclosure.We agree with the restatements and the 
disclosures made in the Report.
We concur with the revenue recognition 
based on IFRS 15 including the relevant 
disclosures in the Report.
205
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementValuation of deferred tax assets
Refer to page 25 (Executive board report), pages 134-135 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties) and pages 170-172 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements)
Risk How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
The recognised deferred tax assets amount to 
€166 million at 31 December 2018 and relates 
to tax losses carried forward in the 
Netherlands and Germany. In view of recent 
losses in the Dutch fiscal unity, the Executive 
Board has re-assessed the ability to realise 
projected future profits to meet the 
recognition criteria of “convincing evidence” 
under IFRS. 
Estimation of future profits inherently involves 
a high degree of judgement. As basis for their 
assessment of future profits, the Executive 
Board used amongst others the 2019 
operating plan as approved by the Supervisory 
Board and reduced these forecasts 
considerably to include appropriate risk 
adjustments. This has led to an impairment 
charge of €37 million. 
The deferred tax assets further decreased by 
€35 million due to future tax rate changes and 
expiration of the 2009 loss.Our audit procedures included an 
assessment of the company’s assumptions 
underlying the estimated future taxable 
profits for their ableness and consistency 
with internal budgets and strategic plans for 
future years. We also challenged the 
Executive Board’s expectations of future 
taxable profits, challenged risk adjustments 
made by the Executive Board and we 
assessed the historical accuracy of the 
Executive Board’s assumptions
We note that the Executive Board expects 
the risk/reward ratio to improve in future 
years, which is gradually visible by improved 
order book margins. In our opinion, the final deferred tax asset 
assessment made by the Executive Board 
includes appropriate risk adjustments with 
respect to the profit forecasts in order to 
comply with the “convincing evidence” 
requirement of IFRS. 
Valuation of land and building rights
Refer to page 64 (Executive board report), pages 134-135 (Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation 
uncertainties) and pages 139-141 (Notes to the consolidated financial statements) 
Risk How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
The estimates for valuation of land and 
building rights relate to terms which vary 
from one year to more than thirty years, 
because of which the estimation uncertainty 
is significant.We have assessed the calculations of the 
land’s net realisable values and challenged 
the reasonableness and consistency of the 
assumptions used by the Executive Board. 
We also determined consistency with prior 
years and external available information such 
as external appraisals and plans and decisions 
of government bodies. 
We also compared the Executive Board’s 
assumptions concerning the development of 
house prices with independent expectations 
of external parties and institutions.In our opinion, the valuation applied by BAM 
is in line with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
206
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementReport on other legal and regulatory requirements
Engagement
We have been appointed in the shareholders meeting on 22 April 
2015 as auditors of Royal BAM Group nv as of the audit for the year 
2016 and have operated as statutory auditor since that date.
No prohibited non-audit services 
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in 
Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding 
statutory audit of public-interest entities.
Other non-prohibited services provided 
In addition to the statutory audit of the financial statements we 
provided the following services:
• Agreed upon procedures on debt covenants and other financial 
ratio’s;
• Assurance on other items than the consolidated financial 
statements of Royal BAM Group nv (such as local statutory audits, 
or assurance on the Carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 as included in 
the report ‘CO2 emissie inventaris’ of Royal BAM Group nv);
• Assurance on sustainability information as described in the 
section “Our scope” of this report.
All other non-prohibited services provided have been pre-approved 
by the Audit Committee.
Responsibilities
Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board
The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation and fair 
presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS 
and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation For the assurance engagement on the sustainability information, we identified the following key assurance matters:
Completeness registration of safety incidents
Refer to pages 30-43 (Executive Board Report) and appendix 9.6 (Sustainability reporting process and methods) 
Risk How our audit addressed the matter Key observations
Royal BAM Group nv uses and discloses own 
reporting criteria for the KPI ‘Incident 
Frequency BAM’ (hereinafter: IF BAM) and 
the ‘number of serious accidents’. The 
complexity of the scoping of the indicators 
and the decentralised organisation of BAM 
inherently involves risk that not all safety 
incidents are reported.Our audit procedures focused on the 
suitability of the reporting criteria, inquiry 
of responsible personnel from different 
levels within the organisation on how BAM 
monitors this risk and which controls are in 
place to mitigate this risk. We performed 
testing procedures, on group and 
operational company level, to verify the 
completeness of the registered safety 
incidents. We have also reviewed whether 
the disclosures in the Report, including any 
inherent limitations in measurement, are 
adequate.We concur with the reporting criteria 
applied and the disclosures made.
of the other information, including the Executive Board Report in 
accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the 
other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 
Code. 
The Executive Board is also responsible for the preparation of 
reliable and adequate sustainability information in accordance with 
the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the GRI (core option) and 
the applied supplemental reporting criteria, including the 
identification of the stakeholders and the determination of material 
issues. The choices made by the Executive Board with respect to the 
scope of the sustainability information are included in appendix 9.6 
Sustainability reporting processes and methods (pages 223-225) of 
the Report. 
Furthermore, the Executive Board is responsible for such internal 
control as the Executive Board determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of the financial statements and the sustainability 
information that are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or errors. 
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Executive 
Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks 
mentioned, the Executive Board should prepare the financial 
statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
Executive Board either intends to liquidate the company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Executive 
Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast 
significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern in the financial statements. 
207
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the (financial) 
reporting process of Royal BAM Group nv.
Our responsibilities
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance 
engagements in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and 
appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusions. 
Our audit of the financial statements and our audit of the selected 
sustainability information have been performed with a high, but not 
absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not detect all 
material errors and fraud during our audit. 
Our review of the other sustainability information is aimed to obtain 
a limited level of assurance. The assurance procedures performed to 
obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the 
plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing from, and 
are less in extent, than for a reasonable assurance engagement. 
The level of assurance obtained in a review is therefore substantially 
less than the assurance obtained in an audit.
We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ (NVKS, 
Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly 
maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including 
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and other relevant 
legal and regulatory requirements.
A further description of our responsibilities is included in the Annex 
to the combined independent auditor’s report.
Utrecht, the Netherlands, 19 February 2019
Ernst & Young Accountants LLP
Signed by W.H. Kerst Work performed
We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained 
professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements 
performed by a multi-disciplinary team, in accordance with the 
Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch assurance standards, 
ethical requirements and independence requirements. 
Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial 
statements (consolidated and corporate) included the following: 
• Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of 
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or errors, 
designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not 
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control 
• Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an 
opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control 
• Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and 
the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the Executive Board 
• Concluding on the appropriateness of Executive Board’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the 
company to cease to continue as a going concern
• Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of 
the financial statements, including the disclosures
• Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation
Our review to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability 
information included the following:
• Performing an analysis of the external environment and 
obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and issues 
and the characteristics of the entity
• Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, 
their consistent application and related disclosures in the 
sustainability information. This includes the evaluation of the 
results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of 
estimates made by the Executive Board
• Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the 
sustainability information, including obtaining a general Annex to the combined 
independent auditor’s report
208
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementunderstanding of internal control relevant to our review
• Identifying areas of the sustainability information with a higher 
risk of misleading or unbalanced information or material 
misstatements, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and 
performing further procedures aimed at determining the 
plausibility of the sustainability information responsive to this 
risk analysis. These further review procedures consisted of:
- Interviewing the Executive Board and relevant staff at 
corporate and local levels responsible for the sustainability 
strategy, policies and results
- Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the 
information for, carrying out internal control procedures on, 
and consolidating the data in the sustainability information
- Determining the nature and extent of the review procedures 
for locations. For this, the nature, extent and/or risk profile of 
these locations are decisive. Based thereon we selected the 
locations to visit. The visits to multiple sites and offices of 
BAM’s Operating Companies in Belgium, United Kingdom 
and The Netherlands are aimed at, on local level, valuating 
source data and evaluating the design and implementation of 
internal controls and validation procedures
- Reviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and 
external documentation
- Performing an analytical review of the data and trends
• Evaluating the consistency of the sustainability information 
with the information in the Report which is not included in the 
scope of our review
• Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the 
sustainability information
• Considering whether the sustainability information as a whole, 
including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the reporting 
criteria used.
In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for the selected 
sustainability information we performed the following procedures 
to obtain reasonable assurance:
• Obtaining a more detailed understanding of the systems and 
reporting processes, including obtaining an understanding of 
internal control relevant to our assurance engagement
• Evaluating the design, implementation and of the relevant 
internal controls during the reporting year
• Conducting more in-depth analytical procedures and 
substantive testing procedures on the relevant data
• Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a 
test basis, to determine the reliability of the selected 
sustainability information.We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and 
understanding obtained through our audit of the financial 
statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other 
information contains material misstatements. By performing 
these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of 
Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The 
scope of the procedures performed on the other information is 
substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit 
of the financial statements.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also 
responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group 
audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of 
the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive 
were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or 
operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an 
audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of 
financial information or specific items.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance 
procedures and significant findings, including any significant 
findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance 
engagements. In this respect we also submit an additional report 
to the audit committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU 
Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of 
public-interest entities. The information included in this additional 
report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships 
and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we 
determine those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the financial statements and the assurance engagement 
on the sustainability information of the current period and are 
therefore the key audit and assurance matters. We describe these 
matters in our combined independent auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the 
matter is in the public interest.
209
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe net result for 2018, amounting to €23.8 million, has been 
accounted for in shareholders’ equity.
The Company proposes to declare a dividend over the financial 
year 2018 of 14 euro cents in cash per ordinary share or in shares, 
at the option of the shareholders with repurchase and cancellation 
of shares to offset dilution. Based on the number of ordinary 
shares outstanding at year-end 2018, a maximum of €38.3 million 
will be distributed as dividend on the ordinary shares. As yet, the 
dividend proposal has not been deducted from retained earnings 
under equity.8.2 Proposed appropriation of result
210
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management(Summary of Article 31 of the Articles of Association)
From the profit realised in any financial year, an amount will first 
be distributed, where possible, on the class B cumulative 
preference shares, calculated by applying the percentage stated 
below to the mandatory amount paid up on those shares as at the 
start of the financial year for which the distribution is made. The 
percentage referred to above will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of twelve 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus one percentage point. Euribor refers to 
the Euro Interbank Offered Rate as determined and published by 
the European Central Bank.
Subsequently, if possible, a dividend will be distributed on each 
financing preference share of a certain series, with due 
consideration of the provisions of this article, equal to an amount 
calculated by applying a percentage to the nominal amount of the 
financing preference share concerned at the start of that financial 
year, plus the amount of share premium paid in on the financing 
preference share issued in the series concerned at the time of 
initial issue of the financing preference shares of that series, less 
the amount paid out on each financing preference share 
concerned and charged to the share premium reserve formed at 
the time of issue of the financing preference shares of that series 
prior to that financial year. If and to the extent that a distribution 
has been made on the financing preference shares concerned in 
the course of the year and charged to the share premium reserve 
formed at the time of issue of the financing preference shares of 
the series concerned, or partial repayment has been made on such 
shares, the amount of the distribution will be reduced pro rata 
over the period concerned according to the amount of the 
distribution charged to the share premium reserve and/or the 
repayment with respect to the amount referred to in the 
preceding sentence.
The calculation of the dividend percentage for the financing 
preference shares of a certain series will be made for each of the 
series of financing preference shares referred to below, in the 
manner set forth for the series concerned.
Series FP1 to FP4
The dividend percentage will be calculated by taking the 
arithmetic mean of the yield to maturity on euro government 
loans issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a remaining 
term matching as closely as possible the term of the series 
concerned, as published in the Euronext Prices Lists, plus two 
percentage points.Series FP5 to FP8
The dividend percentage will be equal to the average of the 
Euribor rates for money market loans with a maturity of twelve 
months – weighted according to the number of days for which 
these rates prevailed – during the financial year for which the 
distribution is made, plus two percentage points.
The above percentages may be increased or reduced by an 
amount of no more than 300 basis points.
The above percentages apply for the following periods: series FP1 
and FP5: five years; series FP2 and FP6: six years; series FP3 and 
FP7: seven years and series FP4 and FP8: eight years. After a period 
expires, the percentage will be modified in accordance with the 
rules laid down in Article 31 paragraph 6(c) of the Articles of 
Association.
The Supervisory Board shall determine, on the basis of a proposal 
by the Executive Board, what part of the profit remaining after 
application of the above provisions will be added to the reserves. 
The part of the profit that remains thereafter is at the disposal of 
the General Meeting, subject to the provision that no further 
dividends will be distributed on the preference shares and with 
due consideration of the other provisions of Article 31 of the 
Articles of Association.8.3  Articles of Association provisions governing  
the distribution of profit
211
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe Foundation’s board consists of three members who are 
appointed by the Foundation’s board, after notification to the 
Executive Board. The Foundation is supported by its own legal and 
communication advisors.
The composition of the board as per the end of this financial year is:
J.J. Nooitgedagt, Chairman
F.K. Buijn
R. de Jong
The Chairman of the Foundation’s board receives an annual fee of 
€12,000 from the Foundation. The Foundation pays an annual fee 
of €10,000 to each of the other members of its board.
The particulars of the board members per the end of 2018 are:
J.J. (Jan) Nooitgedagt  (1953)
Mr Nooitgedagt serves on the Foundation’s board since 2017 and 
was appointed chairman in the same year. He is a Dutch national. 
A former member of the Executive Board and Chief Financial 
Officer of Aegon, Mr Nooitgedagt is a member of the Supervisory 
Board of Rabobank, vice-chairman of the Supervisory Board BNG 
Bank, chairman of the Supervisory Board of Telegraaf Media 
Groep, member of the Supervisory Board of Robeco, member of 
the board of the Stichting Beschermingspreferente Aandelen 
Fugro and chairman of the board of the Stichting 
Administratiekantoor Aandelen Kas Bank. He is also the chairman 
of the board of Stichting Nyenrode (Nyenrode University), 
chairman of the board of VEUO, member of the committee 
Financial Reporting and Accountancy at the Dutch Authority for 
the Financial Markets (AFM) and member of the audit committee 
of the Dutch Ministry of Justice and Security.
F.K. (Frederik) Buijn  (1950)
Mr Buijn has been a member of the Foundation’s board since 2012. 
He is a Dutch national. Due to his long-term experience as a 
qualified civil-law notary Mr Buijn is well-versed in commercial law. 
Mr Buijn is a member of the board of the Stichting Preferente 
Aandelen Arcadis N.V. He is involved in various large family 
companies as chairman or director of foundation trust offices and 
is also chairman of the board of the Stichting Instituut Gak.
R. (Rinse) de Jong  (1948)
Mr De Jong has been a member of the Foundation’s board since 
2009. He is a Dutch national. He was a member of the Executive 
Board and Chief Financial Officer of Essent. Mr De Jong is chairman 
of the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse Gasunie, chairman of the 
Supervisory Board of Rabobank Arnhem en Omstreken. He is a 
member of the Supervisory Board of Hogeschool van Amsterdam. 
He is a member of the board of Stichting tot het houden van 
preferente aandelen Wereldhave.The Company has taken the following measures to protect itself 
against any undesired developments that might have an impact on 
the independence, continuity and/or identity of the Company and 
the companies that are held by the Company and the group of 
companies associated with the Company (hereinafter ‘the Group’).
Pursuant to a resolution passed by the General Meeting held on 
12 June 1972, the Articles of Association include the possibility of 
issuing preference shares. Stichting Aandelenbeheer BAM Groep 
(hereafter referred to as ‘the Foundation’) was founded with a 
view to this possibility in 1978. The objective of the Foundation is 
to look after the interests of the Company and the Group. 
Specifically, the Foundation seeks to ensure that the interests of 
the Company, the Group and all their stakeholders are 
safeguarded as much as possible, and that influences which could 
undermine the independence and/or continuity and/or identity of 
the Company and the Group and which are in conflict with those 
interests are averted to the best of the Foundation’s ability. The 
Foundation attempts to achieve its objective by acquiring and 
holding class B cumulative preference shares in the Company’s 
capital, by exercising the rights connected with those shares and/
or by using its right of enquiry.
As announced at the General Meeting held on 4 June 1992 and 
considered at the General Meeting on 8 June 1993, the Company 
granted the Foundation an option to acquire class B cumulative 
preference shares in the Company’s capital on 17 May 1993. This 
option was granted up to such an amount as the Foundation 
might require, subject to a maximum of a nominal amount that 
would result in the total nominal amount of class B cumulative 
preference shares in issue and not held by the Company equaling 
no more than ninety-nine point nine per cent (99.9%) of the 
nominal amount of the issued share capital in the form of shares 
other than class B cumulative preference shares and not held by 
the Company at the time of exercising of the right referred to 
above. The board of the Foundation has the exclusive right to 
determine whether or not to exercise this right to acquire class B 
cumulative preference shares. No class B cumulative preference 
shares have been issued at this time.
On 6 October 2008, the Company granted the Foundation the 
right, under Article 2:346(c) of the Dutch Civil Code, to submit a 
petition as referred to in Article 2:345 of the Dutch Civil Code 
(right of enquiry).
The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board reserve the right, 
in the interests of the Company and its associated companies, to 
resolve to take alternative measures in order to protect the 
Company and the Group against influences that might be 
regarded by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, after 
balancing the interests of the Company and all of the stakeholders 
in the Group, as being potentially damaging to the independence, 
continuity and/or identity of the Company and/or the Group.8.4 Anti-takeover measures 
212
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementSubsidiaries  %
BAM Bouw en Vastgoed Nederland bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Bouw en Techniek bv*, Bunnik  100
 BAM Wonen bv*, Bunnik  100
 AM bv*, Utrecht 100
BAM Infra Nederland bv*, Gouda (Netherlands) 100
uniting the activities of:
 BAM Infra bv*, Gouda 100
 BAM Infra Energie & Water bv, Zwolle 100
 BAM Infra Rail bv*, Breda 100
 BAM Infra Telecom bv, Zwammerdam 100
 BAM Infraconsult bv*, Gouda 100
BAM Belgium nv, Brussels (Belgium) 100
uniting the activities of:
 Interbuild nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
 Galère sa, Chaudfontaine 100
 BAM Contractors nv, Brussels  100
 Kairos nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp  100
BAM Construct UK Ltd, Hemel Hempstead (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Nuttall Ltd, Camberley, Surrey (United Kingdom) 100
BAM Deutschland AG, Stuttgart (Germany) 100
Wayss & Freytag Ingenieurbau AG, Frankfurt am Main (Germany) 100
BAM International bv*, The Hague (Netherlands) 100
BAM Contractors Ltd, Kill, County Kildare (Ireland) 100
BAM PPP bv*, Bunnik (Netherlands) 100
Joint arrangements
BAM PPP PGGM Infrastructure Coöperatie U.A. (Netherlands)  50.0
Associates
Infraspeed (Holdings) bv, Haarlem (Netherlands) 10.5
Justinvest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium) 33.3
Rabot Invest nv, Wilrijk-Antwerp (Belgium)  25.0
A list of associates as referred to in Sections 379 and 414, Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code 
has been deposited at the Office of the Trade Register in Utrecht.
*  In respect of these subsidiaries, Royal BAM Group nv has deposited a declaration of joint and several liability pursuant to Section 403,  
Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.8.5  List of principal subsidiaries, joint arrangements  
and associates
213
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAppendices9
New eyes
Air Traffic Visual Control tower, Dublin
BAM Ireland completed the new 23-storey high Air Traffic 
Visual Control tower at Dublin Airport. The new tower 
comprises three separate but integrated building elements: 
the control cab and associated elements, the cab supporting 
shaft and a base building. The base building will 
accommodate staff facilities, electronic systems and 
mechanical plant space to provide control of the building 
environment. The overall height of the tower structure is 87 
metres.
214
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvStock exchange listing
BAM has been listed on Euronext Amsterdam since 1959 (symbol: 
BAMNB; ISIN code: NL0000337319). The share is included in the 
Amsterdam Midcap Index (AMX) and the Euronext NEXT-150 
Index. Options are traded by Liffe, the Euronext derivatives 
exchange. The market capitalisation was €0.7 billion at year-end 
2018 (year-end 2017: €1.1 billion).
Investor relations policy
The purpose of the investor relations policy is to provide accurate, 
transparent, consistent, simultaneously and timely information to 
stakeholders, which include existing and potential shareholders, 
financial institutions, brokers and the media. BAM wants to ensure 
a clear understanding about its the strategy, performance and 
decisions to create awareness and confidence. Information is made 
available through the annual integrated report, quarterly (financial) 
information, press releases and presentations to investors which 
are all available on the website. BAM publishes price sensitive 
information without delay by a press release and on its site.
BAM publishes quarterly (financial) information. The full year and 
half year results are presented at analyst meetings. The trading 
updates for the first quarter and the nine months are presented 
during conference calls. These events are held in the English 
language and can be followed live or on demand on the website. 
BAM organises road shows and participates at investor 
conferences to meet existing and potential investors. All data and 
venues are published on the website.
BAM observes a closed period in which no meetings with existing 
or potential investors take place. For the annual results, this 
period extends from 1 January up to date of publication. For the 
half year results the closed period extends from 1 July up to the 
day of publication. For the trading updates after the first quarter 
and the nine months, it extends from 1 April and 1 October, up to 
the day of publication.
BAM is covered by analysts of all major Dutch brokers; they are 
key in distributing information to support the investment case to 
their clients. Research reports about BAM are available through 
these brokers. Contact details are available on the website.
All the activities comply with the rules and regulations of Euronext 
Amsterdam and the Dutch Authority for financial markets (AFM).
For more information about investor relations www.bam.com 
under the link Investor relations or contact Head Investor 
Relations Joost van Galen, e-mail ir@bam.com, telephone  
+31 (0)30 659 87 07.Share price 
The 2018 closing price of the ordinary share was €2.51, which was 
34 per cent below the closing price at year-end 2017 (€3.83). 
The AMX index ended the year 21 per cent lower. BAM’s share 
price reduced by 34 per cent over the last five years. By way of 
comparison, the AEX and the AMX index rose by 21 per cent and 
5 per cent in the same period.
 Graph 65 shows the history of the BAM ordinary share price over 
the past five years.
65 - Ordinary share price movement  
(in €)
2018 2017 2015 2016 2014
BAM AEX AMX0123456
Trading volume on Euronext Amsterdam 
In 2018, the number of ordinary shares traded were 439 million 
(2017: 491 million).
The average daily trade was 1,723,000 ordinary shares (2017: 
1,926,000). The value of ordinary shares traded in 2018 was 
€1,569 million (2017: €2,311 million). In 2018 the average daily 
trade in BAM shares was €6.2 million (2017: €9.0 million).
If necessary, ING and Rabobank act as liquidity providers for the 
trade in ordinary shares.9.1 Royal BAM Group nv shares
215
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management Graph 67 shows the development of the average value of  
traded ordinary shares on Euronext Amsterdam in 2018.
67 -  Value of traded ordinary shares in 2018  
(average € per day - Euronext 2018)
02,000,0004,000,0006,000,0008,000,00010,000,00012,000,000
value of traded
shares per dayj fm a m j j a s o n d
12-months
moving average Graph 66 shows the development of the average number of 
ordinary shares traded in 2018 on Euronext Amsterdam.
66 -  Number of traded ordinary shares in 2018  
(average per day - Euronext 2018)
0500,0001,000,0001,500,0002,000,0002,500,0003,000,000
j fm a m j j a s o n d
number of shares moving average
68 - Information per share
(in € per share, unless otherwise indicated) 
2018 2017 42016 2015 2014
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend 273,296,017 273,213,334 270,621,583 270,393,982 270,998,957
Average number of ordinary shares 273,490,657 272,215,432 270,503,004 270,956,691 270,394,899
Net result ranking for dividend 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04 (0.40)
Net result from continued operations 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04 (0.40)
Average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 298,269,233 296,427,682 283,642,546 270,956,691 270,394,899
Number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend (diluted) 298,297,517 297,584,081 294,547,317 270,393,982 270,998,957
Net result (diluted) 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04 (0.40)
Net result from continued operations (diluted) 0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04 (0.40)
Cash flow before dividend 0.43 0.18 0.60 0.44 0.33
Equity attributable to shareholders 2.61 2.64 3.08 3.34 3.05
Dividend 10.14 0.10 0.09 0.02 -
Payout (in %) 40 50 50 50 -
Dividend yield (in %) 25.6 2.6 2.1 0.4 -
Highest closing price 4.16 5.46 5.02 5.16 4.50
Lowest closing price 2.37 3.45 2.97 2.22 1.65
Price on 31 December 2.51 3.83 4.39 5.13 2.58
Average daily trade (in number of shares) 1,723,000 1,926,000 1,717,000 3,117,000 2,742,000
Market capitalisation at year-end (x €1,000) 3687,066 1,053,239 1,193,267 1,387,121 698,093
1 Dividend proposal 2018.
2 Based on share price at year-end.
3 Based on total number of ordinary shares in issue.
4 Adjusted for IFRS 15 
216
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementShareholders
BAM closely monitors the development in its shareholder base by 
following public market information and a yearly shareholder 
identification report. Under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, 
shareholders of 3 per cent or more must disclose to the Dutch 
Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) and when these 
shareholders transfer to a different threshold level. The Company 
holds 5,483,002 (2 per cent) treasury shares, of which 1,629,402 
shares for the long-term incentive plan of management.
69 -  Geographical distribution shareholders  
as at 31 December 2018
Netherlands 1
Retail 2
United States
United Kingdom
Germany
Belgium
Norway
Switzerland
Other
Unidenti/f_ied 
1 Including treasury shares.
2 Primary Dutch shareholders.
70 -  Shareholders owning 3 per cent or more in BAM’s  
share capital as at 31 December 2018 
OwnershipDate of last 
notificationInterest above  
3 per cent since
NN Group N.V. 5.5% 26 May 2015 February 1992
FIL Investments 
International 4.5% 17 October 2018 9 February 2018
I.M. Fares 5.0% 24 October 2014 July 2013
*  According to the AFM register of substantial shareholdings, three 
institutional investors have real interests of 3 per cent or more.  
Changes may have occurred, however, within the disclosure thresholds. *Countdown for 
the Elizabeth Line
Ten months ahead of the official opening date of 
London’s Elizabeth Line in late 2018, Crossrail began 
testing its new rail connection. Over 100 kilometres of 
railroad – 20 of which in bored tunnels beneath the 
city centre – were built between Reading and 
Heathrow Airport on the UK capital’s west side and 
Shenfield and Abbey Wood in the east. BAM Nuttall 
was part of the joint venture that bored the tunnels 
and improved several underground stations.
www.crossrail.co.uk
217
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management€130,000 for a specified period of time. The bonds are trading on 
the Open Market (Freiverkehr) segment of the Frankfurt Stock 
Exchange.
More details of the subordinated unsecured convertible bond are 
published on the website.
Dividend policy 
BAM has a dividend policy to distribute a dividend between 30 
and 50 per cent of the net result for the year. When deciding upon 
the dividend, the company takes into account the balance sheet 
structure supporting the strategic agenda Building the present, 
creating the future and the interest of the shareholders.
In accordance with the company’s dividend policy the proposal is 
to distribute a dividend of 14 euro cents per ordinary share for 
2018 (2017: 10 euro cents). This equates to a payout ratio of 
40 per cent of the net result adjusted for the non-operational and 
non-cash impairment of deferred tax assets (2017: 50 per cent) in 
line with BAM’s policy. Subject to approval by the Annual General 
Meeting on 17 April 2019, this will be paid in cash with a scrip 
alternative on 15 May 2019. BAM will repurchase and cancel shares 
to offset the dilution of the scrip alternative.Number of outstanding ordinary shares 
The movement in the number of outstanding shares is shown in  
 table 71. 
71 -  The movement in the number of outstanding shares
2018 2017
Outstanding ordinary shares as at 1 January 274,925,419 271,814,728
Shares issued for stock dividend 3,853,600 3,110,691
Outstanding ordinary shares as at 31 December 278,779,019 274,925,419
Treasury shares to offset dilution stock dividend (3,853,600) -
Treasury shares held for Performance Share Plan (1,629,402) (1,712,085)
Ordinary shares ranking for dividend as at 31 December 273,296,017 273,213,334
Percentage ordinary shares ranking for dividend 98.0% 99.4%
Subordinated unsecured convertible bonds
In 2016, BAM placed €125 million subordinated unsecured 
convertible bonds to redeem the existing subordinated loan of the 
same amount. The transaction was in line with BAM’s financing 
strategy to strengthen its balance sheet by lengthening the 
maturity and broadening the sources of its funding. It also 
improved BAM’s commercial position and supports the execution 
of its strategy Building the present, creating the future.
The bonds have an annual coupon of 3.5 per cent, an initial 
conversion premium of 32.5 per cent and are convertible into 
ordinary shares of BAM with a nominal value of €0.10 each. The 
Bonds were issued at 100 per cent of their principal amount and, 
unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and 
cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount 
on or around 13 June 2021.
Upon exercise of their conversion rights, holders will receive 
shares at the then prevailing conversion price. BAM will have the 
option to call all but not some of the outstanding bonds at their 
principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest from 28 June 
2019, if the value of the shares underlying a bond exceeds 
218
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management9.2  Five-year overview
* (x 1 million, unless otherwise stated) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Revenue  7,208 6,535 6,976 7,423 7,314
Operating result 3 105.2 10.4 52.8 2.3 (134.5)
Result before tax  114.5 20.0 60.1 13.3 (122.4)
Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company  23.8 (13.8) 46.8 10.2 (108.2)
Basic earnings per share (in €1)  0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04 (0.40)
Diluted earnings per share (in €1)  0.09 (0.05) 0.17 0.04 (0.40)
Dividend per ordinary share (in €1) 1 0.14 0.10 0.09 0.02 -
Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company  729.0 721.3 834.3 902.1 827.4
Subordinated convertible bonds  117.6 115.0 112.5 - -
Subordinated loan  - - - 124.3 124.5
Capital base  846.7 836.3 946.7 1.026.5 951.9
Net investment in property, plant and equipment  72.2 70.7 45.1 41.7 39.0
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges of:
- Property, plant and equipment  63.7 55.0 62.5 67.9 80.8
- Intangible assets  6.0 5.2 5.0 7.4 3.7
- Other impairment charges 20.6 3.9 47.6 34.3 114.1
Cash flow before dividend  117.4 50.5 161.9 119.8 90.5
Total impairment charges  23.8 4.8 50.7 39.1 115.9
Order book 2 12,692 11,636 10,193 11,480 10,268
Average number of employees (in FTE)  20,194 19,720 20,370 21,916 23,325
Number of employees as at 31 December (in FTE)  20,156 19,837 19,486 21,248 23,137
Ratios (in %)Result before tax and impairment charges as % of revenue  2.1 0.4 1.6 0.7 (0.1)
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % of revenue  0.3 (0.2) 0.7 0.1 (1.5)
Net result to the shareholders of the Company as % average equity  3.3
(1.8) 5.4 1.2 (12.3)
Solvency ratios (in %)Equity attributable to shareholders as % of total assets  15.9 16.1 17.3 18.6 16.7
Capital ratio as % of total assets  18.5 18.6 19.7 21.2 19.2
Current ratio as current assets divided by current liabilities  1.02 1.00 1.04 1.07 1.09
* T he comparative figures, where applicable, have been restated for IFRS 15.
1 For 2018 dividend proposal.
2 Order book comprises both signed contracts and verbally agreed upon orders.
3 Restated for presentation result from share in investments under operating result.
219
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTopic SubtopicIncluded
(yes/no) Page reference
Business model N/A Yes 9 -11
Relevant social and personnel matters 
(e.g. HR, safety etc.)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 10, 19, 30-43
The outcome of those policies Yes 19, 30, 32, 33, 
38, 39
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 19, 61-64, 
226-229
Non-financial key performance indicators Yes 30
Relevant environmental matters  
(e.g. climate-related impacts)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 10, 19, 45-52, 
228, 229
The outcome of those policies Yes 19, 45-52
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 19, 61-64, 228, 
229
Non-financial key performance indicators Yes 45
Relevant matters with respect to human 
rights (e.g. labour protection)A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 19, 39, 40, 231
The outcome of those policies Yes 39, 40
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 19, 40, 61-64
Non-financial key performance indicators** No 19, 40
Relevant matters with respect to 
anti-corruption and bribery A description of the policies pursued, including due dilligence Yes 19, 39, 227
The outcome of those policies Yes 39, 40
Principle risks in own operations and within value chain and how risks  
are managedYes 19, 61-64, 227
Non-financial key performance indicators Yes 225
Insight into the diversity (Executive Board 
and Supervisory Board)A description of the policies pursued Yes 67, 87
Diversity targets Yes 67, 87
Description of how the policy is implemented Yes 67, 87
Results of the diversity policy Yes 67, 87
* In compliance with “Besluit bekendmaking niet-financiële informatie” which is the implementation of the EU Directive on Non-Financial information.
** BAM is committed to protect human rights and wants to further firm up its risk analysis and develop an appropriate response in 2019.9.3   Non-Financial Information* and Diversity information  
reference table
220
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management9.4 Key financial dates
17 April 2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
9 May 2019 Trading update first quarter 2019
22 August 2019 Publication of half-year results 2019
7 November 2019 Trading update first nine months 2019
21 February 2020 Publication of annual results 2019
15 April 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
7 May 2020 Trading update first quarter 2020
20 August 2020 Publication of half-year results 2020
5 November 2020 Trading update first nine months 2020
Girlsday 2018
The Rotterdamsebaan project in The Hague hosted the 
official opening of Girlsday 2018 by education minister 
Ingrid van Engelshoven. 
The construction consortium and the municipality of The 
Hague prepared a wide range of demonstrations and 
activities. The girls were able to drive a drone themselves, 
set up the planning for replacing a rail switch, mix 
self-healing concrete and go virtual with augmented 
reality. On site they were given explanation about paving 
asphalt. 
Girlsday is organised annually by VHTO (national 
knowledge centre girls/women and beta/technics), to 
introduce girls aged ten to fifteen years to science, 
technology and ICT.
221
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementAdjusted result before tax Result before tax excluding restructuring costs, impairment charges and pension one-off.
Adjusted pre-tax margin Adjusted result before tax divided by rolling year revenue.
Capital base Equity attributable to the shareholders of the Company plus subordinated convertible bond.
Capital employed Non-current assets plus net working capital and cash and cash equivalents.
Capital ratio Capital base divided by total assets.
Carbon footprint Total amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during a defined period, or across the 
total or part of the duration of a project. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide 
equivalents CO2(e) emitted.
Cash flow before dividend Net result attributable to the shareholders of the Company adjusted for depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges.
Community engagement The process by which community benefit organisations and individuals build ongoing, 
permanent relationships with the purpose of applying a collective vision for the benefit of a 
(local) community.
Comprehensive income The change in equity during a period resulting from transactions and other events, other than 
those changes resulting from transactions with shareholders in their capacity as shareholders
Current ratio Current assets including assets held for sale divided by current liabilities including liabilities 
held  for sale.
Earnings per share Net result attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year.
EBIT Earnings before interest and tax.
Emissions and waste BAM solely reports CO2 emissions. Other greenhouse substances, such as CH4 (methane),  
N2O (nitrous oxide) are excluded as they are considered not material. BAM reports all waste 
leaving its sites and offices.
General Meeting Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
GHG Greenhouse gases which have a global warming impact.
HSE Health, safety and environment.
IF BAM Incident frequency including all BAM site employees on own work and joint ventures.
Incident frequency (IF) The total number of industrial accidents leading to absence from work per million hours worked 
on construction sites.
Industrial accident An unintended occurrence during a period of paid work that results in physical injury or illness, 
including accidents that occur during business trips (during working hours, no commuting). 
In case of an accident involving multiple victims the number of accidents is considered equal 
to the number of victims.
Net debt Long-term borrowings plus short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net working capital Current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents) minus current liabilities (excluding 
borrowings).
Return on capital employed (ROCE) Rolling year EBIT divided by the average four-quarter rolling capital employed.
Return on equity (ROE) Rolling year net result divided by the average four-quarter rolling invested equity.
Serious accident An industrial accident that leads to the person involved being admitted to hospital for more than 
24 hours or results in electrocution, amputation or fracture with and without lost time.
Solvency Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company divided by total assets.
Total shareholder return (TSR) Metric used to compare the performance of companies in BAM’s peer group’s shares over time. 
The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to the 
peer group.
Trade working capital Net working capital excluding land and building rights, property development, PPP receivables, 
other financial assets, other receivables, taxes, derivative financial instruments, provisions, 
other liabilities and assets and liabilities held for sale.
Trade working capital efficiency The average four-quarters’ trade working capital divided by rolling year revenue.
1   In 2016, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) published a statement on the use of Alternative Performance Measures (APMs).  
An APM is a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or 
specified in the applicable financial reporting framework. All APMs included in the list of definitions above and used by management, are included in  
this report to provide extra information to our stakeholders on the Group’s financial performance on top of information from the consolidated financial 
statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. APMs defined above, or elsewhere in the report, are fully reconcilable with the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements.9.5 Glossary 1
222
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThis chapter provides specific information on the reporting 
process and reporting methods BAM has used to arrive at the 
sustainability figures and topics included in this report.
Target audience
BAM reports its sustainability policy and the associated results to 
all stakeholders. BAM’s stakeholders include clients, the Company’s 
employees, suppliers and subcontractors, shareholders, other 
organisations in the construction industry, NGOs, knowledge 
institutes and public authorities.
Reporting criteria – GRI Standards – Core 
This report has been prepared ‘in accordance’ with the GRI 
Standards: Core option. An overview of the GRI disclosures covered 
by this report is available on BAM’s website (www.bam.com/en/csr/
sustainability-reports). In this overview, more information is 
disclosed on the nature and coverage of reporting per GRI disclosure 
(e.g. quantitatively or qualitatively).
Reporting period and reporting frequency
This report presents both quantitative and qualitative data for the 
calendar year 2018. An exception is made for all CO2 and waste 
data reported by BAM International, which applies a reporting 
period of 1 December 2017 to 30 November 2018. BAM allows for 
this different reporting period as BAM International has a complex 
operating and reporting structure and more time is required to 
ensure that the reported data are reliable and adequate. BAM 
considers the effects of a different reporting period by 
BAM International is to be not material to the Group’s integrated 
report. All other data are reported annually. There have been no 
significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope 
and boundaries.
Reporting boundaries
This report contains data of all operating companies and thus 
BAM’s own activities. Sustainability performance and data are 
accounted for according to BAM’s share of equity. As an exception 
to this rule, BAM International reports all sustainability data for 
joint arrangement projects in which it is the leading party. In 
general BAM views disclosure regarding acquisitions and 
divestments on a case-by-case basis. 
Reporting process
The integrated report, including all material aspects, is approved 
by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. Data collection 
takes into account BAM’s organisational structure. Both 
qualitative and quantitative information is reported by operating 
companies to the Group. The data are consolidated and validated 
first at company level and then consolidated and further validated 
at Group level. Every reporting entity has a CSR manager, CSR 
controller and director responsible for CSR who are together 
responsible for accurate and reliable reporting. In 2009 BAM 
established a reporting system for non-financial information 
(including safety, CO2, waste and HR), this system was launched 
as an extension of the financial reporting system.The applied reporting processes and definitions are formalised in 
BAM’s CSR reporting manual. The CSR reporting manual provides 
guidance on how to measure, calculate and estimate data.
Reporting indicators
For BAM’s main sustainability indicators this chapter provides 
further insight below. For other quantitative indicators disclosures 
on the reporting scope and methods used are given in the annual 
report itself. Where relevant, figures are presented in a relative 
way (using percentages and ratios). This allows readers to monitor 
and measure progress year-on-year, unless the reporting criteria 
require absolute figures to be disclosed.
Safety
BAM defines its incident frequency (IF) as the number of BAM 
employees involved in industrial incidents per million man-hours 
worked on construction sites. Reportable incidents are based on 
actual occurrences and are never extrapolated or estimated. 
Despite all measures and an open safety culture there is an 
inherent risk of incomplete accident reporting. BAM is partially 
dependent on information provided by the person involved in an 
accident. Reported hours are measured, calculated or estimated. 
Outsourced BAM site employees to external companies are not 
included in the IF BAM calculation. The absolute number of 
reported serious accidents consists of BAM employees (including 
office employees), subcontractors, hired employees and thirds on 
own projects and BAM employees, BAM subcontractors and direct 
hired employees by BAM on joint ventures. BAM defined a serious 
accident as an accident that leads to the employee involved being 
admitted to hospital for more than 24 hours or results in 
electrocution (with enter- and exit mark on the body), amputation 
and/or fracture (including a hairline fracture in the bone).
For all companies, except for BAM International, BAM includes only 
BAM employee-related accidents and hours. BAM International 
takes into account all persons working under its direct supervision 
even though they may not have a labour contract with BAM directly. 
As a result, the accidents and hours worked by all persons working 
under the supervision of BAM International and irrespective of their 
labour contract are included in the reported incident frequency. 
This is inherent to BAM International’s business model. 
Creating uniform safety reporting across all operating companies 
is one of the strategic objectives which create access to the right 
management information. BAM is in the process of enhancing the 
reporting process for worked hours of subcontractors. The Group 
strives to obtain reliable information by implementing automated 
on-site entrance systems such as tourniquets, fingerprint readers, 
iris scans and card systems.
When a fatal industrial accident occurs that involves a BAM 
employee or a subcontractor, the following actions are taken:
1. The operating company informs the Executive Board and the 
Corporate Safety Officer (CSO) immediately after the accident.
2. The first details of the accident are communicated within 
24 hours after the accident.9.6 Sustainability reporting process and methods
223
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
management3. At the latest on the day after the fatal accident, a notice will be 
published on the BAM intranet.
4. If the accident occurred in Western Europe, the COO, assisted 
by the CSO, will visit to the operating company within 15 days 
of the accident.
5. For accidents occurring outside Western Europe a video 
conference replaces this visit. 
6. Three weeks after the accident, a ‘safety start’ takes place in the 
country where the fatality occurred and a safety presentation/
bulletin is drawn up, highlighting the lessons learned and whose 
responsibility it was to intervene. This must be communicated 
to all operations.
BAM Safety Behavior audit
The audit was carried out following the official BAM Safety 
behaviour audit (BAM-SBA) questionnaire 2016. This questionnaire 
is aligned with the BAM Health and Safety Directive of January 
2015. The audit template is broken into three sections: safety 
climate, management system and site conditions. Each section is 
scored independently with all elements collated to provide the 
overall score. Additional points may be added for innovative 
practices and where areas of concern, points deducted. The scoring 
of the various sections is marked from 1 to 5 as below:
No evidence of commitment Poor 0% - 40%
Slight evidence of commitment Fair 41% - 60%
Commitment evident but room for 
ImprovementGood 61% - 80%
Good commitment demonstrated Very good 81% - 90%
Excellent commitment demonstrated Excellent 91% - 100%
Safety climate: Management ambition and commitment to 
keeping workers safe is demonstrated through their words and 
actions. Visual leadership coaching/ supporting the organisation, 
demonstration of intervention and enforcement where necessary.
 
Management system: Systematic way in which an organisation 
manages to achieve its objectives. Safety policies, processes and 
procedures used to the task specific requirements (including 
resources) to achieve its safety objectives by risk management, 
supply chain management and continuous improvement. 
Demonstrate learning ability of the organisation. Compliance with 
the law and safety regulations (including the Royal BAM Safety 
Directive).
 
Site conditions: Site setup, site logistics, collective- and personal 
measurements to mitigate the task specific risks. Safe physical 
work environment and equipment. Demonstrate how to plan for 
safety and engage with the workforce.
 
The reported SBA score is the average of all individual operating 
company scores. It is the responsibility of the safety officer from 
the operating company to organise the SBA interviews in detail 
and select the projects within the overall planning. The safety 
officer has to take into account the diversity in areas, business 
units, type of projects, phase of the projects. As the selection of projects differs each year, the selected projects affect the score as 
the operating company can decide to go either to a well-performing 
project or to a project that requires more attention. This could 
result into fluctuation of the score between the years within the 
same operating company. There is an inherent risk of personal bias 
of the auditor of the SBA as the auditor has to rate the projects 
based on professional judgement. BAM mitigates this risk by 
making sure that during all SBAs an independent person is present 
to oversee the results of all SBAs.
Human Resources (HR)
HR data are obtained twice a year using a standardised reporting 
platform. HR data are derived from the HR accounts held by 
BAM’s  operating companies. Due to different definitions used, 
breakdowns in chapter Employee recruitment, development and 
retention are based on figures that do not match the total number 
of FTE in Key figures. This does not result in different insights. 
Energy consumption and CO2 emissions
BAM’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas inventory is based on 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard, Revised Edition (2013: Corporate Standard) as issued by the 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World 
Resources Institute. For greenhouse gas emissions BAM has chosen to 
report only on CO2. Other greenhouse gases, such as CH4 (methane), 
N2O (nitrous oxide) are excluded from BAM’s emissions inventory, as 
they are considered not material. BAM calculates the energy 
consumption (in TJs) and CO2 emissions associated with BAM’s energy 
consumption, using conversion factors from reputable and 
authoritative sources. The factors follow the Kyoto protocol and 
UNFCCC charter as closely as possible. BAM applies country specific 
conversion factors for electricity and natural gas. These are based on 
GHG emissions reported in national inventory reports (NIR). All 
conversion factors are updated annually.
The Group’s reporting scope includes its direct CO2 emissions 
(scope 1 emissions, from BAM’s own sources), indirect CO2 emissions 
from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by BAM 
(scope 2 emissions) and three indirect categories of CO2 emissions 
that are a consequence of BAM’s business activities from sources not 
owned and controlled by BAM: employee air travel, employee car 
travel with privately owned cars and business travel (scope 3 
emissions).
The GHG Corporate value chain (scope 3) accounting and reporting 
standard for full scope 3 reporting has not been implemented. 
Contrary to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol BAM reports fuel 
consumption by leased vehicles under scope 1 emissions. Energy 
consumption from district heating and use of public transport are 
considered negligible and therefore not included in BAM’s overall 
energy consumption and related CO2 emissions.
The basis for consolidated energy consumption and CO2 emissions is 
activity data, which in turn are based mostly on meter readings, 
invoices and data provided by suppliers. Where reliable data are not 
available, BAM uses calculations or estimations using reliable methods 
224
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementTrue Price. LE2AP is a product with new data and is compared to 
conventional asphalt, of which the most accurate data are five 
years old.
Water
Potable water consumption is reported for the UK. Data are based 
on meter readings, where available. When they are not, 
estimations based on process analysis are used to calculate the 
total water consumption on project sites.
Local sourcing
For the Dutch companies BAM has investigated the extent to which 
its purchases are sourced locally. BAM has defined local sourcing as 
a purchase done with a supplier who is located in the same country 
as the construction site. BAM determines the percentage of local 
sourcing based on the country of residence of its suppliers. 
Business conduct
Business conduct includes information regarding the Group’s 
business principles and Code of Conduct, on which BAM reports 
qualitatively. BAM stimulates its employees to report any 
suspicion of misconduct to be able to provide appropriate 
response to all inquiries. In addition, this report contains 
qualitative information on a mandatory e-learning course to 
increase awareness and understanding of the Code of Conduct 
and expected ethical behaviour. 
Verification of this report
In order to provide BAM’s stakeholders comfort over BAM’s 
sustainability information, the Executive Board has appointed Ernst 
& Young Accountants LLP (EY) to provide independent assurance of 
the Report. As in previous years, BAM has obtained reasonable 
assurance for the following KPIs: IF BAM, number of serious 
accidents, safety behaviour audit, as included in the ‘Safety’ 
section in chapter 3.2. Additionally EY has provided reasonable 
assurance over the ‘Material themes’ section in chapter 2.3 and the 
‘Business conduct and transparency’ section in chapter 3.2. For all 
other information reported in chapters 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 3.2, 3.3 and 
9.3, 9.6 and 9.7 BAM has obtained limited assurance.
As BAM applies the ‘best standard’ principle with regard to external 
assurance, the Group has asked EY to apply NV COS 3810N, a 
standard explicitly developed to verify sustainability reports. This 
standard includes strict requirements for the quality of accounts, 
the indicators used and the wording of the Report. Readers can 
therefore be confident that the report provides a fair and true 
representation of sustainability within BAM. The Group aims to 
achieve the highest level of assurance (reasonable assurance) 
through a staged approach, focusing on the most material themes. 
Increasing the maturity of internal processes in the coming years 
will help in also increasing the level of assurance of the report.
Other sources of information
Royal BAM Group welcomes your comments on sustainability. 
If you have any questions or remarks, please contact BAM’s 
sustainability department via e-mail (sustainability@bam.com).and input data. BAM is satisfied that the estimates are reliable in all 
material respects.
Where clients provide BAM with electricity and BAM is able to receive 
reliable information on its client supplied electricity consumption, 
the company includes this consumption in its carbon footprint. Also, 
as BAM only receives information on CO2 emissions associated with 
air travel, which BAM includes in its scope 3 emissions.
It occurs on projects that BAM supplies fuel and electricity to 
subcontractors. BAM’s CSR reporting manual states that fuel and 
electricity supplied to subcontractors should be measured and 
excluded from reported figures, unless fuel and electricity is supplied 
under the supervision of BAM. In practice, however, it is not always 
possible to determine how much fuel is supplied to subcontractors. 
In that case BAM accounts for all CO2 emissions. BAM continues to 
encourage measuring fuel and electricity supplied to third parties. 
This will result in more accurate figures of its own CO2 emissions and 
further insight in reduction potential to all involved.
Waste
BAM’s reporting scope includes all waste leaving its sites and 
offices, mainly based on waste tickets and data provided by 
suppliers. Reported waste is either measured, calculated or 
estimated using reliable methods and input data which can be 
based on BAM’s experience in comparable works, e.g. the relation 
of asphalt and aggregates. Excavation waste and demolition waste 
are especially difficult to measure and is more often calculated.
The percentage on waste separation relates to BAM’s Dutch 
companies and is based on information from BAM’s waste 
management suppliers. 
Materials
In 2011 BAM started reporting on the amount of materials used 
and the recycled content of various materials used by Dutch 
operating companies. BAM has selected the raw materials which 
are consumed in large quantities and which have a significant 
impact on natural resources. The Group reports on concrete, 
timber, asphalt and steel.
The raw material consumption in the Netherlands was determined 
using supplier reports. Extrapolation of data is applied to cover all 
suppliers. BAM aspires to keep the extrapolated data smaller than 
20 per cent. The results are verified against BAM’s procurement 
database, internal and external experts. The recycled content is 
determined based on information provided by suppliers.
 
True Price of asphalt
The True Price calculations of LE2AP and conventional asphalt in 
section materials are made by a third party and contain inherent 
estimates and specialised supplier data. The methodology has 
been checked for logic and consistency, yet it is known that 
different visions on the cost of CO2 are available and that the cost 
of CO2 is subjective.
A comparison by True Price has been performed to evaluate the 
bandwidth of CO2 cost, in which a conservative estimate is used by 
225
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementThe content of this chapter is an integral part of the Executive Board Report as required under EU Directive.9.7 Material themes and management approach
Definition Impact Management approach
Health and safety
Health and safety 
(zero accidents) of 
all employees and 
subcontractors and 
everyone involved 
with BAM’s 
activities, including 
the general public.‘BAM borrows its employees from their families’, is 
how BAM expresses its responsibility for everyone who 
works with and for BAM. There is nothing more 
important than everyone returning home safely. 
Health and safety at work contribute to the 
satisfaction of the employees of the Group and their 
family members, BAM’s subcontractors, its supply 
partners and others involved in BAM’s construction 
sites. Safety also affects BAM’s clients and BAM’s 
reputation.BAM has developed a groupwide guideline for safety 
management. All safety management systems from 
operational companies must comply with this framework.
Meeting the strategy means focusing on the quality of the 
underlying goals: striving for the ambition ‘zero accidents’ 
every day is the goal for safety. Zero accidents means the 
mind-set (intrinsic motivation) and the true belief that it is 
feasible to create a safe working environment that means 
‘everyone at home safely every day!’. To create a change in 
safety leadership, BAM has installed a Safety Leadership 
Team consisting of a representation of BAM’s managing 
directors and the Group’s Corporate Safety Officer. This 
team shows proactive ownership, open collaboration and 
accountability regarding the Group’s safety targets and 
focuses on a predictable safety performance on 
leadership, culture and behaviour. 
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Project and product quality and control
Quality of the 
tender process, 
efficient project 
management and 
effective project 
execution with the 
aim to meet or 
exceed the 
expectations of the 
customer.In order to exceed customer expectations, BAM must 
continuously improve the experienced performance of 
BAM’s products. Product quality means that BAM does 
what it has promised to do, within budget and on 
time. Operational performance is crucial for achieving 
the right level of financial and non-financial results for 
construction projects.BAM has the tender process focused on quality of its 
tenders in order to guarantee the current and future 
results of construction projects.
The evaluation of the internal governance framework has 
resulted in the updating of the business principles and 
management guidelines, including the strengthening of 
project selection and BAM’s tender process for large and 
high-risk projects. In connection with this development, 
peer reviews are carried out on project estimates under 
the leadership of the Tender Desk Director.
In order to comply with product responsibility, BAM 
assures that projects where its operating companies are 
responsible for design and construction are certified. In 
other projects (PPP projects) BAM uses verification and 
validation methods. Each operating company has a quality 
manager who is responsible for the quality control of the 
operating company’s processes. System audits are 
conducted by third parties. On all levels, outcomes are 
assessed by the senior management of BAM’s operating 
companies. 
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 2.2 Strategy and chapter 4 Risk management.
226
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Business conduct and transparency
Openness and 
compliance with 
generally accepted 
standards and 
values and 
compliance with 
local legal and 
other rules and 
regulations, in 
particular with 
regard to the 
acquisition and 
execution of 
contracts.BAM’s reputation and licence to operate depend on 
responsible business conduct, by  stimulating dialogue 
about dilemmas. Ensuring compliance with anti-
corruption legislation improves efficiency through 
lower transaction costs for BAM and its stakeholders. 
Moreover, BAM is of the opinion that doing business 
honestly is of vital importance for the strengthening 
of the competitive position of both BAM and its 
partners. Competitive behaviour contributes to 
innovation and collaboration. It creates an 
environment in which the best products will win and in 
which BAM’s clients will get the best products for the 
best price. The Group believes that by providing 
financial and non-financial information on the 
achievement of BAM’s strategic goals, it can 
continuously improve the reporting process as well as 
its performance.For BAM, it is fundamental to comply with generally 
accepted standards and values but also with local legal and 
other rules and regulations, particularly with respect to the 
acquisition and performance of contracts. This is set out in 
the Group’s core values, the code of conduct and adjoining 
policies such as those relating to bribery, corruption and 
competition. All employees must act honestly, comply with 
agreements and deal carefully with customers and business 
partners, including suppliers and subcontractors. The 
Executive Board encourages this compliance, which is 
continuously evaluated in order to make integrity a 
fundamental part of the daily activities. The Group has an 
enhanced speak-up policy with an external reporting line, so 
that breaches of the code and policy can be reported 
through various channels. This policy is easily accessible to 
employees (e.g. on the intranet) and there is frequent 
communication around the themes. Compliance officers 
monitor compliance and advise on integrity issues.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Financial performance
Overall financial 
health, including 
balance sheet, 
profit and loss, 
property 
divestment and 
working capital 
improvement. A healthy financial performance provides BAM with 
the means to undertake transactions with its supply 
chain partners, leading to the possibility to develop 
new activities and to pay BAM’s employees and 
shareholders.Constant attention is paid to strengthening BAM’s balance 
sheet and net results by improving financial processes to 
ensure a solid track record of project execution and 
margin stability, including rigorous monitoring of the cost 
base in line with BAM’s portfolio. Other key elements are 
working capital management and the execution of a 
property divestment programme.
Example KPI: Return on capital employed (ROCE) >10 per cent by 2020.    For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance.
227
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Employee recruitment, development and retention
Encourage 
employees to use 
their skills, abilities 
and experience in a 
way that adds value 
to the company and 
delivers personal 
growth, technical 
innovation and 
profit.BAM increases its intellectual capital and the human 
capital of its stakeholders by investing in employee 
development. Although the impact of the development 
of employees on society in general is minimal, it is 
much greater within BAM, where it contributes to the 
involvement of employees and lifelong learning. BAM 
recognises the importance of groupwide development 
and implementation of the talent strategy and agenda, 
succession planning and internal mobility, based on 
BAM’s organisational development and strategic 
objectives. Talent management allows BAM to attract, 
develop, motivate and retain productive, engaged 
employees, now and in the future. BAM is committed to 
the principles of equal opportunity and diversity. The 
Group believes that diverse teams are better aligned 
with the wishes and expectations of its clients and to 
society in all BAM markets. In line with its vision on 
diversity, BAM wants to attract people with different 
profiles and backgrounds to build teams that are 
suitable for future challenges and will contribute to the 
achievement of BAM’s strategic goals.The Group’s development approach is aimed at 
encouraging employees to take their development into 
their own hands, with the manager/company taking on a 
supporting and facilitating role. The employee’s personal 
development is recorded in a personal learning and 
development plan. These plans are evaluated annually 
between manager and employee. BAM offers employees 
various tools that can be used in their personal 
development, and which are all accessible via the internal 
My BAM Career site. With the BAM Business School, BAM 
offers an integrated approach to support employees in 
achieving their goals. The training portfolio enables 
employees to keep up with their professional knowledge 
and to further develop the broader skills related to their 
role and career paths. Courses include topics like integrity, 
entrepreneurship, commerce, new contract forms, project 
and risk management, procurement and financial 
management. The Group aims to foster an open culture of 
learning and exchanging knowledge in the form of training 
and education, building on the knowledge and expertise 
available.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
Energy and emissions
Energy 
consumption for 
BAM’s direct 
activities and the 
entire lifecycle of its 
products, and the 
CO2 emissions as a 
result of this energy 
consumption.The Group’s energy consumption contributes to a 
significant amount of its costs and is an indicator of the 
efficiency of its processes. The construction industry 
has a high energy consumption compared to others, 
therefore BAM’s energy use has a major impact on 
society. Buildings represent about 40 per cent of energy 
demand in the European Union (EU). The renovation of 
existing buildings represents more than 17 per cent of 
the estimated primary energy saving potential within 
the EU up to 2050. In terms of energy and emissions, 
BAM can create value by building energy-efficient 
buildings and renovating buildings according to higher 
energy performance standards, since approximately 80 
per cent of total CO2 emissions are emitted in the 
building’s lifecycle. Climate adaptation and mitigation 
options can help address climate change, but no single 
option is sufficient by itself. Effective implementation 
depends on policies and cooperation from 
governmental bodies. Urgent action is needed to 
significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions and BAM 
supports global developments like the UN’s Sustainable 
Development Goals (see chapter 2.2 Strategy for BAM’s 
alignment), the Paris Agreement and the EU Emissions 
Trading System.BAM innovates and works with value chain partners to 
identify possible reductions in both upstream and 
downstream manufacturing and operational processes.
BAM has calculated its carbon footprint in order to identify 
the main influences and therefore the key areas for 
potential reduction of emissions. The Group has set 
targets for both absolute and relative reduction of 
emissions. BAM monitors and benchmarks progress on 
these targets on a quarterly basis for different activities 
within the company. The Company focuses on reducing its 
direct CO2 emissions by lowering energy consumption 
during the construction process. The Group also maintains 
its efforts to use higher proportions of renewable energy. 
By joining the Dutch Climate Coalition (Nederlandse 
Klimaat Coalitie), BAM has committed to: 
• Having climate-neutral operations by 2050 at the latest 
• Providing insights into its carbon footprint 
• Setting interim targets for climate neutrality 
• Becoming an ambassador of the Dutch Climate 
Coalition within the construction industry.
Example KPI: To be included in CDP Climate A list Leadership.   For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.3 Environmental performance.
228
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Circular economy
An economy which 
aims to keep 
materials, 
components and 
products at their 
highest utility and 
value, at all times.BAM has a continuous need for raw materials, water 
and energy. This means that primary processes are 
influenced by the increasing volatility of raw materials 
and energy prices. The products made by the Group 
must also comply with current and future 
requirements, with particular attention to the 
significant influence of changing laws and regulations. 
Waste production influences BAM’s licence to operate 
and is an indicator for the efficiency of the business 
processes. In addition, waste products lead to costs 
due to the low value of residual material. 
Approximately 25-30 per cent of the total demolition 
and construction waste in the EU is generated by the 
construction process. Being a large construction 
company, the Group’s waste production has an impact 
on society. Since about 83 per cent of all materials is 
recycled, it involves large quantities that have to be 
reused. BAM has identified opportunities for 
innovation on the basis of changing customer requests, 
especially with regard to greater attention for the 
recycling of materials and the use of sustainable 
materials, including wood from sustainable forests.First, BAM is innovating to reduce material consumption 
during the design process. The Group works with its 
supply chain partners to identify more sustainable 
alternatives for production and operational processes, 
both upstream and downstream. BAM focuses on 
improving the recycling potential of materials and 
renewable materials by asking its most important 
suppliers to provide insight into their origin. 
BAM has set targets for waste reduction, waste recycling 
and responsible sourcing. The Group monitors and 
benchmarks progress on these targets on a quarterly basis 
for various activities within the company. BAM is also the 
only major construction member of the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation’s CE100 programme, which promotes the 
circular economy.
Example KPI: source 100 per cent sustainable timber by 2020.XX  For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.3 Environmental performance.
Local community engagement
The relationships 
with the 
communities 
surrounding BAM’s 
activities.By its very nature, the Group’s construction and 
renovation work has an impact on the local community, 
residents and other users of buildings and infrastructure 
and society as a whole. Community engagement affects 
the Group’s licence to operate and enables BAM to build 
faster, leading directly to results. The Group’s impact on 
its surroundings immediately affects its employees and 
local suppliers. And BAM’s community engagement 
improves jobs and education in its environment, 
contributing to society as well. This requires a constant 
focus on everything BAM does to minimise the Group’s 
negative impact and create value for local communities 
by implementing community engagement programmes. 
Involvement of people from diverse backgrounds 
provides an opportunity to create social value. BAM 
actively supports social return, providing work for 
people who are unemployed for various reasons, for 
example due to poor education, health issues and 
people with disabilities. Through the support of BAM, 
these people benefit from ‘social return on investment’ 
initiatives.For many of its projects, BAM identifies the local interests 
and, on that basis, chooses the best approach to increase 
the license to operate, which may mean that BAM 
participates in local events. BAM also participates in the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme in the United Kingdom, 
as well as its Dutch equivalent (Bewuste Bouwers).
Example KPI: Enhance one million lives in local communities by 2020.   For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
229
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Innovation
The creation of new 
viable business 
offerings. Innovation influences the ability to adapt to changing 
market needs and competitiveness in relation to 
current competition and future newcomers to the 
BAM market. Digital construction is a main theme 
within BAM’s innovation agenda. The benefits of 
digital construction for BAM and its stakeholders are 
higher resource productivity, end-user value, 
sustainability and outcome predictability. BAM shapes its future portfolio over two tracks. Both 
tracks are supported by an organisation and a lively 
ecosystem for innovation. In both tracks BAM focuses 
strongly on digital innovation.
• Track one, ‘Business innovation’, follows an innovation 
stage gate-process to improve and align BAM’s current 
innovation portfolio.
• Track two, ‘Scaling edges’, uses scalable learning and 
sprint methodology to develop and scale new business 
offerings at the edges of BAM’s current business. 
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 2.2 Strategy.
Procurement strategy
Selecting suppliers 
and subcontractors 
and stimulating 
them to practise 
their skills and 
improve their 
products in a way 
that adds long-term 
value to BAM and 
its clients as well as 
the suppliers and 
subcontractors, 
providing process 
and product 
innovation and 
profit.Labour policies of the Group’s suppliers and 
subcontractors can affect BAM’s reputation. Loss of 
reputation can lead to less work. The suppliers and 
subcontractors of the Group must at least adapt their 
policies to the BAM standards in order to be able to 
work for the company. As a result, these standards 
also have a positive influence outside the Group.To integrate the development of the Group’s supply chain 
and its values, BAM strives for added value, long-term, 
mutually beneficial relationships with partners that can help 
to improve the Group’s supply chain. In order to achieve 
this, BAM is developing selected groups of suppliers and 
subcontractors on different levels – unit, operating 
company, country and Group level – within BAM. By having 
a preferred group of suppliers and subcontractors BAM is 
able to further interact with the supply chain on a regular 
basis, thereby creating the possibility to challenge each 
other to learn, innovate and improve its joint performance 
to the client. Based on the level of the relationship, there are 
different types of suppliers and subcontractors, such as 
preferred suppliers, partners and co-makers. Based on the 
challenges in client markets, development in the supply 
chain and performance of the suppliers and subcontractors, 
the position and role of the suppliers and subcontractors 
can change. The challenge is, on the one hand, to select 
up-front supply chain partners, products and services that 
really make a difference to the value proposition of BAM, 
and on the other hand let go of suppliers and subcontractors 
who add value. Apart from a more standardised due 
diligence, suppliers are assessed against five different 
themes: safety, quality, total cost, logistics and engineering 
and process. If they score below the required level, BAM 
starts a dialogue to improve their performance. If they are 
not willing and/or able to improve their performance, they 
will be excluded from future work with BAM.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
230
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementDefinition Impact Management approach
Fair tax
Compliance to the 
letter and spirit of 
tax laws resulting in 
paying an 
appropriate 
amount of tax 
according to where 
value is created 
within the normal 
course of and being 
transparent about 
approach and 
outcome.Tax is a relevant subject for BAM and its stakeholders. 
Tax payments to governments can contribute to the 
development of countries. On the other hand, 
optimisation of taxes is in the interest of the company 
and its financial position.Therefore, BAM strives to come to a responsible approach 
to tax and supports it as an integral part of its 
sustainability agenda.
BAM’s tax policy statement is published on the website 
www.bam.com.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.1 Financial performance. 
Human rights
Ensuring 
compliance within 
the entire value 
chain regarding the 
basic rights and 
freedoms to which 
all humans are 
considered to be 
entitled, often held 
to include the rights 
to equality, a fair 
trial, freedom from 
slavery and 
freedom of thought 
and expression.Human rights practices within BAM and its supply 
chain affect the reputation of the Group and are 
associated with the risk of losing work. Subcontractors 
have to bring their practices up to at least BAM 
standards to be able to work for the company and in 
doing so will have a positive influence outside of the 
Group as well. BAM has signed a framework agreement with Building and 
Wood Workers’ International (BWI), to promote and 
protect employee rights. By signing the agreement 
BAM  agreed to recognise and respect:
• The fundamental principles of human rights as defined 
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
• The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work
• The ILO Conventions in force
• The ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning 
Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy
• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Within the agreement, BAM also endorses the need for fair 
negotiations with national trade unions and acknowledges 
that corruption, bribery and anti-competitive behaviour 
are not acceptable. Regular meetings are held with 
management representatives from BAM and trade union 
organisations, including BWI, to monitor implementation 
of the agreement. 
Subcontractors must comply with labour conditions as 
stated in BAM’s purchasing conditions. The UK Modern 
Slavery Act 2015 requires all larger companies to prepare a 
statement of its activities in this area. Both BAM Construct 
UK and BAM Nuttall have initiated working groups and are 
working towards developing their approaches.
 For BAM’s performance, see chapter 3.2 Social performance.
231
Integrated Report 2018 Royal BAM Group nvValue
creationBusiness 
performance GovernanceSupervisory
BoardFinancial
statementsOther 
information AppendicesMessage  
from the CEORisk
managementFollow us on
®
