Values &
Expectations ofTHE
Environmental, Social & 
Governance ReportOur ProductsOur PeopleOur Commitment
Our OperationsAugust 2020
Dear Stakeholders,
Since its beginnings, RPM has held the  
belief that stockholder value isn’t a strategy —  
it’s an outcome. 
When it comes to responsibly serving our 
three most important constituencies — our 
associates, customers and stockholders — we 
refuse to compromise on doing the right things 
the right way. Through our Code of Conduct,  
The Values & Expectations of 168, we’ve made a 
lasting commitment to these constituencies and 
the communities in which we conduct business 
that we will operate with honesty and integrity. 
Society today is asking more of companies 
than ever before when it comes to ensuring 
safe, ethical and sustainable business practices. 
But the truth is, these things have always 
mattered. At RPM, they are paramount values 
that have been part of our culture and ethos for 
decades.
In the mid-’70s, RPM made the progressive 
decision to switch from an inside Board of 
Directors to a predominantly independent 
board — long before it was commonplace or 
required practice. Our Board has included 
women and minority members since the early 
’90s. Most recently, we added the Rooney Rule 
to our Governance and Nominating Committee 
charter to ensure we always interview diverse 
candidates when filling new Board positions.
As a multinational company with nearly 
15,000 associates, RPM thrives by being an 
attractive place to work for a diverse group 
of associates. We continue to offer premium 
benefits and to invest in company-wide 
leadership development. These efforts not only 
help us attract and retain the best talent — they 
allow our associates to share in the success 
that they help create.
Yours very truly,
Frank C. Sullivan
Chairman and CEO
RPM International Inc.   “The truth is,  
these things  
have always  
mattered.”
Finally, our commitment to do the right 
thing extends to the many consumers and 
professionals who trust and use our products. 
There’s nothing more sustainable than extending 
the useful life of something that already exists — 
whether it’s a swing set in someone’s backyard 
or the roof of a manufacturing facility — and 
RPM is proactive in driving sustainable product 
innovation. From creating greener chemistries to 
developing building solutions that divert materials 
from landfills, we are leaders in manufacturing 
safer and more energy-efficient products. 
While this Environmental, Social and 
Governance Report demonstrates our 
commitment to pursuing sustainable best 
practices, we recognize that there’s more work 
to be done. We are proud of our track record 
of success in taking care of our associates, 
customers and communities, which is how 
we have and will continue to create greater 
stockholder value and leave a lasting legacy we 
can all celebrate. 
On behalf of RPM and all our associates,  
thank you for recognizing our commitment to 
delivering better outcomes for you and for the 
world we all share. 3168Values &
Expectations ofTHE
RPM International Inc.
2628 Pearl Road • Medina, Ohio 44258 
www.rpminc.com
1-330-273-5090
info@rpminc.com
LETTER OF INTRODUCTION
OUR COMMITMENT
4 ..........  RPM Code of Conduct 
5 ..........  Governance 2
4
8
21OUR PEOPLE
9 ..........  Talent Development
12 .........  Diversity & Inclusion 
14 .........  Benefits
15 .........  Health & Safety
19 .........  Philanthropy & Community Involvement
OUR OPERATIONS
22 ........  Environmental Impact
OUR PRODUCTS
26 ........  Sustainability & Consumer Safety
OUR REPORT  
30 ........  Materiality Assessment
31 .........  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) IndexEnvironmental, Social & Governance Report
26
30
Cover photo:  
Drakensberg  
Amphitheatre in 
South Africa168THE VALUES AND EXPECTATIONS OF 168  
We refer to our Code of Conduct as The Values & 
Expectations of 168. The number 168 represents the number 
of hours in a week, but more than that, it exemplifies our 
commitment to ethical business conduct and always using 
the gifts of life and the limited time we have to do the right 
things, the right way, for the right reasons. The Values & 
Expectations of 168 not only outlines our core principles 
of integrity, commitment, responsible entrepreneurship 
and moral courage, it represents a choice we make daily 
— to hold ourselves accountable. Living The Values & 
Expectations of 168 is how we truly create long-term value 
for our stakeholders.RPM, as a company, is guided 
by the belief that what benefits our 
associates and our customers also 
benefits our stockholders. Promoting 
good governance practices is our 
commitment to balance the interests 
of these important groups, fairly 
and ethically, while also being a 
responsible corporate citizen for our 
stakeholders throughout the global 
community. For more information  
on RPM, see our Annual Report at 
www.rpminc.com.Our Commitment
OUR CORE PRINCIPLES
INTEGRITY: Be open and honest. Accurately and openly 
disclose information in business transactions. Deception 
and retaliation have no place at RPM and will not  
be tolerated.
COMMITMENT: Follow the law, our policies and 
procedures. Safeguard our companies’ property, assets 
and interests, and ensure our focus is on the collective 
goals of stockholders, associates, customers, consumers 
and communities. 
RESPONSIBLE ENTREPRENEURSHIP: Search for 
innovative ways to compete and win in the markets we 
serve. Compete vigorously, but always do so fairly and in 
adherence to free enterprise and competition standards, 
environmental and human rights principles, and with 
respect for our suppliers, customers, competitors and the 
communities in which we operate.
MORAL COURAGE: Do the right thing, even when it is 
tough, and regardless of whether someone is watching or 
if you will receive credit.
45
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Committee ensures that the Board represents 
the correct balance of skills, knowledge, diversity of 
gender and ethnicity, backgrounds and experience. 
Directors are elected by a majority of votes cast 
by stockholders. In an uncontested election, any 
nominee for Director who receives more votes 
“withheld” from his or her election than votes “for” 
election must tender his or her resignation.
Each year, the Committee administers self-
evaluations of the Board and its various committees, 
and the Board’s Compensation Committee administers 
an evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer.
Among the other functions set forth in its charter, 
the Committee oversees RPM’s efforts to identify 
sustainability risks and opportunities, and the 
development and implementation of goals relating 
to those. Maintaining a diverse and inclusive Board 
ensures the voices of our outside stakeholders are 
well-represented. RPM’s governance practices promote balanced decision-making, diversity and inclusion, and 
transparency across our operations. By pursuing best practices in Board governance and diversity,  
we show all our stakeholders that their voices matter.
The Governance and Nominating Committee (the “Committee”) of our Board of Directors  
(the “Board”) considers and reports periodically to the full Board on matters relating to corporate 
governance, including, but not limited to:
•  Developing and recommending a set of corporate governance principles;
•  Identifying diverse candidates who are qualified to become Board members;
•  Recommending nominees for a Director role; 
• Administering the Board’s evaluation process, including sharing the results with the  
Board for discussion and deliberation; and
• Overseeing our Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) strategy
BOARD INDEPENDENCE
RPM prioritizes the interests of all 
key stakeholders through a balanced 
Board of trusted individuals. Since 
1977, the majority of RPM’s Board 
has been comprised of independent 
Directors — nearly three decades before 
it was required by the New York Stock 
Exchange. Additionally, only independent 
directors have served on the Board’s 
Audit, Compensation, and Governance 
and Nominating Committees. Board 
independence guides fair and balanced 
decision-making processes by diluting 
the concentration of power from 
company insiders while keeping 
stakeholder interests top of mind. GOVERNANCE Environmental, Social & Governance Report6Our Commitment
A HISTORY OF  
GENDER DIVERSITY 
We are proud of  
our long-standing  
commitment to  
gender diversity,  
particularly  
on our Board. 
•  Lorrie Gustin   
1992 to 2002  
•  Dr. Jerry Sue Thornton  
1999 to 2017
•  Jenniffer D. Deckard   
2015 to present
•  Julie A. Lagacy   
2017 to presentBOARD DIVERSITY
When identifying and 
evaluating candidates for Board 
roles, the Committee actively 
seeks qualified candidates who 
reflect diverse backgrounds. In 
January 2020, RPM formalized 
this commitment by adopting 
the Rooney Rule for filling Board 
vacancies — a mandate to include 
diverse candidates in the selection 
pool for each new Board vacancy, 
accounting for diversity in 
ethnicity and gender.
STRUCTURE
BOARD COMPOSITION
•  12 Directors total
•  11 Directors who are independent under 
RPM’s Corporate Governance Guidelines 
and the New York Stock Exchange listing 
standards
•  2 female Directors and 1 minority Director
LEAD DIRECTOR
One independent Director serves as Lead 
Director of the Board. The Lead Director 
presides at all executive sessions of the 
independent Directors and at other meetings 
where the Chairman of the Board is not present. 
Independent Directors meet in executive session 
each year in January, April and July, without 
management present.
BOARD COMMITTEES
•  Audit
•  Compensation
•  Governance and Nominating
•  Executive
All Directors on the Audit, Compensation, and 
Governance and Nominating Committees are 
independent.
7
OWNERSHIP
STOCK OWNERSHIP 
As stockholders, our Directors and executive 
officers are subject to stock ownership 
guidelines.
•  All Directors and executive officers satisfy  
the applicable minimum stock ownership 
guidelines or are within the grace period 
provided to achieve compliance. 
• Short sales and hedging transactions of 
RPM’s stock by Directors and officers are 
prohibited under RPM’s insider trading policy.
• Pledging of RPM’s stock by Directors, officers 
and associates is also prohibited, subject to 
limited exceptions.
CLAWBACK POLICY 
RPM’s clawback policy provides for the 
clawback of certain bonuses or incentive 
compensation awarded to an executive officer 
if, as the result of his or her misconduct, RPM is 
required to restate all or a portion of its financial 
statements.
CONTACT
Y ou may contact the Board in writing at:   
Board of Directors Communications
c/o General Counsel
RPM International Inc.
P .O. Box 777
Medina, Ohio 44258
Or by email:  
directors@rpminc.comSTATEMENT OF GOVERNANCE POLICY
RPM’s fundamental objective is to build long-
term stockholder value by profitably growing our 
businesses and consistently delivering strong 
financial performance. We recognize that our 
ability to generate value for our stockholders 
is inextricably linked to our ability to provide 
value to our principal stakeholders, including our 
customers and associates.
• We must continue to earn the ongoing 
commitment and trust of our stockholders by 
delivering the solid returns expected by them 
from an investment in RPM.
• We must continue to offer our customers 
innovative, high-quality products and services 
at competitive prices.
• We must attract and retain high-quality 
associates at every level of our organization, 
provide them with the tools they need to do 
their jobs, and compensate them in such a 
way as to closely align their interests with our 
long-term success.
• We must conduct our business in conformity 
with The Values & Expectations of 168, 
including complying with all legal and ethical 
standards, and working to be exemplary 
corporate citizens of the communities in 
which we work.
In short, we manage our businesses to create 
wealth for our stockholders. Creating value for 
our other stakeholders is how we have achieved, 
and will continue to achieve, that objective.
8
At RPM, we understand that our company is 
only as strong as the team behind it. Incorporating 
sustainable best practices in professional 
development, benefits, health and safety and 
community involvement ensures that we can 
continue to hire the best associates and retain them 
throughout the course of their careers. ASSOCIATES BY REGION
North America: 9,424
Europe: 3,263
South America: 870
Asia: 379
Africa: 340 
Australia/New Zealand: 197 
Middle East: 148 
Total: 14,621Our People
We offer:
• Highly competitive compensation and benefit 
packages; 
• Educational programs to develop the next 
generation of leadership;
• An entrepreneurial culture that values innovation, 
hard work, collaboration, a hunger for learning and 
work-life balance;
• A work environment grounded in fairness, integrity  
and respect;
• Equal employment opportunities; and
• Many philanthropic and community involvement 
opportunities.
AS OF MAY 31, 20209
LEADERSHIP TRAINING 
The entrepreneurial culture of RPM is one 
that emphasizes lifelong learning and personal 
growth. By developing and investing in our 
associates through leadership training, we are 
investing in the long-term success of RPM.  
THE GOLD TEAM
RPM’s Global Organizational Leadership 
Development (GOLD) Team is responsible 
for creating a leadership-led learning culture 
across RPM. Its goals are to:
• Establish and evaluate leadership 
development programs for RPM;
• Identify and share relevant industry trends 
and best practices with RPM leaders; and
• Serve as a leadership development liaison for 
various constituencies within RPM.
Each year, our groups nominate associates 
to participate in corporate-wide leadership 
education programs overseen by the GOLD 
Team, including Leaders of the Future, RPM 
University, the Strategic Leader Staff Ride 
and individual programs offered by the Center 
for Creative Leadership (CCL). Through these 
robust initiatives, our associates advance their 
skills, learn best practices and become more 
highly effective leaders. 
LEADERS OF THE FUTURE 
A two-day educational workshop where 
emerging leaders develop valuable leadership 
skills to prepare them for future leadership 
opportunities.  
In addition to providing education about 
RPM and its groups, Leaders of the Future 
teaches critical leadership skills such as 
emotional intelligence and leadership strategies 
tailored to the participant’s company and 
job function. After the workshop, follow-up 
coaching and mentorship help participants 
track ongoing progress toward their goals and 
drive future collaboration.RPM UNIVERSITY (RPMU)  
A year-long, holistic training experience 
that combines leadership development with 
health and wellness to help participants find 
balance as a leader.
RPMU begins with a three-day intensive 
retreat facilitated by CCL and RPM’s executive 
team. The program uses face-to-face and digital 
learning to help leaders hone their leadership 
style, set personal goals, collaborate on projects 
with peers, and incorporate health and wellness 
into their daily routines. The curriculum is 
customized to the unique challenges faced 
by RPM and the individuals alike, allowing for 
widespread participation.   TALENT DEVELOPMENT
THE CENTER FOR CREATIVE  
LEADERSHIP (CCL)  is a top-ranked, 
global provider of innovative leadership  
development solutions to leaders across 
six continents and 130 countries.RETAINING & DEVELOPING  
TOP TALENT
Of the RPM leaders completing  
the program:
50% later 
received a 
promotion>90%  
were  
retained
Environmental, Social & Governance Report10Our People
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
RPM regularly invests in training and development 
programs and technologies for our many 
associates worldwide. By providing our associates 
with opportunities for professional development, 
we retain talented, engaged individuals who 
also share our commitment to continuous 
improvement. 
THE STRATEGIC LEADER  
STAFF RIDE PROGRAM 
A three-day, immersive seminar during 
which executives explore strategic dilemmas 
historically faced by military leaders to learn 
effective leadership strategies. 
Facilitated by U.S. Army War College 
faculty, the Staff Ride Program teaches 
executives how to address various leadership 
challenges through an exciting, focused 
training experience. After meeting with RPM 
management and Board leaders, participants 
take a “staff ride” of the Gettysburg Battlefield 
and historic Carlisle Barracks, led by military 
historians and leadership specialists. The 
hands-on curriculum focuses on strategic 
planning, executive presence, communication, 
leadership tactics and more. 
THE CENTER FOR CREATIVE LEADERSHIP
Comprehensive programs that equip 
executives with the knowledge and resources 
they need to become highly effective leaders.
CCL programs typically span 4 to 5 business 
days and incorporate assessments, classroom 
training, one-on-one executive coaching 
and leadership 360 evaluations to create a 
customized experience for each participant. RPM 
executives participate in programs as part of the 
company’s robust partnership with CCL:
•  Leading Strategically: Provides leaders 
with skills to handle complexities, bridge 
boundaries, shape organizational culture and 
build success;•  Leadership at the Peak: Demonstrates how 
leaders play enormous roles finding new ways 
to solve far-reaching, complex challenges; and
•  Leading for Organizational Impact: Provides 
insight into strategically effective leadership 
by exploring the nuances and big picture of the 
organization’s overall mission.
11
Our People
RISE PROGRAM –  
PARTNERING TO CLOSE THE SKILLS GAP
A tuition reimbursement program 
that gives participating associates the 
opportunity to earn a no-cost degree 
in construction management and gain 
real-world experience through field 
apprenticeship.
Through the Roofing Individuals  
Succeed through Education (RISE) program, 
associates can earn a construction 
management degree on a part- or full-time 
basis with 100% of their tuition paid by 
Tremco, part of RPM’s Construction Products 
Group. The program is a partnership with 
SkillsUSA. NEW IN 2020: 
UPGRADED TALENT MANAGEMENT  
On January 1, 2020, RPM upgraded to its new 
Oracle Cloud Talent Management System. 
The upgraded system allows for improved 
efficiency in managing internal training needs 
and talent management functions. With RISE, Tremco is working to:
• Engage with individuals who are traditionally 
underrepresented in the industry; 
• Reduce negative stigmas associated with the 
field by introducing roofing as a career;
• Identify industry skills gaps;
• Share how technology and green initiatives 
have made roofing smarter and safer; and
• Develop national roofing technical standards 
to be taught in SkillsUSA classrooms.
CHANGING THE CONVERSATION  
By partnering with SkillsUSA through 
RISE, Tremco is working to change the 
perception of careers in roofing and  
address the current labor shortage.  
Offering educational opportunities like 
RISE helps attract associates to Tremco, 
while retaining our current talent by  
investing in their careers.
12Our People
Women@Rust-Oleum: 
 A Community to Champion Women
Rust-Oleum’s Women@Rust-Oleum community 
is a forum for female associates to connect, 
be inspired and cultivate their careers. With 
executive-level support, Women@Rust-Oleum 
carries out its mission to invest in women 
within the company by providing them with 
tools and support to grow their careers. 
Community activities range from leadership 
development through “lunch and learn” 
programs and social gatherings, to charitable 
outreach. Nearly 70% of Rust-Oleum’s female 
corporate associate base participates in this 
robust, growing community.DIVERSITY  
& INCLUSION
At RPM, we have built a highly 
engaged workforce, in part, 
through our commitment to 
create a diverse and inclusive 
culture — one that is ingrained in 
our corporate practices, policies, 
and internal and external 
programs. With the consistent 
support and dedication of 
leadership at all levels, we foster 
an environment that supports 
our associates as individuals and 
helps them thrive.
COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
13Our People
COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
Tremco and Weatherproofing Technologies Inc. 
(“WTI”), are actively involved in advancing diversity 
and inclusion efforts through several initiatives:
• Partnering with departments of corrections   
Tremco and WTI take their federally accredited 
Roof Training Apprenticeship Program (sanctioned 
by the Department of Labor) inside the walls of 
correctional facilities to train designated offenders 
on the concepts of roof systems, roof conditions, 
roof diagnosis, roof repair and restoration. Upon 
release from incarceration, WTI guarantees 
employment opportunities to qualified participants 
within a pay range of $16 to $23 per hour, plus 
benefits, depending on roof competency. Those 
hired are also given opportunities to pursue various 
career paths inside WTI, ranging from roofing 
technician to project manager to supervisor. 
Successful employment gives the individuals 
access to the RISE program and free higher- 
education opportunities.
• Advancing women in roofing   
 Tremco and WTI are founding sponsors of 
National Women in Roofing (NWIR), a volunteer-
based organization that provides educational 
and advancement opportunities for women in 
the roofing industry. Being involved in NWIR 
enables the sponsoring companies to be leaders 
in providing mentoring, education, networking and 
employment opportunities that will shape inclusion 
efforts across the industry. The partnership also 
allows Tremco and WTI to have direct interactions 
with women regarding the challenges they face in 
the industry and what can be done to make the 
workplace more accommodating. Emphasizing 
diversity and inclusion has undoubtedly expanded 
the companies’ reputations and reach. All female 
associates at Tremco and WTI are encouraged to 
become members.• Supporting individuals with disabilities   
In the Netherlands, Tremco partners with the 
Avelingen Group, an organization that connects 
people with disabilities with employment 
opportunities. The Arkel facility has an entire 
function dedicated to this effort, so that 
individuals from Avelingen Group can perform 
sub-assembly work to support production of 
various products. 
• Championing inclusive diversity policies  
Tremco illbruck serves as a model for other 
European companies when it comes to creating 
diversity policies that are specifically inclusive of 
transgender associates. The company developed 
its policy in 2011, when one of its sales associates 
shared that she would be transitioning to become 
a woman. The associate engaged closely with 
senior management during the period of her 
transition to help design Tremco illbruck’s diversity 
policy for future transgender associates, ensuring 
the company can provide adequate support.Tremco Paves the Way for Careers in Construction
14Our People
Our leadership has long understood that to 
attract and retain top talent, and to share the 
benefits of a successful business, RPM must 
maintain a premium benefits program for its 
associates. Rather than cutting costs in areas 
that benefit our associates, we make it a priority 
to operate in a way that prioritizes their health 
and wellbeing. We drive success together by 
offering exceptional benefits, opportunities for 
advancement and a workplace of empowerment, 
opportunity and respect.
U.S. BENEFIT PROGRAMS
For U.S. associates, RPM offers industry-
leading benefits, including defined benefit 
pension plans, medical, telehealth, tuition 
reimbursement, associate assistance and an 
employer-matched 401(k). 
•   RETIREMENT PLANS. Defined benefit 
pension plans and a matched 401(k) plan are 
available in the U.S. for eligible associates. 
Many of our operating companies globally 
also have defined contribution plans with 
varying levels of employer contributions.  
RPM’s investment in retirement plans helps 
its associates plan for financial stability 
during their post-employment years.•  COMPREHENSIVE COVERAGE. RPM provides life 
insurance, accidental death and long-term disability 
insurance for all full-time associates in the U.S. and 
Canada. Such associates enrolled in the RPM medical 
plan can also get support and specialized attention 
for chronic or specialized conditions, including heart 
issues, cancer, diabetes and pregnancy. Dedicated 
insurance policies for medical care, emergency 
evacuation and general assistance  are also in place 
for our associates who engage in business-related 
travel. 
•   TUITION REIMBURSEMENT. Tuition assistance 
is available for associates who are pursuing either 
bachelor’s or master’s degrees in a job-related field. 
•   ASSOCIATE ASSISTANCE.  Many aspects of daily 
life take associates’ time away from their work and 
families. RPM strives to lessen this burden through our 
comprehensive associate assistance program, which 
provides our U.S.-based associates and their families 
with behavioral health and counseling services, work-
life solutions, legal guidance and financial wellness/
planning assistance.$51.5  
million 
RPM’s 2019 
U.S. defined 
benefit 
pension plan 
contributionRPM’s U.S. 401(k)  
Employer Match
100% – on the first  
3% contributed
50% – on >4%  
contributedBENEFITSOur People
Our associates are our highest priority, 
and they trust us to provide a safe, positive 
work environment where they can thrive. 
Our operating companies follow many best 
practices to ensure our associates come to 
work feeling secure, confident and empowered 
to do their jobs.
OUR SAFETY CULTURE
RPM cultivates a proactive safety culture 
by setting high expectations and operational 
standards. We achieve this by:
• Providing ongoing training;
• Conducting regular risk assessments; 
• Investigating work injury accidents to identify 
and correct root causes; and
• Actively enforcing accident prevention and 
reporting policies.
RPM companies must maintain up-to-
date health and safety certifications and are 
responsible for tracking safety incidents, 
labor hours and lost time, as well as reporting 
results to RPM.HEALTH & SAFETYCOVID-19 RESPONSE
Our commitment to our associates 
is apparent by actions taken during the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
• We limit outside visitors.
• We set entry processes, including health 
assessments, while taking steps to 
protect associate confidentiality.
• We publish clear guidelines on hygiene 
and facility cleanliness.
• We instruct on self-monitoring for illness.
• We assist associates with alternatives to 
public transport.
• We enforce social distancing protocols.
• We ensure our associates have proper 
personal protective equipment.
•  We encourage associates who can work 
from home to do so.
COVID PHILANTHROPY 
In an effort to help support the critical 
work of healthcare workers and mitigate the 
spread of Covid-19 in Santiago, Chile, Euclid 
CAVE teamed up with Flowcrete (both 
part of the Construction Products Group) 
to donate its Flowfresh MF antimicrobial 
flooring system to the Covid-19 unit at 
the community’s Ignacio Domeyko Family 
Health Center. The flooring system, 
designed to protect surfaces from harmful 
microbial growth in between floor 
cleaning cycles, will also be installed at 
other healthcare centers throughout 
Santiago.
1516Our People
Planning for a Safe Future
Building a safety culture is a continuous process. As technology 
changes, and RPM advances its capabilities and footprint, there 
are always new hazards that must be addressed to remain a 
best-in-class business. That is why our ongoing operational 
improvement plan specifically identifies key areas for company-
wide improvements in associate safety — including how we 
develop new procedures and controls, how we use education and 
training, and how we share safety best practices.WORKFORCE SAFETY TRAINING  
& INCIDENT REPORTING
With many associates and manufacturing 
facilities worldwide, RPM actively looks for  
new opportunities where we can enhance  
safety training and improve worker safety.  
Our investments in education, training and 
auditing teach our associates how to recognize 
and report potential safety hazards before an 
incident occurs. This alllows us to minimize any 
unsafe condition in the workplace and enforce 
safety procedures. 
NEW ASSOCIATE TRAINING
Onboarding for new associates includes a 
job hazard analysis review that covers inherent 
hazards, and the proper safety protocols that 
will protect them. This training, along with 
continuing education, helps our associates 
develop confidence in how to do their jobs 
safely and improves associate satisfaction 
across our operating companies. 
SAFETY AUDITS & CONSULTING
RPM regularly conducts safety reviews at 
its manufacturing locations. Those locations 
that underperform in safety best practices are 
assigned an additional safety inspection during 
the year to evaluate their remediation plans. 
If there are specific areas of improvement 
to address — such as electrical safety, fall 
protection or fire safety — RPM will bring in third-party experts to provide targeted training 
in those areas.  
 
INCIDENT REPORTING
If an individual is injured at one of its facilities, 
RPM requires a full investigation and incident 
report, with an analysis of the underlying 
root causes that contributed to the incident. 
Corrective actions are undertaken immediately 
and, if the incident was significant, information 
about the incident is shared company-wide  
to promote safety best practices across all  
of our companies.
 
17Our People
OUR INVESTMENT
Because electrical safety is a life-critical 
practice, we employ a formal electrical safety 
training program. The two-pronged program 
involves hiring third-party electrical experts to:
• Evaluate the efficacy of our facilities’ 
electrical distribution systems; and
• Educate associates on perceived safety 
gaps, such as equipment performance, 
loose connections and fuses, etc.
RPM has been investing in infrared 
cameras as inspection tools for its facilities 
so that associates can self-inspect electrical 
equipment and report issues as part of their 
routine maintenance process. 
COMPANY SPOTLIGHTIMPACT
• We keep associates from using unsafe electrical 
equipment.
• We identify opportunities to upgrade to new,  
safer equipment.
• We drive more efficient electrical consumption  
at RPM locations.
•    We identify other issues such as air-line leaks, 
worn bearings and roof issues that will reduce 
energy usage once fixed.
Tor Coatings’ EHS Operating Procedures
Tor Coatings, part of RPM’s Consumer Group,  
 has implemented a series of high-level 
environmental health and safety operating 
procedures to reduce occupational hazards at its 
facilities. The UK-based manufacturer of specialty 
coatings prioritizes safety by:
• Conducting regular risk assessments related 
to material handling, noise, operational flow  
and fire;
• Holding periodic occupational health 
screenings for respiratory health and  
skin surveillance;
• Reporting progress on EHS initiatives 
through an incident management system, along 
with associate-driven hazard-spotting cards;
• Having a dedicated EHS team to monitor 
progress on policies, procedures and  
trainings; and
• Empowering associates to manage site safety.IN PRACTICE
Prioritizing 
Electrical Safety
REDUCING SAFETY INCIDENTS 
RPM’s success in educating associates on 
safety practices and procedures is reflected in our 
exceptional workers’ compensation experience and 
our strong safety record.
Experience Modification Rate (EMR) is a metric 
used by insurance companies to represent a 
company’s past cost of associate injuries and  
future risk. An EMR lower than the industry average 
(1.0) is considered very good. For more than 
five years, RPM has achieved an EMR below the 
industry average. 
WORKPLACE SECURITY 
RPM has invested heavily in security systems  
to protect our associates while they are working 
and keep intruders out. Associates are also trained 
to recognize and address potential security threats. 
Our facilities have defined procedures for when  
and how to notify local law enforcement in 
emergency scenarios. 
Physical security protocols include:
• Motion detectors, security and fire alarm 
systems;
• Security perimeters;
• Fencing around our properties;
• Buffer areas between fencing and our  
buildings; and
• Security cameras (both inside and outside  
of our facilities).
18Our People
OUR INVESTMENT
South Africa is one of the 
countries hit hardest by 
HIV, with an estimated 
20% of the population 
testing HIV positive. 
Having a compromised 
immune system puts 
HIV positive individuals at 
greater risk for contracting 
secondary diseases such as 
pneumonia and tuberculosis. StonCor 
Africa, part of RPM’s Performance Coatings 
Group, has incorporated HIV care as part 
of a highly focused effort to assist with 
associate health and wellness. For more 
than a decade, facility managers have hired 
doctors to visit plants bi-weekly to assess 
individual workers, and help them monitor 
and maintain their health.
 
IMPACT  Preventative medical care provided 
by StonCor Africa has been essential to 
keeping our associates in South Africa 
healthy and improving their quality of life.Helping Our People  
Prosper in Health GloballyIN PRACTICE
RPM EMR Results:  
2016-2020
4/1/19-4/1/20 .83
4/1/18-4/1/19 .81
4/1/17-4/1/18 .74
4/1/16-4/1/17  .72
4/1/15-4/1/16  .77 
Sixty percent of our manufacturing locations 
reported that their associates have operated 
during last calendar year without any incident, 
which is well above industry standards.
CARBOLINE RAISES FUNDS  
FOR ASSOCIATE CAUSES
St. Louis, Missouri-based Carboline has 
several fundraising programs to support 
associate health, safety and wellbeing. 
Carboline’s corporate social responsibility 
program allocates funds to individuals who 
need help due to serious illness, natural 
disasters or other personal crises. Recently, 
Carboline also created a scholarship 
program to supply financial assistance to 
associates who have children attending an 
accredited school.COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
19Our People
With nearly 15,000 associates across 
26 countries, RPM has many opportunities 
to make a positive impact on communities 
worldwide. A drive to support our associates 
and our communities is rooted deep in RPM’s 
culture and The Values & Expectations of 168 
— which is a continuing reminder to make the 
most of our time with our families, at work and 
in our charitable endeavors. Our desire to help 
others demonstrates the passion and beliefs of 
our associates.
FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS & SUPPORT
Over the past five years, RPM has donated 
or pledged nearly $7 million to approximately 
260 philanthropic organizations and another 
$200,000 to $300,000 of various in-kind 
donations — a commitment we plan to 
continue to uphold.
COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS
We contribute time, talent and resources to 
help our communities prosper economically, 
culturally and socially.
•   City Y ear Cleveland: RPM has served as a 
financial and strategic partner to City Year 
Cleveland since helping launch Cleveland’s 
program in 1996. Our executive leadership 
is directly involved in overseeing community 
outreach to further City Year’s mission of 
keeping at-risk youths in school and on track 
for graduation.
 
•  Cleveland School Of Science  
And Medicine ( CSSM ): Our CEO, Frank C. 
Sullivan, was a driving force in establishing 
CSSM to give urban students a pathway 
to the fields of science and medicine. He 
and other RPM leaders remain financially supportive and highly involved with CSSM, 
which partners with leading Cleveland 
medical institutions to prepare students for 
postsecondary education and careers in science, 
medicine and related fields.
PHILANTHROPY EFFORTS
The spirit of giving and support at RPM goes 
beyond the walls of our corporate headquarters. 
For example, since 2010, Tremco associates alone  
have contributed more than 13,140 hours of 
volunteer time as part of the company’s annual 
“Search of Service” initiative.  PHILANTHROPY 
& COMMUNITY 
INVOLVEMENT
TREMCO’S COMPANY GARDEN FEEDS 
LOCAL FAMILIES
Countless individuals in the Greater 
Cleveland area don’t have regular access 
to fresh produce and healthy food options. 
Many individuals live in areas where access 
to healthy food is limited or nonexistent, and 
even more lack the resources to purchase 
fresh produce, even if it is available. Tremco’s 
associate-run company garden partners 
with Brookside Hunger Center to distribute 
hundreds of pounds of fresh produce 
(including cucumbers, eggplants, yellow 
squash, zucchini, banana peppers, green 
peppers and tomatoes) each year to local 
families in need. Over the last eight years, the 
company has donated over 2,200 pounds of 
fresh produce to the local community.IN PRACTICERUST-OLEUM CARES SPARKS  
A PASSION FOR GIVING
Making a difference is part of the culture at 
Rust-Oleum, and all associates have a voice 
in giving back through Rust-Oleum Cares. 
The manufacturer of protective paints and 
coatings developed its Rust-Oleum Cares 
program to support organizations that 
change, restore 
and transform the 
lives of others. 
Through volunteer 
opportunities, 
sponsorships, 
monetary and in-
kind donations, the 
program partners 
with local charities 
to change, restore 
and transform 
communities where 
associates work  
and live. COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
WTI IS RECOGNIZED FOR GIVING BACK
In 2020, WTI was presented with a Charitable 
Giving Award, sponsored by the National 
Roofing Contractors Association (NCRA)  
and CNA, one of the largest U.S. commercial 
property and casualty insurance companies. 
The award honors charitable works performed 
by NCRA’s contractor members. WTI was 
recognized specifically for its charitable 
efforts to support WomenSafe Inc., a domestic 
violence shelter serving northeastern Ohio, for 
more than a decade through financial giving, 
sponsorships and in-kind donations, including 
food, clothing, hygiene products, household 
items and more. COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
THE RUST-OLEUM CARES program  
has thrived and grown through support 
from senior leadership and the passion  
of associates. In fiscal year 2019, the  
program raised over $150,000 for  
charitable causes.
20
21
Our Operations 
To continue to earn the trust of our 
customers and stakeholders, we must be 
vigilant in responding to their increasing desire 
for safe, sustainable and environmentally 
friendly products and take steps to reduce our 
own environmental footprint. RPM achieves 
this by developing products and business 
processes focused primarily on:
• Increasing energy efficiency;
• Using renewable resources;
• Conserving water;
• Reducing waste diverted to landfills;
• Eliminating harmful chemistries; and
•  Controlling greenhouse gas emissions.
REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL 
FOOTPRINT 
RPM is integrating new reporting systems to 
better understand our environmental footprint. 
With this greater visibility, we can use our 
resources more efficiently to reduce waste, 
water use and energy consumption.
We have experienced tangible 
improvement in our energy consumption, 
and we will continue to evaluate energy 
consumption, waste management, 
greenhouse gas emissions and water 
consumption in our operations. That data 
will enable us to develop metrics, process 
improvements and environmental impact 
reduction goals.SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY  
& CUSTOMER CONDUCT
Global corporations like RPM play a critical 
role in building a better world. As such, we 
expect and require that our suppliers be good 
corporate citizens and engage in legal, ethical and 
socially responsible business practices through 
adherence to our Supplier Code of Conduct, 
which includes the following concepts:
•  Remaining free of corruption and conducting 
business in a fair and ethical manner;
•  Operating with social responsibility, 
including providing a safe work environment 
and protecting workers’ rights;
•  Being a steward of the environment; and
•  Complying with applicable laws, rules  
and regulations.  
Similarly, distributors and applicators of 
RPM products are expected to operate in 
accordance with our contractual agreements 
and terms, The Values & Expectations of 168, 
and our Distributor and Applicator Code  
of Conduct. 
22RPM is regularly enhancing our products 
and processes and modernizing facilities for 
the benefit of our environment, whether it’s 
developing more environmentally friendly 
formulations, switching to LED lighting, 
reducing wastewater discharge or replacing 
inefficient, energy-intensive equipment.
As part of our recently developed MS-168 
program, we are enhancing plant management 
processes that facilitate the elimination of waste 
from our operations. Through a disciplined focus 
on losses in our operations, waste is eliminated, 
energy consumption is reduced, and customer 
value is delivered through sustainable and 
environmentally sound processes.  
We have also instituted monthly reporting 
by our manufacturing facilities to RPM 
corporate that includes productivity metrics 
and data regarding energy consumption, 
waste production, water consumption and air 
emissions. Through these efforts, we can better 
understand how to further reduce our impact on 
the environment. ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACTCOMPANY SPOTLIGHT
Viapol Converts to  
Biomass Fuel 
Viapol, a Brazilian manufacturer of building and 
construction products, that is part of RPM’s 
Construction Products Group, recently reduced 
its greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 90% 
by switching from fossil fuels to biomass fuel 
at its plant in Caçapava. Taking advantage of 
the region’s enormous availability of wood 
chips — a byproduct of constructing pallets 
and boxes — Viapol installed a wood chip 
burner system that has nearly eliminated its 
reliance on fossil fuels for manufacturing. The 
company now serves as a model for effectively 
leveraging local resources to develop better 
manufacturing processes.ENERGY-CONSCIOUS  
MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
Driving energy efficiency within the supply 
chain, sourcing low-impact materials and 
improving logistics are all areas in which RPM 
is reducing its greenhouse gas emissions and 
energy footprint. As we make improvements 
across our businesses as part of our operational 
efforts, individual facilities are also taking steps 
to reduce their energy usage and emissions 
based on their independent consumption needs 
and available local resources.
BY TRANSITIONING TO BIOMASS as a fuel 
source, Viapol reduced its annual greenhouse 
gas emissions by nearly 90% — from 6,250 
tons of carbon dioxide  
down to 650 tons. Our Operations23
ENERGY USAGE
Company-wide, RPM audits and optimizes 
its operational systems and processes that 
use the most energy, such as those used for 
compressed air, heating and cooling, water and 
facility control. 
Here are some of the ways RPM businesses 
are using energy more efficiently:
•  Lighting upgrades: Installing long-lasting 
energy-efficient lighting and motion-sensor 
lighting;
•  Building upgrades: Updating facilities with 
improved insulation and weatherization;
•  Equipment repair/replacement: Replacing 
aging equipment, such as boilers, with 
new units to eliminate leaks and maximize 
efficiency;
•  Plant consolidation: Consolidating 
inefficient plants with older equipment 
to operate safer, more energy-efficient 
facilities; and
•  Automation: Investing in automation to 
drive manufacturing efficiencies and reduce 
landfill waste. ENERGY MANAGEMENT
  RPM continuously invests in our facilities 
to make them more energy efficient. Some 
examples include replacing antiquated boilers 
(and converting from fuel oil to cleaner natural 
fuel), installing LED lighting, replacing worn 
electrical equipment, performing electrical 
system inspections to identify unsafe switchgear 
and other power distribution equipment, and 
upgrading power supplies for efficiency. 
Based on our initial assessments of electrical 
consumption, operational efficiency efforts 
resulted in a reduction of approximately  
10 million KWH of electricity.
IN 2020, RPM WILL  
REPLACE OUTDOOR  
LIGHTING at our corporate 
headquarters’ campus 
with LED lights, freeing up 
energy to install additional 
solar-sensor activated LED 
lighting in our conference 
center parking lot.
Our Operations
RPM was able to reduce electrical consumption 
by 10 million kilo-watt hours (KWH) from 2018 to 
2019.  Further improvements in our manufacturing 
efficiencies will lead to additional reduction in 
our environmental footprint and generate even 
greater savings in future years.24Our Operations
IN PRACTICE
Reducing Energy Through  
Air Compressors
Compressed air is an expensive and energy-
intensive utility for many companies. To uncover 
opportunities for efficiency, RPM brought in 
third-party experts to review our facility air 
compressor systems. The process not only 
identified opportunities to replace outdated air 
compressor systems with more efficient models, 
but it also showed the need to implement 
formal leak detection and repair programs 
within our maintenance departments. We now 
have protocols to quickly shut down a leak and 
eliminate losses from our air systems, resulting 
in significantly less energy usage.AIR QUALITY 
RPM continues to evaluate its most 
significant sources of air emissions to  
develop ways to reduce them. 
Most of our facilities are considered 
minor sources of air emissions in the 
regions where they are located. Through 
advancements in technology and chemistry, 
we are improving our products and working 
toward processes that reduce air emissions. 
These practices, while complying with 
regulations, are also good business. WATER USAGE
At RPM, we are highly conscious of 
our companies’ water consumption and 
waste, which includes the water used in 
our products and in our manufacturing 
processes. By implementing site-specific 
water management strategies, RPM has 
deployed hyper-local water conservation 
efforts that include:
• Conducting focused water audits;
• Upgrading inefficient water management 
systems;
• Installing closed-loop water systems and  
heat exchangers; and
• Developing processes to reduce 
stormwater pollutants.
WATER REUSE AND RECYCLING
Many RPM manufacturing facilities have 
implemented technologies that reduce 
water consumption by taking cooled water 
and running it through a chiller or heat 
exchanger to reuse in their processes.  
This effort significantly reduces water  
and energy use. One such project at 
our Rust-Oleum facility in Attleboro, 
Massachusetts, cut water consumption  
by nearly 35 million gallons per year.
IN PRACTICE
Attleboro Facility Overhauls  
Water Usage 
Manufacturing shellac is a process that generates 
a lot of hot water, which takes significant energy 
to cool. By installing a closed-loop water system 
and heat exchangers to recover/reuse that heat 
for energy reduction, Rust-Oleum’s Attleboro 
facility was able to eliminate the need for a boiler, 
significantly cut water usage and remove its 
onsite wastewater treatment system. Today, the 
plant no longer discharges cooling water, but 
instead, recirculates it through a closed-loop 
process for heat recovery and reuse.25Our Operations
PREVENTING STORMWATER POLLUTION
As stormwater passes over developed 
areas, it collects harmful pollutants that 
can flow into local water sources, causing 
contamination. To mitigate these concerning 
pollutants, Tremco has a dedicated 
team of associates responsible for water 
management, preventative maintenance 
and reporting. The team monitors facility 
stormwater for irregularities and ensures 
that only clean water leaves as stormwater. 
Tremco has also installed backflow 
prevention devices across its facilities to 
restrict water from flowing through hoses 
or pipes in the wrong direction, preventing 
contamination.
PAINTCARE  
BY THE NUMBERS
Since the program’s inception,  
ACA’s PaintCare program has: COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
Tremco’s Responsible Water Stewardship
Tremco has developed several programs to safely and effectively monitor water usage at its facilities and in the 
field. To conserve water during roof cleaning, the leading manufacturer of roofing and weatherproofing solutions 
partnered with Legend Brands to develop a closed-loop process for filtering water during roof cleaning. Tremco’s 
innovative RoofTec cleaning system captures water during the roof cleaning process and keeps it from 
entering local water streams. Tremco is also in the early stages of developing its own in-house wastewater 
treatment plant.
IN PRACTICE
Recycling Leftover Paint  
through ACA PaintCare
Recycling leftover, unwanted coatings gives paint 
manufacturers a safe, sustainable way to manage these 
products throughout their full lifecycle. That is why RPM 
is a passionate supporter of the American Coatings 
Association’s (ACA) PaintCare recycling program. Since 
the program’s start, we have provided ACA PaintCare with 
database management services to further its mission of 
collecting post-consumer paint, so that leftover product 
can be recycled or responsibly managed rather than 
going into a landfill. 
• Collected 
more than 
38 million 
gallons  
of post-
consumer 
architectural 
paint• Recycled  
50-70% 
of paint 
collected
• Reused 20% 
of paint 
collected in 
alternative 
products• Expanded  
to 1,765 
year-round 
drop off 
sites• Developed 
partnerships 
with more 
than  
200 
municipal 
waste 
collection 
facilitiesSustainability has always been a vital part 
of our product innovation process at RPM. For 
decades, our operating companies have led 
their industries with novel solutions that renew, 
repair and protect materials using sealants and 
coatings. But we don’t rest on our laurels. 
Building a better future means continually 
investing in safer, greener products and 
processes that benefit our customers, end 
users and the environment. Some of those 
investments include:
• Recyclable packaging and materials that 
minimize waste and give new life to leftover 
products;
• Sustainable building solutions that 
encourage building restoration and repair 
over replacement;
• Energy-conscious manufacturing  
processes  that conserve energy and shrink 
the carbon footprint of our products;
• Greener chemistries that reduce or 
eliminate potentially hazardous chemicals 
and materials of concern; 
• Products designed to improve the energy 
efficiency of structures; and
• Products to extend the life of everything 
from mailboxes to patio furniture to roofs.
RECYCLABLE PACKAGING & MATERIALS
We have introduced a variety of recycled 
materials into our packaging, as well as 
developed products using recycled, renewable 
materials, such as plastic and glass. 
Implementing these more sustainable materials 
has wide-ranging environmental benefits, from 
reducing product waste that goes into landfills 
and increasing efficiency in the supply chain, 
to improving energy usage. These benefits 
translate into savings for our customers as well.SUSTAINABILITY & 
CONSUMER SAFETY
COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
Stonhard Recyclable Packaging
Stonhard, part of RPM’s Performance Coatings 
Group, uses flexible pouches and cardboard boxes 
as packaging for its polymer flooring solutions. 
This unique packaging weighs less, is more 
environmentally friendly to ship, requires less 
storage space and is easily recycled, compared to 
metal pails. This recyclable packaging keeps more 
than 4.8 million one-gallon pails and quart cans 
from being dumped into landfills each year.
COMPANY SPOTLIGHT
NUDURA Recycled  
Plastic Materials
NUDURA, part of RPM’s 
Construction Products 
Group, produces building 
products designed to 
maximize energy efficiency 
for design professionals, 
architects, building and 
homeowners, and contractors. 
As part of its overarching goal to 
reduce energy usage in the building 
industry, NUDURA buys recycled plastic and 
formulates it into 100% recycled hinges for its 
insulated concrete forms (ICF) products. Purchasing 
recycled plastic for all NUDURA manufacturing 
facilities has significantly reduced waste and energy 
use in NUDURA’s production process — a win for the 
company and the environment.
90% OF NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT at  
Stonhard involves water-based urethanes, 100% 
solids epoxy, recycled and rapidly renewable  
agro-based materials.
26
Our Products 27SUSTAINABLE BUILDING SOLUTIONS
Promoting regular maintenance and repair is 
one way RPM products support environmental 
sustainability. Many of our industry-leading 
products and services extend the life of flooring, 
roofing and other infrastructure that would 
otherwise be diverted to landfills. RPM brands 
offer durable, eco-friendly building solutions 
designed to make structures last longer with less 
maintenance and fewer energy demands.
• STONHARD FLOORS are all formulated, 
manufactured and installed with 
sustainability in mind. They are designed 
to have a long life and become part of a 
building, rather than end up in a landfill. 
Because Stonhard floors require little 
maintenance, they save thousands 
of gallons of water and prevent harsh 
chemicals, waxes and detergents from 
ending up in our waste stream.
• TREMCO/LEGEND BRANDS’ ROOF-TEC® 
CLEANING SYSTEM, extends a roof’s life cycle 
by cleaning it using less water. The system cuts 
water consumption in half and also captures 
100% of wastewater for reuse, resulting in 
significant energy savings. Roof-Tec also helps 
restore  the reflectivity and performance of a 
roof, so that damaged roofs may not need to 
be replaced. PREVENTING DEMOLITION: A SIGNIFICANT 
WASTE STREAM  Buildings affected by fire, 
water or severe weather are often reconstructed 
rather than restored. The materials from  
these damaged buildings are sent to landfills, 
accounting for 90% of total construction and 
demolition debris in the U.S.Our Products
• TREMCO ROOFING SYSTEMS are designed 
to reduce cost and energy use in buildings. 
Tremco’s AlphaGuard® fluid-applied roofing 
system uses a roof coating product that 
extends a roof’s lifecycle for a fraction of the 
cost of replacement. By eliminating the need 
to tear off entire roofing systems due to age 
or damage, AlphaGuard cuts down on energy 
consumption and landfill waste. Because 
most fluid-applied roofs are white, which 
reflects sunlight, they radiate heat and reduce 
building energy usage. Tremco also offers 
vegetated, cool and photovoltaic roofing 
systems for sustainable construction.
• DRI-EAZ PRODUCTS, such as dehumidifiers, 
air movers (fans) and specialty drying 
equipment, support the restorative drying 
industry, which involves removing moisture 
from building components impacted by 
flooding. With these products, construction 
materials can be reused or restored after  
a disaster.IN PRACTICE
Tremco Sealants Eliminate 
Costly Window Leaks
A residential building in Minneapolis 
was struggling for years with window 
leaks — continually repairing, replacing 
and reinstalling sealants. Tremco 
suggested using Spectrem Simple Seal 
and its Spectrem 1 silicone sealants 
to encapsulate the existing sealants, 
eliminating the need to remove the 
sealants or replace windows. Tremco’s 
zero-landfill solution saved the building 
owners significant costs while increasing 
the building’s energy efficiency.
 
28NUDURA ICF  
Home Withstands  
Hurricane Michael
In October 2018, Hurricane Michael wreaked havoc on homes and structures across Mexico Beach, 
Florida. But in the aftermath, one home remained intact and seemingly unscathed thanks to its unique 
construction. The owners of the home, known as the Sand Palace, had designed the structure using 
NUDURA insulated concrete forms (IFCs) that could withstand the 155 mph winds of a Category 5 
storm. NUDURA’s proprietary concrete technology, which gives structures high-impact resistance and 
maximizes safety in high winds and hurricane conditions, doesn’t just help builders, architects and 
homeowners create stronger buildings, particularly in coastal structures, they also use up to 70% less 
energy than traditional wood building methods and are connected by 100% recycled material, providing 
a greener solution for sustainable construction.IN PRACTICEOur Products
Tremco Gives Ford Field  
a Sustainable Upgrade
Tremco is always looking for opportunities to 
restore, rather than replace, a damaged roof. 
So, when harsh winters and humid summers 
left the domed roof of Ford Field — the home 
stadium of the Detroit Lions — with potential 
leaks, Tremco immediately evaluated the 
situation to determine how to salvage the 
existing roof. The massive energy-
efficient upgrade started with 
the RoofTec cleaning system 
to minimize water use and 
recapture water. Tremco’s 
team then restored the roof 
using the AlphaGuard fluid-
applied roofing system, 
which absorbs very little 
heat to improve energy 
efficiency. By restoring 
rather than replacing the 
roof, Tremco helped Ford Field 
reduce long-term energy use, 
improve insulation and keep more 
demolition materials out of landfills. 
IN PRACTICEIN PRACTICE
Krud Kutter:  
A Truly Green Chemistry
With Krud Kutter®, Rust-Oleum is giving 
consumers a greener way to clean their 
homes and other surfaces. Many Krud Kutter 
products are included on the EPA’s Safer 
Choice List and are a safer alternative to most 
traditional cleaning products on the market. 
The flagship Krud Kutter product, Original Krud 
Kutter Clean and Degreaser, is water-based, 
biodegradable, HAP-free and non-toxic.
29PRODUCT REFORMULATIONS
Our R&D processes focus on reducing and 
eliminating ingredients that could harm our 
customers, end users or the environment —  
from air pollutants to harsh solvents to chemical 
sensitizers. We reformulate products when 
feasible to incorporate safer ingredients and, 
in many cases, make them more sustainable, 
without compromising performance. 
Some examples follow.
• EUCLID CHEMICAL devotes extensive 
efforts to developing products that meet or 
exceed even the most stringent regulations 
for volatile organic compounds (VOCs), 
including those expected in the coming years. 
Its green product development process also 
focuses on improving product performance, 
life cycles and maintenance, and increasing 
the use of renewable raw materials.
• DAY-GLO COLOR developed ECO pigments, 
the first fluorescent pigments to attain color 
brilliance and stability without the use of 
formaldehyde. They also have the added 
benefit of containing 26% recycled material, 
making them the most environmentally 
friendly fluorescent pigments on the market. 
The pigments are an approved ingredient  
on the Global Organic Textile List, and are 
used in newspaper inks, packaging and 
textiles worldwide.
• TREMCO ILLBRUCK leads the research 
and development of environmentally 
sensitive products, including its hybrid 
sealant and adhesive solutions sold widely in 
Europe. Used for professional construction 
applications, these products exclude 
silicones, solvents and isocyanates to 
provide a greener alternative for associates, 
customers and end users. GREENER CHEMISTRIES 
Good product stewardship is good for our 
communities and for our business. Through 
RPM’s green chemistry initiatives, our facilities 
and companies globally are constantly working 
to identify and remove chemicals of concern 
from our products. This is a daily effort that 
involves:
• Examining how our raw materials are being 
regulated and monitored;
• Evaluating materials that could pose a 
hazard to end users or associates;
• Determining which materials are 
candidates for restriction; and
• Actively developing safer alternatives for 
use in our products.Our Products
30Materiality Assessment
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Stakeholder Priority Topics
Communities Air Emissions; Community Engagement & Philanthropy; Assoicate Development & Engagement;  
Assoicate Wellbeing, Health & Safety; Associate/Labor Rights & Workforce Changes
Customers Air Emissions; Assoicate Wellbeing, Health & Safety; Innovation, Research & Development;  
Product Stewardship; Recycling, Waste Management & Reduction; Water Use & Pollution
Assoicates Assoicate Wellbeing, Health & Safety; Innovation, Research & Development; Ethics & Compliance; 
Associate Development & Engagement 
ESG Rating Agencies All Material Topics
Industry Associations Air Emissions; Community Engagement & Philanthropy; Associate Wellbeing, Health & Safety;  
Product Stewardship; Recycling, Waste Management & Reduction; Water Use & Pollution
Investors Diversity & Inclusion; Assoicate Development & Engagement; Governance; Product Stewardship
Legislators/Regulators Air Emissions; Assoicate/Labor Rights & Workforce Changes; Ethics & Compliance; Recycling,  
Waste Management & Reduction; Product Stewardship
Media Air Emissions; Associate/Labor Rights & Workforce Changes; Privacy & Information Security;  
Ethics & Compliance; Innovation, Research & Development
Suppliers Ethics & Compliance; Innovation, Research & Development; Product Stewardship; Recycling,  
Waste Management & Reduction; Responsible ProcurementOUR MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS 
In 2019, RPM engaged a third-party consulting 
firm to conduct a robust materiality assessment 
of ESG topics. Leveraging artificial intelligence 
and big data available through the use of the 
Datamaran Materiality Assessment Application, 
this assessment provides RPM with valuable 
feedback about the ESG topics that matter most 
to our businesses and our stakeholders. The 
materiality assessment process adheres to the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and 
consists of three distinct phases: identification, 
prioritization and validation.
TOPIC IDENTIFICATION  We identified a 
set of potentially relevant ESG topics by 
conducting a thorough assessment of sector-
specific topics, prioritized by two leading 
sustainability frameworks — GRI Standards 
and the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB). In addition, we reviewed ESG 
thought leadership, industry research, peer ESG 
reporting and other publicly available resources 
to determine which topics might be material to 
RPM and its stakeholders. After completing this 
topic identification, we mapped our ESG impacts 
across RPM’s entire value chain — from raw 
materials sourcing to product use and end-of-life. 
This exercise helped identify where potential ESG 
impacts may occur. TOPIC PRIORITIZATION  After identifying a group 
of potential material topics, we engaged internal 
and external stakeholders to gather evidence 
of our ESG impacts, risks and opportunities. We 
then evaluated and synthesized these findings to 
determine the relative importance of each topic. 
To provide a more balanced body of evidence for 
each topic, we also evaluated numerous internal 
and external sources. These inputs combined to 
provide a relative priority for our material topics. 
VALIDATION  After prioritizing the ESG topics 
identified by RPM’s stakeholders, we hosted 
a validation session. During this exercise, 
RPM leaders reviewed the results of the topic 
prioritization, provided feedback and confirmed the 
results.
RPM’S MATERIAL TOPICS
Per the GRI Standards, we identified RPM’s 
material topics by considering the two dimensions 
of the materiality principle: 
• The significance of our organization’s economic, 
environmental and social impacts; and 
• Our substantive influence on the assessments 
and decisions of stakeholders.
While all ESG topics are important to our 
company and warrant effective management, this 
report focuses on the topics that are most material 
to our business. We will continue to monitor, 
manage and report on each of our material topics 
(shown below).31Index
March 2020 | General Disclosures
GRI Disclosure Description Response
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of organization RPM International Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2020 10-K , pp. 3 to 8
102-3 Location of headquarters Medina, Ohio
102-4 Location of operations 2020 10-K , p. 3 and pp. 18 to 19
102-5 Ownership and legal form Public Corporation (Trading Symbol: RPM)
102-6 Markets served 2020 10-K , pp. 3 to 6
102-7 Scale of organization 2020 10-K , pp. 3 to 6 and p. 23
102-8 Information on associates and other workers  As of May 31, 2020, we employed 14,621 people.
102-9 Supply chain 2020 10-K , pp. 3 to 6 and pp. 8 to 9
102-10Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainThere were no significant changes to RPM’s supply chain 
in 2019.
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach RPM does not apply the precautionary principle.
102-12 External initiatives None
102-13 Memberships of associationOur People, p. 13
Our Operations, p. 25
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter of Introduction, p. 2
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Materiality Assessment, p. 30
Ethics & Integrity
102-16Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behaviorOur Commitment, p. 4
Supplier Responsibility & Customer Conduct, p. 21
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethicsRPM Code of Conduct
RPM International Hotline
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Our Commitment, pp. 5 to 7
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, p. 30
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsAs of May 31, 2020, we employed approximately 680  
associates who were represented by unions under  
contracts that expire at varying times in the future.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality Assessment, p. 3032Index
Topic Specific Disclosures
GRI DisclosureResponse
Economic Performance
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its Boundary 2020 10-K , pp. 3 to 6  
103-2 The management approach and  
its components2020 10-K , pp. 55 to 56  
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2020 10-K , pp. 31 to 37
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2020 10-K , p. 30  
Materials
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Our Products, p. 26
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsOur Products, p. 26
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Products, p. 26GRI Disclosure Description Response
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality Assessment, p. 30
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality Assessment, p. 30
Reporting Practices
102-45Entities included in the consolidated financial-
statements2020 10-K , pp. 3 to 6 and Exhibit 21.1
102-46  Defining report content and topic boundaries Stakeholder Engagement, p. 30
102-47  List of material topics Materiality Assessment, p. 30
102-48  Restatements of information None
102-49  Changes in reporting Materiality Assessment, p. 30
102-50  Reporting period This report covers the period between January 1, 2019, and  
December 31, 2019.
102-51  Date of most recent report This is RPM’s inaugural ESG report.
102-52  Reporting cycle Annual
102-53  Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@rpminc.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the  
 GRI StandardsThis report is aligns with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55  GRI content index GRI Index, pp. 31 to 35
102-56  External assurance This report has not been externally assured.33Index
GRI DisclosureResponse
Energy
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Our Operations, p. 21
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsReducing our Environmental  
Footprint, p. 21  
Environmental Impact, pp. 22 to 23
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Impact, pp. 22 to 23
302-4 Reduction of energy consumptionEnergy Management, p. 23
Water and Effluents
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Water Usage, p. 24
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsWater Reuse and Recycling, p. 24  
Preventing Stormwater Pollution, 
p. 25
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachWater Reuse and Recycling, p. 24  
Preventing Stormwater Pollution, 
p. 25
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 
resourceWater Usage, p. 24
303-2 Management of water discharge  
related impactsWater Usage, p. 24
SASB Standards: Chemicals Sector
Water Management
RT-CH-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-
compliance associated with water quality 
permits, standards, and regulationsNone
Emissions
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Our Operations, p. 21
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsAir Quality, p. 24
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Impact, p. 22
Effluents and Waste
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Our Operations, p. 21
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsEnvironmental Impact, p. 22  
Our Products, pp. 26 to 28
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachRecyclable Packaging & Materials,  
p. 2634Index
GRI DisclosureResponse
306-3 Significant spillsNone
Employment
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Our People, p. 8
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsBenefits, p. 14
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Benefits, p. 14
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time associates that are not provided to temporary or  
part-time associatesBenefits, p. 14
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Health & Safety, p. 15
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsHealth & Safety, pp. 15 to 18
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Health & Safety, pp. 15 to 18
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Safety Audits & Consulting, p. 16 
Incident Reporting, p. 16
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety New Associate Training, p. 16
403-6 Promotion of worker health Helping our People Prosper in 
Health Globally, p. 18
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by 
business relationshipsHealth & Safety, pp. 15 to 18 
Training and Education
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Talent Development, p. 9
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsTalent Development, pp. 9 to 11
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachRetaining & Developing Top Talent, 
p. 9
404-2 Programs for upgrading associate skills and transition assistance programsTalent Development, pp. 9 to 11Topic Specific Disclosures35Index
GRI DisclosureResponse
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Diversity & Inclusion, p. 12
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsDiversity & Inclusion, pp. 12 to 13
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity & Inclusion, pp. 12 to 13
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Board Composition, p. 6
Local Communities
GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Philanthropy & Community  
Involvement, p. 19
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsPhilanthropy & Community  
Involvement, pp. 19 to 20
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachPhilanthropy & Community  
Involvement, pp. 19 to 20
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 
programsPhilanthropy & Community  
Involvement, pp. 19 to 20
SASB Standards: Chemical Sector
Community Relations
RT-CH-210a.1 Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and opportunities  
associated with community interestsPhilanthropy & Community  
Involvement, pp. 19 to 20
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 103 Management Approach103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary Sustainability & Consumer Safety, 
p. 26  
Greener Chemistries, p. 29
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsGreener Chemistries, p. 29
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Greener Chemistries, p. 29
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categoriesGreener Chemistries, p. 29
SASB Standards: Chemical Sector
Safety & Environmental Stewardship of Chemicals
RT-CH-410b.1 Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern and (2) develop  
alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental impactSustainability & Consumer Safety,  
p. 26  
Greener Chemistries, p. 29Topic Specific Disclosures2628 Pearl Road • Medina, Ohio 44256
www.rpminc.com
1-330-273-5090
info@rpminc.com
Published by Convero
835 Sharon Drive, Suite 200, Westlake, OH 44145  
1-440-250-7000 | www.converoinc.comFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report contains “forward-looking statements” relating 
to our business. These forward-looking statements, or other 
statements made by us, are made based on our expectations 
and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and are 
subject to uncertainties and factors (including those specified 
below) which are difficult to predict and, in many instances, 
are beyond our control. As a result, our actual results could 
differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any such 
forward-looking statements. These uncertainties and factors 
include (a) global markets and general economic conditions, 
including uncertainties surrounding the volatility in financial 
markets, the availability of capital and the effect of changes 
in interest rates, and the viability of banks and other financial 
institutions; (b) the prices, supply and capacity of raw materials, 
including assorted pigments, resins, solvents and other natural 
gas- and oil-based materials; packaging, including plastic and 
metal containers; and transportation services, including fuel 
surcharges; (c) continued growth in demand for our products; 
(d) legal, environmental and litigation risks inherent in our 
construction and chemicals businesses and risks related to the 
adequacy of our insurance coverage for such matters; (e) the 
effect of changes in interest rates; (f) the effect of fluctuations 
in currency exchange rates upon our foreign operations; (g) 
the effect of non-currency risks of investing in and conducting 
operations in foreign countries, including those relating to 
domestic and international political, social, economic and 
regulatory factors; (h) risks and uncertainties associated 
with our ongoing acquisition and divestiture activities; (i) the 
timing of and the realization of anticipated cost savings from 
restructuring initiatives and the ability to identify additional 
cost savings opportunities; (j) risks related to the adequacy 
of our contingent liability reserves; (k) risks relating to the 
recent outbreak of the coronavirus (Covid-19); and (l) other 
risks detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, including the risk factors set forth in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2020, as the 
same may be updated from time to time. We do not undertake 
any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-
looking statements to reflect future events, information or 
circumstances that arise after the date of this report.