 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Sartorius Group  
GRI  Report  2020 Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Content   2 
 
 Content  
Responsibility at Sartorius  3 
Sustainable Development Goals  5 
General Disclosures  7 
Organizational Profile  8 
Strategy  16 
Ethic and Integrity  17 
Governance  18 
Stakeholder Engagement  23 
Reporting Practice  25 
Economic Standards  28 
203 Indirect Economic Impacts  29 
205 Anti -Corruption  29 
206 Anti -Competitive Behavior  30 
Environmental Standards  31 
302 Energy  32 
303 Water and Effluents  34 
305 Emissions  35 
306 Waste  38 
307 Environmental Compliance  40 
308 Supplier Environmental A ssessment  41 
Product Stewardship  42 
Social Standards  45 
401 Employment  46 
403 Occupational Health and Safety  48 
404 Training and Education  50 
405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  52 
406 Non -Discrimination  54 
412 Hu man Rights Assessment  55 
414 Supplier Social Assessment  56 
415 Public Policy  58 
419 Socioeconomic Compliance  58 
Innovation & Social Contribution  58 
GRI Content Index  60 
Contacts  64 
 
Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Responsibility at Sartorius   3 
 
 Responsibility at Sartorius  
Sartorius  is an internationally leading partner to the biopharmaceutical industry. With our technologies, we 
help researchers and engineers achieve faster, easier p rogress in the life sciences and bioprocess technology, 
thus enabling the development of new and better treatments and vaccines and affordable medical care.  
Many people in industrialized countries suffer from diseases for which there is as yet no effective  treatment. 
These include cancer, dementia and autoimmune diseases as well as congenital metabolic disorders and in-
fectious diseases. At the same time, many diseases that would have proved fatal just a few generations ago can 
now be cured or treated effect ively. Combined with declining birth rates, this has led to an aging society in 
industrialized countries where people are expected to remain fit and healthy for as long as possible.  
In developing and emerging countries, the availability and affordability o f healthcare is well below the stand-
ards in industrialized nations: more than half the world’s population has either no or inadequate access to med-
ical care. For every second child, initial immunization is an unachievable goal, and it is estimated that 1.5  million 
children under the age of five die from diseases from which they could be protected with vaccinations.  
The purpose of our business is to help our customers develop and manufacture biotechnology -based drugs 
and vaccines and, in doing so, enable the  development and safe production of vaccines and biopharmaceuti-
cal medicines to treat serious and, in some cases, rare diseases. The United Nations’ sustainability goal ‘Good 
Health and Well -Being’ is thus an integral part of our core business.  
As a 150  -year old company, sustainability is firmly embedded at many levels in our business. To us, it means 
operating responsibly over the long term – with respect to customers, employees, investors, business partners 
and society as a whole. Likewise, it entails ha ndling natural resources responsibly. Sustainable action also 
means remaining agile and constantly asking ourselves how we can respond to the changing world and make 
a positive contribution. This concerns the continued development of our core business just  as much as living 
up to our corporate responsibilities.  
Because of the COVID -19 pandemic, 2020 was characterized by changes that posed serious challenges for 
society as a whole. At the same time, the crisis showed how Sartorius ’ core business makes a dire ct contribu-
tion towards the goal of “healthy lives and well -being for all at all ages”: with its products and process 
knowledge, Sartorius  is involved in many of the worldwide vaccine projects to combat the coronavirus.  
Optimization of processes and method s throughout the entire supply chain can also make a contribution to-
wards sustainability – this mainly includes the consideration of sustainability in procurement, product devel-
opment and production. Our product portfolio includes consumables such as filte rs, pipette tips, cell culture 
media and bags. These sterile products for use in biopharmaceutical research and development have signifi-
cant benefits compared to reusable products. Nevertheless, we see potential to reduce our use of natural re-
sources in th is area.  
In this connection, Sartorius  signed the European Plastics Pact in 2020 as the first company in its industry. The 
aim of this public -private initiative is to improve the use and recycling of plastics and, as a consequence, use 
less virgin plastic.  With cross -border cooperation agreements on a European level, the signatories want to de-
velop new technologies, share their findings, harmonize guidelines and standards and dismantle existing bar-
riers.  
Sartorius ’ CO 2 emissions are relatively low, since th e company is not a high energy user nor does it purchase 
energy -intensive raw materials. However, we do believe it is important that we play our part in helping to re-
duce global warming. To reduce our Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 emissions, we set ourselves science -based targets in 
the reporting year, which are guided by the science -based targets initiative and the 1.5°C goal.  Sartorius  GRI Repo rt 2020  Responsibility at Sartorius   4 
 
 This year, our Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee, which meets at least once per year and is chaired 
by the CEO, mainly discussed implementation of the defined climate and plastic targets in the activities of the 
two divisions and, hence, focused on the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations “Climate Ac-
tion” and “Responsible Consumption and Production”.  
 
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Sustainable Development Goals   5 
 
 Sustainable Development Goals  
Sartorius  is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and supports the 2030 agenda for a sustainable 
global economy.  
The United Nations developed 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The governments of all member 
states have adopted the SDGs; however, their success is largely dependent on the actions and cooperation of 
everyone involved – especially on the commitment  of the private sector. Sartorius  accepts this responsibility.  
To determine which SDGs are related to Sartorius ’ business activities, we also conducted a comprehensive 
materiality analysis in 2018. Sartorius  regards nine SDGs as important in connection wit h its business opera-
tions.  
 
 
Good health and well -being is - according to the United Nations - considered one of the basic 
human rights and is a major indicator of sustainable development. It is our mission and our core business to 
help improve the health of more people. Consequently, good health and well -being are at the heart of our 
attempts to achieve more sustainability and our corporate purpose directly addresses one of the Sustainable 
Development Goals.  
Quality education  empowers people to impr ove their political, social and economic situations. Ac-
cording to the United Nations it is a basic human right and a requirement for sustainable development. We 
contribute to this by continuously training our employees and through many forms of support for  young sci-
entists.  
Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Sustainable Development Goals   6 
 
 Gender equality  is not only a UN human right, it is also a lever for economic growth. It gives women 
better access to education, medical care and financial resources. We support equality in our own business 
activities and expect our bus iness partners to behave accordingly.  
Access to clean drinking water  was in 2008 recognized as a human right by the United Nations. 
Within the scope of our product stewardship, we try to keep the water consumption of our products as low as 
possible throug hout their entire life cycle. We also make sure that our business partners handle water and 
wastewater responsibly.  
Decent work and economic growth  are an urgent sustainability goal, as more than 60  % of all 
workers worldwide do not have an employment con tract and fewer than 45  % of all workers are employed on 
a full -time, permanent basis. Bad working conditions are often associated with poverty, discrimination and in-
equality and mainly affect groups of people such as women, people with a disability, young  people and mi-
grants. Therefore, at all process stages, we make sure that no human rights are endangered at any point within 
our supply chain.  
Industry, innovation and infrastructure:  this SDG aims to expand scientific research in all 
countries throughout the world. While Sartorius  does not have a direct influence on the areas of infrastructure 
or sustainable industrialization, it does contribute in a wide variety of ways to achieve th is innovation goal. By 
having our production sites serve as centers of competence, we develop scientific expertise at many sites 
across the globe. Our promotion of young people helps us spread and network the scientific basis worldwide 
and, as a result, st rengthen future innovation activities.  
Responsible consumption and production  means, among other things, the transition to 
a circular economy. Sterile plastic products are a key component of Sartorius ’ product portfolio – for a good 
reason: the properties of these products are beneficial for the patients at the end of the supply chain, for the 
environment and for the basic availability and development of innovative medical care. At the same time, sin-
gle-use products inevitably raise the question of the prod uct’s end of life. We are addressing this issue and 
considering the end of life of our products as well as their overall ecological footprint.  
Action to combat climate change  is taken within the company and also in our supply chain. 
Human -induced climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It requires action from everyone 
concerned, especially the private sector. A key issue is to reduce emissions of CO 2 and other greenhouse 
gases. We accept this responsibility within the scope of our cli mate strategy.  
Partnerships to achieve aims  are a standard approach for Sartorius . We especially strengthen 
our innovation activities through partnerships and cooperation agreements. Achieving sustainability targets 
requires a cooperation approach because they concern the entire supply chain and success can be achieved 
only through cooperation with customers, suppliers, contractual partners and science.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 102  General DisclosuresSartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   8 
 
 
  
Organizational Profile  
102 -1 
Name of the Organization   
Sartorius AG  
102 -2 
Activities, Brands,  Products, and Services  
As a leading partner of life science research and the biopharmaceutical industry, Sartorius helps its customers  
in the development and manufacture of biotech medications and vaccines – from initial idea in the lab to  com-
mercial -scale production. Our goal is to make complex and expensive development of biotech medicines  and 
their production safer and more efficient.  We cover the entire value -added chain of the  biopharmaceutical 
industry and help with our products and se rvices to ensure that novel therapies  and vaccines reach the market 
faster and are accessible to more people worldwide.  
The Sartorius Group conducts its operating business in two divisions: Bioprocess Solutions and  Lab Prod-
ucts&Services. The divisions each  combine their respective businesses for the same fields of  application and 
user groups, and share part of the infrastructure and central services.  
Strategic Focus on Biopharma Applications from Molecule Development to Production of  Biopharmaceu-
ticals  
 
In the Bioprocess Solutions Division, Sartorius offers a broad portfolio of products that focuses on all major 
steps in the manufacture of a biopharmaceutical, as well as in process development as prerequisite proce-
dures. Our technologies cover, inter alia, cell line technologies, cell culture media, bioreactors, and a wide 
range of products for separation, purification and concentration of biological intermediates and finished prod-
ucts, as well as solutions for their storage and transportation. Sartorius als o offers data analytics software for 
modeling and optimizing processes of biopharmaceutical development and production.  
We provide customers with complete process solutions from a single source, as well as assist with preceding 
project planning, process i ntegration and subsequent validation. Our technologies are used in manufacturing 
all classes of medical drugs, from vaccines and monoclonal antibodies to advanced viral vector -based gene 
therapeutics.  
Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   9 
 
 
 The Lab  Products&Services Division addresses pharmaceut ical and biotech research  laboratories as well as 
academic research institutes. We supply scientists and laboratory staff with the  instruments and consumables 
they need to make their research and quality control easier and faster. These contribute toward a ccelerating 
the protracted timelines of  drug development and increases the efficiency of R&D labs in the biopharmaceu-
tical industry.   
Beyond this, the division offers a wide range of premium laboratory instruments for sample preparation – such  
as laborator y balances, pipettes and lab water systems – as well as consumables, such as filters and  microbio-
logical test kits. In these product categories, Sartorius has leading market positions and significant  market 
shares. Our solutions are designed to boost the e fficiency and productivity of routine yet quality -critical  lab 
processes and industry -specific workflows .  
102 -3 
Location of Headquarters  
Göttingen , Germany  
 102 -4 
Location of Operations  
Ove rall, Sartorius is present in 35  countries; most employees  are located in China, Germany,  France, India, 
Puerto Rico, Tunisia , the UK and the USA . 
  2020  2019  
Countries with at least one consolidated company of the Sartorius Group  35* 34    
*Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Ireland,  Israel, 
Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mex ico, Netherlands, Poland, Puerto Rico, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, South 
Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Tunesia, UK, USA, Vietnam  
 
EMEA
Austria, Belgium , Finland , 
France, Germany, Hungary , 
Ireland , Israel, Italy , 
Netherlands , Poland , Russia , 
Slovenia ,  Spain, Sweden , 
Switzerland , Tunisia , UKAmericas
Argentina , Brazil , Canada, 
Mexico, Puerto Rico, USAAsia | Pacific
Australia , China, Hong Kong, 
India , Japan, Malaysia, 
Singapore , South Korea, 
Taiwan, Thailand, VietnamSite
Production site
Core marketSartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   10 
 
 
 102 -5 
Ownership and Legal Form  
Sartorius AG is a joint stock corporation founded under German law.  
Shareholder Structure: Ordinary Shares in %, related to ~34.2 million shares outstanding    
Administered by an executor  ~ 55  
Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc.  ~ 38  
Free float  ~ 7   
 
Shareholder Structure: Preference Shares in %, related to ~ 34.2 million shares outstanding    
Free float  ~ 72  
Treasury shares  ~ 28    
1 Information on shareholdings and shares in free float pursuant to Sections 33 et seq. of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). 
Reporting obligations refer only to ordinary shares and not to non -voting preference shares.  
102 -6 
Markets Served  
Sartorius markets its products and services worldwide, especially in its European core markets France , Ger-
many and United Kingdom as well as in the USA, China, India, Japan and South Korea.  
Both divisions serve primarily the needs of the biopharmaceutical  industry. With its products, the division Lab 
Products & Services furthermore addresses academic research institutes as well as quality control labs in the 
chemical and food industries.  
102 -7 
Scale of the Organization  
 
Scale of the Organization    
  Unit  2020  2019  
Total number of employees  Headcount  10,637  9,016  
Total number of operations  Countries  35 34 
Revenue  € in K  2,335,657  1,826,966  
Sales revenue Bioprocess Solutions  € in K  1,782,622  1,350,470  
Sales revenue Lab Products & Services  € in K  553,035  476,496  
Equity  € in K  1,482,917  1,188,883  
Non -current liabilities  € in K  1,018,726  228,117  
Current liabilities  € in K  567,693  428,363      
 
Assets    
€ in K  31.12.2020  31.12.2019  
Non -current assets  2,194,120  1,209,134  
Current assets  875,216  636,229     
 
Beneficial ownership  
The beneficial ownership, including the identity and percentage of ownership of the largest shareholder, are 
described under  102 -5. Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosur es  11 
 
 
 Sales Revenues by Regions and Countries    
€ in K  2020  2019  
EMEA  935,078  733,425  
Of which Germany  210,205  188,615  
Of which France  96,075  91,537  
Americas  812,212  629,884  
Of which USA  755,263  570,730  
Asia | Pacific  588,368  463,657  
Of which China  224,198  150,709  
Of which South Korea  130,325  97,417     
 Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   12 
 
 
 Employees by Region and Country1   
Region  Country  Headcount  Share of total 
headcount  
EMEA  Austria  20 0.2%  
  Belgium  43 0.4%  
  Finland  262  2.5%  
  France  1,093  10.3%  
  Germany  3,687  34.7%  
  Hungary  13 0.1%  
  Ireland  17 0.2%  
  Israel  217 2.0%  
  Italy  61 0.6%  
  Netherlands  24 0.2%  
  Poland  16 0.2%  
  Russia  103  1.0%  
  Slovenia  116 1.1%  
  Spain  44 0.4%  
  Sweden  67 0.6%  
  Switzerland  85 0.8%  
  Tunisia  388  3.6%  
  UK 854  8.0%  
EMEA Total    7,110  66.8%  
Americas  Argentina  44 0.4%  
  Brazil  46 0.4%  
  Canada  23 0.2%  
  Mexico  82 0.8%  
  Puerto Rico  643  6.0%  
  USA  1,074  10.1%  
Americas Total    1,912  18.0%  
Asia | Pacific  Australia  29 0.3%  
  China  632  5.9%  
  Hong Kong  6 0.1%  
  India  525  4.9%  
  Japan  118 1.1%  
  Malaysia  12 0.1%  
  Singapore  83 0.8%  
  South Korea  162 1.5%  
  Taiwan  29 0.3%  
  Thailand  14 0.1%  
  Vietnam  5 0.0%  
 Asia | Pacific Total    1,615  15.2%  
Total    10,637  100%      
1 Reports for 2020.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   13 
 
 
 102 -8 
Information on Employees and Other Workers  
 
Employees by Employment Contract by Gender1, 2   
  Unlimited 
contract  Limited contract  Total  
Female  3,606  519 4,125  
Male  5,896  616 6,512  
Total  9,502  1,135  10,637      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Employees by Employment Contract by Region1, 2   
  Unlimited 
contract  Limited contract  Total  
EMEA  6,462  648  7,110  
Americas  1,908  4 1,912  
Asia | Pacific  1,132  483  1,615  
Total  9,502  1,135  10,637      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Employees by Employment Type by Gender1, 2   
  Full -time  Part -time  Total  
Female  3,712  413 4,125  
Male  6,324  188 6,512  
Total  10,036  601  10,637      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Workers That Are Not Employees by Region1, 2   
  Other employees3 Contingent  
workers4 Total  
EMEA  384  798  1,182  
Americas  10 299  309  
Asia | Pacific  5 127 132 
Total  399             1,224  1,623      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Worker  figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Paid by Sartorius Payroll (apprentices, interns).  
4 Paid by Finance (office workers, factory staff).  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   14 
 
 
 102 -9 
Supply Chain  
With more than 8,000 suppliers in more than 4 0 countries, the purchasing volume corresponds to about 40 
percent of our sales revenue1. Based on its procurement volume as a gauge, less than three  percent of its sup-
pliers are headquartered  in regions with potential conflicts regarding hum an rights issues. Around 97 per cent 
of the company’s procurement needs are sourced from suppliers headqu artered in an OECD country . Around 
51 percent of its procurement volume is sourced from German companies, 15 percent from US -American com-
panies and another 8 percent from companies headquartered in France.  
102 -10 
Significant Changes to the Organization an d its Supply Chain  
In the reporting year, Sartorius successfully closed the acquisition, announced in October 2019, of selected  
life science businesses from Danaher Corporation. The transaction was completed on April 30, 2020, after  
receiving the required regulatory approvals. In addition, Sartorius through its subgroup Sartorius Stedim Bio-
tech acquired the Slovenian purification specialist BIA Separations in November 2020. In December 2020, 
Sartorius acquired the U.S. filtration expert WaterSep BioSeparati ons LLC through its subgroup Sartorius 
Stedim Biotech. Due to these acquisitions Sartorius now has additional production sites  in Ajdovščina (Slove-
nia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlborough (USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai 
(China) an d another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA).  Further inf ormation on changes in the Group port-
folio is available in the 2020  Annual  Report on page 28.  
102 -11 
Precautionary Principle or Approach  
At Sartorius, identification and management of opportuniti es and risks is a cross -functional component of 
Group management.  Further information on risk management is provided in the 2020 Annual Report on 
pages 74 seq.  
Sartorius is responsible towards its employees, the environment, and society. This responsibility must be as-
sumed throughout the supply chain and we must ensure that laws and human rights are respected. This is why 
Sartorius strives to consider risks that have an impact on the company, but what is more, to examine the risks 
Sartorius poses for its environment with its business operations as well.  
Sartorius believes in the greatest possible integration of risk management processes in the company. The re-
quir ements defined in the German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR -RUG) are the basis of the ESG 
risk analysis. ESG risk management also follows the same procedures for identification, analysis, control and 
reporting as those for central risk management.  
In the year under review, we began to integrate nonfinancial risks into the risk management process. In this 
first overall analysis, no CSR risks were identified that would have to be reported according to CSR -RUG. The 
new risk management process will be f ully implemented from 2020.  
  
 
1 Sales and purchasing volume in 2019.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   15 
 
 
 102 -12 
External Initiatives  
Sartorius supports or is committed to the following initiatives that promote sustainable development (in al-
phabetic order) : 
▪ Global Reporting Initiative  
▪ UN Global Compact  
▪ UN Sustainable Development G oals  
102 -13 
Membership of Associations    
Partnerships or memberships in national and international organizations have a high strategic value for our 
work . For example, we are active in the following associations (in alphabetic order):  
▪ AIPIA – Active & Intelligent Packaging Industry Association  
▪ BPOG - Biophorum Operations Group  
▪ BPSA – Bio-Process Systems Alliance  
▪ CCRM  
▪ Centrum für europäische Politik   
▪ CLSA – Canadian Laboratory Suppliers Association  
▪ DIRK – Deutscher Investor Relations Verband  
▪ econsense  
▪ European Plastics Pact  
▪ HessenChemie  
▪ MEDEF - Mouvement des entreprises de France  
▪ PDA - Parenteral Drug Association  
▪ Rx-360  
▪ SLA – Scottish Lifescience association  
▪ SPECTARIS - Deutscher Industrieverband für Optik, Photonik, Analysen - und Medizintechnik  
▪ Stifterverband  
▪ Südniedersachsen Stiftung  
▪ Swiss Biotech Association  
▪ VDMA  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   16 
 
 
 Strategy  
102 -14 
Statement from Senior Decision -Maker  
See Responsibility at Sartoriu s, page 3.  
102 -15 
Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities  
Our corporate mission is to promote scientific progress in the life sciences, which in turn supports the devel-
opment of new vaccines, more effective therapies and affordable medical care. Consequently , good health 
and well -being are at the heart of our attempts to achieve more sustainability and our corporate purpose di-
rectly addresses one of the Sustainable Development Goals.  
The biopharmaceutical market is rapidly developing – it is an area in which scientific breakthroughs leading to 
new therapies occur at a high rate. At the same time, it still takes about ten years to develop a new pharma-
ceutical drug and this remains cost -intensive. Our aim is to help our biopharmaceutical customers develop 
and produce biopharmaceuticals more efficiently.  
In past years, technologies from Sartorius have been used in the development and production of vaccines to 
combat various diseases, such as Ebola, Zika and H1N1. In the reporting year, the company’s products  and pro-
cess knowledge made a significant contribution towards fighting the COVID -19 pandemic: Sartorius is in-
volved in most vaccine projects throughout the world.  
Sartorius generates almost two thirds of its sales revenue with sterile products that are us ed in biopharmaceu-
tical research where they ensure the safety, efficiency and ecological compatibility of the processes. Risks can 
occur especially in connection  with the manufacture of these  products, since this can require the use of plas-
tics, energy and  solvents. Non -financial risks can also occur through the procurement of materials. This is why, 
when Sartorius is choosing partners and suppliers, it pays particular attention that statutory and ethical rules 
are complied with.  
Key Impacts  
Environment  Soc ial Governance  
Energy & Emissions  Good Health & Well -Being  Compliance  
Material & Waste  Working Conditions  Supply Chain  
Product End -of-Life  Occupational Health & Safety  Human Rights  
  Career & Training  Anti -Corruption     
 
The most important processes and advances implemented in the treatment of these topics are described in 
the particular sections of this GRI  Report.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   17 
 
 
 Ethic and Integrity  
102 -16 
Values, Principles, Standards, and Norms of Behavior  
Sustainability, openness, enjoyment are the values that shape our work with colleagues, customers and busi-
ness partners alike. By incorporating them into our thoughts and actions on a daily basis, we create a positive 
corporate culture, which is an importa nt source of long -term economic success, lasting motivation and above -
average performance.  
We regard compliance with applicable laws as self -evident. Beyond this, we have set ourselves the standard of 
managing our company with integrity.  
We are committed to upholding internationally recognized human and labor rights as a basis of our worldwide 
business operations. A significant task in this regard is to create a common understanding of fair working con-
ditions – at all our sites and in the supply chain.  
The Sartorius Code of Conduct defines the requirements we place on our employees with respect to respon-
sible conduct. The code helps employees act ethically and in accordance with the law in their daily work. In 
everything they do, employees are required to ask themselves the following questions: Are my actions legal? 
Does my conduct correspond to our values and guidelines? Is it free of personal interests (that are not covered 
by labor  law regulations)? Will it stand up to public scrutiny? The Code of Conduc t covers compliance with 
international social and environmental standards, general rules of conduct and dealing with conflicts of inter-
est.  
Our Code of Conduct for business partners is the basis for collaboration with our business partners through-
out the Group. Our requirements with regard to the environment, social matters and governance are defined 
in the Code. Since December 2019, acknowledgment of the Code of Conduct is part of the acceptance pro-
cess for new suppliers. In 2020, we began systematically reviewing whether our existing suppliers have 
acknowledged the Code and, if not, asking them to do so. In some cases, a supplier's similar Code of Conduct 
can replace our Code of Conduct. The review process will be completed during 2021.  
102 -17 
Mechanisms for Advice and Concerns about Ethics  
The Sartorius Code of Conduct defines the requirements we place on our employees with respect to respon-
sible conduct and it comprises minimum standards relating to the law -abiding and ethical approach tha t all 
Sartorius employees across the world must meet. We expect our business partners and especially our suppliers 
to act accordingly. This is laid down in our Code of Conduct for Business Partners.  
A complaint system ensures that employees and external th ird parties can report cases of damaging conduct, 
such as corruption, discrimination or sexual harassment. The compliance team can be contacted face -to-face, 
via a telephone hotline, the department’s electronic mailbox or – in the case of anonymous reports  – the whis-
tleblower system. The relevant contact options are listed on the intranet and are thus available company -wide. 
They are also available on the company’s website and can thus be accessed by external persons concerned.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   18 
 
 
 Governance  
102 -18 
Governance Structure  
With the Annual General Shareholders' Meeting, Supervisory Board and Executive Board, the Sartorius AG 
has three corporate managerial bodies whose tasks and powers are essentially derived from the German Stock 
Corporation Law ("Aktiengesetz") and  the company's Articles of Association.  
As owners of the company, the shareholders exercise their rights at its Annual General Shareholders' Meeting, 
where they decide, in particular, on the appropriation of profits, measures concerning share capital, ame nd-
ments to the Articles of Association, discharge of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board and on the 
appointment of statutory auditors, as well as elect shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board. The 
Annual General Shareholders' meeting  is held at least once a year within the first eight months of the respec-
tive fiscal year.  
In managing the company, the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board perform their tasks in a two -tier 
board structure, each with separate duties and powers.  
The  Supervisory Board appoints members to the Executive Board, determines their remuneration and moni-
tors and advises the Executive Board in its management of the company. The Supervisory Board is not author-
ized to take any operational management measures for  the busin ess. The Supervisory Board has established 
four committees: the Executive Task Committee, the Audit Committee, the Conciliation Committee and the 
Nomination Committee.  Further information on the work of the Supervisory Board and its committees is  pro-
vided in the Report of the Supervisory Board.  
The Executive Board is responsible for independently managing the company. In particular, it defines corpo-
rate strategy, coordinates and agrees on this approach with the Supervisory Board and implements suc h cor-
porate strategy. In line with established reporting obligations, the Executive Board regularly informs the Su-
pervisory Board promptly and comprehensively, and requests the latter's approval for certain key business 
transactions. Further information on  the corporate governance is provided in the 2020 Annual Report on 
pages 97 et seq .  
The Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee meets at least once each year. Under the direction of the 
CEO, senior -level managers and corporate responsibility officers discuss approaches that Sartorius could use 
to contribute to greater sustainability.  
102 -20 
Executive -Level Responsibility for Economic, Environmental and Social Topics  
The Executive Board of Sartorius AG manages the business activities of the company according to the legal 
requirements, the Articles of Association of the company and the board’s Rules of Procedure. The members 
of the Executive Board are jointly responsible for the management of the company as a whole. This includes 
economic, eco logical, and social topics.  
Corporate Responsibility as the coordinating unit for the company’s sustainability activities is part of the Cor-
porate Communications ＆ IR Department of which the Executive Board Chairman is in charge.  
102 -21 
Consulting Stakeho lders on Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  
For further information on consulting stakeholders, see 102 -42, 102 -43, 102 -44 as well as  102 -46. Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   19 
 
 
 102 -22 
Composition of t he Highest Governance Body and I ts Committees  
The Sartorius Executive Board is a committee that presently consists of four members and is therefore rela-
tively small; the establishment of a rigid gender quota can be problematic. The current four members of the 
Executive Board of Sartorius AG are men. The appointment of at least one woma n to the Executive Board was 
defined as a target to be met by the present deadline of June 30, 2022.  
The Supervisory Board is composed of 12 members and has an equal n umber of shareholder representa tives 
and employee representatives. Seven men total (aroun d 58%) are members of this board, of whom four are 
shareholder representatives and three employee representatives. In addition, five women (around 42%) are 
members of this board, among them two representatives of t he share owners and three repre sentatives of the 
employees.  
In the opinion of the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board, Prof. Dr. David Ebsworth, Dr.  Dan-
iela Favoccia, Ilke Hildegard Panzer, Prof. Dr. Thomas Scheper and Prof. Dr. Klaus Rüdiger Trützschler are  in-
dependent members o f the Supervisory Board. As the executor for the community of heirs of Horst Sartorius,  
Dr. Lothar Kappich is to be regarded as dependent upon the controlling shareholder. However, despite the  
fact that Dr. Kappich has served on the Supervisory Board since  April 2007 and has thus been a member for  
more than 12 years, the shareholders on the Supervisory Board regard him as independent of the company  
and its Executive Board. Thus a Supervisory Board membership of many years alone should not, in this case,  
lead to the fear of a personal or business relationship with the company or its Executive Board that would justify  
a significant and not merely temporary conflict of interest. In particular, the circumstance that Dr. Kappich  rep-
resents the majority of the vot ing rights in the company counters the presumption of his dependence on  the 
company and its Executive Board.  
The Executive Task Committee, Audit Committee and Conciliation Committee each have four members and 
have an equal number of shareholder representa tives and employee representatives. The Nomination Com-
mittee is comprised of representatives of the shareholders only.  
An overview of the names of the members of the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board and of the latter's 
committees, including informati on on other internal and external Group positions held by these indi viduals, is 
provided in the 2020 Annual Report on pages 22 9 et seq.  
102 -23 
Chair of the Highest Governance Body  
Dr. Lothar Kappich was Chairman of the Supervisory Board throughout the enti re reporting period. He is nei-
ther an active member of the Executive Board of Sartorius AG nor a former member of this board . During the 
same period, , Dr. Joachim Kreuzburg was the Executive Board Chairman and CEO .  
102 -24 
Nominating and Selecting the Highest Governance Body  
The election of the Supervisory Board members is conducted separately for the shareholder representatives 
and the employee representatives. The six employee representatives are elected according to the German 
Codetermi nation Law ("M itbestimmungsgesetz") and the six shareowner representatives are elected by the 
Annual General Sharehol ders' Meeting. The Nomination Committee, which is comprised of representatives of 
the shareholders only, shall propose suitable candidates to the Supervi sory Board for the latter’s election pro-
posals submitted to the  Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting is not bound by 
the proposals for the election of the shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board.  
Members of the Super visory Board of Sartorius AG are to be appointed such that they, on the whole, have the 
knowledge, skills and experience that are necessary to perform the board's duties properly. This includes 
among other aspects that independent members shall account for  no less than 25% of the Supervisory Board.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   20 
 
 
 In addition, the Supervisory Board also defined a competence profile for itself. This also covers aspects such 
as diversity, for example, with regard to professional background and international experience. In v iew of 
achieving an appropriate gender balance, the legal quotas of at least 30% women and at least 30% men apply 
to the Sartorius Supervisory Board. The shareholder representatives and the employee representatives de-
cided to fulfill these legal targets se parately.  
Further information on the objectives for appointments to the Supervisory Board, the diversity policy  and the 
competence  profile is provided in the 2020 Annual Report on pages 99  et seq.  
The Supervisory Board appoints members to the Executive B oard. In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the 
basic qualification criteria for appointments to positions on the Executive Board are professional qualifications 
for heading each particular area of responsibility, a proven track record in the individual ’s career path and con-
vincing managerial skills. In addition, the Supervisory Board also considers the aspect of diversity in its appoint-
ment decisions. Therefore, the Supervisory Board strives to appoint people with complementary profiles, pro-
fessional an d personal life experiences and in different age brackets to the Executive Board. Moreover, the 
latter board is required to have broad internatio nal experience.  
102 -25 
Conflicts of Interest  
According to the requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC), which Sartorius fully 
complies with  in its current version of December 16, 2019 , members of the Executive Board and the Supervi-
sory Board are required to disclose conflicts of interest to the Supervisory Board without undue delay. The 
GCGC als o stipulates that the Supervisory Board must inform the Executive Board in its report to the Annual 
Shareholders' Meeting about any conflicts of interest that have occurred and how they were handled. Further-
more, the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory B oard of Sartorius AG require that each member of the Su-
pervisory Board disclose conflicts of interest to the Chairman without undue delay.  
Further internal and external Group positions of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory  Board are dis-
closed in th e 2020 Annual Report on pages 230  et seq. The brief curricula vitae of these members are addi-
tionally published on the company’s website, and the ownership structure of Sartorius AG is described under 
102 -5. Share trading activities of Supervisory and Exec utive Board members as related persons are discussed 
in the 20 20 Annual Report on page 103 . Likewise, further information on related companies and persons is 
given in the 2020 Annual Report on page 216. 
102 -29 
Identifying and Managing Economic, Environment al, and Social Impacts  
The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Executive Board on the management of the company. This 
covers economic, ecological and social impacts.  
The Non -Financial Group S tatement is submitted to the Supervisory Board as the highest -level governance 
body and contains non -financial topics and indicators that are key for Sartorius.  
102 -30 
Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes  
Overall responsibility for the maintenance o f an effective risk manag ement system ensuring comprehen sive 
and consistent management of all material risks rests with the Executive Board. The Finance & Controlling 
Department is responsible for coordinating and developing this system and for consolidate d risk reporting, 
while the particular functional areas are responsible for identifying, analyzing and reporting individual risks, as 
well as for assessing their potential impact and taking the appropriate countermeasures. With regard to CSR 
risks, the Fin ance & Controlling Department is supported by the Corporate Responsibility unit.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   21 
 
 
 Sartorius  is responsible towards its employees, the environment, and society. This responsibility must be per-
ceived throughout the entire supply chain. In particular, the comp any’s actions with regard to environmental 
matters, employee and social aspects, anti -corruption and bribery issues and respect for human rights can lead 
to non -financial risks. This is why Sartorius  strives to consider risks that have an impact on the com pany, but 
what is more, to examine the risks Sartorius  poses for its environment with its business operations as well.  
Risks can occur especially in connection with the manufacture of sterile products used in bioprocesses, since 
this can require the use of  plastics, energy and solvents. Non -financial risks can also occur through the pro-
curement of materials. This is why, when Sartorius  is choosing partners and suppliers, it pays particular atten-
tion that statutory and ethical rules are complied with.  
In the  reporting year, no non -financial risks were identified that would have to be reported according to CSR -
RUG.  
The requirements defined in the German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR -RUG) are the basis of the 
ESG risk analysis. Sartorius  aims for the gr eatest possible integration of risk management processes in the 
company.  
The Supervisory Board of Sartorius AG monitors the effectiveness of the risk management system, with the 
preparatory work being performed by the Audit Committee of this board. While carrying out their statutory 
audit mandate for the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements, the independent 
auditors assess whether the early warning system in place is capable of prompt identification of risks that could 
jeopardi ze the future of the company. Finally, the Internal Audit Department regularly reviews the risk man-
agement process and system. For f urther information, see the 2020 Annual Report, pages 74 et seq.  
102 -31 
Review of Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  
The Supervisory Board reviewed the Non -Financial Group Statement included  in the company’s Annual Re-
port.  
102 -32 
Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Reporting  
The present GRI  Report  was released by the CEO and the Non -Financial  Group  Statement contained in this 
Annual Report was reviewed by the Supervisory Board.  
102 -33 
Communicating Critical Concerns  
Critical concerns are communicated to the Supervisory Board in several procedural ways. The Audit Commit-
tee meets once a year and reviews  the report of Internal Auditing; additionally, the Risk Management unit reg-
ularly reports on risk to this committee. Furthermore, the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee remain in regular contact to exchange information.  
102 -35 
Remuneration Policies  
The Remuneration Report in the 2020 Annual Report on pages 105  et seq. contains information on the remu-
neration policy in place for the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, including disclosures on perfor-
mance -based remun eration for the Executive Board, multi -year components intended to have a long -term 
incentive, pension commitments and on severance caps. In this section, information is provided as required by 
the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC).  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   22 
 
 
 102 -36 
Process f or Determining Remuneration  
The remuneration policy for the Executive Board aims to remunerate the members of the Executive Board 
appropriately in line with their tasks and responsibilities and to directly consider the performance of each 
member of the Exe cutive Board and the success of the company. Accordingly, the remuneration policy in-
cludes fixed remuneration components as well as short - and long -term variable remuneration components.  
The company strategy is aimed at achieving profitable growth and a su stained, long -term increase in the value  
of the company. This strategy is the basis from which the structure of the remuneration policy is derived for  
the Executive Board of Sartorius AG: The short -term variable remuneration depends on annual corporate  tar-
gets that are aligned with key performance indicators for profitable growth of the company. Long -term  remu-
neration depends on a corporate goal that reflects the sustainable and long -term growth of the company  and 
the Group, on the one hand, and on the long -term performance of the share price, which directly reflects  the 
development of the company's value, on the other. As a result, the company’s remuneration policy creates  
incentives to promote the long -term and positive sustainable development of the compa ny. Further inf or-
mation is available in the 2020  Annual  Report on pages  105  et seq . 
The Supervisory Board establishes and regularly reviews the remuneration policy for the Executive Board. The  
Executive Task Committee of the Supervisory Board prepares the remuneration policy for approval by the full  
Supervisory Board and makes the respective suggestions.  In the process, the Supervisory Board also reviews 
the appropriateness of such remuneration in comparison  to the remuneration of the Executive Board within  
the peer group of the company (horizontal  appropriateness). The peer group is defined by the Supervisory 
Board and/or its Executive Task Committee . and is adapted as necessary.  Further inf ormation on the peer 
group is available in the 2020  Annual  Report o n page 113.  
In establishing the remuneration for the Executive Board members, the Supervisory Board further considers 
both the compensation of senior management and that of the remaining workforce in relation to the German 
Group companies (vertical appropr iateness). For these purposes, the Supervisory Board defines senior man-
agement as the group of executives of the first two management levels below the Executive Board. The Su-
pervisory Board looks not only at the current compensation ratio, but also at how it has developed over time.  
If necessary, the Supervisory Board will engage an independen t compensation consultant to re view vertical 
and horizontal appropriateness; this was last done in 2018. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board also takes into 
account th e requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code when determining and reviewing the 
remuneration of the Executive Board.  
Any conflict of interest in the establishment, implementation and review of the remuneration policy shall be 
treated by the Supervisory Board in the same way as other conflicts of interest in the person of a Supervisory 
Board member. The Supervisory Board member concerned is therefore required to disclose any conflict of 
interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and wil l not participate in the adoption of resolutions or in 
the deliberations concerned. Disclosure of any conflicts of interest at an early stage ensures that the decisions 
of the Supervisory Board are not influenced by inappropriate considerations . Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   23 
 
 
 102 -38 
Ann ual Total Compensation Ratio  
 
Annual Total Compensation Ratio1, 2, 3, 4   
Country  Highest -paid indi-
vidual to median 
in each country  
China                        8.9  
Germany                      13.6  
France                     10.8  
India                      12.7  
Puerto Rico                        9.9  
Tunisia                    20.9  
USA                        4.8  
UK                       8.3  
Group5                     16.6    
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Annual total compensation is defined as the sum of the annual base salary and the annual bonus target amount. For part -time em-
ployees the total compensation target is calculated up to o ne full -time equivalent.   
3 In countries with large facilities in terms of the number of employees.  
4 We consider employees  whose salary is paid out in the standard local currency.  
5 Calculated in euro.  
Stakeholder Engagement  
102 -40 
List of Stakeholder Groups   
Our stakeholders are our customers, employees, investors, suppliers and business partners, as well as neigh-
boring companies and local residents.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   24 
 
 
 102 -41 
Collective Bargaining Agreements  
 
Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements1, 2   
Region  Country  Employees cov-
ered by collective 
bargaining  
 agreements  
EMEA  Austria  0% 
 Belgium  100%  
  Finland  95%  
  France  100%  
 Germany  86%  
 Hungary  0% 
  Ireland  0% 
  Israel  0% 
  Italy  100%  
  Netherlands  0% 
  Poland  0% 
  Russia  0% 
 Slovenia  0% 
 Spain  100%  
  Sweden  100%  
  Switzerland  0% 
  Tunisia  67%  
  UK 0% 
EMEA Total    70%  
Americas  Argentina  45%  
  Brazil  100%  
  Canada  0% 
  Mexico  0% 
  Puerto Rico  74%  
  USA  0% 
Americas Total    28%  
Asia | Pacific  Australia  0% 
  China  0% 
  Hong Kong  0% 
  India  15%  
  Japan  0% 
  Malaysia  0% 
  Singapore  0% 
  South Korea  0% 
  Taiwan  0% 
  Thailand  0% 
  Vietnam  0% 
 Asia | Pacific Total    5% 
Total    53%     
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   25 
 
 
 102 -42 
Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders  
We define  stakeholders as those persons, companies, institutions and interest groups that are able to influ-
ence the success of the Sartorius Group or are affected by the actions of our company.  
102 -43 
Approach to Stakeholder Engagement  
Sartorius e ngag es in a very c lose, ongoing dialog with its stakeholders, using this exchange to regularly discuss 
aspects of sustainability.  
In the reporting year, we had intensive discussions about the subject of sustainability with our customers. Dur-
ing many meetings, we discussed t he expectations of our customers and started cooperation projects. To get 
a comprehensive overview in this regard, in collaboration with a market research institute we wrote to more 
than 70 customers, asking them how they perceived Sartorius ’ contributions towards sustainability and also to 
tell us about their expectations.  
In the reporting year, Sartorius  strengthened its dialog with its own staff with two major surveys involving em-
ployees. We set up a section on the Intranet specifically d ealing with the topic of sustainability.  
In November, Sartorius  once again took part in the ESG -SRI Conference of Société Générale. In March, the 
German Stock Exchange presented the new sustainability index DAX 50 ESG. The index tracks the perfor-
mance of t he fifty largest and most liquid German stocks that have particularly sustainable business practices 
based on the Environmental, Social and Governance criteria. Sartorius  is included in the DAX 50 ESG.  
The results of the stakeholder dialog were discussed in the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee and, 
in this way, are taken into account in Sartorius ’ strategy process.  
Sartorius  participates in sustainability analyses and ratings to gauge its performance with respect to its envi-
ronmental, social and  governance -related business practices. In the EcoVadis Rating, Sartorius  achieved silver 
level and, with this score, positioned itself among the best 19 percent of the companies assessed. Sartorius  was 
given an A in the MSCI Sustainability Rating.  
102 -44 
Key Topics and Concerns Raised  
In 2017, we as ked our stakeholders about m any key topics and concerns and prioritized the latter in our mate-
riality analysis. The results of this analysis form the basis for the content reported. See al so 102 -46. 
Reporting Pr actice  
102 -45 
Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements  
See the list in the 2020 Annual Report on pages 167  et seq.  
102 -46 
Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries  
In defining the materiality of our GRI  Report, we used the definitions of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
as guidance. According to these terms, topics need to be treated that show the essential economic, ecological 
and social impacts of an organization or substantially affect the assess ments and decisions of the stakeholders.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   26 
 
 
 We conducted a comprehensive materiality analysis in 2017 to determine the material topics for the business 
activities of the Sartorius Group. Further information on the company’s materiality analysis is provide d in  the 
2017 Annual Report, pages  88 et seq., as part of the Non -Financial Statement of the Group.  
For reporting in the year under review, we assessed discussions with customers and investors, taking into ac-
count the views of managers in Sales, Product Marke ting, Purchasing, Quality Management, Legal & Compli-
ance, Corporate Communications as well as Research and Development and Produ ction. The Executive Board 
confirmed the results of this process.  
Unless ot herwise indicated, the employee -related data covers all Sartorius companies. Unless otherwise spec-
ified, the environmental indicators encompass all our production companies, representing 7 6% of the total 
headcount.  
102 -47 
List of Material Topics  
 
Material topics  Assigned contents a ccording to GRI  
Innovation & Social Contribution  Innovation & Social Contribution  
  203 Indirect Economic Impacts  
Employees  401 Employment  
  403 Occupational Health and Safety  
  404 Training and Education  
  405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  
  406 Non -Discrimination  
Responsible Business Practices  205 Corruption  
  206 Anti -Competitive Behavior  
 307 Environmental Compliance  
  308 Supplier Environmental Assessment  
 412 Human Rights Assessment  
  414 Supplier Social Assessment  
  415 Public Policy  
  419 Socioeconomic Compliance  
Environment  301 Materials  
  302 Energy  
  303 Water and Effluents  
  305 Emissions  
  306 Waste  
 Product Stewardship    
 
102 -48 
Restatement of Information  
This is the first GRI  Report .  
102 -49  
Changes in Reporting  
This is the first GRI  Report .  
102 -50 
Reporting Period  
The reporting period of the GRI  Report is the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31 .  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  General Disclosures   27 
 
 
 102 -51 
Date of Most Recent Report  
This is the first GRI  Report .  
102 -52 
Reporting Cycle  
The reporting cycle is annual.  
102 -53 
Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report  
Katharina Tillmanns -Pelzer  
Corporate Responsibility  
 
Phone: +49.551.308.2893  
E-mail: katharina.tillmanns@sartorius.c om 
 
Sartorius Corporate Administration GmbH  
Otto -Brenner -Straße 20  
37079 Goe ttingen, Germany  
www.sartorius.com/en/company/corporate -responsibility  
102 -54 
Claims of Reporting in Accordance with the GRI Standards  
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.  
102 -55 
GRI Content Index  
To ensure a better overview and comparability, the structure of our GRI  Report exactly follows the GRI Stand-
ards. See also GRI Content Index at the e nd of this GRI  Report  for a detailed overview.  
102 -56 
External Assurance  
Withi n the scope of a review of the Non -Financial  Group  Statement, the certified independent auditing com-
pany KPMG assessed the items  in blue font  in the form of an audit with limited  assurance. The audit was con-
ducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised. On 
the basis of this review, KPMG issued an unqualified opinion. Further information on the independence of the 
auditing firm, o n the practitioner’s responsibility and the conclusion is provided in the 2020 Annual Report of 
the Sartorius AG, pages 146 et seq.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
200  Economic Standards  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Economic Standards   29 
 
 203 Indirect Economic Impacts  
103  
Management Approach  
Our business activities have a variety of positive effects on the development of the cities and communities in 
which we operate, mostly on a long -term basis. At our main manufacturing sites, in particular, we are among 
the largest private employers and cli ents locally and therefore contribute toward increasing growth and pur-
chasing power.  
203 -2 
Significant Indirect Economic Impacts  
Many large production facilities of Sartorius are located in small to mid -size cities and communities, and are 
among the most important employers there, such as in Göttingen, Germany; Aubagne, France; and Yauco, 
Puerto Rico. At our Group headquarters in the university city of Göttingen, Sartorius wi th its workforce of more 
than 3,3 00 people is the largest private employer in this  area. Also in the rural region in nearby Guxhagen, the 
company is of key importance to the local economy.  
In Aubagne, a city with a population of around 45,000, for example, we offer attractive long -term jobs to 935  
people. As a member of the large Frenc h employers’ federation MEDEF, Sartorius works closely with national 
and local institutions to help improve the employment market situation. Our expanded plant in Yauco p rovides 
employment for around 65 0 directly at Sartorius and about 120 additional peopl e at local service providers 
and suppliers, such as for maintenance of our site machinery and buildings and for our plant security.  
205 Anti -Corruption  
103  
Management Approach  
We regard compliance with applicable laws as self -evident. Beyond this, we have set ourselves the standard of 
managing our company with integrity.  
We are committed to upholding internationally recognized human and labor rights as a basis of our worldwide 
business operations. A significant task in this regard is to create a common unde rstanding of fair working con-
ditions – at all our sites and in the supply chain.  
Sartorius conducts its business in compliance with globally accepted ethi cal standards and applicable na tional 
legal requirements. The German Corporate Governance Code defines  requirements for manage ment boards 
and supervisory boards including their interaction with regard to transparency, accounting and auditing and 
the conduct of annual general meetings. Legal & Compliance reports to the CEO and informs the Supervisory 
Board in the Audit Committee. Sartorius follows the rules and recommendations of the German Corporate 
Governance Code in its current version of  December 16, 2019 .  
Our globally applicable compliance management system is intended to ensure that our Supervisory and Ex-
ecutive Board member s, management and employees comply with all legal regulations and codes, and act 
according to our internal guidelines. The Legal Affairs & Compliance department is responsible for legal con-
sulting, internal auditing, corporate security, data protection, an ti-corruption, customs and export control.  
A dedicated team has the task of the implementing and enforcing all Group compliance topics.  
The Anti -Corruption Code forms the basis for raising employee awareness about corruption risks. It is also a 
guideline , instruction manual and aid in taking the necessary action to both prevent and fight corruption at Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Economic Standards   30 
 
 specific companies or in specific sectors. An anticorruption officer has been appointed by Group management 
as a contact person for corruption prevention. T his officer pursues his or her duties independently.  
We ensure that our employees are familiar with the Anti -Corruption Code and the Code of Conduct by asking 
all employees worldwide every year to take part in an online training course and complete a test  at the end of 
it. The course teaches employees how to deal with ethically or legally problematic situations.  
205 -2 
Communications and Training about Anti -Corruption Policies and Procedures  
Durin g the period under review, 3,530  employees from 33 countries completed training for t he Anti - Corrup-
tion Code and 3,5 92 employees from 32  countries completed training for the Code of Conduct. The hours 
spe nt on training amounted to 2,155  for the Code of Conduct and 2,118  for the Anti -Corruption Code. Com-
pliance trai ning course are currently available in German, English, French and Chinese.  
205 -3 
Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken  
Three suspected corruption cases were reported, two of which are currently under  investigation, while the 
third is conside red to be unsubstantiated.  
206 Anti -Competitive Behavior  
103  
Management Approach  
For information on our management approac h regarding compliance, see 205 . 
206 -1 
Legal Actions for Anti -Competitive Behavior, Anti -Trust, and Monopoly Practices  
No significant fines or non -monetary penalties resulting from violations of laws or regulations were imposed in 
the reporting year.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
300  Environmental Standards   Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   32 
 
 302 Energy  
103  
Management Approach  
Advancing climate change is a challenge tha t concerns everyone. We see it as our duty to make a contri bution 
towards the decarbonization of the economy.  
Sartorius produces in 28  production companies  and, accordingly, consumes energy and creates emissions. 
Overall, we classify the environmental impa ct of our activities as comparatively low. However, we are also aware 
of our responsibility for the environment and set high standards for environmental protection.  
In our Environmental Position, we define the basic principles and core topics of our envir onmental  manage-
ment system. Sartorius’ Environmental Position is binding on all the companies and sites of the  Sartorius 
Group. It has been communicated to all our employees via the intranet and the company website,  and sup-
ports us in anchoring efficiency and environmental awareness in our daily business. In constructing  new facili-
ties, we follow recognized standards for sustainable building . 
An ISO 14001 -certified environmental management system has been established in the two largest  compa-
nies in Göttingen (Germany) and Aubagne (France), Bangalore (India), Cergy (France), Guxhagen  (Germany), 
Helsinki and Kajaani (Finland), Mohamdia (Tunisia), Beijing (China), Shanghai (China) and Yauco  (Puerto Rico). 
Consequently, 39% of the production companies fu lfill the requirements of the international  standard ISO 
14001 and 70% of the employees in production companies work according to this standard.   
Nineteen of our production companies are also certified according to the quality standard ISO 9001. This  
means  that 88% of the employees of our production companies work according to this standard. These  stand-
ards ensure that we comply with quality requirements in the manufacture of our products, exercise care  with 
the resources we use, and prevent environmental r isks. We also operate an energy management system  in 
accordance with ISO 50001 at four German facilities. In relation to the numbe r of employees at these 
plants, this represents 38% of all our production sites.  
302 -1 
Energy Consumption Within the Organizati on 
 
Energy Consumption1   
  2020  20192 
Total energy consumption in MWh  132,065  130,749  
Direct energy consumption in MWh  55,444  58,891  
Electricity consumption from public grid in MWh  70,951  67,009  
Others in MWh  5,670  4,849     
1 Produc tion sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report  next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlboroug h 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics 
(Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 There was a minor adjustment to the energy values for 2019 resulting from an incorrect allocation and calculation.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   33 
 
 Energy Consumption by Energy Carrier1   
  2020  2019  
Total energy consumption in MWh  132,065  130,749  
Fuel consumption from non -renewable sources in MWh  55,444  58,891  
of which natural gas in MWh  51,322  54,239  
of which liquified petroleum gas (LPG) in MWh  216 193 
of which heating oil in MWh  1,179  1,303  
of which diesel in MWh  2,726  3,156  
Electricity consumption in MWh  71,656  67,160  
of which conventional electricity from public grid in MWh  70,951  67,009  
of which solar power (self -generated) in MWh  705  151 
Heating consumption in MWh  4,617  4,698  
of which district heating in MWh  4,037  4,209  
of which geothermal energy in MWh  580  489  
Cooling consumption in MWh  348  -    
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the r eport next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlb orough 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics 
(Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
302 -3 
Energy Intensity  
 
1 The energy intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the total e nergy consumption including fuel, electricity, heating and self -gener-
ated solar en ergy in MWh of production sites by annual sales  in millions  of euros . Production sites acquired during the yea r are not 
counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next year. This includes the production sit es in Aj-
dovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlborough (USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai  (China) and 
another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT compa ny that 
does not produce any goods.  
  
2016 2017 2018 2019 20205060708090Energy Intensity1
80.5 72.2 72.2 71.6 56.5in proportion to annual sales, in MWh | €in millionsSartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   34 
 
 303 Water and Effluents  
103  
Management Approach  
The company takes care to reduce water consumption and soil sealing, particularly at manufacturing plants 
located in baseline water risk areas according to the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, such as Beijing  (China)  and 
Mohamdia  (Tunisia) . In Yauco, for example, the company has establis hed an additional system for rainwater 
use. Most of the water employed is for rinsing in the manufacture of filter mem branes according to the precip-
itation bath method at the Göttingen  site.  
Sartorius primarily sources its water from the public water supp ly; beyond this, the company also uses rainwa-
ter. The total volume of water discharged into public sewage systems corresponds roughly to the comp any’s 
total water consumption.  
303 -3 
Wa ter Withdrawal  
 
Water Withdrawal1   
  2020  2019  
Total water withdrawal in Ml  530.03  460.22  
Surface water in Ml  9.91  13.64  
Groundwater in Ml  23.87  19.75  
Third -party water in Ml  496.25  426.83     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the r eport next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlb orough 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swe-
den) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
Water Withdrawal in Areas with Water Stress1, 2   
  2020  2019  
Total water withdrawal in Ml  402.84  340.06  
Surface water in Ml                   -                     -    
Groundwater in Ml  3.21  0.01  
Third -party water in Ml  399.63  340.05     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the r eport next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlb orough 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics 
(Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 Areas of water stre ss are assesed based on the World Resources Institute "Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas". We consider areas where 
water stress is classified as high (40 -80%) or extremely high (>80%).  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   35 
 
 305 Emissions  
103  
Management Approach  
Advancing climate change is a challenge that concerns everyone. We see it as our duty to make a contri bution 
towards the decarbonization of the economy.  
Sartorius produces in 28  production companies  and, accordingly, consumes energy and creates emissions. 
Overall, we classify the environmental impact of our activities as comparatively low. However, we are also aware 
of our responsibility for the environment and set high standards for environmental protection.  
In our Environmental Position, we define the ba sic principles and core topics of our environmental  manage-
ment system. Sartorius’ Environmental Position is binding on all the companies and sites of the  Sartorius 
Group. It has been communicated to all our employees via the intranet and the company websit e, and sup-
ports us in anchoring efficiency and environmental awareness in our daily business. In constructing  new facili-
ties, we follow recognized standards for sustainable building . 
An ISO 14001 -certified environmental management system has been established in the two largest  compa-
nies in Göttingen (Germany) and Aubagne (France), Bangalore (India), Cergy (France), Guxhagen  (Germany), 
Helsinki and Kajaani (Finland), Mohamdia (Tunisia), Beijing (China), Shanghai (China) and Yauco  (Puerto Rico). 
Cons equently, 39% of the production companies fulfill the requirements of the international  standard ISO 
14001 and 70% of the employees in production companies work according to this standard.   
Nineteen of our production companies are also certified according to the quality standard ISO 9001. This  
means that 88% of the employees of our production companies work according to this standard. These  stand-
ards ensure that we comply with quality requirements in the manufacture of our products, exercise care  with 
the r esources we use, and prevent environmental risks. We also operate an energy management system  in 
accordance with ISO 50001 at four German facilities. In relation to the numbe r of employees at these 
plants, this represents 38% of all our production sites.  
In the reporting year, Sartorius prepared a balance of its CO 2 emissions and set science -based targets for the  
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, which are based on the 1.5°C target and the Science Based Targets (SBT). For Scope  
3 emissions, we have set a qualitative target to reduce the emissions. A reduction target is deemed to be  sci-
ence -based if, according to current scientific findings, it is suitable for limiting global warming to 1.5°C  accord-
ing to the Paris Agreement. By 2030, Sartorius will reduce its direct e missions and emissions from  bought -in 
energy by around 45 percent in comparison to 2019. Next year, a decision will be made on whether  to report 
the targets to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).   
This year, the Corporate Responsibility Steering C ommittee, which meets at least once each year and is  
chaired by the CEO, was intensively involved with implementation of the developed climate targets in the  op-
erations of the two divisions and adopted appropriate measures.   
Emissions and Targets    
  Basis 20191 Target 2030  
Total GHG Emissions in t CO 2eq 56,897  30,611  
Total Scope 1 emissions in t CO 2eq 18,103  9,739  
Total Scope 2 emissions in t CO 2eq 38,794  20,871     
1 The emissions for the determination of the climate targets differ from the emissions reported in the table 'Greenhouse gase s' for the 
year 2019, as the sales compa nies were included and other emission factors were used. We aim to include the emissions of the sales 
companies in the reporting within the framework of the non -financial group statement in the long term.   Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   36 
 
 Sartorius has been recording greenhouse gas emissi ons in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) 
global standard since 2013. Accordingly, in addition to the CO 2 emissions, we take account of all climate -rele-
vant gases and report them in CO 2 equivalents (CO 2eq). Currently, we report direct climate -relevant emis-
sions from our production sites1 (Scope 1). We also report indirect energy -related emissions resulting from 
power generation by external energy suppliers (Scope 2). Scope 1 emissions occur through consumption of 
direct energy sources, such as diesel, fuel oil, natural gas and LPG, and also through process emissions from 
solvents and refrigerants at our sites in Göttingen and Yauco.  
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from Sartorius are relatively low. Nevertheless, we are continuously looking for w ays 
to reduce emissions. Despite continuing expansion of our production facilities, the success of our measures is 
reflected in the company's overall energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, which have increased 
at a lower rate than the company's e xpansion in terms of sales revenue.  
The new science -based targets will be used in our planning from Q1 2021. Accordingly, we plan to report the 
corresponding reductions from the next annual report.  
In the reporting year, we have already changed the purchas e of electricity for the German sites from 2021 to 
hydroelectricity. Currently, the three company sites in Germany, Göttingen, Guxhagen and Ulm are responsi-
ble for about half the Group's energy consumption. With the changeover to buying electricity generat ed from 
renewable for these sites, we will reduce our CO 2 emissions by approximately 30 percent compared to 2019.  
305-1 and 305 -2 
Direct (Scope 1) and Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions  
 
Greenhouse Gases1   
  2020  2019  
Total GHG emissions in t CO 2eq2, 3 43,156  44,138  
Total Scope 1 emissions in t CO 2eq4 15,277  16,710  
Total Scope 2 emissions in t CO 2eq5 27,880  27,428     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the 
report next year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA) , 
Marlborough (USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartoriu s Stedim 
Data Analytics (Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 Emissions in t CO 2eq were calculated using thinkstep’s SoFi software. Emission factors from GaBi, Defra and VfU were used 
for this.   
3 Companies are integrated into the environmental report for emissions in accordance with the financial control consolidation  
approach.   
4 Excluding fuel consumption for car fleet.   
5 Only location -based fact ors are used to calculate Scope 2 emissions.  
  
 
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlboroug h 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartoriu s Stedim Data Analytics (Swe-
den) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   37 
 
 305 -3 
Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions)  
Sartorius has been recording S cope 3 emissions since the reporting year  2019. In the coming years, we will 
improve activity data to capture emissions for relevant missing categories.  
Scope 3 Emissions    
  2019  
Total scope 3 emissions in t CO 2eq         318,305  
Emissions from purchased goods and services in t CO 2eq         176,643  
Emissions from capital goods in t CO 2eq           14,342  
Emissions from fuel -and -energy -related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) in t CO 2eq             7,833  
Emissions from upstream transportation and distribution in t CO2eq           40,745  
Emissions from business travel in t CO 2eq                167  
Emissions from business travel in t CO 2eq           67,263  
Emissions from employee commuting in t CO 2eq           11,312    
 
305 -4 
GHG Emissions Intensity  
 
1 The GHG emissions intensity ratio is calculated by dividing direct and energy indirect GHG emissions in tons of CO 2eq of production 
sites  by annual sales in millions  of euros . Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting 
guideline, will be included in the report next year. This includes t he production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont 
(USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlborough (USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (US A). 
Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
  
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020010203040Development ofClimate -Relevant Emissions1
25.1 25.5 24.3 24.2 18.5in proportion to annual sales, in t | €in millionsSartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   38 
 
 306 Waste  
103  
Management Approach  
We strive to reduce waste and follow the approach to reduce, reuse and recycle where ever possible. Our ef-
forts include the reduction of scrap in production processes and the use of on -site sorting syst ems to help 
ensure that materials can be recycled. What is more we attempt to rethin k our product and packaging design 
in order to reduce their overall ecological impact including recyclability . It is our aim to reduce the proportio n 
of waste stored in landfills to an absolute minimum.  
The majority of hazardous waste at Sartorius results from the production of membranes. Organic solvents, 
which we need for manufacturing membranes used in sterile filters, are recovered and recycled in a multi -
stage pro cess. This is done directly on our plant site by a solvent reprocessing plant, and the sol vents are then 
reused in production operations. In this way, we maintain closed -loop material cycles, minimize transportation 
requirements and reduce the quantities of water used and wastewater produced. As a result, emissions re-
leased into the air through  the use of solvents are largely prevented. By conducting our own research and 
development, we also continuously lower the relative volume of solvents needed for membrane manufacture. 
While the distillation systems of our membrane casting mac hines operated  in the precipita tion bath mode 
permit about 99 percent recycling of the solvents used, the casting machines based on the evaporation pro-
cess enable approx. 70 percent of solvents to be recycled. The remaining percentage of the solvents frozen 
for disposal  are removed from the company premises as hazardous waste, which is then provided to a service 
company that specializes in sustainable solvent recove ry and uses this waste to recov er these solvents in a 
distillation process for other technical processes.  
306 -3 
Waste Generated  
 
Waste Generated by Composition1, 2   
  2020  
Total waste in t       7,681  
Non -hazardous waste in t       5,137  
Residual waste in t       1,877  
Plastic waste in t       1,309  
Paper and cardboard in t       1,016  
Waste wood in t          397  
Metal waste in t          281  
Mixed recyclable materials in t          226  
Electrical and electronic waste in t            31  
Hazardous waste in t       2,544    
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line w ith the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlboroug h 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swe-
den) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 The categorization of waste was changed as of 2020, therefore the previous year's figures are no longer comparable.  
 Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   39 
 
 306 -4 
Waste Diverted From Disposal  
 
Waste Diverted From Disposal by Composition1, 2   
  2020  
Total waste in t  3,040  
Non -hazardous waste in t  2,757  
Residual waste in t  -    
Plastic waste in t  856  
Paper and cardboard in t  1,016  
Waste wood in t  346  
Metal waste in t  281  
Mixed recyclable materials in t  226  
Electrical and electronic waste in t  31  
Hazardous waste in t  283    
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovš čina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlborough 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swe-
den) is not counted, as it is an IT company that d oes not produce any goods.  
2 The categorization of waste was changed as of 2020, therefore the pre vious year's figures are no longer comparable.  
306 -5 
Waste Directed to Disposal  
 
Waste Directed to Disposal by Composition1, 2   
  2020  
Total waste in t  4,641  
Non -hazardous waste in t  2,380  
Residual waste in t  1,877  
Plastic waste in t  453  
Paper and cardboard in t  -    
Waste wood in t  50  
Metal waste in t  - 
Mixed recyclable materials in t  -    
Electrical and electronic waste in t  -    
Hazardous waste in t  2,261    
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlboroug h 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and anoth er production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swe-
den) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 The categorization of waste was changed as of 2020, therefore the previous year's figures are no longer comparable.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   40 
 
 Hazardous Waste Directed to Disposal by Disposal Operation1, 2   
  2020  
Total waste in t  2,261  
Incineration (with energy recovery) in t  960  
Incineration (without energy recovery) in t  824  
Landfilling in t3 3  
Other disposal operations in t  475    
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlboroug h 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another produ ction facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swe-
den) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 The categorization of waste was changed as of 2020, therefore the previous year's figures are no longer comparable.  
3 Most of this is hazardous waste from a German plant, which is rendered harmless by bacterial treatment and reused.  
Non -Hazardous Waste Directed to Disposal by Disposal Operation1, 2   
  2020  
Total waste in t  2,380  
Incineration (with energy recovery) in t  334  
Incineration (without energy recovery) in t  596  
Landfilling in t  1,001  
Other disposal operations in t  450    
1 Produ ction sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the repor t next 
year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlborou gh 
(USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swe-
den) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 The categorization of waste was changed as of 2020, therefore the previous year's figures are no longer comparable.  
307 Environmental Compli ance  
103  
Management Approach  
During the reporting year, a Global Regulatory Affairs Committee was established, with members from  Com-
pliance, Regulatory Affairs, Quality, Product Development, Procurement, EHS and Corporate  Responsibility. 
The committee meets regularly to monitor new legal initiatives in the various units and to create  the corre-
sponding structures in the company.  
We will be reporting on the corresponding performance indicators in the GRI Report 2021.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   41 
 
 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment  
103  
Management Approach  
Respect for human rights, the maintenance of high environmental standards and good, safe and fair working  
conditions for the production of our products is important to us, and apply to sites outside our own production  
as well. With more than 8,000 suppliers in more than 40 countries and a purchasing volume that corresponds  
to about 40 percent of our sales revenue1, it is obvious that our upstream supply chain is important for us to  
implement these goals. In a ddition, a growing number of laws and requirements regulate the assumption of  
responsibility in global supply chains.   
Moreover, the value chains for pharmaceuticals are very sensitive and are the focus of many stakeholders. In  
particular, patients at the end of the supply chain are dependent on their medications being available and safe  
at all times.   
We take a close look at our suppliers. Since January 2020, we have been examining the compliance with our  
requirements regarding sustainability in the production process.   
In the process, our Code of Conduct for business partners is the basis for collaboration with our business  part-
ners throughout the Group. Our requirements with regard to the environment, social matters and  governance 
are defined in the  Code. Since December 2019, acknowledgment of the Code of Conduct is part  of the ac-
ceptance process for new suppliers. In 2020, we began systematically reviewing whether our existing  suppliers 
have acknowledged the Code and, if not, asking them to do so. I n some cases, a supplier's similar  Code of 
Conduct can replace our Code of Conduct. The review process will be completed during 2021.   
Sartorius will review whether and to what extent suppliers actually breach the required ESG standards, using  
an approach comprising various components. A guideline to document the process is being developed at  pre-
sent.   
For suppliers who are very relevant for our business processes and/or a high purchasing volume, we work  to-
gether with the external sustainability assessment platform EcoVadis. The external ESG assessment is based  
on a self -assessment, a review of the associated documents and information from external sources. EcoVadis  
reviews 21 indicators in the areas of environment, labor and human rights, ethics and sustain able procurement.   
Beginning in 2021, Sartorius quality auditors will systematically conduct ESG quick checks within the scope of  
all planned quality audits in the suppliers’ production plants. For this purpose, Sartorius put its sustainability  
requirement s into a questionnaire. This will be provided to suppliers before the audit. During on -site auditing  
of suppliers’ production plants, compliance with the requirements of our Code of Conduct for Business  Part-
ners is reviewed on the basis of the questionnair e. The first ESG quick checks were already carried out  during 
the year under review.   
The objective of all measures is to initiate actual improvements in the working, social and environmental  stand-
ards of our suppliers. Sartorius Management is involved in shaping the process via the Corporate  Responsibil-
ity Steering Committee and is informed about the progress being made.   
 
1 Sales and purchasing volume in 2019.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   42 
 
 We do not establish business relationships with suppliers where we see a considerable risk of child, forced or  
mandatory labor, other br eaches of human rights or negative impacts on society, and will end any existing  re-
lationships with such suppliers. This procedure is also defined in our new process for sustainability in the  supply 
chain.   
During the COVID -19 pandemic, we are focusing on securing our delivery capabilities. This is very important  
considering the validated production processes of our customers. This is why we manage stocks of raw  mate-
rials and finished products actively and maintain high levels of safety stock.   
308 -2 
Negati ve Environmental Impacts in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken  
In 2020, we asked 168 suppliers to agree to an external sustainability assessment by EcoVadis. In the reporting 
year, we had 81 assessments, covering about 30 p ercent of the purchasing volume1. In 2021, we will be talking 
with suppliers who refused an EcoVadis assessment or whose assessment has expired.  
 
1 Purchasing volume  and number of suppliers in 2019.  
In the reporting year, due to the pandemic, the number of ESG quick ch ecks carried out by Sartorius itself 
within the scope of quality audits was very limited; the same applies to processes still being designed. Four 
ESG quick checks were carried out; however, due to the COVID -19-related travel restrictions, all audited  sup-
pliers are based in Germany. Further ESG quick checks planned for 2020 will be conducted in 2021.  
We will use the results of the EcoVadis assessments and the ESG quick checks to develop our internal process 
in 2021.  
Product Stewardship  
Why it’s important  
Environmental responsibility concerns not just our value creation; it has an impact on our products, too.  
Sartorius generates almost two thirds of its sales revenue with sterile products that are used in  biopharmaceu-
tical research where they ensure the safety, efficiency and ecological compatibility of the  processes. While 
filters are cellulose -based, filter housings, bags and pipette tips are made from polymers.  Although biophar-
maceutical disposable technology makes up just 0.01 percent of the annual vo lume of  plastic waste, the con-
tinuous market growth increasingly raises the issue of responsible handling of materials  in this industry too.   
 
1 Purchasing volume in 2019.  
Suppliers
Total
7,9231
7,84281Purchasing volume
Total
€748m1
€524m€224m
not yet assessed assessed by EcoVadis in reporting yearSartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   43 
 
 Basically, the production and sale of consumables prompts questions about the product end of life. Increasing  
cust omer demands and stricter statutory regulations have also resulted in aspects of the circular economy 
becoming more important.  
Our approach  
In 2019, management decided to develop a comprehensive Sartorius plastic strategy, as, in addition to the  
numerous a dvantages of the sterile products, we also see potential to reduce our impact on natural resources  
in this area. Materials that are designed to be recycled and material flows will play an important role in this  
regard.  
With our strategy we are addressing t hree dimensions: end of product life, plastic waste in our own business  
operations and packaging. During the reporting year, our Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee was  
involved in implementing the developed targets in the two operational divisions . Among other things, this  in-
cludes reducing waste in production, designing packaging so that it can be recycled better, developing  ap-
propriate methods for recycling after the usage phase of contaminated and non -contaminated products  and 
improved data mana gement to control and measure the success of the activities.  
In the period under review, Sartorius was the first company in its industry to sign the European Plastics Pact.  
The aim of this public -private initiative is to improve the use and recycling of pl astics and, as a consequence,  
use less virgin plastic. With cross -border cooperation agreements on a European level, the signatories want to  
develop new technologies, share their findings, harmonize guidelines and standards and dismantle existing  
barriers.  As a cooperation on an international level, the European Plastics Pact fits well with our proactive  sus-
tainability approach.  
Since October 2020, Sartorius also has a seat on the board of the Bio -Process Systems Alliance (BPSA). The  
BPSA is and industry -led non -profit company established to promote the use of reliable, safe and sustainable  
technologies in bioprocesses – for instance, by developing standards and guidelines throughout the entire  
supply chain. In this way, Sartorius pursues the goal of introdu cing more sustainability considerations in the  
industry.  
However, sustainability in biotechnological production is not just concerned with the use and recycling of  plas-
tics, but also takes into account the efficiency and productivity of processes. For exam ple, technological  inno-
vations enable process optimizations in the production of larger volumes of active pharmaceutical  ingredients. 
Sartorius continuously develops its products with this in mind and helps its customers design their  production 
processes in a more sustainable manner. Sartorius deals intensively with the issue of how its  customers can 
produce more sustainably by modifying the process parameters. For this purpose, Sartorius is  involved in the 
National Institute for Innovation in Ma nufacturing Biopharmaceuticals (NIMBL).  
Our performance  
Development of the Sartorius plastics strategy was completed at the end of October 2020 and a start was  
made on integrating the targets into the operational divisions. We will be reporting on the resu lts that we have  
achieved in the next non -financial Group statement.   
We started various projects during the year under review, such as reducing packaging waste, recycling  pro-
duction waste and strategies for product end of life:   
Filters are a key product in the Bioprocess Solution Division. With the packaging redesign in the reporting year,  
Sartorius pursued its plastics and climate strategy and minimized the ecological impact of the packaging.  
Compared to the previous model, a significant amount of materi al was saved and the weight was reduced  
considerably. The result is 55 to 60 percent less waste. In addition, unavoidable waste is completely recyclable.  
Packaging dimensioning was also adapted and optimized for logistics.   Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Environmental Standards   44 
 
 Sartorius uses ultra -pure plasti c film to produce disposable bags for use in bioprocesses. Two of our three film  
families are suitable for mechanical recycling. At the Aubagne site, waste material produced during bag  pro-
duction is collected, shredded and used in other applications, such as packaging.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
400  Social Standards   Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   46 
 
 401 Employment   
103  
Management Approach  
Sartorius is growing strongly. We continually gain talented and well -qualified employees and build their loyalty 
to ensure the success of the company in the future as well. In the process, one particular challenge all over the 
world is to recruit experienced specialists for the company.  
As a globally operating company, we do business in many different regions and mar kets. Sartorius employees 
from 96 countries work together. The inte rplay of a variety of perspectives and experiences helps us under-
stand our customers better, develop tailored solutions and remain competitive in a global economy. We be-
lieve that a working environment of mutual trust, appreciation and respect brings the b est work results and 
increases our employees’ motivation and creativity as well as their loyalty.   
To acquire personnel, our approach is to focus on the things that are important for existing and potential em-
ployees1 and make them known throughout the world. According to our analysis, they are all factors that are 
likely to create trust in the future: the company's brand leadership, its sales growth and margin development, 
its internationality and innovation activitie s and – last but not least – the individual's opportunities for develop-
ment within the company. A meaningful mission and the perceptible assumption of social responsibility are 
also important for many job applicants.  
We strive to offer our employees good w orking conditions to encourage them to apply their skills in the best 
possible manner. The approaches that we pursue throughout the Group are defined in our policy on work 
practices and social standards. To improve the accuracy of its measures to create go od working conditions, 
Sartorius conducted two global employee surveys in the year under review. The first survey in July 2020 was 
aimed at evaluating the work situation during the general lockdown phase in spring. During this time, many 
administrative emp loyees partly worked from home and the survey was intended to draw conclusions about 
future job design.  
A second survey in November  2020 addressed a larger range of topics, such as employees’ perception of the 
corporate and leadership culture, of their own  workplace and work satisfaction in general. Employees were 
asked to suggest improvements. This survey will be carried out every six months in future.  
To create the same opportunities for people regardless of their life situations, we have installed a fle xible work 
scheduling model at many of our companies. Employees are often able to take advantage of flextime, part -
time and teleworking options.  
In addition to flexible work schedules, our response to the need for work -life balance includes child care op-
portunities. In Göttingen, for example, there are offers for children during school vacations, and a day care 
center is available close to the company on the Sartorius  Campus. As an inclusive day care center, it is also 
open to children with disabilities. It ’s part of our corporate culture that fathers also take family leave at Sartorius . 
401 -1 
New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover  
Over the past five years, Sartorius  has recruited 7,291 new employees. The number of new hires increased by 
596 compared to th e previous year. For the first time, the number of employees hired by companies acquired 
during the year was also included, wi th a total of 37 new employ ees.  
 
1 The following employee figures include all staff members of the Sartorius Group, except for vocational trainees, interns, employees 
on extended leaves of absence and those participating in an early retirement plan. Numbers are reported as head counts.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   47 
 
 New Hires by Region, Gender and Age Group1, 2   
  EMEA  Americas  Asia | Pacific  Total  
Female  536  156 141 833  
≤ 29 years  258  54 62 374  
30 – 49 years  220  69 77 366  
≥ 50 years  58 33 2 93 
Male  731 243  226  1200  
≤ 29 years  318 62 110 490  
30 – 49 years  352  133 115 600  
≥ 50 years  61 48 1 110 
Total              1,267                 399                 367              2,033       
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
The success of our measures to create a positive working environment is reflected in permanently low attrition 
rates. Excluding expired fixed -term contracts, Sartorius had an attrition rate of 7.1  % in the reporting year, or 0.4 
perc entage points below the already low level of the prior year. 1 
As a result of the consistently high number of new hires, the average seniority decreased slightly. In 2020, 
about half of all employees had been  with Sartorius  for fewer than five years, while around a sixth had been 
with the company for 15 years or more.1 
Employee Turnover by Region, Gender and Age Group1, 2, 3   
  EMEA  Americas  Asia | Pacific  Total  
Female  254  70 59 383  
≤ 29 years  119 13 10 142 
30 – 49 years  95 38 47 180  
≥ 50 years  40 19 2 61 
Male  300  84 78 462  
≤ 29 years  114 12 20 146 
30 – 49 years  105  39 55 199 
≥ 50 years  81 33 3 117 
Total  554  154  137 845       
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line wi th the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fu lly this 
year.  
Due to the significance for the development of the c ompany, the number of employees at Sartorius is very 
relevant and is reported regularly by management. More information about “Employees” can be found in the 
Group Management Report on page 51.  
 
1 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting  guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   48 
 
 401 -2 
Benefits Provided to Full -Time Employees That Are Not  Provided to Temporary or Part -Time Employees  
The voluntary benefits we offer our employees varies from site to site. In addition, there are differences be-
tween the sites as to whether the benefits are offered to full -time employees only or to all employee s. There-
fore, we will omit presenting the benefits offered.  
401 -3 
Parental Leave  
 
Employees That Took Parental Leave by Gender and Region1, 2   
  Female  Male  Total  
EMEA  184 125 309  
Americas  23 29 52 
Asia | Pacific  26 36 62 
Total  233  190  423      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line wi th the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
Employees That Returned to Work in the Reporting Period After Parental Leave Ended by Gender and Region 1, 2  
  Fem ale Male  Total  
EMEA  104  119 223  
Americas  23 39 62 
Asia | Pacific  22 31 53 
Total  149  189  338      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the repor t next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
Employ ees That Returned to Work After Parental Leave Ended That Were Still Employed 12 Months After Their Return to Work by 
Gender and Region1, 2  
  Female  Male  Total  
EMEA  80 104  184 
Americas  18 25 43 
Asia | Pacific  15 22 37 
Total  113 151 264      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
403 Occupational Health and Safety  
103  
Management Approach  
Our employees’ safety is our responsibility. The health of our employees is also important to us as a company, 
which is why we offer support in the form of a variety of preventative health care offers.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   49 
 
 The reporting year was shaped by the COVID -19 pandemic, which created particular demands on the organi-
zation of workplace health and safety. The existence of a solid occupational safety organization proved to be a 
substantial benefit in overcoming the resulting challenges.  
Sartorius  has high safety standards to minimize job -related medical conditions, risks  to health, and potential 
causes of industrial accidents. The basic principles and core policies on occupational safety and health pro-
tection are defined throughout the Sartorius  Group in its corporate policy on workplace safety and health. 
Occupational sa fety and the preservation and promotion of the good health of all employees are very im-
portant to Sartorius , and management actively encourages them. As in the previous year, Sartorius  is working 
towards standardizing its safety management system throughou t the Group. Global harmonization of the pro-
cesses will further improve occupational safety at our sites.  
Planned, mandatory employee training on topics of occupational health and safety and environmental pro-
tection ensure that our staff members recognize risks and avoid them accordingly. Sartorius  analyzes all acci-
dents regularly and derives accident prevention measures from them that are also used at other sites. At our 
local Group locations, work safety committees confer regularly to discuss measures tha t promote health and 
prevent work -related accidents.  
In the reporting year, at the Aubagne site, a cross -unit team started an initiative to improve occupational safety 
and reduce work -related accidents. Since employee behavior plays a key role in many of t he work -related ac-
cidents, in addition to making technical improvements the team plans to raise awareness with regard to safety 
among employees. More than 600 employees – most of them from areas with a higher risk potential – have 
already taken part in the  new workshops to raise safety awareness. In addition, 110 first aiders took part in a full 
day training course to minimize risks. Workshops were offered especially to managers to prepare them so that 
they can improve safety management in their teams.  
The Group's corporate health management policy addresses both the physical and psycho -social elements of 
health to enhance employee performance and motivation, ensure their employability and reduce illness -re-
lated costs. Most sites have an in -house medical ser vice. In addition, an external provider is on hand to offer 
psychological help on any work -related and indeed personal matter. Staff can reach the service via a hotline.  
One of our two companies in Beijing and one of our companies in Shanghai are certified  in accordance with 
OHSAS 18001 and one of our two companies in Bangalore i s certified according to ISO  45001.  
Employees from external companies also work for Sartorius , for example, cleaning staff and construction com-
panies. Their safety is also important  to us. This is why contractors’ employees receive occupational safety in-
structions before they begin their work. These instructions specifically mention how incidents and accidents 
can be reported.  
During the COVID -19 pandemic, two considerations especial ly shaped our actions: first, protecting the health 
of our more than 10,000 employees. Second, maintaining our business operations, on the one hand, to be able 
to support our customers and, on the other, to ensure our own financial stability. In view of th e fact that many 
of our customers are involved in the development and production of vaccines against the coronavirus, 
Sartorius  has a special social responsibility. It was therefore not an option to reduce personnel in production in 
order to improve infect ion protection or to shut down parts of our operations. On the contrary, production was 
actually expanded.  
Our well -established occupational safety processes put us in a position where we could respond quickly and 
extensively to these special challenges du ring the COVID -19 pandemic. A crisis team comprising members 
from different units and the Executive Board was established on a corporate level to monitor and assess the 
situation constantly and introduce appropriate measures if necessary. Several teams als o work on a local level.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   50 
 
 To protect employees, social distancing rules were put in place at a very early stage and business trips were 
almost completely stopped. Face masks and visors were provided at the sites.  
Within the scope of a Mobile Corona Analysi s (MCA) Response Study by Leibniz University Hannover, em-
ployees at the Göttingen and Guxhagen sites were able to have themselves tested voluntarily for COVID -19 
via PCR analysis over several months. They were able to have a swab taken every two weeks. Sin ce the end of 
the study phase, Sartorius  now offers employees a regular antigen test. This test strategy to prevent the for-
mation of infection clusters will be introduced successively at other sites.  
Sartorius  has received awards at several sites for its s afety concept during the COVID -19 pandemic. Sartorius  
was the first company in Tunisia to get the Apave Certification Safe & Clean label for its actions to protect the 
health and safety of its employees during the pandemic. The site in Bangalore was also commended for its 
safety concept: the Confederation of  Indian Industries (CII) awarded ‘Gold’ for the measures.  
403 -9 
Work -Related Injuries  
In comparison to the previous year, the number of record able work -related injuries fell by about 40 percent. 
The fall in the relative frequency of work -related injuries w as even more significant. Due to the pandemic, more 
employees worked from their home office. However, at Sartorius  work in production and logistics increased 
during the reporting year. This underlines the effects of our actions aimed at increasing occupati onal safety. 
There were no accidents with serious outcomes or fatal accidents at any of our sites, which corroborates the 
high quality of the safety management system.  
Work -Related Injuries1, 2     
  2020  2019  
Recordable work -related injuries (employees)  145 235  
Relative frequency of work -related injuries per 1,000,000 theoretical working hours (employ-
ees)  8.2 16.6  
Work -related injuries with a serious outcome3 0 0 
Fatal occupational accidents  0 0    
1 Compani es acquired during the year are not included and, in accordance with the reporting guideline, will not be reported until the 
next reporting year. The two sales companies in the Netherlands are not counted.  
2 The following employee figures include all employees of the Sartorius Group except for apprentices, interns, permanent absent 
employees and employees in partial retirement. Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 An accident with a serious outcome is an accident in which the injured person is not rehabilitated at all or not until six months after 
the accident.  
404 Training and Education  
103  
Management A pproach  
Currently, 10,637 employees contribute to Sartorius ’ success. Continuing professional development, assump-
tion of responsibility and opportunities to advance within the company are important for our employees' sat-
isfaction. These competences safeguard their employability and open up new professional prospects for them.  
Annual performance reviews between employees and their managers also provide a forum for discussing per-
formance, targets and individual development opportunities. In 2020, Sartorius  implemented a new system -
supported process to conduct performance reviews digitally based on uniform criteria from 2021 onwards.  
Our employees should be able t o develop personally and professionally throughout their professional lives. 
For this purpose, Sartorius  offers a wide range of management and communication training opportunities as Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   51 
 
 well as practical training at all its sites. Sartorius  also encourages it s employees to network within the company 
and to transfer temporarily to its other departments or sites. The Global Mobility Department coordinates and 
looks after employees on temporary assignment to other countries. The basic conditions for temporary ass ign-
ments in foreign countries are transparently defined for all staff members.  
Sartorius  pursues a goal of filling most management positions from within its own ranks. We use Sartorius ’ 
leadership guidelines as the basis for a management development progra m in which all first -time managers 
participate with the goal of developing a common leadership culture throughout the Group. The program is 
already available at our companies in Germany, the U.K., France, Belgium, Italy, Spain, India and China. A de-
velopme nt program for production managers has been established in Germany.  
404 -1 
Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee  
To us, education is a valuable asset, and we consider it part of our corporate responsibility to support it and 
make it accessible wit hin our sphere of influence.  
During the reporting year, 92,180 hours were invested in training measures – on average 8.9 training hours per 
employee.1 For the first time, training hours were recorded for all companies consolidated over the entire year. 
Due to the absence of in -person training as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the average number of train-
ing hours per employee fell by 5.8 hours.  
Training Hours by Region and Gender1, 2, 3     
  EMEA  Americas  Asia | Pacific  Total  
Women  8.5 5.9 9.7 8.1 
Men  9.5 6.7 12.0  9.5 
Total  9.1 6.4 11.3  8.9      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
404 -3 
Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Pe rformance and Career Development Reviews  
 
Percentage of Employees who Received a Performance Review, by Gender1, 2   
  2020  
Female  32%  
Male  29%  
Total  30%    
1 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
2 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the repor t next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
 
1 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the repor t next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   52 
 
 405 Diversity and Eq ual Opportunity  
103  
Management A pproach  
As a globally operating company, we do business in many different region s and markets. Sartorius employ ees 
cooperate across six continents in performing their work. The company’s global network shapes our daily work.  
Many of our departments cover multiple company locations and countries, and project teams are often com-
posed internationally.  
The diversity of our procurement and sales markets is reflected in our corporate culture. The productive inter-
play of a variety of perspectives and experiences helps us understand our customers better, develop tailored 
solutions and remain competitive in a global economy. When filling management positions we likewise aim to 
achieve a mix of culture, genders and age groups.  
One of our guiding principles is respecting the value of our different employees and creating the same oppor-
tunities for all. Our diversity and inclusion approach involves having a good mix, a common goal, an open atti-
tude towards differences, trust and fl exibility.  
Measures that promote equal opportunity in our company include the creation of transparency on salary 
structures. The majority of salaries at the German companies are linked to the rates agreed with the IG Metall 
trade union, with some paid in a ccordance with rates established for IG Bergbau, Chemie, Energie. The remu-
neration paid to employees in France and Austria is also based on trade union rates. Using the union rates 
makes our remuneration more transparent.  
The Group Employees’ Council repre sents the interests of our staff in Germany. All operating companies in 
Germany also have a local employees’ council. In addition to the employee council members, various repre-
sentatives are available to Sartorius  employees.  
Pursuant to the German Act on Equal Participation of Women and Men in Executive Positions in the Private 
and the Public Sectors, the Supervisory Board defined a target quota for the Executive Board that is described 
in the following section.  
The Sartorius Executive Board is a committee  that presently consists of four members and is therefore rela-
tively small; the establishment of a rigid gender quota can be problematic. The current four members of the 
Executive Board of Sartorius AG are men. The appointment of at least one woman to the Executive Board was 
defined as a target to be met by the present deadline of June 30, 2022.  
Likewise with regard to the appointment of women to the Executive Board of Sartorius AG, the Supervisory 
Board supports the activities of the Executive Board to fur ther increase the percentage of female executives 
at the first two management levels in the company. The Executive Task Committee responsible and the full 
Supervisory Board regularl y receive reports on the development of the proportions of women in senior -level  
management positions.  
 
First and Second Management Levels Below the Executive Board  
Over the past years, the percentage of women at the first two management levels below the Executive Board 
has considerably increased on the whole and is already at a  comparably high level.  
For the next deadline by June 30, 2022, the Executive Board resolved  in 2017 to increase the propor tion of 
women at both levels of management below this board to ar ound 30%. Currently, the propor tion of women at 
the first managemen t level is around 38%; tha t at the second level, around 21 %, thus exceeding or approaching 
the established quota. In general, it should be noted that owing to the relatively small number of managers at Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   53 
 
 the first level, even individual personnel changes can lead to sizable swings in the quota. Moreover, in the past 
the consolidation of acquired companies has frequently led to a slight dilution in the proportion of women, 
and  this effect cannot be excluded in the future.  
405 -1 
Diversity of Governan ce Bodies and Employees  
At the end of the reporting year, women made up 38.8  % of the total workforce, which is the same as the pre-
vious year.  
Members of Governance Bodies by Gender and Age Group1, 2   
  Female  Male  
≤ 29 years  - - 
30 – 49 years  - 19%  
≥ 50 years  31%  50%     
1 Supervisory Board and Executive Board  
2 Members of the governance bodies as of December 31, 2020.  
Employees by Employment Category, Age Group and Gender1, 2   
  Management  Employees  Total  
Female  5.0%  33.8%  38.8%  
≤ 29 years  0.2%  7.8%  8.0%  
30 – 49 years  3.4%  18.4%  21.8%  
≥ 50 years  1.4%  7.6%  9.0%  
Male  10.8%  50.5%  61.2%  
≤ 29 years  0.4%  9.9%  10.2%  
30 – 49 years  6.8%  29.5%  36.3%  
≥ 50 years  3.6%  11.1%  14.7%  
Total  15.7%  84.3%  100.0%      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Employees with Disabilities1   
  2020  2019  
Employees with disabilities  207  213    
1 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   54 
 
 405 -2 
Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to M en 
 
Ratio of Remuneration of Women to Men by Employee Category1, 2, 3, 4   
Country  Employees  Management  Total  
China  84%  92%  90%  
France  98%  90%  93%  
Germany  97%  99%  98%  
India  83%  87%  86%  
Puerto Rico  98%  83%  87%  
Tunisia  88%  59%  66%  
UK 72%  77%  75%  
USA  87%  81%  84%  
Group  88%  86%  86%      
1 Reports for 2020.  
2 The ratio is based on the average total compensation target. The total compensation target is defined as the sum of the annual base 
salary target and the annual bonus target amount. For pa rt-time employees the total compensation target is calculated up to one full -
time equivalent.  
3 In countries with large facilities in terms of  the number of employees.  
4 Employees which are not paid in the standard currency of the country are not considered.  
406 N on-Discrimination  
103  
Management Approach  
The Sartorius Code of Conduct requires all Sartorius employees to adopt a task -oriented, open, friendly and 
fair approach to interacting with  colleagues, employees and third parties, thereby helping to create an atmos-
phere of respectful cooperation. We  do not tolerate employees being discriminated against, disadvantaged, 
harassed or excluded based on their sex,  ethnic origin, life philosophy , race, religion, age, disability, appear-
ance, sexual preferences and iden tity, origin or  political position.  
Sartorius actively integrates disabled employees into its workforce. All new buildings at Sartorius sites in Ger-
many are designed to be barrier -free. A Group disability officer overse es a team that has been support ing em-
ployees with special needs in the German offices since 2014. While Sartorius meets the regulated standards 
at all its companies, it surpasses them significantly at its German sites.  
406 -1 
Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken  
Three suspe cted cases of discrimination were reported during the period under review. No cases of discrimi-
nation were determined during the reporting period.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   55 
 
 412 Human Rights Assessment  
103  
Management Approach  
The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and H uman Rights clarify the responsibility of states and  
businesses to protect and respect human rights. The focus is therefore not only on preventing infringements  
of human rights, but also the positive contribution that a business can make through its activi ties that promote  
the protection of human rights.   
Sartorius pursues the goal of taking the highest possible level of care to prevent breaches of human rights  
within its sphere of influence.   
In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rig hts, we respect and support the  implemen-
tation of the values of the International Bill of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational  Enter-
prises and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and  Rights at 
Wo rk, by committing ourselves to regard these internationally recognized human rights as relevant  for our 
operations. We respect the laws of the countries in which we operate.   
A Policy Statement on Human Rights has been communicated to employees via the int ranet since February  
2019 and is also available to all stakeholders on the Internet.   
Sartorius’ Policy Statement on Human Rights is binding on the entire Group and applies worldwide. It requires  
all employees to observe appropriate, fair, and lawful conduct towards other employees, business partners,  
and the local community. We expect our business partners, suppliers, customers and cooperation partners to  
operate their business in line with correspondingly high ethical standards.   
Sartorius’ Code of C onduct and the Code of Conduct for business partners address the content of Sartorius’  
Policy Statement on Human Rights and puts it into concrete terms for everyday work. In annual online training 
courses about Sartorius’ Code of Conduct, Sartorius employe es strengthen their knowledge of the content  
and check it in the subsequent online test.  
The complaint system described on page 137 ensures that topics with human rights relevance can be reported  
– even anonymously if the person so wishes.   
During the per iod under review, an interdisciplinary working group was established to review the processes  
and adapt them where necessary in order to fulfill the requirements of the new Duty of Care Act to ensure that  
human rights are observed in the global supply chain s.  
The Executive Board becomes involved in handling reported incidents on a case -by-case basis.  
If the company's performance and the success of the concepts in relation to human rights are to be made  
measurable, it is necessary to define specific quantita tive indicators. In this process it is important to consider  
the influence of factors outside the company’s sphere on the indicators. For example, actions by local  govern-
ment heads could be outside Sartorius’ sphere of influence.   
Sartorius has started def ining which indicators could be relevant and reports on these in the respective  sec-
tions. For our approach, we looked at the entire spectrum of human rights, how they are defined in the  Inter-
national Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organi zation (ILO) Declaration on  Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work and then considered which of these human rights could be  influenced relevantly Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   56 
 
 in the context of our business operations. In the next step, we reviewed our existing  reporting system for indi-
cators that would be suitable for making this influence visible. We will complete the  analysis in the coming year 
and then consider including more indicators.   
In the reporting year, we report on the right to work in the section on “Finding and Retaining Talented Young  
Staff” and via the indicator “New Hires by Region, Gender and Age Group”. We report on the right to education  
in the same section via the indicator “Training Hours by Region and Gender”. We report on the right to an  
achievable maxi mum level of physical and mental health in the sections “Innovation & Social Contribution” and  
“Occupational Health and Safety” and via the indicator “Work -Related Injuries”.  
412 -2 
Employee Training on Human Rights Policies or Procedures  
Durin g the period under review, 3,5 92 employees from 32  countries completed training for the Code of Con-
duct. The hours spe nt on training amounted to 2,155  for the Code of Conduct . The Sartorius Code of Conduct 
is based on international agreements and guidelines, inc luding the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights, the 
conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the United  Nations Global Compact. Compli-
ance training course are currently available in German, English, French and Chinese.  
414 Supplier S ocial Assessment  
103  
Management Approach  
Respect for human rights, the maintenance of high environmental standards and good, safe and fair working 
conditions for the production of our products is important to us, and apply to sites outside our own producti on 
as well. With more than 8,000 suppliers in more than 40 countries and a purchasing volume that corresponds 
to about 40 percent of our sales revenue1, it is obvious that our upstream supply chain is important for us to 
implement these goals. In addition,  a growing number of laws and requirements regulate the assumption of 
responsibility in global supply chains.  
Moreover, the value chains for pharmaceuticals are very sensitive and are the focus of many stakeholders. In 
particular, patients at the end of t he supply chain are dependent on their medications being available and safe 
at all times.  
We take a close look at our suppliers. Since January 2020, we have been examining the compliance with our 
requirements regarding sustainability in the production pro cess.  
In the process, our Code of Conduct for business partners is the basis for collaboration with our business part-
ners throughout the Group. Our requirements with regard to the environment, social matters and governance 
are defined in the Code. Since D ecember 2019, acknowledgment of the Code of Conduct is part of the ac-
ceptance process for new suppliers. In 2020, we began systematically reviewing whether our existing suppliers 
have acknowledged the Code and, if not, asking them to do so. In some cases, a supplier's similar Code of 
Conduct can replace our Code of Conduct. The review process will be completed during 2021.  
Sartorius will review whether and to what extent suppliers actually breach the required ESG standards, using 
an approach comprising var ious components. A guideline to document the process is being developed at pre-
sent.  
For suppliers who are very relevant for our business processes and/or a high purchasing volume, we work to-
gether with the external sustainability assessment platform EcoVa dis. The external ESG assessment is based 
 
1 Sales and purchasing volume in 2019.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   57 
 
 on a self -assessment, a review of the associated documents and information from external sources. EcoVadis 
reviews 21 indicators in the areas of environment, labor and human rights, ethics and sustainable procureme nt.  
Beginning in 2021, Sartorius quality auditors will systematically conduct ESG quick checks within the scope of 
all planned quality audits in the suppliers’ production plants. For this purpose, Sartorius put its sustainability 
requirements into a quest ionnaire. This will be provided to suppliers before the audit. During on -site auditing 
of suppliers’ production plants, compliance with the requirements of our Code of Conduct for Business Part-
ners is reviewed on the basis of the questionnaire. The first E SG quick checks were already carried out during 
the year under review.  
The objective of all measures is to initiate actual improvements in the working, social and environmental stand-
ards of our suppliers. Sartorius Management is involved in shaping the process via the Corporate Responsibil-
ity Steering Committee and is informe d about the progress being made.  
We do not establish business relationships with suppliers where we see a considerable risk of child, forced or 
mandatory labor, other breaches of human rights or negative impacts on society, and will end any existing re-
lationships with such suppliers. This procedure is also defined in our new process for sustainability in the supply 
chain.  
During the COVID -19 pandemic, we are focusing on securing our delivery capabilities. This is very important 
considering the validated p roduction processes of our customers. This is why we manage stocks of raw mate-
rials and finished products actively and maintain high levels of safety stock.  
414 -2 
Negative Social Impacts in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken  
In 2020, we asked 168 supplier s to agree to an external sustainability assessment by EcoVadis. In the reporting 
year, we had 81 assessments, covering about 30 percent of the purchasing volume1. In 2021, we will be talking 
with suppliers who refused an EcoVadis assessment or whose asses sment has expired.  
 
1 Purchasing volume and number of suppliers in 2019.  
In the reporting year, due to the pandemic, the number of ESG quick checks carried out by Sartorius itself 
within the scope of quality audits was very limited; the same applies to pr ocesses still being designed. Four 
 
1 Purchasing volume in 2019.  
Suppliers
Total
7,9231
7,84281Purchasing volume
Total
€748m1
€524m€224m
not yet assessed assessed by EcoVadis in reporting yearSartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   58 
 
 ESG quick checks were carried out; however, due to the COVID -19-related travel restrictions, all audited sup-
pliers are based in Germany. Further ESG quick checks planned for 2020 will be conducted in 2021.  
We will use the  results of the EcoVadis assessments and the ESG quick checks to develop our internal process 
in 2021.  
415 Public Policy  
103  
Management Approach  
Sartorius is politically independent and does not provide financial or in -kind support to politicians or political 
parties.  
415 -1 
Political Contributions  
In accordance with the management approach, no political contributions were made.  
419 Socioeconomic Compliance   
103  
Management Approach  
During the reporting year, a Global Regulatory Affairs Committee was established, with members from  Com-
pliance, Regulatory Affairs, Quality, Product Development, Procurement, EHS and Corporate  Responsibility. 
The committee meets regularly to monitor new legal initiatives in the various units and to create  the corre-
sponding structures in the company.  
419 -1 
Non -Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Social and Economic Area  
No significant fines or non -monetary sanctions were imposed for non -compliance with laws and | or regula-
tions in the social and economic  area.  
Innovation & Social Contribution  
Why it’s important  
Our corporate mission is to promote scientific progress in the life sciences, which in turn supports the devel-
opment of new vaccines, more effective therapies and affordable medical care. In the y ear under review, the 
importance of this mission for society as a whole was underlined by the biotechnology sector's contribution 
towards fighting the COVID -19 pandemic.  
The biopharmaceutical market is rapidly developing – it is an area in which scientific  breakthroughs leading to 
new therapies occur at a high rate. At the same time, it still takes about ten years to develop a new pharma-
ceutical drug and this remains cost -intensive. Our aim is to help our biopharmaceutical customers develop 
and produce biop harmaceuticals more efficiently.  
From day one of its incorporation, Sartorius  has worked to maintain an open exchange with the scientific com-
munity and, in this way, has driven forward scientific insights and precisely tailored product development. Our 
goa l is to promote scientific thinking and working in society, creating a broader basis for future research and 
development.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Social Standards   59 
 
 Our approach  
In collaboration with expert scientific groups worldwide, the company’s research and development activities 
are aimed at making a contribution so that new active pharmaceutical ingredients are discovered faster and 
drugs can be produced efficiently. In this way, we want to bring about benefits for society, support sustainable 
development and, at the same time, stren gthen the company’s growth.  
The innovation activities of the Sartorius  Group are based on three pillars: first, specialized in -house product 
development, second, research cooperation agreements with partners such as scientific institutions and, third, 
inte gration of complementary technologies through acquisitions. While product development is assigned to 
the respective board members, Corporate Research works across the different divisions under the control of 
the CEO.  
Sartorius  is involved in many research partnerships covering a wide range of subjects. Forms of collaboration 
vary from single cooperation agreements to partnerships with institutes and scientific facilities. Both of these 
make up about 40 percent of the cooperation agreements. Sartorius  also c arries out research work in consor-
tia, to which Sartorius  contributes its own latest scientific findings.  
Often, new approaches arise from the interdisciplinary collaboration of various experts. Because of this, our 
approach is to bring experts from scienc e startups and industry together and encourage networking and the 
sharing of ideas. This is conducive to the generation of new and creative ideas and thus supports scientific 
progress.  
Supporting young scientists is important to us, as this creates the bas is for scientific progress in the future.  
Our performance  
In past years, technologies from Sartorius  have been used in the development and production of vaccines to 
combat various diseases, such as Ebola, Zika and H1N1. In the reporting year, the company’ s products and pro-
cess knowledge made a significant contribution towards fighting the COVID -19 pandemic: Sartorius  is in-
volved in most vaccine projects throughout the world.  
In accordance with its innovation concept, Sartorius  strengthened its position wit h acquisitions during the year 
under review. Details about the acquisitions and corresponding expansion of the product portfolio and service 
spectrum can be found on pages 28 ff of the Group Management Report. Pages 49 ff of the Group Manage-
ment Report con tain information about our research and development activities.  
By expanding its research cooperation agreements, Sartorius  supports the development and production of 
biopharmaceuticals worldwide and, hence, improves the availability of innovative medical care in the long 
term. In the reporting year, the number of research cooperation agreements doubled. We also seek to improve 
the sustainability of our products through cooperation agreements. More information about product stew-
ardship can be found in the E nvironment section from page 141  of the Annual Report . 
Another important aspect is our work with and support for young scientists. For the past three years, Sartorius  
has had a cooperation agreement with the East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST) in 
Shanghai. The university has a good reputation for its research in the fields of biosciences, biotechnology and 
bioengineering. Within the scope of the Young Eagle trainee program, during the reporting year, 110 students 
from the Bioscience and Biotechnology department visited the Sartorius  site in Shanghai. Since 2017, 25 stu-
dents have completed an internship at Sartorius  as part of the Young Eagle cooperation.  
The “Sartorius & Science Prize for Regenerative Medicine & Cell Therapy”, awarded by Sartorius ' Research 
Xchange Forum in collaborat ion with the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) was 
presented for the last time in the reporting year. The award, which comes with $35,000 in prize money, is 
geared toward outstanding scientists who focus on basic or translational r esearch in these fields. Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  GRI Content Index   60 
 
 GRI Content Index  
Organization and Report Profile  
 
General Standard Disclosures    
    Page  
  GRI 102: Organizational Profile 2016    
102 -1 Name of the Organization  p. 8  
102 -2 Activities, Brands, Products, and Services  p. 8 f.  
102 -3 Location of Headquarters  p. 9  
102 -4 Location of Operations  p. 9 f.  
102 -5 Ownership and Legal Form   p. 10  
102 -6 Markets Served  p. 10  
102 -7 Scale of the Organization  p. 11 f.  
102 -8 Information on Employees and Other Workers   p. 13  
102 -9 Supply Chain  p. 14  
102 -10 Significant Changes to the Organization and its Supply Chain  p. 14  
102 -11 Precautionary Principle or Approach  p. 14  
102 -12 External Initiatives   p. 15  
102 -13 Membership of Associations  p. 15  
  GRI 102: Strategy 2016    
102 -14 Statement from Senior Decision -Maker  p. 16  
102 -15 Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities  p. 16  
  GRI 102: Ethic and Integrity 2016    
102 -16 Values, Principles, Standards, and Norms of Behavior  p. 17  
102 -17 Mechanisms for Advice and Concerns about Ethics   p. 17  
  GRI 102: Governance 2016    
102 -18 Governance Structure  p. 18  
102 -20 Executive -Level Responsibility for Economic, Environmental and Social Topics   p. 18  
102 -21 Consulting Stakeholders on Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  p. 18  
102 -22 Composition of the Highest Governance Body and its Committees  p. 19  
102 -23 Chair of the Highest Governance Body  p. 19  
102 -24 Nominating and Selecting the Highest Governance Body  p. 19 f.  
102 -25 Conflicts of Interest  p. 20  
102 -29 Identifying and Managing Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts  p. 20  
102 -30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes  p. 20 f.  
102 -31 Review of Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  p. 21  
102 -32 Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Reporting  p. 21  
102 -33 Communicating Critical Concerns  p. 21  
102 -35 Remuneration Policies  p. 21  
102 -36 Process for Determining Remuneration  p. 22  
102 -38 Annual Total Compensation Ratio  p. 23  
 Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  GRI Content Index   61 
 
   GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement 2016    
102 -40 List of Stakeholder Groups  p. 23  
102 -41 Collective Bargaining Agreements  p. 24  
102 -42 Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders  p. 25  
102 -43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement  p. 25  
102 -44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised  p. 25  
  GRI 102: Reporting Practice 2016    
102 -45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements  p. 25  
102 -46 Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries  p. 25  
102 -47 List of Material Topics  p. 26  
102 -48 Restatement of Information  p. 26  
102 -49 Changes in Reporting  p. 26  
102 -50 Reporting Period  p. 26  
102 -51 Date of Most Recent Report  p. 27  
102 -52 Reporting Cycle  p. 27  
102 -53 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report  p. 27  
102 -54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance with the GRI Standards  p. 27  
102 -55 GRI Content Index  p. 27  
102 -56 External Assurance  p. 27     
 
 
Category: Economic  
 
Specific Standard Disclosures    
    Page  
  GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 29  
203 -1 Indirect Economic Impacts  p. 29  
  GRI 205: Anti -Corruption 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 29 f.  
205 -2 Communications and Training about Anti -Corruption Policies and Procedures  p. 30  
205 -3 Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken  p. 30  
  GRI 206: Anti -Competitive Behavior 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 30  
206 -1 Legal Actions for Anti -Competitive Behavior, Anti -Trust, and Monopoly Practices  p. 30     
 Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  GRI Content Index   62 
 
 Category: Environmental  
 
Specific Standard Disclosures    
    Page  
  GRI 302: Energy 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 32  
302 -1 Energy Consumption Within the Organization  p. 32 f.  
302 -3 Energy Intensity  p. 33  
  GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018    
103  Management Approach  p. 34  
303 -3 Water Withdrawal  p. 34  
  GRI 303: Emissions 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 35 f.  
305 -1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions  p. 36  
305 -2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions  p. 36  
305 -3 Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions  p. 37  
305 -4 GHG Emissions Intensity  p. 37  
  GRI 306: Waste 2020    
103  Management Approach  p. 38  
306 -3 Waste Generated  p. 38  
306 -4 Waste Diverted From Disposal  p. 39  
306 -5 Waste Directed To Disposal  p. 39 f.  
  GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 40  
307 -1 Non -Compliance With Environmental Laws and Regulation1 - 
  GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 41 f.  
308 -2 Negative Environmental Impacts in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken  p. 42     
1 The newly formed EHS Compliance Board is considering collecting this information.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  GRI Content Index   63 
 
 Category: Social  
 
Specific Standard Disclosures    
    Page  
  GRI 401: Employment 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 46  
401 -1 New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover  p. 46 f.  
401 -2 Benefits Provided to Full -Time Employees That Are Not Provided to Temporary or Part -Time Employees  p. 48  
401 -3 Parental Leave  p. 48  
  GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018    
103  Management Approach  p. 49 f.  
403 -9 Work -Related Injuries  p. 50  
  GRI 404: Training and Education 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 51  
404 -1 Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee  p. 51  
404 -3 Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews  p. 52  
  GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 52 f.  
405 -1 Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees  p. 53  
405 -2 Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men  p. 54  
  GRI 406: Non -Discrimination 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 54  
406 -1 Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken  p. 54 
  GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment    
103  Management Approach  p. 55 f.  
412-2 Employee Training on Human Rights Policies or Procedures  p. 56  
  GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 56 f.  
414-2 Employee Training on Human R ights Policies or P rocedures  p. 57 f.  
  GRI 415: Public Policy 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 58  
415-1 Political Contributions  p. 58  
  GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016    
103  Management Approach  p. 58  
419-1 Non -Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Social and Economic Area  p. 58     
 
 Sartorius  GRI Report  2020  Contacts   64 
 
 Contac ts 
Petra Kirchhoff  
Head of Corporate Communications & IR  
Phone : 0551.308.1686  
petra.kirchhoff@sartorius.com  
Katharina Tillmanns -Pelzer  
Manager Corporate Responsibility  
Phone : 0551.308.2893  
katharina.tillmanns@sartorius.com  
About This Publication  
Published by Sartorius AG  
Corporate Communications  
37070 Goe ttingen , Germany  
Editorial Deadline  
23.03.2020  
Published On  
23.03.2020  
Financial Reporting System firesys  
firesys GmbH  
Frankfurt | Main , Germany  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sartorius AG  
Otto -Brenner -Straße 20  
37079 Goe ttingen  
Telefon: +49.551.308.0  
Fax: +49.551.308.3289  
info@sartorius.com  
www.sartorius.com  
