 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Sartorius Group  
GRI  Report  2021 Sartorius  GRI Report  2021   Responsibility at Sartorius   2 
 
 Content  
Responsibility at Sartorius  3 
Sustainable Development Goals  5 
General Disclosure  7 
Organizational Profile  8 
Strategy  17 
Ethic and Integrity  18 
Governance  19 
Stakeholder Engagement  24 
Reporting Practice  26 
Economic Standards  29 
203 Indirect Economic Impacts  30 
205 Anti -Corruption  30 
206 Anti -Competitive Behavior  32 
Environmental Standards  33 
302 Energy  34 
303 Water and Effluents  37 
305 Emissions  38 
306 Waste  43 
307 Environmental Compliance  46 
308 Supplier Environmental Assessment  48 
Product Stewardship  50 
Social Standards  52 
401 Employment  53 
403 Occupational Health and Safety  56 
404 Training and Education  58 
405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  60 
406 Non -Discrimination  62 
412 Human Rights Assessment  63 
414 Supplier Social Assessment  64 
415 Public Policy  66 
419 Socioeconomic Compliance  66 
Innovation & Social Contribution  66 
GRI Content Index  69 
Contacts  73 Sartorius  GRI Report  2021   Responsibility at Sartorius   3 
 
 Responsibilit y at Sartorius  
Sartorius is an internationally leading partner to the biopharmaceutical industry. With our t echnologies, we 
help researchers and engineers achieve faster, easier progress in the life sciences and bioprocess technology, 
thus enabling the development of new and better treatments and vaccines and affordable medical care.  
Many people in industrializ ed countries suffer from diseases for which there is as yet no effective treatment. 
These include cancer, dementia and autoimmune diseases as well as congenital metabolic disorders and in-
fectious diseases. At the same time, many diseases that would have pr oved fatal just a few generations ago can 
now be cured or treated effectively. Combined with declining birth rates, this has led to an aging society in 
industrialized countries where people are expected to remain fit and healthy for as long as possible.  
In developing and emerging countries, the availability and affordability of healthcare is well below the stand-
ards in industrialized nations: more than half the world’s population has either no or inadequate access to med-
ical care. For every second child, i nitial immunization is an unachievable goal, and it is estimated that 1.5 million 
children under the age of five die from diseases from which they could be protected with vaccinations.  
The purpose of our business is to help our customers develop and manuf acture biotechnology -based drugs 
and vaccines and, in doing so, enable the development and safe production of vaccines and biopharmaceuti-
cal medicines to treat serious and, in some cases, rare diseases. The United Nations’ sustainability goal ‘Good 
Health and Well -Being’ is thus an integral part of our core business.  
As a company with a tradition spanning 150 years, sustainability is firmly embedded at many levels in our busi-
ness. To us, it means operating responsibly over the long term – with respect to c ustomers, employees, inves-
tors, business partners and society as a whole. Likewise, it entails handling natural resources responsibly. Sus-
tainable action also means remaining agile and constantly asking ourselves how we can respond to the chang-
ing world an d make a positive contribution. This concerns the continued development of our business activi-
ties just as much as living up to our corporate responsibilities.  
As in the previous year, 2021 was once again dominated by the coronavirus pandemic. The pandemi c is a chal-
lenge facing society as a whole; at the same time, it highlights how Sartorius directly contributes to the goal of 
“healthy lives and well -being for all at all ages:” with its products and process knowledge, Sartorius is involved 
in many of the worldwide vaccine projects to combat coronavirus.  
Optimization of processes and methods throughout the entire value chain can also make a contribution to-
wards sustainability – this mainly includes the consideration of sustainability in procurement, produc t devel-
opment and production. Our product portfolio includes consumables such as filters, pipette tips, cell culture 
media and bags. These sterile products for use in biopharmaceutical research and development have signifi-
cant benefits compared to reusable  products. Nevertheless, we see potential to reduce our use of natural re-
sources in this area.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021   Responsibility at Sartorius   4 
 
 In addition, we do believe it is important that we play our part in helping to reduce global warming. In the future, 
we aim to continue growing strongly while substantially lowering our carbon footprint. To this end, we once 
again compiled a detailed breakdown of our carbon footprint and refined our targets in the year under review. 
In our opinion, it is appropriate to focus on CO 2 emission intensity, as this in dicator enables a comparison of 
the CO 2 emissions of various companies as well as with economic and international indicators and targets. 
Correspondingly, our new climate target is to reduce CO 2 emission intensity, which is defined as the ratio of  
CO 2 emis sions to revenue. With our new target, which is to lower this indicator by an average of roughly 10 
percent per annum, we are exceeding the current ambitions of the European Union and the Science Based 
Targets initiative.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021   Sustainable Development Goals   5 
 
 Sustainable Development Goals  
Sartorius  is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and supports the 2030 agenda for a sustainable 
global economy.  
The United Nations developed 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The governments of all member 
states have adopted the SDGs; how ever, their success is largely dependent on the actions and cooperation of 
everyone involved – especially on the commitment of the private sector. Sartorius  accepts this responsibility.  
To determine which SDGs are related to Sartorius ’ business activities,  we also conducted a comprehensive 
materiality analysis in 2018. Sartorius  regards nine SDGs as important in connection with its business opera-
tions.  
 
 
Good health and well -being is - according to the United Nations - considered one of the basic 
human rig hts and is a major indicator of sustainable development. It is our mission and our core business to 
help improve the health of more people. Consequently, good health and well -being are at the heart of our 
attempts to achieve more sustainability and our cor porate purpose directly addresses one of the Sustainable 
Development Goals.  
Quality education  empowers people to improve their political, social and economic situations. Ac-
cording to the United Nations it is a basic human right and a requirement for sustainable development. We 
contribute to this by continuously training our employees and through m any forms of support for young sci-
entists.  
Sartorius  GRI Report  2021   Sustainable Development Goals   6 
 
 Gender equality  is not only a UN human right, it is also a lever for economic growth. It gives women 
better access to education, medical care and financial resources. We support equality in our own business 
activ ities and expect our business partners to behave accordingly.  
Access to clean drinking water  was in 2008 recognized as a human right by the United Nations. 
Within the scope of our product stewardship, we try to keep the water consumption of our products a s low as 
possible throughout their entire life cycle. We also make sure that our business partners handle water and 
wastewater responsibly.  
Decent work and economic growth  are an urgent sustainability goal, as more than 60  % of all 
workers worldwide do not have an employment contract and fewer than 45  % of all workers are employed on 
a full -time, permanent basis. Bad working conditions are often associated with poverty, discrimination and in-
equality and mainly affect groups of people such as women, peopl e with a disability, young people and mi-
grants. Therefore, at all process stages, we make sure that no human rights are endangered at any point within 
our supply chain.  
Industry, innovation and infrastructure:  this SDG aims to expand scientific research in  all 
countries throughout the world. While Sartorius  does not have a direct influence on the areas of infrastructure 
or sustainable industrialization, it does contribute in a wide variety of ways to achieve this innovation goal. By 
having our production si tes serve as centers of competence, we develop scientific expertise at many sites 
across the globe. Our promotion of young people helps us spread and network the scientific basis worldwide 
and, as a result, strengthen future innovation activities.  
Responsi ble consumption and production  means, among other things, the transition to 
a circular economy. Sterile plastic products are a key component of Sartorius ’ product portfolio – for a good 
reason: the properties of these products are beneficial for the patien ts at the end of the supply chain, for the 
environment and for the basic availability and development of innovative medical care. At the same time, sin-
gle-use products inevitably raise the question of the product’s end of life. We are addressing this issue  and 
considering the end of life of our products as well as their overall ecological footprint.  
Action to combat climate change  is taken within the company and also in our supply chain. 
Human -induced climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our  time. It requires action from everyone 
concerned, especially the private sector. A key issue is to reduce emissions of CO 2 and other greenhouse 
gases. We accept this responsibility within the scope of our climate strategy.  
Partnerships to achieve aims  are a standard approach for Sartorius . We especially strengthen 
our innovation activities through partnerships and cooperation agreements. Achieving sustainability targets 
requires a cooperation approach because they concern the entire supply chain and succes s can be achieved 
only through cooperation with customers, suppliers, contractual partners and science.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 102  General DisclosureSartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Dis closure   8 
 
 
  
Organizational Profile  
102 -1 
Name of the Organization   
Sartorius AG  
102 -2 
Activities, Brands, Products, and Services  
As a leading partner of life science research and the biopharmaceutical industry, S artorius helps its customers  
in the development and manufacture of biotech medications and vaccines – from initial idea in the lab to  com-
mercial -scale production. Our goal is to make complex and expensive development of biotech medicines  and 
their producti on safer and more efficient.  We cover the entire value -added chain of the  biopharmaceutical 
industry and help with our products and services to ensure that novel therapies  and vaccines reach the market 
faster and are accessible to more people worldwide.  
The Sartorius Group conducts its operating business in two divisions: Bioprocess Solutions and  Lab Prod ucts  
& Services. The divisions each combine their respective businesses for the same fields of  application and user 
groups, and share part of the infrastru cture and central services.  
Strategic Focus on Biopharma Applications from Molecule Development to Production of  Biopharmaceu-
ticals  
 
In the Bioprocess Solutions Division, Sartorius offers a broad portfolio of products that focuses on all major 
steps in th e manufacture of a biopharmaceutical, as well as in process development as prerequisite proce-
dures. Our technologies cover, inter alia, cell line technologies, cell culture media, bioreactors, and a wide 
range of products for separation, purification and c oncentration of biological intermediates and finished prod-
ucts, as well as solutions for their storage and transportation. Sartorius also offers data analytics software for 
modeling and optimizing processes of biopharmaceutical development and production.  
 
 
Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   9 
 
 
 We provide customers with complete process solutions from a single source, as well as assist with preceding 
project planning, process integration and subsequent validation. Our technologies are used in manufacturing 
all classes of medical drugs, from vaccines and monoclonal antibodies to advanced viral vector -based gene 
therapeutics.  
The Lab  Products & Services Division addresses pharmaceutical and biotech research  laboratories as well as 
academic research institutes. We supply scientists and laborator y staff with the  instruments and consumables 
they need to make their research and quality control easier and faster. These contribute toward accelerating 
the protracted timelines of  drug development and increases the efficiency of R&D labs in the biopharma ceu-
tical industry.   
Beyond this, the division offers a wide range of premium laboratory instruments for sample preparation – such  
as laboratory balances, pipettes and lab water systems – as well as consumables, such as filters and  microbio-
logical test kits . In these product categories, Sartorius has leading market positions and significant  market 
shares. Our solutions are designed to boost the efficiency and productivity of routine yet quality -critical  lab 
processes and industry -specific workflows .  
102 -3 
Location of Headquarters  
Göttingen , Germany  
102 -4 
Location of Operations  
Ove rall, Sartorius is present in 37  countries1; most employees  are located in China, Germany,  France, India, 
Puerto Rico, Tunisia , the UK and the USA . 
  2021  2020  
Countries with at least one consolidated company of the Sartorius Group  37* 35    
*Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India,  Ireland, 
Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, Poland, Puerto Rico, Russia, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, South Africa, Sout h Korea, 
Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Tunisia, UK, USA, Vietnam  
                                                                        
1 The term "countries" includes states, provinces and territories and does not reflect any position regarding the state quality  of a region.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   10 
 
 
  
102 -5 
Ownership and Legal Form  
Sartorius AG is  a joint stock corporation founded under German law.  
Shareholder Structure: Ordinary Shares in %, related to ~34.2 million shares outstanding    
Administered by an executor  ~ 55  
Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc.  ~ 38  
Free float  ~ 7   
 
Shareholder Structure: Preference Shares in %, related to ~ 34.2 million shares outstanding    
Free float  ~ 72  
Treasury shares  ~ 28    
1 Information on shareholdings and shares in free float pursuant to Sections 33 et seq. of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). 
Reporting obligations refer only to ordinary shares and not to non -voting preference shares.  
102 -6 
Markets Served  
Sartorius markets its products and services worldwide, especially in its European core markets France , Ger-
many and United Kingdom as well as in the USA, China, India, Japan and South Korea.  
Both divisions serve primarily the needs of the biopharmaceutical  industry. With its products, the division Lab 
Products & Services furthermore addresses academic research institutes as well as quality control labs in the 
chemical and food industries.  
EMEA
Austria, Belgium , Denmark , 
Finland, France, Germany, 
Hungary , Ireland , Israel, Italy , 
Netherlands , Poland , Russia, 
Slovenia,  South Africa , Spain, 
Sweden , Switzerland , Tunisia , 
UKAmericas
Argentina , Brazil , Canada, 
Mexico, Puerto Rico, USAAsia | Pacific
Australia, China, Hong Kong, 
India, Japan, Malaysia, 
Singapore, South Korea, 
Taiwan, Thailand, VietnamSite
Production site
Core marketSartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   11 
 
 
 102 -7 
Scale of the Organization  
 
Scale of the Organization    
  Unit  2021  2020  
Total number of employees  Headcount  13,832  10,637  
Total number of operations  Countries  35 35 
Revenue  € in K  3,449,222  2,335,657  
Sales revenue Bioprocess Solutions  € in K  2,727,000  1,782,622  
Sales revenue Lab Products & Services  € in K  722,200  553,035  
Equity  € in K  1,720,196  1,380,295  
Non -current liabilities  € in K  2,430,572  2,233,359  
Current liabilities  € in K  1,547,164  4,484,744      
 
Assets    
€ in K  31.12.2021  31.12.2020  
Non -current assets  3,901,130  3,275,431  
Current assets  5,697,932  4,484,744     
 
Beneficial ownership  
The beneficial ownership, including the identity and percentage of ownership of the largest shareholder, are 
described under  102 -5. 
Sales Revenues by Regions and Countries    
€ in K  2021  2020  
EMEA  1,411,015  935,078  
Of which Germany  317,958  210,205  
Of which France  125,715  96,075  
Americas  1,141,217  812,212  
Of which USA  1,061,711  755,263  
Asia | Pacific  896,990  588,368  
Of which China  378,713  224,198  
Of which South Korea  161,854  130,325     
 Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   12 
 
 
 Employees by Region and Country1   
Region  Country  Headcount  Share of total 
headcount  
EMEA  Belgium  51 0.4%  
  Germany  4,637  33.5%  
  Finland  304  2.2%  
  France  1,402  10.1%  
  Ireland  17 0.1%  
  Israel  228  1.6%  
  Italy  72 0.5%  
  Netherlands  32 0.2%  
  Austria  21 0.2%  
  Poland  18 0.1%  
  Russia  128 0.9%  
  Sweden  87 0.6%  
  Switzerland  122 0.9%  
  Slovenia  163 1.2%  
  Spain  57 0.4%  
  Tunisia  691 5.0%  
  Hungary  13 0.1%  
  UK 978  7.1%  
EMEA Total    9,021  65.3%  
Americas  Argentina  49 0.4%  
  Brazil  46 0.3%  
  Canada  31 0.2%  
  Mexico  81 0.6%  
  Puerto Rico  1,158  8.4%  
  USA  1,427  10.3%  
Americas Total    2,792  20.2%  
Asia | Pacific  Australia  36 0.3%  
  China  837  6.1%  
  Hong Kong  6 0.0%  
  India  631 4.6%  
  Japan  138 1.0%  
  Malaysia  14 0.1%  
  Singapore  103  0.7%  
  South Korea  33 0.2%  
  Taiwan, China  16 0.1%  
  Thailand  7 0.1%  
  Vietnam  189 1.4%  
 Asia | Pacific Total    2,010  14.5%  
Total    13,823  100%      
1 Reports for 2021.   Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   13 
 
 
 102 -8 
Information on Employees and Other Workers  
 
Employees by Employment Contract by Gender1, 2   
  Unlimited 
contract  Limited contract  Total  
Female  4,727  707  5,434  
Male  7,541  857  8,398  
Total  12,268  1,564  13,832      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Employees by Employment Contract by Region1, 2   
  Unlimited 
contract  Limited contract  Total  
EMEA  8,133  897  9,030  
Americas  2,787  5 2,792  
Asia | Pacific  1,348  662  2,010  
Total  12,268  1,564  13,832      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Employees by Employment Type by Gender1, 2   
  Full -time  Part -time  Total  
Female  4,828  606  5,434  
Male  8,031  367  8,398  
Total  12,859  973  13,832      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Workers That Are Not Employees by Region1, 2   
  Other employees3 Contingent work-
ers4 Total  
EMEA  502  1161  1,663  
Americas  9 392  401  
Asia | Pacific  8 189 197 
Total  519           1,742  2,261      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Paid by Sartorius Payroll (apprentices, interns).  
4 Paid by Finance (office workers, factory staff).  
102 -9 
Supply Chain  
Respect for human rights, the maintenance of high environmental standards and good, safe and fair working 
conditions for the production of our products is important to us, and apply to sites outside our own production 
as well. With more than 8,000 suppliers in more than 40 countries and a purchasing volume that corresponds Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   14 
 
 
 to about 40% of our sales revenue1, it is obvious that our upstream supply chain is important fo r us to imple-
ment these goals. Based on its procurement volume as a gauge, less than three  percent of its suppliers are 
headquartered  in regions with potential conflicts regarding hum an rights issues. Around 97 per cent of the 
company’s procurement needs ar e sourced from suppliers headquartered in an OECD country . Around 51 
percent of its procurement volume is sourced from German companies, 15 percent from US -American com-
panies and another 8 percent from companies headquartered in France.  
Moreover, the valu e chains for pharmaceuticals are very sensitive and are the focus of many stakeholders. In 
particular, patients at the end of the supply chain are dependent on their medications being available and safe 
at all times.  
Since January 2020, we have been verify ing suppliers’ compliance with our sustainability requirements via an 
external evidence -based ESG assessment, as well as in -house ESG quick checks. In the year under review, we 
have been working to set up a comprehensive risk management system and design n ew processes in order to 
be able to meet and document the requirements of the new Supply Chain Act in the near future, but by no 
later than 2023.  
Our Code of Conduct for Business Partners provides the basis for collaboration with our business partners 
throughout the Group. Our requirements with regard to the environment, social matters and governance are 
defined in the Code. Since December 2019, ack nowledgment of the Code of Conduct is part of the ac-
ceptance process for new suppliers. In 2020, we began systematically reviewing whether our existing suppliers 
have acknowledged the Code and, if not, asking them to do so.  
For suppliers who are very rele vant for our business processes and/or a high purchasing volume, we work to-
gether with the external sustainability assessment platform EcoVadis. The external ESG assessment is based 
on a self -assessment, a review of the associated documents and information  from external sources. EcoVadis 
reviews 21 indicators in the areas of environment, labor and human rights, ethics and sustainable procurement.  
Beginning in 2021, Sartorius quality auditors systematically conducted ESG quick checks within the scope of 
all planned quality audits in the suppliers’ production plants. For this purpose, Sartorius put its sustainability 
requirements into a questionnaire. This will be provided to suppliers before the audit. During on -site auditing 
of suppliers’ production plants,  compliance with the requirements of our Code of Conduct for Business Part-
ners is reviewed on the basis of the questionnaire.  
The objective of all measures is to initiate actual improvements in the working, social and environmental stand-
ards of our suppli ers. Sartorius Management is involved in shaping the process via the Corporate Sustainability 
Steering Committee and is informed about the progress being made.  
We do not establish business relationships with suppliers where we see a considerable risk of child, forced or 
mandatory labor, other breaches of human rights or negative impacts on society, and will end any existing re-
lationships with such suppliers. This  procedure is also defined in our new process for sustainability in the supply 
chain.  
  
                                                                        
1 Revenue and purchasing volume in 202 1. Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   15 
 
 
 During the Covid -19 pandemic, we are focusing on securing our delivery capabilities. This is very important 
considering the validated production processes of our custo mers. This is why we manage stocks of raw mate-
rials and finished products actively and maintain high levels of safety stock.  
102 -10 
Significant Changes to the Organization and its Supply Chain  
In the reporting year, Sartorius expanded its product portfolio  for cell culture media and extended its produc-
tion network in this segment by making two acquisitions. Sartorius, through its subgroup Sartorius Stedim Bi-
otech, acquired a majority stake in CellGenix. The company based in Freiburg, Germany, and with a sal es sub-
sidiary near the biotechnology hub in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, produces and markets critically essential 
cell culture components, such as growth factors, cytokines and media in GMP quality, for manufacturing cell 
and gene therapy products. The Fre iburg site is a center of excellence for developing and manufacturing cell 
culture components and will be further expanded. With a workforce of around 70 people, CellGenix generated 
sales of about €20 million in 2020.  
In addition, Sartorius through its su bgroup Sartorius Stedim Biotech acquired cell culture specialist Xell head-
quartered in Bielefeld, Germany. Xell develops, produces, and markets media and feed supplements for cell 
cultures, especially for manufacturing viral vectors that are used in gene t herapeutics and vaccines. Beyond 
these media, the company offers various analytical services for characterizing, screening, and quantifying me-
dia components, as well as for optimizing media composition. In 2021, Xell generated sales of approximately 
€5mill ion and employed around 35 people.  
Furthermore, in February 2022, Sartorius, through its subgroup Sartorius Stedim Biotech, completed the ac-
quisition of the chromatography process equipment division of Novasep with sites in Pompey, northern 
France, as wel l as in the USA, China and India. This division of approximately 100 people specializes in resin-
based batch and intensified chromatography systems, and its product portfolio is complementary to the ex-
isting chromatography offering.  
On January 3, 2022, Sar torius acquired a majority stake in ALS Automated Lab Solutions to expand its bioan-
alytics portfolio. The laboratory technology company based in Jena, Germany, develops, manufactures, and 
markets solutions for automated analysis, selection, and isolation o f cells. With these solutions, ALS enables 
life science customers to significantly reduce time to result and cost in cell line development and antibody 
discovery. Sartorius initially purchased 62.5% of the shares in ALS and plans to acquire the remaining 3 7.5% in 
2026. ALS employed around 30 people and generated sales revenue in the high single -digit million -euro 
range in 2021.  
The assumption of responsibility in global supply chains is also governed by a growing number of laws and 
requirements. In particu lar, the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence in Supply Chains, which was passed 
by the German parliament in July 2021, seeks to improve the international human rights situation by setting 
out requirements for the responsible management of supply chains. This Act comes into effect for German 
based companies with more than 3,000 employees on January 1, 2023.  
102 -11 
Precautionary Principle or Approach  
At Sartorius, identification and management of opportunities and risks is a cross -functional component of 
Group management.  Further information on risk management is provided in the 2021 Annual Report on pages 
71 seq.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Gen eral Disclosure   16 
 
 
 Sartorius is responsible towards its employees, the environment, and society. This responsibility must be per-
ceived throughout the entire supply  chain. In particular, the company’s actions with regard to environmental 
matters, employee and social aspects, anti -corruption and bribery issues and respect for human rights can lead 
to non -financial risks. This is why Sartorius strives to consider risks  that have an impact on the company, but 
what is more, to examine the risks Sartorius poses for its environment with its business operations as well.  
Risks can occur especially in connection with the manufacture of sterile products used in bioprocesses, since 
this can require the use of plastics, energy and solvents. Non -financial risks can also occur through the pro-
curement of materials. This is why, when Sartorius is choosing partners and suppliers, it pays particular atten-
tion that statutory and ethica l rules are complied with.  
In the reporting year, no non -financial risks were identified that would have to be reported according to CSR -
RUG.  
The requirements defined in the German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR -RUG) are the basis of the 
ESG risk an alysis. Sartorius aims for the greatest possible integration of risk management processes in the 
company.  
102 -12 
External Initiatives  
Sartorius supports or is committed to the following initiatives that promote sustainable development (in al-
phabetic order ): 
▪ Global Reporting Initiative  
▪ UN Global Compact  
▪ UN Sustainable Development Goals  
102 -13 
Membership of Associations    
Partnerships or memberships in national and international organizations have a high strategic value for our 
work . For example, we are acti ve in the following associations (in alphabetic order):  
▪ AIPIA – Active & Intelligent Packaging Industry Association  
▪ BPOG - Biophorum Operations Group  
▪ BPSA – Bio-Process Systems Alliance  
▪ CCRM  
▪ Centrum für europäische Politik   
▪ CLSA – Canadian Laboratory Suppliers Association  
▪ DIRK – Deutscher Investor Relations Verband  
▪ econsense  
▪ European Plastics Pact  
▪ HessenChemie  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   17 
 
 
 ▪ MEDEF - Mouvement des entreprises de France  
▪ PDA - Parenteral Drug Association  
▪ Rx-360  
▪ SLA – Scottish Lifescience association  
▪ SPECTARIS - Deutscher Industrieverband für Optik, Photonik, Analysen - und Medizintechnik  
▪ Stifterverband  
▪ Südniedersachsen Stiftung  
▪ Swiss Biotech Association  
▪ VDMA  
Strategy  
102 -14 
Statement from Senior Decision -Maker  
See in this report ‘ Responsibility at Sartorius ’, page  3. 
102 -15 
Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities  
Our corporate mission is to promote scientific progress in the life sciences, which in turn supports the devel-
opment of new vaccines, more effective therapies and affordable medical care. Consequently, good health 
and well -being are at the heart of our attempts to achieve more sustainability and our corporate purpose di-
rectly addresses one of the Sustainable Development Goals.  
The biopharmaceutical market is rapidly developing – it is an area in which scient ific breakthroughs leading to 
new therapies occur at a high rate. At the same time, it still takes about ten years to develop a new pharma-
ceutical drug and this remains cost -intensive. Our aim is to help our biopharmaceutical customers develop 
and produce biopharmaceuticals more efficiently.  
In past years, technologies from Sartorius have been used in the development and production of vaccines to 
combat various diseases, such as Ebola, Zika and H1N1. In the reporting year, the company’s products and pro-
cess  knowledge made a significant contribution towards fighting the COVID -19 pandemic: Sartorius is in-
volved in most vaccine projects throughout the world.  
Sartorius generates almost two thirds of its sales revenue with sterile products that are used in biopha rmaceu-
tical research where they ensure the safety, efficiency and ecological compatibility of the processes. Risks can 
occur especially in connection  with the manufacture of these  products, since this can require the use of plas-
tics, energy and solvents. Non -financial risks can also occur through the procurement of materials. This is why, 
when Sartorius is choosing partners and suppliers, it pays particular attention that statutory  and ethical rules 
are complied with.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   18 
 
 
 Key Impacts  
Environment  Social  Governance  
Energy & Emissions  Good Health & Well -Being  Compliance  
Material & Waste  Working Conditions  Supply Chain  
Product End -of-Life  Occupational Health & Safety  Human Rights  
  Career & Training  Anti -Corruption     
 
The most important processes and advances implemented in the treatment of these topics are described in 
the particular sections of this GRI  Report.   
Ethic and Integrity  
102 -16 
Values, Principles, Standards, and Norms  of Behavior  
Sustainability, openness, enjoyment are the values that shape our work with colleagues, customers and busi-
ness partners alike. By incorporating them into our thoughts and actions on a daily basis, we create a positive 
corporate culture, which is an important source of long -term economic success, lasting motivation and above -
average performance.  
We regard compliance with applicable laws as self -evident. Beyond this, we have set ourselves the standard of 
managing our company with integrity.  
We a re committed to upholding internationally recognized human and labor rights as a basis of our worldwide 
business operations. A significant task in this regard is to create a common understanding of fair working con-
ditions – at all our sites and in the supp ly chain.  
The Sartorius Code of Conduct defines the requirements we place on our employees with respect to respon-
sible conduct. The code helps employees act ethically and in accordance with the law in their daily work. In 
everything they do, employees are  required to ask themselves the following questions: Are my actions legal? 
Does my conduct correspond to our values and guidelines? Is it free of personal interests (that are not covered 
by labor law regulations)? Will it stand up to public scrutiny? The C ode of Conduct covers compliance with 
international social and environmental standards, general rules of conduct and dealing with conflicts of inter-
est.  
Our Code of Conduct for business partners is the basis for collaboration with our business partners through-
out the Group. Our requirements with regard to the environment, social matters and governance are defined 
in the Code. Since December 2019, acknowled gment of the Code of Conduct is part of the acceptance pro-
cess for new suppliers. In 2020, we began systematically reviewing whether our existing suppliers have 
acknowledged the Code and, if not, asking them to do so. In some cases, a supplier's similar Co de of Conduct 
can replace our Code of Conduct.  
102 -17 
Mechanisms for Advice and Concerns about Ethics  
The Sartorius Code of Conduct defines the requirements we place on our employees with respect to respon-
sible conduct and it comprises minimum standards r elating to the law -abiding and ethical approach that all 
Sartorius employees across the world must meet. We expect our business partners and especially our suppliers 
to act accordingly. This is laid down in our Code of Conduct for Business Partners.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   19 
 
 
 A co mplaint system ensures that employees and external third parties can report cases of damaging conduct, 
such as corruption, discrimination or sexual harassment. The compliance team can be contacted face -to-face, 
via a telephone hotline, the department’s ele ctronic mailbox or – in the case of anonymous reports – the whis-
tleblower system. The relevant contact options are listed on the intranet and are thus available company -wide. 
They are also available on the company’s website and can thus be accessed by exte rnal persons concerned.  
Governance  
102 -18 
Governance Structure  
With the Annual General Shareholders' Meeting, Supervisory Board and Executive Board, the Sartorius AG 
has three corporate managerial bodies whose tasks and powers are essentially derived from the German Stock 
Corporation Law ("Aktiengesetz") and the company's Articles of Association.  
As owners of the company, the shareholders exercise their rights at its Annual General Shareholders' Meeting, 
where they decide, in particular, on the appropriati on of profits, measures concerning share capital, amend-
ments to the Articles of Association, discharge of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board and on the 
appointment of statutory auditors, as well as elect shareholder representatives to the Superv isory Board. The 
Annual General Shareholders' meeting is held at least once a year within the first eight months of the respec-
tive fiscal year.  
In managing the company, the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board perform their tasks in a two -tier 
board structure, each with separate duties and powers.  
The Supervisory Board appoints members to the Executive Board, determines their remuneration and moni-
tors and advises the Executive Board in its management of the company. The Supervisory Board is not autho r-
ized to take any operational management measures for the busin ess. The Supervisory Board has established 
four committees: the Executive Task Committee, the Audit Committee, the Conciliation Committee and the 
Nomination Committee.  Further information on th e work of the Supervisory Board and its committees is pro-
vided in the Report of the Supervisory Board.  
The Executive Board is responsible for independently managing the company. In particular, it defines corpo-
rate strategy, coordinates and agrees on this a pproach with the Supervisory Board and implements such cor-
porate strategy. In line with established reporting obligations, the Executive Board regularly informs the Su-
pervisory Board promptly and comprehensively, and requests the latter's approval for cert ain key business 
transactions. Further information on the corporate governance is provided in the 2021 Annual Report on 
pages 92 et seq.   
The Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee meets at least once each year. Under the direction of the 
CEO, senior -level managers and corporate responsibility officers discuss approaches that Sartorius could use 
to contribute to greater sustainability.  
102 -20 
Executive -Level Responsibility for Economic, Environmental and Social Topics  
The Executive Board of Sart orius AG manages the business activities of the company according to the legal 
requirements, the Articles of Association of the company and the board’s Rules of Procedure. The members 
of the Executive Board are jointly responsible for the management of the  company as a whole. This includes 
economic, ecological, and social topics.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   20 
 
 
 Corporate Responsibility as the coordinating unit for the company’s sustainability activities is part of the Cor-
porate Communications ＆ IR Department of which the Executive Board  Chairman is in charge.  
102 -21 
Consulting Stakeholders on Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  
For further information on consulting stakeholders, see 102 -42, 102 -43, 102 -44 as well as 102 -46. 
102 -22 
Composition of t he Highest Governance Body and I ts Committees  
The Sartorius Executive Board is a committee that presently consists of four members and is therefore rela-
tively small; the establishment of a rigid gender quota can be problematic. The current four members of the 
Executive Board of Sartorius  AG are men. The appointment of at least one woman to the Executive Board was 
defined as a target to be met by the present deadline of June 30, 2022.  
The Supervisory Board is composed of 12 members and has an equal n umber of shareholder representa tives 
and  employee representatives. Seven men total (around 58%) are members of this board, of whom four are 
shareholder representatives and three employee representatives. In addition, five women (around 42%) are 
members of this board, among them two representativ es of t he share owners and three repre sentatives of the 
employees.  
In the opinion of the shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board, Prof. Dr. David Ebsworth, Dr.  Dan-
iela Favoccia, Ilke Hildegard Panzer, Prof. Dr. Thomas Scheper and Prof. Dr. Kl aus Rüdiger Trützschler are  in-
dependent members of the Supervisory Board. As the executor for the community of heirs of Horst Sartorius,  
Dr. Lothar Kappich is to be regarded as dependent upon the controlling shareholder. However, despite the  
fact that Dr. Kappich has served on the Supervisory Board since April 2007 and has thus been a member for  
more than 12 years, the shareholders on the Supervisory Board regard him as independent of the company  
and its Executive Board. Thus, a Supervisory Board membership  of many years alone should not, in this case,  
lead to the fear of a personal or business relationship with the company or its Executive Board that would justify  
a significant and not merely temporary conflict of interest. In particular, the circumstance t hat Dr. Kappich  rep-
resents the majority of the voting rights in the company counters the presumption of his dependence on  the 
company and its Executive Board.  
The Executive Task Committee, Audit Committee and Conciliation Committee each have four members and 
have an equal number of shareholder representatives and employee representatives. The Nomination Com-
mittee is comprised of representatives of the shareholders only.  
An overview of the names of the members of the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board a nd of the latter's 
committees, including information on other internal and external Group positions held by these indi viduals, is 
provided in the 2021 Annual Report on pages 239  et seq.  
102 -23 
Chair of the Highest Governance Body  
Dr. Lothar Kappich was Cha irman of the Supervisory Board throughout the entire reporting period. He is nei-
ther an active member of the Executive Board of Sartorius AG nor a former member of this board . During the 
same period, , Dr. Joachim Kreuzburg was the Executive Board Chairman and CEO .  
102 -24 
Nominating and Selecting the Highest Governance Body  
The election of the Supervisory Board members is conducted separately for the shareholder representatives 
and the employee representatives. The six employee representatives are elected a ccording to the German 
Codetermi nation Law ("Mitbestimmungsgesetz") and the six shareowner representatives are elected by the 
Annual General Sharehol ders' Meeting. The Nomination Committee, which is comprised of representatives of Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   21 
 
 
 the shareholders only, sh all propose suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board for the latter’s election pro-
posals submitted to the  Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting is not bound by 
the proposals for the election of the shareholder representatives t o the Supervisory Board.  
Members of the Supervisory Board of Sartorius AG are to be appointed such that they, on the whole, have the 
knowledge, skills and experience that are necessary to perform the board's duties properly. This includes 
among other aspe cts that independent members shall account for no less than 25% of the Supervisory Board.  
In addition, the Supervisory Board also defined a competence profile for itself. This also covers aspects such 
as diversity, for example, with regard to professional  background and international experience. In view of 
achieving an appropriate gender balance, the legal quotas of at least 30% women and at least 30% men apply 
to the Sartorius Supervisory Board. The shareholder representatives and the employee representat ives de-
cided to fulfill these legal targets separately.  
Further information on the objectives for appointments to the Supervisory Board, the diversity policy  and the 
competence  profile is provided in the 2021 Annual Report on pages 94  et seq.  
The Supervisory Board appoints members to the Executive Board. In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the 
basic qualification criteria for appointments to positions on the Executive Board are professional qualifications 
for heading each particular area o f responsibility, a proven track record in the individual’s career path and con-
vincing managerial skills. In addition, the Supervisory Board also considers the aspect of diversity in its appoint-
ment decisions. Therefore, the Supervisory Board strives to ap point people with complementary profiles, pro-
fessional and personal life experiences and in different age brackets to the Executive Board. Moreover, the 
latter board is required to have broad internatio nal experience.  
102 -25 
Conflicts of Interest  
Accordin g to the requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC), which Sartorius fully 
complies with  in its current version of December 16, 2019 , members of the Executive Board and the Supervi-
sory Board are required to disclose conflicts of interest t o the Supervisory Board without undue delay. The 
GCGC also stipulates that the Supervisory Board must inform the Executive Board in its report to the Annual 
Shareholders' Meeting about any conflicts of interest that have occurred and how they were handled.  Further-
more, the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board of Sartorius AG require that each member of the Su-
pervisory Board disclose conflicts of interest to the Chairman without undue delay.  
Further internal and external Group positions of the Executi ve Board and of the Supervisory  Board are dis-
closed in the 2021 Annual Report on pages 237 et seq . The brief curricula vitae of these members are addition-
ally published on the company’s website, and the ownership structure of Sartorius AG is described unde r 102 -
5. Share trading activities of Supervisory and Executive Board members as related persons are discussed in the 
2020 Annual Report on page 103 . Likewise, further information on related companies and persons is given in 
the 2021 Annual Report on page 2 22. 
102 -29 
Identifying and Managing Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts  
The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Executive Board on the management of the company. This 
covers economic, ecological and social impacts.  
The Non -Financial Group  Statement is submitted to the Supervisory Board as the highest -level governance 
body and contains non -financial topics and indicators that are key for Sartorius.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   22 
 
 
 102 -30 
Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes  
Overall responsibility for the maintenance  of an effective risk manag ement system ensuring comprehen sive 
and consistent management of all material risks rests with the Executive Board. The Finance & Controlling 
Department is responsible for coordinating and developing this system and for consolida ted risk reporting, 
while the particular functional areas are responsible for identifying, analyzing and reporting individual risks, as 
well as for assessing their potential impact and taking the appropriate countermeasures. With regard to CSR 
risks, the F inance & Controlling Department is supported by the Corporate Responsibility unit.  
Sartorius  is responsible towards its employees, the environment, and society. This responsibility must be per-
ceived throughout the entire supply chain. In particular, the co mpany’s actions with regard to environmental 
matters, employee and social aspects, anti -corruption and bribery issues and respect for human rights can lead 
to non -financial risks. This is why Sartorius  strives to consider risks that have an impact on the company, but 
what is more, to examine the risks Sartorius  poses for its environment with its business operations as well.  
Risks can occur especially in connection with the manufacture of sterile product s used in bioprocesses, since 
this can require the use of plastics, energy and solvents. Non -financial risks can also occur through the pro-
curement of materials. This is why, when Sartorius  is choosing partners and suppliers, it pays particular atten-
tion t hat statutory and ethical rules are complied with.  
In the reporting year, no non -financial risks were identified that would have to be reported according to CSR -
RUG.  
The requirements defined in the German CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR -RUG) are the basis of the 
ESG risk analysis. Sartorius  aims for the greatest possible integration of risk management processes in the 
company.  
The Supervisory Board of Sartorius AG monitors the effectiveness of the risk management system, with the 
preparatory work bei ng performed by the Audit Committee of this board. While carrying out their statutory 
audit mandate for the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements, the independent 
auditors assess whether the early warning system in place is capa ble of prompt identification of risks that could 
jeopardize the future of the company. Finally, the Internal Audit Department regularly reviews the risk man-
agement process and system. For f urther information, see the 2021 Annual Report, pages 71 et seq.  
102-31 
Review of Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  
The Supervisory Board reviewed the Non -Financial Group Statement included  in the company’s Annual Re-
port.  
102 -32 
Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Reporting  
The Non -Financial  Group  Statement contained in this Annual Report was reviewed by the Supervisory Board.  
102 -33 
Communicating Critical Concerns  
Critical concerns are communicated to the Supervisory Board in several procedural ways. The Audit Commit-
tee meets once a year and revi ews the report of Internal Auditing; additionally, the Risk Management unit reg-
ularly reports on risk to this committee. Furthermore, the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee remain in regular contact to exchange information.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   23 
 
 
 102-35 
Remuneration Policies  
The Remuneration Report in the 2021 Annual Report on pages 100 et seq . contains information on the remu-
neration policy in place for the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, including disclosures on perfor-
mance -based remuner ation for the Executive Board, multi -year components intended to have a long -term 
incentive, pension commitments and on severance caps. In this section, information is provided as required by 
the German Corporate Governance Code (GCGC).  
102 -36 
Process for  Determining Remuneration  
The remuneration policy for the Executive Board aims to remunerate the members of the Executive Board 
appropriately in line with their tasks and responsibilities and to directly consider the performance of each 
member of the Execu tive Board and the success of the company. Accordingly, the remuneration policy in-
cludes fixed remuneration components as well as short - and long -term variable remuneration components.  
The company strategy is aimed at achieving profitable growth and a sustained, long -term increase in the value  
of the company. This strategy is the basis from which the structure of the remuneration policy is derived for  
the Executive Board of Sartorius AG: The short -term variable remuneration depends on annual corporate  tar-
gets that are aligned with key performance indicators for profitable growth of the company. Long -term  remu-
neration depends on a corporate goal that reflects the sustainable and long -term growth of the company  and 
the Group, on the one hand, and on the lo ng-term performance of the share price, which directly reflects  the 
development of the company's value, on the other. As a result, the company’s remuneration policy creates  
incentives to promote the long -term and positive sustainable development of the com pany.  Further inf or-
mation is available in the 2021 Annual  Report on pages  109 et seq.  
The Supervisory Board establishes and regularly reviews the remuneration policy for the Executive Board. The  
Executive Task Committee of the Supervisory Board prepares th e remuneration policy for approval by the full  
Supervisory Board and makes the respective suggestions.  In the process, the Supervisory Board also reviews 
the appropriateness of such remuneration in comparison  to the remuneration of the Executive Board with in 
the peer group of the company (horizontal  appropriateness). The peer group is defined by the Supervisory 
Board and/or its Executive Task Committee . and is adapted as necessary.  Further inf ormation on the peer 
group is available in the 2021 Annual  Report  on page 110  et seq . 
In establishing the remuneration for the Executive Board members, the Supervisory Board further considers 
both the compensation of senior management and that of the remaining workforce in relation to the German 
Group companies (vertica l appropriateness). For these purposes, the Supervisory Board defines senior man-
agement as the group of executives of the first two management levels below the Executive Board. The Su-
pervisory Board looks not only at the current compensation ratio, but als o at how it has developed over time.  
If necessary, the Supervisory Board will engage an independen t compensation consultant to re view vertical 
and horizontal appropriateness; this was last done in 2018. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board also takes into 
account the requirements of the German Corporate Governance Code when determining and reviewing the 
remuneration of the Executive Board.  
Any conflict of interest in the establishment, implementation and review of the remuneration policy shall be 
treated by the Supervisory Board in the same way as other conflicts of interest in the person of a Supervisory 
Board member. The Supervisory Board member concerned is therefore required to disclose any conflict of 
interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and  will not participate in the adoption of resolutions or in 
the deliberations concerned. Disclosure of any conflicts of interest at an early stage ensures that the decisions 
of the Supervisory Board are not influenced by inappropriate considerations . Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   24 
 
 
 102 -38 
Annual Total Compensation Ratio  
 
Annual Total Compensation Ratio1, 2, 3, 4   
Country  Highest -paid indi-
vidual to median 
in each country  
China  9.55  
Germany  13.46  
France  11.10  
India  13.02  
Puerto Rico  13.52  
Tunisia  22.43  
USA  3.40  
UK 4.61  
Group5 16.87    
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Annua l total compensation is defined as the sum of the annual base salary and the annual bonus target amount. For part -time em-
ployees the total compensation target is calculated up to one full -time equivalent.   
3 In countries with large facilities in terms of the number of employees.  
4 We consider employees, whose salary is paid out in the standard local currency.  
5 Calculated in euro.  
Stakeholder Engagement  
102 -40 
List of Stakeholder Groups   
Our stakeholders are our customers, employees, investors, suppliers and business partners, as well as neigh-
boring companies and local residents.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   25 
 
 
 102 -41 
Collective Bargaining Agreements  
Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements1, 2   
Region  Country  Employees cov-
ered by  collective 
bargaining agree-
ments  
EMEA  Belgium  100%  
  Germany  84%  
  Finland  96%  
  France  100%  
  Ireland  0% 
  Israel  0% 
  Italy  100%  
  Netherlands  0% 
  Austria  0% 
  Poland  0% 
  Russia  0% 
  Sweden  100%  
  Switzerland  0% 
  Slovenia  0% 
  Spain  100%  
  Tunisia  70%  
  Hungary  0% 
  UK 0% 
EMEA Total    70%  
Americas  Argentina  37%  
  Brazil  100%  
  Canada  0% 
  Mexico  0% 
  Puerto Rico  75%  
  USA  0% 
Americas Total    33%  
Asia | Pacific  Australia  0% 
  China  0% 
  Hong Kong  0% 
  India  13%  
  Japan  0% 
  Malaysia  0% 
  Singapore  0% 
  South Korea  0% 
  Taiwan, China  0% 
  Thailand  0% 
  Vietnam  0% 
 Asia | Pacific Total    4% 
Total    53%     
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   26 
 
 
 102 -42 
Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders  
We define stakeholders as those persons, companies, institutions and interest groups that  are able to influ-
ence the success of the Sartorius Group or are affected by the actions of our company.  
102 -43 
Approach to Stakeholder Engagement  
Sartorius engages in a very close, ongoing dialog with its stakeholders, using this exchange to regularly dis cuss 
aspects of sustainability.  
In the reporting year, we had intensive discussions about the subject of sustainability with our customers. Dur-
ing many meetings, we discussed the expectations of our customers and started cooperation projects. To get 
a comprehensive overview in this regar d, in collaboration with a market research institute we wrote to more 
than 70 customers, asking them how they perceived Sartorius ’ contributions towards sustainability and also to 
tell us about their expectations.  
In the reporting year, Sartorius  strength ened its dialog with its own staff with two major surveys involving em-
ployees. We set up a section on the Intranet specifically dealing with the topic of sustainability.  
In November, Sartorius  once again took part in the ESG -SRI Conference of Société Génér ale. In March, the 
German Stock Exchange presented the new sustainability index DAX 50 ESG. The index tracks the perfor-
mance of the fifty largest and most liquid German stocks that have particularly sustainable business practices 
based on the Environmental , Social and Governance criteria. Sartorius  is included in the DAX 50 ESG.  
The results of the stakeholder dialog were discussed in the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee and, 
in this way, are taken into account in Sartorius ’ strategy process.  
Sartorius  participates in sustainability analyses and ratings to gauge its performance with respect to its envi-
ronmental, social and governance -related business practices. In the EcoVadis Rating, Sartorius  achieved silver 
level and, with this score, positione d itself among the best 19 percent of the companies assessed. Sartorius  was 
given an A in the MSCI Sustainability Rating.  
102 -44 
Key Topics and Concerns Raised  
In 2017, we as ked our stakeholders about m any key topics and concerns and prioritized the latter  in our mate-
riality analysis. The results of this analysis form the basis for the content reported. See al so 102 -46. 
Reporting Practice  
102 -45 
Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements  
See the list in the 2021 Annual Report on pages 173  et seq.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   27 
 
 
 102 -46 
Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries  
In defining the materiality of our GRI  Report, we used the definitions of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
as guidance. According to these terms, topics need to be treated that show the e ssential economic, ecological 
and social impacts of an organization or substantially affect the assessments and decisions of the stakeholders.  
We conducted a comprehensive materiality analysis in 2017 to determine the material topics for the business 
activ ities of the Sartorius Group. Further information on the company’s materiality analysis is provide d in the 
2017 Annual Report, pages  88 et seq., as part of the Non -Financial Statement of the Group.  
For reporting in the year under review, we assessed discussions with customers and investors, taking into ac-
count the views of managers in Sales, Product Marketing, Purchasing, Quality Management, Legal & Compli-
ance, Corporate Communications as well as Research and Development and Produ ction. The Executive Board 
confirmed the results of this process.  
Unless ot herwise indicated, the employee -related data covers all Sartorius companies. Unless otherwise spec-
ified, the environmental indicators encompass all our production companies, representing 7 7% of the tota l 
headcount.  
102 -47 
List of Material Topics  
 
Material topics  Assigned contents a ccording to GRI  
Innovation & Social Contribution  Innovation & Social Contribution  
  203 Indirect Economic Impacts  
Employees  401 Employment  
  403 Occupational Health and Safety  
  404 Training and Education  
  405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  
  406 Non -Discrimination  
Responsible Business Practices  205 Corruption  
  206 Anti -Competitive Behavior  
 307 Environmental Compliance  
  308 Supplier Environmental Assessment  
 412 Human Rights Assessment  
  414 Supplier Social Assessment  
  415 Public Policy  
  419 Socioeconomic Compliance  
Environment  301 Materials  
  302 Energy  
  303 Water and Effluents  
  305 Emissions  
  306 Waste  
 Product Stewardship    
 
102 -48 
Restatement of Information  
No information  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  General Disclosure   28 
 
 
 102 -49  
Changes in Reporting  
No information  
102 -50 
Reporting Period  
The reporting period of the GRI  Report is the fiscal year from January 1 to December 31.  The editorial deadline 
was on  31.03.2022  
102 -51 
Date of  Most Recent Report  
May 2021  
102 -52 
Reporting Cycle  
The reporting cycle is annual.  
102 -53 
Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report  
Katharina Tillmanns -Pelzer  
Head of Corporate Sustainability  
 
Phone: +49.551.308.2893  
E-mail: katharina.tillmanns@sartorius.com  
 
Sartorius Corporate Administration GmbH  
Otto -Brenner -Straße 20  
37079 Goe ttingen, Germany  
www.sartorius.com/en/company/corporate -responsibility  
102 -54 
Claims of Reporting in Accordance with  the GRI Standards  
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.  
102 -55 
GRI Content Index  
To ensure a better overview and comparability, the structure of our GRI  Report exactly follows the GRI Stand-
ards. See also GRI Con tent Index at the end of this GRI  Report  for a detailed overview.  
102 -56 
External Assurance  
Withi n the scope of a review of the Non -Financial  Group  Statement, the certified independent auditing com-
pany KPMG assessed the items  in blue font  in the form of an  audit with limited assurance. The audit was con-
ducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised. On 
the basis of this review, KPMG issued an unqualified opinion. Further information on the independence of t he 
auditing firm, on the practitioner’s responsibility and the conclusion is provided in the 2021 Annual Report of 
the Sartorius AG, pages 122 et seq.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
200  Economic Standards  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Economic Standards   30 
 
 203 Indirect Economic Impacts  
103  
Management Approach  
Our business activities have a variety of positive effects on the development of the cities and communities in 
whic h we operate, mostly on a long -term basis. At our main manufacturing sites, in particular, we are among 
the largest private employers and clients locally and therefore contribute toward increasing growth and pur-
chasing power.  
203 -2 
Significant Indirect Economic Impacts  
Many large production facilities of Sartorius are located in small to mid -size cities and communities, and are 
among the most important employers there, such as in Göttingen, Germany; Aubagne, France; and Yauco, 
Puerto Rico. At our Group h eadquarters in the university city of Göttingen, Sartorius wi th its workforce of more 
than 3,3 00 people is the largest private employer in this area. Also in the rural region in nearby Guxhagen, the 
company is of key importance to the local economy.  
In Au bagne, a city with a population of around 45,000, for example, we offer attractive long -term jobs to more 
than 1,000  people. As a member of the large French employers’ federation MEDEF, Sartorius works closely 
with national and local institutions to help i mprove the employment market situation. Our expanded plant in 
Yauco p rovides employment for also more than 1,000  people directly at Sartorius and many  additional people 
at local service providers and suppliers, such as for maintenance of our site machinery  and buildings and for 
our plant security.  
205 Anti -Corruption  
103  
Management Approach  
We regard compliance with applicable laws as self -evident. Beyond this, we have set ourselves the standard of 
managing our company with integrity.  
We are committed to up holding internationally recognized human and labor rights as a basis of our worldwide 
business operations. A significant task in this regard is to create a common understanding of fair working con-
ditions – at all our sites and in the supply chain.  
Sartoriu s conducts its business in compliance with globally accepted ethi cal standards and applicable na tional 
legal requirements. The German Corporate Governance Code defines requirements for manage ment boards 
and supervisory boards including their interaction wi th regard to transparency, accounting and auditing and 
the conduct of annual general meetings. Legal & Compliance reports to the CEO and informs the Supervisory 
Board in the Audit Committee. Sartorius follows the rules and recommendations of the German Cor porate 
Governance Code in its current version of  December 16, 2019 .  
Our globally applicable compliance management system is intended to ensure that our Supervisory and Ex-
ecutive Board members, management and employees comply with all legal regulations and codes, and act 
according to our internal guidelines. The Legal Affai rs & Compliance department is responsible for legal con-
sulting, internal auditing, corporate security, data protection, anti -corruption, customs and export control.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Economic Standards   31 
 
 A dedicated team has the task of the implementing and enforcing all Group compliance top ics. The Anti -Cor-
ruption Code forms the basis for raising employee awareness about corruption risks. It is also a guideline, in-
struction manual and aid in taking the necessary action to both prevent and fight corruption at specific com-
panies or in specific  sectors. An anticorruption officer has been appointed by Group management as a contact 
person for corruption prevention. This officer pursues his or her duties independently.  
We ensure that our employees are familiar with the Anti -Corruption Code and the  Code of Conduct by asking 
all employees worldwide every year to take part in an online training course and complete a test at the end of 
it. The course teaches employees how to deal with ethically or legally problematic situations.  
A complaint system ensu res that employees and external third parties can report cases of damaging conduct, 
such as corruption, discrimination or sexual harassment. The compliance team can be contacted face -to-face, 
via a telephone hotline, the department’s electronic mailbox or – in the case of anonymous reports – the whis-
tleblower system. The relevant contact options are listed on the intranet and are thus published companywide. 
They are also available on the company’s website and can thus be accessed by external persons concern ed.  
A Global Regulatory Affairs Committee – comprising representatives from Compliance, Regulatory Affairs, 
Quality, Product Development, Procurement, EHS, Corporate Sustainability and others – meets regularly, 
monitors new legislative initiatives on an i nterdepartmental basis and puts corresponding structures in place 
within the company.  
205 -2 
Communications and Training about Anti -Corruption Policies and Procedures  
Durin g the period under review, 3,530  employees from 33 countries completed training for t he Anti - Corrup-
tion Code and 3,5 92 employees from 32  countries completed training for the Code of Conduct. The hours 
spe nt on training amounted to 2,155  for the Code of Conduct and 2,118  for the Anti -Corruption Code. Com-
pliance training course are currentl y available in German, English, French and Chinese.  
205 -3 
Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken  
Three suspected corruption cases were reported, two of which are currently under  investigation, while the 
third is considered  to be unsubstantiated.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Economic S tandards   32 
 
 206 Anti -Competitive Behavior  
103  
Management Approach  
For information on our management approac h regarding compliance, see 205 . 
206 -1 
Legal Actions for Anti -Competitive Behavior, Anti -Trust, and Monopoly Practices  
No significant fines or non -monetary penalties resulting from violations of laws or regulations were imposed in 
the reporting year.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
300  Environmental Standards   Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   34 
 
 302 E nergy  
103  
Management Approach  
Ongoing climate change already poses a genuine threat to life on our planet. Therefore, halting climate 
change is a challenge for society as a whole. The heads of state and government of European Union member 
states agreed in December 2020 to reduce intern al EU greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared 
to 1990 levels by 2030. The European Green Deal also sets a target of EU -wide net zero greenhouse gases by 
2050.  
Measured in CO 2 equivalents, global greenhouse gas emissions amounted to some 50 billi on metric tons in 
2019. According to statistics provided by the World Health Organization, the health care sector accounted for 
four to five percent of this figure. With attributable emissions totaling some 450,0001 metric tons of CO 2 
equivalents in 2019, Sartorius makes up a share of about 0.025% of total emissions of the global health care 
sector and therefore only has a minor influence. Nonetheless, we see it as our duty to contribute to the attain-
ment of climate targets and will make substantial efforts  in this regard, both at our sites worldwide and in our 
value chain.  
As a leading partner of the biopharmaceutical industry, we contribute to achieving the Sustainable Develop-
ment Goal number three, “Good Health and Well -Being.” In the future, we aim to co ntinue growing strongly 
while substantially lowering our carbon footprint. In our opinion, it is therefore appropriate to focus on CO 2 
emission intensity when formulating emissions targets as this indicator enables a comparison of the CO 2 emis-
sions of vari ous companies as well as with economic and international indicators and targets. Correspondingly, 
our new climate target is to reduce CO 2 emission intensity. For Sartorius, the CO 2 emission intensity – defined 
as the emissions volume in relation to revenue  – stood at approx. 250 g/€1 in the base year 2019.  
We always seek to set targets that are not only ambitious, but that are also realistic and transparent. In respect 
of our CO 2 emission intensity, we aim to achieve an average reduction of approx. 10% per  annum. As such, we 
are exceeding the ambitious levels of the European Union and the Science Based Targets initiative, which have 
set targets of approx. 8.5% and 7% respectively.  
In order to achieve this reduction, we are focusing on avoiding emissions and on improving the efficiency of 
processes associated with relevant emissions. This includes emissions generated at our sites, emissions in the 
upstream and downstream value chain,  and switching to emission -free energy sources wherever possible.  
The offsetting of emissions, on the other hand, is currently not an area of emphasis, as we regard an actual 
reduction as more important.  
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a challenge t hat can only be met through shared endeavors on the part 
of everyone involved in the value chain, paying due regard to existing interdependencies. When developing 
our climate targets, it was therefore important to us to create transparency in respect of ex isting interactions, 
make any necessary assumptions with care and communicate them openly.  
To this end, we once again compiled a detailed breakdown of our carbon footprint as a basis for our targets in 
the year under review. For consistency reasons, this r efined footprint is based on emission data from 2019, the 
basis year of our current climate strategy. Approximately 10% of the calculated total emissions of roughly 
450,000 metric tons of CO 2 equivalents fall within Scopes 1 and 2, i.e. emissions generated  directly within the 
1 These are own or externally conducted modeling/estimates, which are not ba sed on scientifically founded emission calculations.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   35 
 
 company and emissions from purchased energy such as electricity and gas. The other 90% or so of emissions 
are generated in the upstream/downstream value chain, meaning that they are either mostly or partly within 
the sphere of influenc e of suppliers, transport contractors, and customers. Sartorius is able to influence just 
under half of these emissions, with the level of influence depending on the individual circumstances con-
cerned.  
For companies across all sectors, the calculation of Scope 3 emissions, in particular, is currently subject to fun-
damental uncertainties and dependent on a series of assumptions and estimates. Ever more accurate calcu-
lations by virtue of improved data quality represent a central plank of our approach. This r elates not only to 
information on the carbon footprint of our suppliers, but also on the usage phase of our products and their life 
cycle end. To ensure comparability of data over time, the ongoing improvements in calculation accuracy may 
result in retrosp ective adjustments to reported figures.  
302 -1 
Energy Consumption Within the Organization  
 
Energy Consumption1   
  2021  2020  
Total energy consumption in MWh  162,341  132,065  
Direct energy consumption in MWh  59,301  55,444  
Electricity consumption from public grid in MWh  50,020  70,951  
Certified green electricity in MWh  43,743  0 
Others in MWh  9,277  5,670     
1 Production sites acquired  during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swed en) is 
not counted,  as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 There was a minor adjustment to the energy values for 2019 resulting from an incorrect allocation and calculation.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   36 
 
 Energy Consumption by Energy Carrier1   
  2021  2020  
Total energy consumption in MWh  162,340  132,065  
Fuel consumption from non -renewable sources in MWh  59,301  55,444  
of which natural gas in MWh  52,464  51,322  
of which liquified petroleum gas (LPG) in MWh  751 216 
of which heating oil in MWh  1,129  1,179  
of which diesel  in MWh  4,957  2,726  
Electricity consumption in MWh  94,542  71,656  
of which conventional electricity from public grid in MWh  50,020  70,951  
og which certified green electricity  43,743  0 
of which solar power (self -generated) in MWh  779 705  
Heating consumption in MWh  6,968  4,617  
of which district heating in MWh  6,261  4,037  
of which geothermal energy in MWh  707  580  
Cooling consumption in MWh  1,530  348     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report n ext 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swed en) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
302 -3 
Energy Intensity  
 
1 The energy intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the total e nergy consumption including fuel, electricity, heating and self -gener-
ated solar en ergy in MWh of production sites by annual sales  in millions  of euros . Production sites acquired during the yea r are not 
counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next year. This includes the production sit es in Aj-
dovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont (USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlborough (USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai  (China) and 
another production facility in Ann Arbor (USA). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT compa ny that 
does not produce any goods.  
  
2017 2018 2019 2020 20214050607080Energy Intensity1
72.2 72.2 71.6 56.5 47.1in proportion to annual sales, in MWh | € in millionsSartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   37 
 
 303 Water and Effluents  
103  
Management Approach  
Water is the number -one source of life and the basis for nutrition and a healthy life on earth. One of the central 
challenges of the 21st century is to provide a growing global population with permanent access to clean water 
in the volumes necessary to meet its basic needs and enable it s social and economic development.  
The demand for water will rise by approx. 55% by 2050, with more than two billion people already denied ac-
cess to clean drinking water. By 2030, 700 million people may be forced to leave their homes due to a lack of 
water . 
Some 19% of available water is required by industry. First and foremost, Sartorius uses water in membrane pro-
duction and filter assembly.  
Göttingen and Yauco are the production sites with the highest water consumption, as filter membranes are 
made there . Larger quantities of water are required, especially for production using the percipitation bath 
method. Both sites hold ISO 14001 certification. Environmental management covers energy and material con-
sumption, emissions, use of space, waste and effluents . In order to further improve the management of water -
related risks and opportunities, the plan is to supplement the ISO standard with an explicit water -related com-
ponent (ISO 14002 -2). Sartorius is happy to get to grips with the expected requirements and proposals in order 
to implement further effective water -related improvement measures.  
Sartorius already attaches considerable importance to the efficient use of water as a resource, as reflected in 
numerous efficiency measures that are already implemented or planned. Membrane production, for example, 
largely takes place in closed loops. This means that the water and solvents used are repurified after use. At the 
main site in Göttingen, the water required for rinsing processes, in particular, is reduced by m eans of optimized 
process stages. At the Guxhagen site, a project for the circulation of test water is planned; as a result, it will be 
possible to store several cubic meters of water on a daily basis, with this water available for reuse.  
Apart from optimi zing water consumption, Sartorius is also working on the resource -saving sourcing of water. 
At the Yauco site, a network of roof cisterns collect rainwater that can be used for a variety of applications.  
In 2022, Sartorius plans to set out a strategy and concrete targets in order to further optimize the use of water 
as a resource and therefore further reduce its consumption.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   38 
 
 303 -3 
Wa ter Withdrawal  
 
Water Withdrawal1,2    
  2021  2020  
Total water withdrawal in Ml  692.68  530.03  
Surface water in Ml  10.54  9.91  
Groundwater in Ml  18.98  23.87  
Third -party water in Ml  663.16  496.25     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report n ext 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swed en) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 This indicator is reported for the first time in the non -financial consolidated statement. The underlying data for ind ividual sites are 
estimates.  
Water Withdrawal in Areas with Water Stress1, 2,3    
  2021  2020  
Total water withdrawal in Ml  483.09  402.84  
Surface water in Ml                     -                       -    
Groundwater in Ml  3.00  3.21  
Third -party water in Ml  480.09  399.63     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report n ext 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swed en) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 This indicator is reported for the first time in the non -financial consolidated statement. The underlying data for ind ividual sites are 
estimates.  
3 Water stress areas are assessed based on the World Resources Institute "Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas". We consider areas where  
water stress is classified as high (40 -80%) or very high (>80%).  
305 Emissions  
103  
Management Approach  
Ongoing climate change  already poses a genuine threat to life on our planet. Therefore, halting climate 
change is a challenge for society as a whole. The heads of state and government of European Union member 
states agreed in December 2020 to reduce internal EU greenhouse gas e missions by at least 55% compared 
to 1990 levels by 2030. The European Green Deal also sets a target of EU -wide net zero greenhouse gases by 
2050.  
Measured in CO 2 equivalents, global greenhouse gas emissions amounted to some 50 billion metric tons in 
2019 . According to statistics provided by the World Health Organization, the health care sector accounted for 
four to five percent of this figure. With attributable emissions totaling some 450,0001 metric tons of CO 2 
equivalents in 2019, Sartorius makes up a share of about 0.025% of total emissions of the global health care 
sector and therefore only has a minor influence. Nonetheless, we see it as our duty to contribute to the attain-
ment of climate targets and will ma ke substantial efforts in this regard, both at our sites worldwide and in our 
value chain.  
As a leading partner of the biopharmaceutical industry, we contribute to achieving the Sustainable Develop-
ment Goal number three, “Good Health and Well -Being.” In th e future, we aim to continue growing strongly 
while substantially lowering our carbon footprint. In our opinion, it is therefore appropriate to focus on CO 2 Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   39 
 
 emission intensity when formulating emissions targets as this indicator enables a comparison of the  CO 2 emis-
sions of various companies as well as with economic and international indicators and targets. Correspondingly, 
our new climate target is to reduce CO 2 emission intensity. For Sartorius, the CO 2 emission intensity – defined 
as the emissions volume in relation to revenue – stood at approx. 250 g/€1 in the base year 2019.  
We always seek to set targets that are not only ambitious, but that are also realistic and transparent. In respect 
of our CO 2 emission intensity, we aim to achieve an average reduct ion of approx. 10% per annum. As such, we 
are exceeding the ambitious levels of the European Union and the Science Based Targets initiative, which have 
set targets of approx. 8.5% and 7% respectively.  
In order to achieve this reduction, we are focusing on avoiding emissions and on improving the efficiency of 
processes associated with relevant emissions. This includes emissions ge nerated at our sites, emissions in the 
upstream and downstream value chain, and switching to emission -free energy sources wherever possible. The 
offsetting of emissions, on the other hand, is currently not an area of emphasis, as we regard an actual reduc-
tion as more important.  
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is a challenge that can only be met through shared endeavors on the part 
of everyone involved in the value chain, paying due regard to existing interdependencies. When developing 
our climate targets , it was therefore important to us to create transparency in respect of existing interactions, 
make any necessary assumptions with care and communicate them openly.  
To this end, we once again compiled a detailed breakdown of our carbon footprint as a basis  for our targets in 
the year under review. For consistency reasons, this refined footprint is based on emission data from 2019, the 
basis year of our current climate strategy. Approximately 10% of the calculated total emissions of roughly 
450,000 metric to ns of CO 2 equivalents fall within Scopes 1 and 2, i.e. emissions generated directly within the 
company and emissions from purchased energy such as electricity and gas. The other 90% or so of emissions 
are generated in the upstream/downstream value chain, m eaning that they are either mostly or partly within 
the sphere of influence of suppliers, transport contractors, and customers. Sartorius is able to influence just 
under half of these emissions, with the level of influence depending on the individual circu mstances con-
cerned.  
For companies across all sectors, the calculation of Scope 3 emissions, in particular, is currently subject to fun-
damental uncertainties and dependent on a series of assumptions and estimates. Ever more accurate calcu-
lations by virtue of improved data quality represent a central plank of our approach. This relates not only to 
information on the carbon footprint of our suppliers, but also on the usage phase of our products and their life 
cycle end. To ensure comparability of data over ti me, the ongoing improvements in calculation accuracy may 
result in retrospective adjustments to reported figures.  
  
1 These are own or externally conducted modeling/estim ates, which are not based on scientifically founded emission calculations.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Envir onmental Standards   40 
 
 Scopes 1 and 2  
Emissions in Scope 1 are direct emissions. They result, for instance, from the use of fossil fuels to generate heat 
and powe r at our sites, from CO 2-equivalent process emissions (e.g. in membrane production) and from the 
use of company vehicles. Sartorius aims to virtually eliminate Scope 1 emissions from the use of fossil fuels by 
2030. The corresponding measures include the large -scale electrificati on of heat/cool air generation, the use 
of gas from renewable sources, the gradual conversion of the vehicle fleet to electric vehicles and efficiency 
improvements in production, with a resulting drop in energy consumption. A small share of current Scope 1  
emissions have to be classed as unavoidable. These process emissions, which are directly linked to essential 
product characteristics, especially in membrane production, cannot be avoided with technological advance-
ment as it stands, although we already alm ost always operate closed solvent loops.  
We plan to virtually eliminate Scope 2 emissions by 2030. These indirect emissions occur during the genera-
tion of purchased energy, particularly electricity. It is planned to meet this target by switching to emissi on-free 
energy from renewable sources wherever possible. This intended large -scale reduction of emissions is subject 
to the proviso of emission -free energy being available at our global sites. Sartorius will endeavor to champion 
the availability of zero -emission energy and support the relevant partners at the various sites with their provi-
sion.  
For Scopes 1 and 2, Sartorius aims to achieve an average annual reduction in CO 2 emission intensity of approx. 
20% in the period until 2030. This equates to the eli mination of some 90% of the emission sources in Scopes 
1 and 2 and – despite significant corporate growth – a 50% reduction in associated absolute emissions com-
pared to 2019.  
Scope 3  
The analysis of Scope 3 emissions is complex and necessitates considerati on of numerous interdependencies 
within the supply chain and requires assumptions to be made. Some 40% of emissions attributable to Sartorius 
occur in the upstream value chain, i.e. in connection with purchased goods/services and business travel. Some 
of the ways in which Sartorius is able to influence these emissions include the nature and volume of purchased 
materials and products, the choice of transport routes and modes of transport, and the number of business 
trips and their respective itineraries. Emi ssions can be reduced in the medium term through the selection of 
suppliers. Sartorius works to support suppliers in the development and implementation of sustainability sys-
tems that reduce the CO 2-equivalent emissions intensity in the upstream value chain .  
The largest share of emissions attributable to Sartorius – roughly 50% – occurs in the downstream value chain; 
this includes, among other things, the transportation of our products to customers as part of the products’ 
further use and their disposal at the end of their life cycles. Sartorius can help to lower these emissions, chiefly 
by means of optimized product and packaging design that improves the products’ energy efficiency or facili-
tates their recycling. However, a large proportion of the emissions  in Scope 3 can only be reduced by our cus-
tomers and transport contractors or in partnership with these actors and/or through a switch to energy from 
emission -free sources throughout the entire value chain.  
Overall, Sartorius aims to reduce Scope 3 emissio n intensity by about 10% on average per annum in the period 
until 2030. 1 
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   41 
 
 Costs of Reducing Emission Intensity  
The Sartorius climate strategy is geared toward environmental targets, not economic ones. As such, we aim to 
use all available levers to reduce  emissions, including those whose expected costs exceed current and antici-
pated CO 2 offset prices. In total, we expect the annual costs of reducing CO 2-equivalent emission intensity to 
amount to roughly 1% of Group revenue over time. On account of consider able differences in the costs of var-
ious measures, coupled with the expected dynamic development as regards the price and availability of cer-
tain technologies, materials and energy sources, it is currently not possible to be any more precise in respect 
of the development of these costs over time.  
Relevance to Governance  
Starting 2022, CO 2 intensity will be relevant to the governance of the Sartorius Group and will correspondingly 
form part of management remuneration.  
Emissions and Targets    
  Basis 20191  Target 2030  
Total GHG Emissions in t CO2eq  56,897  30,611  
Total Scope 1 emissions in t CO 2eq 18,103  9,739  
Total Scope 2 emissions in t CO 2eq 38,794  20,871     
1 The emissions for the determination of the climate targets differ from the emissions reported in the table 'Greenhouse gase s' for the 
year 2019, as the sales companies were included and other emission factors were used. We aim to include the emissions of the sales 
companies in the reporting within the framework of the non -financial group statement in the long term.  
Sartorius has been recording greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Greenhou se Gas Protocol (GHG) 
global standard since 2013. Accordingly, in addition to the CO 2 emissions, we take account of all climate -rele-
vant gases and report them in CO 2 equivalents (CO 2eq). Currently, we report direct climate -relevant emis-
sions from our production sites (Scope 1). We also report indirect energy -related emissions resulting from 
power generation by external energy suppliers (Scope 2). Scope 1 emissions occur through consum ption of 
direct energy sources, such as diesel , fuel oil, natural gas and LPG, and also through process emissions from 
solvents and refrigerants at our sites in Göttingen and Yauco.  
The new CO 2 intensity reduction targets will be used in our planning from Q1 2022. Accordingly, we plan to 
report the corresponding reductions from the next annual report. We recorded Scope 3 emission s for the pur-
pose of drawing up our new climate strategy. Standardized reporting is expected to follow in 2022.  
Our German sites have been using hydroelectric power since the start of the financial year; our French sites 
have been using green electricity s ince midway through the year.  
  
1 When devising this target, Sartorius not only took into account its own expected growth, but also that of customers, suppliers and 
transport contractors; it also made certain assumptions on the basis of the correspondingly successful emissions reduction an d fac-
tored in the effect of a globally evolving energy mix. Specifically , our calculations are based on the assumption that the transport 
sector will, as required by law, reduce its emissions in absolute terms by 40% by 2030, compared to the 2019 level. In respec t of our 
customers in the biopharmaceutical industry, we anticipa te an absolute emissions reduction of approx. 50% based on their commu-
nicated targets; for suppliers, we calculate this figure at approx. 20%. Furthermore, we have made conservative growth assump tions 
of some 3% per annum for suppliers, and some 5% per ann um for our customers in the biopharmaceutical industry.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   42 
 
 305-1 and 305 -2 
Direct (Scope 1) and Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions  
 
Greenhouse Gases1   
  2021  2020  
Total GHG emissions in t CO 2eq2, 3 42,506  43,156  
Total Scope 1 emissions in t CO 2eq4 19,147  15,277  
Total Scope 2 emissions in t CO 2eq5 23,359  27,880     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guid eline, will be included in the report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swed en) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 Emissions in t CO 2eq were calculated using thinkstep’s SoFi software. Emission factors from Ga Bi, Defra and VfU were used for this.  
3 Companies are integrated into the environm ental report for emissions in accordance with the financial control consolidation ap-
proach.   
4 Excluding fuel consumption for car fleet.   
5 Only location -based factors are used to calculate Scope 2 emissions.  
305 -3 
Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions  
Sartorius has been recording S cope 3 emissions since the reporting year  2019. In the coming years, we will 
improve activity data to capture emissions for relevant missing categories.  
Scope 3 Emissions      
  2021  2020  
Total scope 3 emissions in t CO 2eq - 298,141  
Emissions from purchased goods and services in t  CO 2eq - 162,806  
Emissions from capital goods in t CO 2eq - 24,524  
Emissions from fuel -and -energy -related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) in t CO 2eq - 6,044  
Emissions from upstream transportation and distribution in t CO 2eq - 80,197  
Emissions from waste generated in operations in t CO 2eq - 7,842  
Emissions from business travel in t CO 2eq - 2,874  
Emissions from employee commuting in t CO 2eq - 13,855     
 
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   43 
 
 305 -4 
GHG Emissions Intensity  
 
1 The GHG emissions intensity ratio is calculated by dividing direct and energy indirect GHG emissions in tons of CO 2eq of production 
sites  by annual sales in millions  of euros . Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting 
guideline, will be included in the report  next year. This includes the production sites in Ajdovščina (Slovenia), Cergy (France), Fremont 
(USA), Hopkinton (USA), Marlborough (USA), Portsmouth (UK), Shanghai (China) and another production facility in Ann Arbor (US A). 
Sartorius Stedim Data Analytic s (Sweden) is not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
306 Waste  
103  
Management Approach  
All kinds waste are generated at any company. This applies particularly to manufacturing companies. The dis-
posal of operating waste is governed by law and handled differently from country to country. As the handling 
of hazardous and nonhazardous waste has a considerable influence on its release into air, water and soil – and 
therefore a direct impact on human health and the environment – well -conceived waste management is a high 
priority.  
On top of waste such as plastic, paper and metal, Sartorius’ operations – especially in relation to membrane 
production in Göttingen and Puerto Rico – also generate hazardous waste. In some cases, contami nated waste 
is produced in the downstream value chain, i.e. the use of our products by customers and users. This applies in 
particular to the deployment of our products in biopharmaceutical manufacturing processes.  
In respect of waste management, Sartoriu s works on continuous improvement through a five -step approach 
to the waste hierarchy. The aim is to conserve resources, avoid pollution and reduce emissions. Two areas of 
focus for Sartorius are initiatives on waste prevention and recycling.  
Sartorius wor ks on waste prevention by improving production processes, e.g. by reducing production waste. 
This pertains especially to bag, membrane and candle production. Hazardous waste is mainly generated 
through the use of solvents in membrane production. While our production processes already largely operate 
on a closed -loop basis, we nonetheless see opportunities to further reduce hazardous waste in relation to the 
volumes produced.  
Recycling represents a further key component of our waste management. In Aubagne, we mechanically recy-
cle production waste on -site. This material can then be used for new applications by different companies. In 
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021010203040Development ofClimate -Relevant Emissions1
25.5 24.3 24.2 18.5 12.3in proportion to annual sales, in t | € in millionsSartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   44 
 
 the context of laboratory scale production in Göttingen, for instance, aluminum shavings are pressed into pel-
lets, enabling the m to be deployed elsewhere. By signing the European Plastics Pact, Sartorius has entered 
into a voluntary commitment to recycle more plastic waste. In order to live up to this aim, plastic waste is sep-
arated by type and sent for recycling, particularly at the Göttingen and Guxhagen sites. In 2021, a total of 91 
metric tons was recycled.  
We are also fine -tuning the design of our products and packaging in order to minimize waste in the down-
stream value chain. In addition to product dimensions and the choice o f materials, the main focus here is to 
simplify waste sorting and the interchangeability of system components. As the majority of products are con-
taminated following their use within the biopharmaceutical process, the requirements in terms of recycling are  
high. Sartorius is actively working on the continued development of advanced recycling methods and the 
composition of product materials, the aim being to keep these to a minimum and facilitate recycling for cus-
tomers. Partnerships with customers and dispo sal contractors are essential in this regard if feasible solutions 
are to be found and implemented.  
To enable all remaining waste – including waste from administrative units – to be properly separated and dis-
posed of, Sartorius has also introduced a color -coded waste separation system in a pilot project in Göttingen.  
306 -3 
Waste Generated  
 
Waste Generated by Composition1     
  2021  2020  
Total waste in t  10,526  7,681  
Non -hazardous waste in t  7,291  5,137  
Residual waste in t  2,259  1,877  
Plastic waste in  t 2,087  1,309  
Paper and cardboard in t  1,614  1,016  
Waste wood in t  864  397  
Metal waste in t  375  281 
Mixed recyclable materials in t  55 226  
Electrical and electronic waste in t  37 31 
Hazardous waste in t  3,235  2,544     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swede n) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 This indicator is reported for the first time in the non -financial consolidated statement. The underlying data for i ndividual sites are 
estimated values  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   45 
 
 306 -4 
Waste Diverted From Disposal  
 
Waste Diverted From Disposal by Composition1     
  2021  2020  
Total waste in t  4,974  3,040  
Non -hazardous waste in t  4,447  2,757  
Residual waste in t  27 0 
Plastic waste in t  1,555  856  
Paper and cardboard in t  1,614  1,016  
Waste wood in t  839  346  
Metal waste in t  375  281 
Mixed recyclable materials in t                                     -   226  
Electrical and electronic waste in t  37 31 
Hazardous waste in t  527  283     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Swed en) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.   
306 -5 
Waste Directed to Disposal  
 
Waste Directed to  Disposal by Composition1     
  2021  2020  
Total waste in t  5,552  4,641  
Non -hazardous waste in t  2,844  2,380  
Residual waste in t  2,232  1,877  
Plastic waste in t  532  453  
Paper and cardboard in t                                     -   0 
Waste wood in t  25 50 
Metal waste in t                                     -   - 
Mixed recyclable materials in t  55 0 
Electrical and electronic waste in t  0 0 
Hazardous waste in t  2,708  2,261     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Germany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Sweden) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.   
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   46 
 
 Hazardous Waste Directed to Disposal by Disposal Operation1     
  2021  2020  
Total waste in t  2,707  2,261  
Incineration (with energy recovery) in t  1,443  960  
Incineration (without energy recovery) in t  1,048  824  
Landfilling in t2 1 3 
Other disposal operations in t  215 475     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Ge rmany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Sweden) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.  
2 This is largely hazardous waste from a German plant that is rendered harmless by bacterial treatment and reused.  
 
Non -Hazardous Waste Directed to Disposal by Disposal Operation1     
  2021  2020  
Total waste in t  2,203  2,380  
Incineration (with energy recovery) in t  886  334  
Incineration (without energy recovery) in t  95 596  
Landfilling in t  8 1,001  
Other disposal operations in t  1,214  450     
1 Production sites acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in th e report next 
year. This includes the production sites in Bielefeld (Germany) and Freiburg (Ge rmany). Sartorius Stedim Data Analytics (Sweden) is 
not counted, as it is an IT company that does not produce any goods.   
307 Environmental Compliance  
103  
Management Approach  
We regard compliance with applicable laws as self -evident. Beyond this, we have set ourselves the standard of 
managing our company with integrity.  
We are committed to upholding internationally recognized human and labor rights as a basis of our worldwide 
business operations. A significant task in this regard is to create a common  understanding of fair working con-
ditions – at all our sites and in the supply chain.  
Sartorius conducts its business in compliance with globally accepted ethical standards and applicable national 
legal requirements. The German Corporate Governance Code de fines requirements for management boards 
and supervisory boards including their interaction with regard to transparency, accounting and auditing and 
the conduct of annual general meetings. Legal Affairs & Compliance reports to the CEO and informs the Su-
pervisory Board and the Audit Committee. Sartorius follows the rules and recommendations of the German 
Corporate Governance Code in its current version of December 16, 2019, with the exceptions stipulated in the 
current Declaration of Compliance.  
We intend to  ensure that our Supervisory and Executive Board members, management and employees com-
ply with all legal regulations and codes, and act according to our internal guidelines. The Legal Affairs & Com-
pliance department is responsible for legal consulting, int ernal auditing, data protection, anti -corruption, cus-
toms and export control.  
A dedicated team has the task of implementing and enforcing all Group compliance topics. The Sartorius 
Code of Conduct defines the requirements we place on our employees with re spect to responsible conduct. Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   47 
 
 The code helps employees act ethically and in accordance with the law in their daily work. In everything they 
do, employees are required to ask themselves the following questions: Are my actions legal? Does my conduct 
correspo nd to our values and guidelines? Is it free of personal interests (that are not covered by labor -law reg-
ulations)? Will it stand up to public scrutiny? The Code of Conduct covers compliance with international social 
and environmental standards, general rul es of conduct and dealing with conflicts of interest.  
The Anti -Corruption Code forms the basis for raising employee awareness about corruption risks. It is also a 
guideline, instruction manual and aid in taking the necessary action to both prevent and figh t corruption at 
specific companies or in specific sectors. An anti -corruption officer has been appointed by Group manage-
ment as a contact person for corruption prevention. This officer pursues his or her duties independently.  
We ensure that our employees a re familiar with the Anti -Corruption Code and the Code of Conduct by asking 
all employees worldwide every year to take part in an online training course and complete a test at the end of 
it. The course teaches employees how to deal with ethically or legall y problematic situations.  
A complaint system ensures that employees and external third parties can report cases of damaging conduct, 
such as corruption, discrimination or sexual harassment. The compliance team can be contacted face -to-face, 
via a telephone  hotline, the department’s electronic mailbox or – in the case of anonymous reports – the whis-
tleblower system. The relevant contact options are listed on the intranet and are thus published company -
wide. They are also available on the company’s website an d can thus be accessed by external persons con-
cerned.  
A Global Regulatory Affairs Committee – comprising representatives from Compliance, Regulatory Affairs, 
Quality, Product Development, Procurement, EHS, Corporate Sustainability and others – meets regula rly, 
monitors new legislative initiatives on an interdepartmental basis and puts corresponding structures in place 
within the company.  
During the period under review, 9,341 employees from 35 countries completed training on the Anti -Corrup-
tion Code and 9,1 43 employees from 35 countries completed training on the Code of Conduct. The hours 
spent on training amounted to 4,571 for the Code of Conduct and 4,670 for the Anti -Corruption Code. Com-
pliance training courses are currently available in German, English, French and Chinese.  
No significant fines or non -monetary penalties resulting from violations of laws or regulations were imposed in 
the reporting year. Two suspected cases of corruption were reported, one of which is still being investigated 
and one of whi ch has already been deemed unsubstantiated/unproven.  
Two suspected cases of discrimination were reported during the period under review. No cases of discrimina-
tion were determined during the reporting period.  
 
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   48 
 
 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment  
103  
Management Approach  
Respect for human rights, the maintenance of high environmental standards and good, safe and fair working 
conditions for the production of our products is important to us, and apply to sites outside our own production 
as well. With more  than 8,000 suppliers in more than 40 countries and a purchasing volume that corresponds 
to about 40% of our sales revenue1, it is obvious that our upstream supply chain is important for us to imple-
ment these goals.  
The assumption of responsibility in glo bal supply chains is also governed by a growing number of laws and 
requirements. In particular, the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence in Supply Chains, which was passed 
by the German parliament in July 2021, seeks to improve the international human rig hts situation by setting 
out requirements for the responsible management of supply chains. This Act comes into effect for German -
based companies with more than 3,000 employees on January 1, 2023.  
Moreover, the value chains for pharmaceuticals are very sens itive and are the focus of many stakeholders. In 
particular, patients at the end of the supply chain are dependent on their medications being available and safe 
at all times.  
Since January 2020, we have been verifying suppliers’ compliance with our sustai nability requirements via an 
external evidence -based ESG assessment, as well as in -house ESG quick checks. In the year under review, we 
have been working to set up a comprehensive risk management system and design new processes in order to 
be able to meet and document the requirements of the new Supply Chain Act in the near future, but by no 
later than 2023.  
Our Code of Conduct for Business Partners provides the basis for collaboration with our business partners 
throughout the Group. Our requirements with r egard to the environment, social matters and governance are 
defined in the Code. Since December 2019, acknowledgment of the Code of Conduct is part of the ac-
ceptance process for new suppliers. In 2020, we began systematically reviewing whether our existing  suppliers 
have acknowledged the Code and, if not, asking them to do so.  
For suppliers who are very relevant for our business processes and/or a high purchasing volume, we work to-
gether with the external sustainability assessment platform EcoVadis. The ex ternal ESG assessment is based 
on a self -assessment, a review of the associated documents and information from external sources. EcoVadis 
reviews 21 indicators in the areas of environment, labor and human rights, ethics and sustainable procurement.  
Beginni ng in 2021, Sartorius quality auditors systematically conducted ESG quick checks within the scope of 
all planned quality audits in the suppliers’ production plants. For this purpose, Sartorius put its sustainability 
requirements into a questionnaire. This will be provided to suppliers before the audit. During on -site auditing 
of suppliers’ production plants, compliance with the requirements of our Code of Conduct for Business Part-
ners is reviewed on the basis of the questionnaire.  
The objective of all meas ures is to initiate actual improvements in the working, social and environmental stand-
ards of our suppliers. Sartorius Management is involved in shaping the process via the Corporate Sustainability 
Steering Committee and is informed about the progress bein g made.  
                                                                        
1 Sales and purchasing volume in 20 21. Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   49 
 
 We do not establish business relationships with suppliers where we see a considerable risk of child, forced or 
mandatory labor, other breaches of human rights or negative impacts on society, and will end any existing re-
lationships with such supplie rs. This procedure is also defined in our new process for sustainability in the supply 
chain.  
During the Covid -19 pandemic, we are focusing on securing our delivery capabilities. This is very important 
considering the validated production processes of our  customers. This is why we manage stocks of raw mate-
rials and finished products actively and maintain high levels of safety stock.  
308 -2 
Negative Environmental Impacts in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken  
In 2021, we received 110 valid sustainability assessments on our suppliers from EcoVadis, with 165 further as-
sessments currently being prepared. The current evaluations cover roughly a third of our purchasing volume. 
In 2021, we spoke to suppliers who refused an EcoVadis assessment or whose assessment  has expired.  
The ESG quick checks performed by Sartorius itself as part of quality audits were still conducted in the year 
under review despite the coronavirus pandemic, albeit to a reduced extent, with 107 such quick checks com-
pleted as of the end of the  reporting year.  
We will use the results of the EcoVadis assessments and the ESG quick checks to develop our internal process 
in 2022.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   50 
 
 Product Stewardship  
Why it’s important  
Environmental responsibility concerns not just our value creation; it has an impact on our products, too.  
Sartorius generates almost two thirds of its sales revenue with sterile products that are used in biopharmaceu-
tical research, where they ensure the safety and efficiency of the processes. While filters are cellulose -based, 
filter housings, bags and pipette tips are made from polymers. Although biopharmaceutical disposable tech-
nology makes up just 0.01% of the annual volume of plastic waste, the continuous market growth increasingly 
raises the issue of responsible handling of mat erials in this industry too.  
Basically, the production and sale of consumables prompts questions about the product end of life. Increasing 
customer demands and stricter statutory regulations have also resulted in aspects of the circular economy 
becoming mo re important.  
The processes involved in manufacturing polymers from crude oil, as well as recycling processes, are also en-
ergy -intensive. We therefore regard all product responsibility considerations as being closely linked with our 
climate strategy.  
Our a pproach  
The fact that sterile products are used in the bioprocess represents a crucial ecological benefit, as energy - and 
water -intensive cleaning processes between production batches are no longer required. As flexible produc-
tion units take up less space,  less energy is also required for the air conditioning units required in the clean 
room. As a result, the ecological footprint of disposable components is often better than that of reusable stain-
less steel components. We intend to further optimize the foot print of our products by enhancing the selection 
and use of materials throughout the value chain. Materials that are designed to be recycled and material flows 
will play an important role in this regard.  
By developing an initiative to reduce plastic use, w e are seeking to address the entire value chain: the design 
of our products and packaging, the associated purchasing of plastic, the plastic waste generated during our 
own operations and the treatment of our products and packaging at the end of their life cycles.  
When developing our products, their functionality and quality are our top priority. Although the use of recy-
cled material in medical products is currently not possible due to quality reasons, it is, for instance, possible to 
influence the quantity of new plastic used through the design of product dimensions. There is more scope in 
terms of material selection and dimensions when it comes to packaging design.  
Design can also be used to influence the handling of contaminated and non -contaminated produc ts when 
they reach the end of their life cycle. Alongside the choice of materials, another priority is to simplify sorting 
and, where applicable, the products’ return to suitable recycling methods. It is important to bear in mind that 
this step lies within  the sphere of responsibility of our customers and their competent recycling agencies, 
meaning that success can only be achieved through cooperation and joint efforts.  
In our in -house production, we focus chiefly on reducing waste and rejects, as well as o n the improved sorting 
of plastic waste and therefore on its improved return to recycling systems.  
However, sustainability in biotechnological production is not just concerned with the use and recycling of plas-
tics, but also takes into account the efficien cy and productivity of processes. For example, technological inno-
vations enable process optimizations in the production of larger volumes of active pharmaceutical ingredients. 
Sartorius continuously develops its products with this in mind and helps its cus tomers design their production 
processes in a more sustainable manner. Sartorius deals intensively with the issue of how its customers can Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Environmental Standards   51 
 
 produce more sustainably by modifying the process parameters. For this purpose, Sartorius is involved in the 
National  Institute for Innovation in Manufacturing Biopharmaceuticals (NIMBL) and other bodies.  
Our performance  
The Sartorius plastic reduction initiative was agreed at the end of October 2020. In the year under review, work 
was carried out to integrate the targets set within operational divisions. Various projects focused on the reduc-
tion of packaging waste, the recycling of production waste and end -of-life-cycle strategies were continued, 
with new projects initiated.  
Sartorius uses ultra -pure plastic film t o produce disposable bags for use in bioprocesses. Two of our three film 
families are suitable for mechanical recycling. At the Aubagne site, waste material produced during bag pro-
duction is collected, shredded and recycled with the help of external partne rs. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
400  Social Standards   Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   53 
 
 401 Employment   
103  
Management Approach  
Sartorius is growin g strongly. We continually gain talented and well -qualified employees and build their loyalty 
to ensure the success of the company in the future as well. In the process, one particular challenge all over the 
world is to recruit experienced specialists for the company. Currently, 13,8321 employees contribute to Sarto-
rius’ success. Continuing professional development, assumption of responsibility and opportunities to ad-
vance within the company are important for our employees' satisfaction. These competences s afeguard their 
employability and open up new professional prospects for them.  
As a globally operating company, we do business in many different regions and markets. Sartorius employees 
from 110 countries work together. The interplay of a variety of perspectives and experiences helps us under-
stand our customers better, develop tailored solutions and remain competitive in a global economy. We be-
lieve that a working environment of mutual trust, appreciation and respect brings the best work results and 
increases our employees’ motivation and creativity as well as their loyalty.  
To acquire personnel, our approach is to focus on the things that are important for existing and potential em-
ployees and make them known throughout the world. According to our anal ysis, all of them are factors that are 
likely to create trust in the future: the company's brand leadership, its sales growth and margin development, 
its internationality and innovation activities and – last but not least – the individual's opportunities f or develop-
ment within the company. A meaningful mission and the perceptible assumption of social responsibility are 
also important for many job applicants.  
Sartorius has hired 4,381 new employees since January 2021. On account of rapid growth, the previou s 
onboarding process was optimized in order to induct new employees quickly and efficiently. Effective 
onboarding is designed to ensure that new employees quickly feel included within the Sartorius team so that 
they can make a positive contribution from da y one.  
We stri ve to offer our employees good working conditions to encourage them to apply their skills in the best 
possible manner. The approaches that we pursue throughout the Group are defined in our policy on work 
practices and social standards. To improve the accur acy of its measures to create good working conditions, 
Sartorius conducts two global employee surveys each year. Known as “Pulse Checks,” these surveys are con-
ducted each spring and each fall, addressing a range of topics such as employees’ perception of t he corporate 
and leadership culture, of their own workplace and work satisfaction in general. All employees are asked to 
suggest improvements. By virtue of this regular and systematic feedback on leadership culture and working 
conditions, executives and th e HR department can respond swiftly and initiate any necessary improvement 
measures. We believe there is considerable potential in discussing the results within individual teams and 
jointly devising suggested improvements.  
Annual performance reviews betwee n employees and their managers also provide a forum for discussing per-
formance, targets and individual development opportunities. In the year under review, the performance de-
velopment process was conducted digitally with the support of the system. This app roach improves the con-
sistency and transparency of the process in terms of setting and agreeing expectations for each HR develop-
ment cycle; it also makes it possible to agree individual development plans for employees that foster their con-
tinued developmen t. 
1 The following employee figures include all employees of the Sartorius Group except for apprentices, interns, permanent abse nt em-
ployees and employees in the leave -of-absence phase of partial retirement. Numbers are reported as head counts.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   54 
 
 Our employees should be able to develop personally and professionally throughout their professional lives. 
We firmly believe that all employees have their own talents and that they can contribute these talents in a 
variety of useful ways. We have theref ore expanded our learning opportunities to include digital self -study 
offerings accessible to all employees and have added online seminars to the portfolio in order to be able to 
offer a broader selection of content.  
In our view, ensuring effective leaders hip at all levels of the organization is central to supporting our further 
growth ambitions. In 2021, we focused on top -level employees and executives and will further expand the 
scope in 2022.  
To create the same opportunities for people regardless of thei r life situations, we have installed a flexible work 
scheduling model at many of our companies. Employees are often able to take advantage of flextime, part -
time and teleworking options.  
In addition to flexible work schedules, our response to the need for work -life balance includes child care op-
portunities in Göttingen. Here, for example, there are offers for children during school vacations, and a day 
care center is available close to the company on the Sartorius Campus. As an inclusive day care center, it  is also 
open to children with disabilities. It’s part of our corporate culture that fathers also take family leave at Sarto-
rius.  
Measures that promote equal opportunity in our company include the creation of transparency on salary 
structures. The majority  of salaries at the German companies are linked to the rates agreed with the IG Metall 
trade union, with some paid in accordance with rates established for IG Bergbau, Chemie, Energie. The remu-
neration paid to employees in France and Austria is also based on trade union rates. Using the union rates 
makes our remuneration more transparent.  
Works councils or other legally mandated bodies represent the interests of the workforce. In Germany, there 
is also a Group works council comprising members of the local w orks councils at all operating companies.  
401 -1 
New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover  
Over the past five years, Sartorius  has recruited 10.447  new employees. The number of new hires increased by 
4.381  compared to the previous year.  
New Hires by Region,  Gender and Age Group1, 2   
  EMEA  Americas  Asia | Pacific  Total  
Female  1,043  524  250  1,817  
≤ 29 years  558  226  107 891 
30 – 49 years  416 219 142 777 
≥ 50 years  69 79 1 149 
Male  1,564  616  384  2,564  
≤ 29 years  687  266  156 1,109  
30 – 49 years  758  263  222  1,243  
≥ 50 years  119 87 6 212 
Total  2,607  1,140  634  4,381       
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  202 1 Social Standards   55 
 
 The success of our measures to create a positive working environment is reflected in permanently low attrition 
rates. Excluding expired fixed -term contracts, Sartorius had an attrition rate of 8.4% in the reporting year, or 1.3 
percentage points above the already low level of the prior year.  
As a result of the consistently high number of new hires, the average seniority decreased slightly. In 2021, about 
60% of all employees had been with Sartorius for fewer than five years, whil e around a seventh had been with 
the company for 15 years or more.1 
Employee Turnover by Region, Gender and Age Group1, 2, 3, 4   
  EMEA  Americas  Asia | Pacific  Total  
Female  321 116 87 524  
≤ 29 years  158 28 32 218 
30 – 49 years  109  53 52 214 
≥ 50 years  54 35 3 92 
Male  371 126  145  642  
≤ 29 years  142 17 32 191 
30 – 49 years  148 64 105  317 
≥ 50 years  81 45 8 134 
Total  692  242  232  1,166       
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the repor t next 
year. Companies th at were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
4 Excluding expiring fixed -term contracts.  
Due to the significance for the development of the company, the number of employees at Sartorius is very 
relevant and is reported regularly by management. More information about “Employees” can be found in the 
Group Management Report on page 48. 
401 -2 
Benefits Provided to Full -Time Employees That Are Not Provided to Temporary or  Part -Time Employees  
The voluntary benefits we offer our employees varies from site to site. In addition, there are differences be-
tween the sites as to whether the benefits are offered to full -time employees only or to all employees. There-
fore, we will omit presenting the bene fits offered.  
  
                                                                        
1 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next year. 
Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   56 
 
 401 -3 
Parental Leave  
 
Employees That Took Parental Leave by Gender and Region1, 2, 3   
  Female  Male  Total  
EMEA  263  208  471 
Americas  31 27 58 
Asia | Pacific  18 25 43 
Total  312 260  572      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included i n the report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
Employees That Returned to Work in the Reporting Period After Parental Leave Ended by Gender and Region 1, 2, 3  
  Female  Male  Total  
EMEA  227  199 426  
Americas  24 17 41 
Asia | Pacific  17 25 42 
Total  268  241 509      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
Employees That Returned to Work After Parental Lea ve Ended That Were Still Employed 12 Months After Their 
Return to Work by Gender and Region1, 2, 3   
  Female  Male  Total  
EMEA  96 117 213 
Americas  9 16 25 
Asia | Pacific  24 25 49 
Total  129  158  287      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the  report next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
403 Occupational Health and Safety  
103  
Management Approach  
Our employees’ safety is our responsibility. The health of our employees is also important to us as a company, 
which is why we offer support in the form of a variety of preventative health care offers.  
As in the previous year, the reporting year was shaped by the Covid -19 pandemic, which created particular 
demands on the organization of workplace health an d safety. The existence of a solid occupational safety or-
ganization proved to be a substantial benefit in overcoming the resulting challenges.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   57 
 
 Sartorius has high safety standards to minimize job -related medical conditions, risks to health, and potential 
causes of industrial accidents. The basic principles and core policies on occupational safety and health pro-
tection are defined throughout the Sartorius Group in its corporate policy on workplace safety and health. 
Occupational safety and the preservation an d promotion of the good health of all employees are very im-
portant to Sartorius, and management actively encourages them.  
Planned, mandatory employee training on topics of occupational health and safety and environmental pro-
tection ensure that our staff m embers recognize risks and avoid them accordingly. Sartorius analyzes all acci-
dents regularly and derives accident prevention measures from them that can also be used for other sites. At 
our local Group locations, work safety committees confer regularly to  discuss measures that promote health 
and prevent work -related accidents, and inform management of the results of their analysis.  
At the Aubagne site, for instance, a cross -unit team works to improve occupational safety and reduce work -
related accidents. S ince employee behavior plays a key role in many of the work -related accidents, in addition 
to making technical improvements the team plans to raise awareness with regard to safety among employees. 
More than 1,000 employees – most of them from areas with a higher risk potential – have already taken part in 
training sessions since the new workshops to raise safety awareness were initiated in 2020. In addition, first 
aiders took part in a full -day training course to minimize risks. Workshops are offered especi ally to managers 
to prepare them so that they can improve safety management in their teams.  
The Group's corporate health management policy addresses both the physical and psycho -social elements of 
health to enhance employee performance and motivation, ensu re their employability and reduce illness -re-
lated costs. Most sites have an in -house medical service. In addition, an external provider is on hand to offer 
psychological help on any work -related and indeed personal matter. Staff can reach the service via a  hotline.  
One of our two companies in Beijing, one of our companies in Shanghai and one of our two companies in Ben-
galuru are certified in accordance with ISO  45001.  
Employees from external companies also work for Sartorius, for example, cleaning staff and  construction com-
panies. Their safety is also important to us. This is why contractors’ employees receive occupational safety in-
structions before they begin their work. These instructions specifically mention how incidents and accidents 
can be reported.  
During the Covid -19 pandemic, two considerations especially shaped our actions: first, protecting the health 
of our more than 13,000 employees. Second, maintaining our business operations, on the one hand, to be able 
to support our customers and, on the othe r, to ensure our own financial stability. In view of the fact that many 
of our customers are involved in the development and production of vaccines against the coronavirus, Sarto-
rius has a special social responsibility. It is therefore not an option to red uce personnel in production in order 
to improve infection protection or to shut down parts of our operations. On the contrary, production was ac-
tually expanded . 
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   58 
 
 Our well -established occupational safety processes put us in a position where we could respon d quickly and 
extensively to these special challenges during the Covid -19 pandemic. A crisis team comprising members from 
different units and the Executive Board works on a corporate level to monitor and assess the situation con-
stantly and introduce approp riate measures if necessary. Several teams also work on a local level.  
To protect employees, social distancing rules were put in place at a very early stage and business trips were 
almost completely stopped. Face masks and visors are provided at the sites . 
In conjunction with local vaccination centers, Sartorius has already administered more than 7,000 coronavirus 
vaccinations.  
Sartorius already received awards at several sites for its safety concept during the Covid -19 pandemic in 2020. 
Sartorius was the first company in Tunisia to get the Apave Certification Safe & Clean Label for its actions to 
protect the health and safety of its employees during the pandemic. The site in Bangalore was also com-
mended for its safety concept: the Confederation of Indian I ndustries (CII) awarded ‘Gold’ for the measures.  
403 -9 
Work -Related Injuries  
In comparison to the previous year, the number of recordable work -related injuries increased marginally. 
Given the significant increase in the number of hours worked, this represe nts a positive development that is 
also reflected in the relative frequency of work -related injuries, which fell. Due to the pandemic, employees 
mostly worked from home. However, work in production and logistics increased during the reporting year. 
There w ere no accidents with fatalities or other serious outcomes at any of our sites.  
Work -Related Injuries1, 2, 3     
  2021  2020  
Recordable work -related injuries (employees)  151 145 
Relative frequency of work -related injuries per 1,000,000 theoretical working hours (employ-
ees)  6.3 8.2 
Work -related injuries with a serious outcome3 0 0 
Fatal occupational accidents  0 0    
1 Companies acquired during the year are not included and, in accordance with the reporting guideline, will not be reported u ntil the  
next reporting year. The two sales companies in the Netherlands are not counted.  
2 The following employee figures include all employees of the Sartorius Group except for apprentices, interns, permanent abse nt em-
ployees and employees in partial retirement. E mployee figures are shown as headcount.  
3 An accident with a serious outcome is an accident in which the injured person is not rehabilitated at all or not until six months after the 
accident.  
 
404 Training and Education  
103  
Management A pproach  
Currently, 13,8321 employees contribute to Sartorius’ success. Continuing professional development, assump-
tion of responsibility and opportunities to advance within the company are important for our employees' sat-
isfaction. These competences safeguard thei r employability and open up new professional prospects for them.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   59 
 
 As a globally operating company, we do business in many different regions and markets. Sartorius employees 
from 110 countries work together. The interplay of a variety of perspectives and experiences helps us under-
stand our customers better, develop tailored solutions and remain competitive in a global economy. We be-
lieve that a working environment of mutual trust, appreciation and respect brings the best work results and 
increases our empl oyees’ motivation and creativity as well as their loyalty.  
Sartorius has hired 4,381 new employees since January 2021. On account of rapid growth, the previous 
onboarding process was optimized in order to induct new employees quickly and efficiently. Effec tive 
onboarding is designed to ensure that new employees quickly feel included within the Sartorius team so that 
they can make a positive contribution from day one.  
We strive to offer our employees good working conditions to encourage them to apply their s kills in the best 
possible manner. The approaches that we pursue throughout the Group are defined in our policy on work 
practices and social standards. To improve the accuracy of its measures to create good working conditions, 
Sartorius conducts two global  employee surveys each year. Known as “Pulse Checks,” these surveys are con-
ducted each spring and each fall, addressing a range of topics such as employees’ perception of the corporate 
and leadership culture, of their own workplace and work satisfaction in  general. All employees are asked to 
suggest improvements. By virtue of this regular and systematic feedback on leadership culture and working 
conditions, executives and the HR department can respond swiftly and initiate any necessary improvement 
measures.  We believe there is considerable potential in discussing the results within individual teams and 
jointly devising suggested improvements.  
Annual performance reviews between employees and their managers also provide a forum for discussing per-
formance, targ ets and individual development opportunities. In the year under review, the performance de-
velopment process was conducted digitally with the support of the system. This approach improves the con-
sistency and transparency of the process in terms of setting a nd agreeing expectations for each HR develop-
ment cycle; it also makes it possible to agree individual development plans for employees that foster their con-
tinued development.  
Our employees should be able to develop personally and professionally throughout their professional lives. 
We firmly believe that all employees have their own talents and that they can contribute these talents in a 
variety of useful ways. We have therefore expanded our learning opportunities to include digital self -study 
offerings acce ssible to all employees and have added online seminars to the portfolio in order to be able to 
offer a broader selection of content.  
In our view, ensuring effective leadership at all levels of the organization is central to supporting our further 
growth am bitions. In 2021, we focused on top -level employees and executives and will further expand the 
scope in 2022.  
To create the same opportunities for people regardless of their life situations, we have installed a flexible work 
scheduling model at many of our  companies. Employees are often able to take advantage of flextime, part -
time and teleworking options.  
In addition to flexible work schedules, our response to the need for work -life balance includes child care op-
portunities in Göttingen. Here, for example,  there are offers for children during school vacations, and a day 
care center is available close to the company on the Sartorius Campus. As an inclusive day care center, it is also 
open to children with disabilities. It’s part of our corporate culture that  fathers also take family leave at Sarto-
rius.  
Measures that promote equal opportunity in our company include the creation of transparency on salary 
structures. The majority of salaries at the German companies are linked to the rates agreed with the IG Meta ll Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   60 
 
 trade union, with some paid in accordance with rates established for IG Bergbau, Chemie, Energie. The remu-
neration paid to employees in France and Austria is also based on trade union rates. Using the union rates 
makes our remuneration more transparent.  
Works councils or other legally mandated bodies represent the interests of the workforce. In Germany, there 
is also a Group works council comprising members of the local works councils at all operating companies.  
404 -1 
Average Hours of Training per Year p er Employee  
To us, education is a valuable asset, and we consider it part of our corporate responsibility to support it and 
make it accessible within our sphere of influence.  
During the reporting year, 167,600 hours were invested in training measures – on average 12.2 training hours 
per employee.  
Training Hours by Region and Gender1, 2     
  EMEA  Americas  Asia | Pacific  Total  
Women  11.4 13.7  16.0  12.5  
Men  11.3 13.7  13.2  12.1 
Total  11.3  13.7  14.2  12.2       
1 Reports for 2021.   
2 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the repor t next year. 
Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
404 -3 
Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews  
 
Percentage of Employees who Received a Performance Review, by Gender1, 2     
  2021  2020  
Female  - 32%  
Male  - 29%  
Total  - 30%     
1 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
2 Companies acquired during the year are not counted and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be included in the repor t next 
year. Companies that were consolidated last year report fully this year.  
405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  
103  
Management A pproach  
As a globally operating company, we do business in many different region s and markets. Sartorius employ ees 
cooperate across six continents in performing their work. The company’s global network  shapes our daily work. 
Many of our departments cover multiple company locations and countries, and project teams are often com-
posed internationally.  
The diversity of our procurement and sales markets is reflected in our corporate culture. The productive i nter-
play of a variety of perspectives and experiences helps us understand our customers better, develop tailored 
solutions and remain competitive in a global economy. When filling management positions we likewise aim to 
achieve a mix of culture, genders an d age groups.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   61 
 
 One of our guiding principles is respecting the value of our different employees and creating the same oppor-
tunities for all. Our diversity and inclusion approach involves having a good mix, a common goal, an open atti-
tude towards differences , trust and flexibility.  
Measures that promote equal opportunity in our company include the creation of transparency on salary 
structures. The majority of salaries at the German companies are linked to the rates agreed with the IG Metall 
trade union, with some paid in accordance with rates established for IG Bergbau, Chemie, Energie. The 
remuneration paid to employees in France and Austria is also based on trade union rates. Using the union rates 
makes our remuneration more transparent.  
Works councils or ot her legally mandated bodies represent the interests of the workforce. In Germany, there 
is also a Group works council comprising members of the local works councils at all operating companies.   
Pursuant to the German Act on Equal Participation of Women and  Men in Executive Positions in the Private 
and the Public Sectors, the Supervisory Board defined a target quota for the Executive Board that is described 
in the following section.  
The Sartorius Executive Board is a committee that presently consists of four  members and is therefore rela-
tively small; the establishment of a rigid gender quota can be problematic. The current four members of the 
Executive Board of Sartorius AG are men. The appointment of at least one woman to the Executive Board was 
defined as a  target to be met by the present deadline of June 30, 2022.  
Likewise with regard to the appointment of women to the Executive Board of Sartorius AG, the Supervisory 
Board supports the activities of the Executive Board to further increase the percentage of female executives 
at the first two management levels in the company. The Executive Task Committee responsible and the full 
Supervisory Board regularl y receive reports on the development of the proportions of women in senior -level  
management positions.  
 
First and Second Management Levels Below the Executive Board  
Over the past years, the percentage of women at the first two management levels below the Executive Board 
has considerably increased on the whole and is already at a comparably high level.  
For t he next deadline by June 30, 2022, the Executive Board resolved  in 2017 to increase the propor tion of 
women at both levels of management below this board to ar ound 30%. Currently, the propor tion of women at 
the first management level is around 38%; tha t at the second level, around 21 %, thus exceeding or approaching 
the established quota. In general, it should be noted that owing to the relatively small number of managers at 
the first level, even individual personnel changes can lead to sizable swings in the  quota. Moreover, in the past 
the consolidation of acquired companies has frequently led to a slight dilution in the proportion of women, 
and  this effect cannot be excluded in the future.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   62 
 
 405 -1 
Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees  
At the end of t he reporting year, women made up 3 9.3  % of the total workforce, which is the same as the pre-
vious year.  
Members of Governance Bodies by Gender and Age Group1, 2   
  Female  Male  
≤ 29 years  - - 
30 – 49 years  - 19%  
≥ 50 years  31%  50%     
1 Supervisory Board and Executive Board  
2 Members of the governance bodies as of Decem ber 31, 2020.  
Employees by Employee Category, Age Group and Gender1, 2   
  Management  Employees  Total  
Female  5.0%  34.3%  39.3%  
≤ 29 years  0.3%  9.5%  9.8%  
30 – 49 years  3.4%  18.2%  21.6%  
≥ 50 years  1.3%  6.6%  7.9%  
Male  10.5%  50.2%  60.7%  
≤ 29 years  0.4%  12.0%  12.4%  
30 – 49 years  6.9%  28.7%  35.6%  
≥ 50 years  3.2%  9.5%  12.7%  
Total  15.5%  84.5%  100.0%      
1 Reports for 2021.  
2 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
Employees with Disabilities1   
  2021  2020  
Employees with disabilities  241 207     
1 Employee figures are shown as headcount.  
406 Non -Discrimination  
103  
Management Approach  
The Sartorius Code of Conduct requires all Sartorius employees to adopt a task -oriented, open, friendly and 
fair approach to interacting with  colleagues, employees and third parties, thereby helping to create an atmos-
phere of respectful cooperation. We  do not tolerate employees being discriminated against, disadvantaged, 
harassed or excluded based on their sex,  ethnic origin, life philosophy , race, religion, age, dis ability, appear-
ance, sexual preferences and identity, origin or  political position.  
Sartorius actively integrates disabled employees into its workforce. All new buildings at Sartorius sites in Ger-
many are designed to be barrier -free. A Group disability officer overse es a team that has been support ing em-
ployees with special needs in the German offices since 2014. While Sartorius meets the regulated standards 
at all its companies, it surpasses them significantly at its German sites.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   63 
 
 406 -1 
Incidents of Disc rimination and Corrective Actions Taken  
Two suspected cases of discrimination were reported during the period under review. No cases of discrimi-
nation were determined during the reporting period.  
412 Human Rights Assessment  
103  
Management Approach  
The Unit ed Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights clarify the responsibility of states and 
businesses to protect and respect human rights. The focus is therefore not only on preventing infringements 
of human rights, but also the positive contribut ion that a business can make through its activities that promote 
the protection of human rights.  
Sartorius pursues the goal of taking the highest possible level of care to prevent breaches of human rights 
within its sphere of influence.  
In line with the U N Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we respect and support the implemen-
tation of the values of the International Bill of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enter-
prises and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declarat ion on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work, by committing ourselves to regard these internationally recognized human rights as relevant for our 
operations. We respect the laws of the countries in which we operate.  
A Policy Statement on Human Rights h as been communicated to employees via the intranet since February 
2019 and is also available to all stakeholders on the Internet.  
Sartorius’ Policy Statement on Human Rights is binding on the entire Group and applies worldwide. It requires 
all employees to  observe appropriate, fair, and lawful conduct towards other employees, business partners, 
and the local community. We expect our business partners, suppliers, customers and cooperation partners to 
operate their business in line with correspondingly high e thical standards.  
Sartorius’ Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct for business partners address the content of Sartorius’ 
Policy Statement on Human Rights and puts it into concrete terms for everyday work. In annual online training 
courses about Sartori us’ Code of Conduct, Sartorius employees strengthen their knowledge of the content 
and check it in the subsequent online test.  
The complaint system described on page 140  ensures that topics with human rights relevance can be reported 
– even anonymously if the person so wishes.  
Existing processes are continuously reviewed and adapted where necessary. An interdisciplinary working 
group was established in 2021 in order to fu lfill the requirements of the new Duty of Care Act to ensure that 
human rights are observed in global supply chains.  
The Executive Board becomes involved in handling reported incidents on a case -by-case basis.  
If the company's performance and the success o f the concepts in relation to human rights are to be made 
measurable, it is necessary to define specific quantitative indicators. In this process it is important to consider 
the influence of factors outside the company’s sphere on the indicators. For examp le, actions by local govern-
ment heads could be outside Sartorius’ sphere of influence.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   64 
 
 Sartorius has started defining which indicators could be relevant and reports on these in the respective sec-
tions. For our approach, we looked at the entire spectrum of human rights, how they are defined in the Inter-
national Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work and then considered which of these human rights could be influenced releva ntly 
in the context of our business operations. In the next step, we reviewed our existing reporting system for indi-
cators that would be suitable for making this influence visible. We will complete the analysis in the coming year 
and then consider includin g more indicators.  
In the reporting year, we report on the right to work in the section on “Finding and Retaining Talented Young 
Staff” and via the indicator “New Hires by Region, Gender and Age Group”. We report on the right to education 
in the same secti on via the indicator “Training Hours by Region and Gender”. We report on the right to an 
achievable maximum level of physical and mental health in the sections “Innovation & Social Contribution” and 
“Occupational Health and Safety” and via the indicator “W ork-Related Injuries”.  
A comprehensive report can also be found in the separately published GRI Report. This is more detailed infor-
mation that is provided voluntarily.  
412 -2 
Employee Training on Human Rights Policies or Procedures  
Durin g the period under r eview, 9.241 employees from 35  countries completed training for the Code of Con-
duct. The hours spe nt on training amounted to 2,155  for the Code of Conduct . The Sartorius Code of Conduct 
is based on international agreements and guidelines, including the Uni versal  Declaration of Human Rights, the 
conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the United  Nations Global Compact. The hours 
spent on training amounted to 4,571 for the Code of Conduct and 4,670 for the Anti -Corruption Code. Com-
plianc e training courses are currently available in German, English, French and Chinese.  
414 Supplier Social Assessment  
103  
Management Approach  
Respect for human rights, the maintenance of high environmental standards and good, safe and fair working 
conditions for the production of our products is important to us, and apply to sites outside our own production 
as well. With more than 8,000 supplier s in more than 40 countries and a purchasing volume that corresponds 
to about 40% of our sales revenue1, it is obvious that our upstream supply chain is important for us to imple-
ment these goals.  
The assumption of responsibility in global supply chains is also governed by a growing number of laws and 
requirements. In particular, the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence in Supply Chains, which was passed 
by the German parliament in July 2021, seeks to improve the in ternational human rights situation by setting 
out requirements for the responsible management of supply chains. This Act comes into effect for German -
based companies with more than 3,000 employees on January 1, 2023.  
Moreover, the value chains for pharmace uticals are very sensitive and are the focus of many stakeholders. In 
particular, patients at the end of the supply chain are dependent on their medications being available and safe 
at all times.  
1 Revenue and purchasing volume in 2021.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   65 
 
 Since January 2020, we have been verifying suppliers’ compl iance with our sustainability requirements via an 
external evidence -based ESG assessment, as well as in -house ESG quick checks. In the year under review, we 
have been working to set up a comprehensive risk management system and design new processes in orde r to 
be able to meet and document the requirements of the new Supply Chain Act in the near future, but by no 
later than 2023.  
Our Code of Conduct for Business Partners provides the basis for collaboration with our business partners 
throughout the Group. Ou r requirements with regard to the environment, social matters and governance are 
defined in the Code. Since December 2019, acknowledgment of the Code of Conduct is part of the ac-
ceptance process for new suppliers. In 2020, we began systematically reviewing  whether our existing suppliers 
have acknowledged the Code and, if not, asking them to do so.  
For suppliers who are very relevant for our business processes and/or a high purchasing volume, we work to-
gether with the external sustainability assessment plat form EcoVadis. The external ESG assessment is based 
on a self -assessment, a review of the associated documents and information from external sources. EcoVadis 
reviews 21 indicators in the areas of environment, labor and human rights, ethics and sustainable  procurement.  
Beginning in 2021, Sartorius quality auditors systematically conducted ESG quick checks within the scope of 
all planned quality audits in the suppliers’ production plants. For this purpose, Sartorius put its sustainability 
requirements into a  questionnaire. This will be provided to suppliers before the audit. During on -site auditing 
of suppliers’ production plants, compliance with the requirements of our Code of Conduct for Business Part-
ners is reviewed on the basis of the questionnaire.  
The objective of all measures is to initiate actual improvements in the working, social and environmental stand-
ards of our suppliers. Sartorius Management is involved in shaping the process via the Corporate Sustainability 
Steering Committee and is informed ab out the progress being made.  
We do not establish business relationships with suppliers where we see a considerable risk of child, forced or 
mandatory labor, other breaches of human rights or negative impacts on society, and will end any existing re-
lationsh ips with such suppliers. This procedure is also defined in our new process for sustainability in the supply 
chain.  
During the Covid -19 pandemic, we are focusing on securing our delivery capabilities. This is very important 
considering the validated produc tion processes of our customers. This is why we manage stocks of raw mate-
rials and finished products actively and maintain high levels of safety stock.  
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   66 
 
 414 -2 
Negative Social Impacts in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken  
In 2021, we received 110 valid sus tainability assessments on our suppliers from EcoVadis, with 165 further as-
sessments currently being prepared. The current evaluations cover roughly a third of our purchasing volume. 
In 2021, we spoke to suppliers who refused an EcoVadis assessment or whos e assessment has expired.  
The ESG quick checks performed by Sartorius itself as part of quality audits were still conducted in the year 
under review despite the coronavirus pandemic, albeit to a reduced extent, with 107 such quick checks com-
pleted as of th e end of the reporting year.  
We will use the results of the EcoVadis assessments and the ESG quick checks to develop our internal process 
in 202 2. 
415 Public Policy  
103  
Management Approach  
Sartorius is politically independent and does not provide financial  or in -kind support to politicians or political 
parties.  
415 -1 
Political Contributions  
In accordance with the management approach, no political contributions were made.  
419 Socioeconomic Compliance   
103  
Management Approach  
During the reporting year, a Glo bal Regulatory Affairs Committee was established, with members from  Com-
pliance, Regulatory Affairs, Quality, Product Development, Procurement, EHS and Corporate  Responsibility. 
The committee meets regularly to monitor new legal initiatives in the various u nits and to create  the corre-
sponding structures in the company.  
419 -1 
Non -Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Social and Economic Area  
No significant fines or non -monetary penalties resulting from violations of laws or regulations were imposed in 
the reporting year. Two suspected cases of corruption were reported, one of which is still being investigated 
and one of which has already been deemed unsubstantiated/unproven.  
Innovation & Social Contribution  
Why it’s important  
Our corporate mission is t o promote scientific progress in the life sciences, which in turn supports the devel-
opment of new vaccines, more effective therapies and affordable medical care. In the year under review, as in 
the previous year, the importance of this mission for society as a whole was underlined by the biotechnology 
sector’s contribution towards fighting the Covid -19 pandemic.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   67 
 
 The biopharmaceutical market is rapidly developing – it is an area in which scientific breakthroughs leading to 
new therapies occur at a high rate.  At the same time, it still takes about ten years to develop a new pharma-
ceutical drug and this remains cost -intensive. Our aim is to help our biopharmaceutical customers develop 
and produce biopharmaceuticals more efficiently.  
From day one of its incorpor ation, Sartorius has worked to maintain an open exchange with the scientific com-
munity and, in this way, has driven forward scientific insights and precisely tailored product development. Our 
goal is to promote scientific thinking and working in society, c reating a broader basis for future research and 
development.  
Our approach  
In collaboration with expert scientific groups worldwide, the company’s research and development activities 
are aimed at making a contribution so that new active pharmaceutical ingredients are discovered faster and 
drugs can be produced efficiently. In this way, we want to bring about benefits for society, support sustainable 
development and, at the same time, strengthen the company’s growth.  
The innovation activities of the Sart orius Group are based on three pillars: first, specialized in -house product 
development, second, research cooperation agreements with partners such as scientific institutions and, third, 
integration of complementary technologies through acquisitions. While  product development is assigned to 
the respective board members, Corporate Research works across the different divisions under the control of 
the CEO.  
Sartorius is involved in many research partnerships covering a wide range of subjects. Forms of collabor ation 
vary from single cooperation agreements to partnerships with institutes and scientific facilities. Both of these 
make up about 40% of the cooperation agreements. Sartorius also carries out research work in consortia, to 
which the company contributes its own scientific findings.  
Often, new approaches arise from the interdisciplinary collaboration of various experts. Because of this, our 
approach is to bring experts from science startups and industry together and encourage networking and the 
sharing of ideas. This is conducive to the generation of new and creative ideas and thus supports scientific 
progress.  
Supporting young scientists is important to us, as this creates the basis for scientific progress in the future.  
Our performance  
In past years, tec hnologies from Sartorius have been used in the development and production of vaccines to 
combat various diseases, such as Ebola, Zika and H1N1. In the reporting year, the company’s products and pro-
cess knowledge made a significant contribution towards figh ting the Covid -19 pandemic: Sartorius is involved 
in most vaccine projects throughout the world.  
In accordance with its innovation concept, Sartorius strengthened its position with acquisitions during the year 
under review. Details about these acquisitions  and corresponding expansion of the product portfolio and ser-
vice spectrum can be found on pages 25 ff  of the Group Management Report. Pages 33 ff  of the Group Man-
agement Report contain information about our research and development activities.  
By expandin g its research cooperation agreements, Sartorius supports the development and production of 
biopharmaceuticals worldwide and, hence, improves the availability of innovative medical care in the long 
term. We also seek to improve the sustainability of our pr oducts through cooperation agreements. More in-
formation about product stewardship can be found in the Environment section from page 144.  
In the year under review, Sartorius also engaged in various partnerships and cooperations, both with other 
companies an d with scientific institutions.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Social Standards   68 
 
 A partnership between Sartorius and RoosterBio – a provider of cell banks, media and bioprocess systems – 
aims to combine technologies and tools in a way that facilitates the faster, more effective and more cost -effi-
cient de velopment of stem cells and therapies. The two companies wish to harness the data from the partner-
ship to provide shared learning and development resources for the growing cell and gene therapy sector.  
In tandem with BRAIN Biotech AG, headquartered in Germ any, Sartorius is researching and adapting the pi-
oneering CRISPR –Cas genome editing nuclease for specific applications in life sciences. Genome editing en-
ables targeted and pinpoint insertion, deletion and modification within the genome of a living organis m. In 
terms of biopharmaceuticals, these genetic scissors could pave the way for new therapies, thereby increasing 
the chances of a cure for many different illnesses, such as cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, and hereditary 
diseases.  
Sartorius has enter ed into a partnership with McMaster University in Hamilton, Canada, with the aim of im-
proving the production process for antibody - and virus -based treatments for illnesses such as COVID -19, can-
cer and genetic disorders. Initially scheduled to run for four years, this partnership intends to generate highly 
effective research that will make treatments available on a wider scale and innovative medications more af-
fordable.  
Sartorius supports the Penn State University, where it is helping the Sartorius Cell Cult ure Facility become a 
reality. As the twelfth core facility of the Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, this laboratory is part of a collab-
orative biotechnology ecosystem. These facilities are available to researchers from across Penn State, as well 
as ot her academic and commercial researchers. They not only contain equipment that is effectively out of 
reach for smaller laboratories on account of its complexity and cost level, but also offer the expertise required 
to operate such equipment.  
In partnership  with the French 3D Innovation Lab program, a technology platform for innovations in biosci-
ence and health care, the Université de Lyon and Sartorius will set up a shared 3D bioprinting laboratory. Sar-
torius will provide expertise and equipment, e.g. autom ated high -throughput bioreactor systems, high -speed 
virus quantification devices, and in -depth knowledge of polymer science in terms of health -care applications. 
Technology will make it possible to develop systems for the bioproduction of therapeutic agent s based on the 
3D bioprinting of cell tissue.  
Live -cell imaging using artificial intelligence (AI) can help to convert large quantities of visual data into biolog-
ical insights in an automated process. In order to develop more precise AI models, Sartorius has instigated the 
“Cell Instance Segmentation Challenge” on Kaggle, the world’s largest online community for data scientists 
and machine learning experts. As part of this project, more than 1,700 data scientists are working together to 
help researchers ga in better insights from their experiments. Ultimately, this could lead to new treatments for 
millions of people with certain conditions.  
In the year under review, Sartorius also initiated the LifeScience Xplained | Sartorius Award for New Commu-
nication wit h a prize of €10,000. The 2021 winner received the award in recognition of the creative and enter-
taining videos on his YouTube channel “M.E.G.A.,” where he shares his knowledge of molecular biology in an 
engaging and easy -to-understand way.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  GRI Content Index   69 
 
 GRI Content Index  
Organization and Report Profile  
General Standard  Disclosures      
    Page  
  GRI 102: Organizational Profile 2016    
102 -1 Name of the Organization  8 
102 -2 Activities, Brands, Products, and Services  8-9 
102 -3 Location of Headquarters  9 
102 -4 Location of Operations  9-10 
102 -5 Ownership and Legal Form   10 
102 -6 Markets Served  10 
102 -7 Scale of the Organization  10-12 
102 -8 Information on Employees and Other Workers   13 
102 -9 Supply Chain  13-15 
102 -10 Significant Changes to the Organization and its Supply Chain  15 
102 -11 Precautionary Principle  or Approach  15-16 
102 -12 External Initiatives   16 
102 -13 Membership of Associations  16-17 
  GRI 102: Strategy 2016    
102 -14 Statement from Senior Decision -Maker  17 
102 -15 Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities  17-18 
  GRI 102: Ethic and Integrity 2016    
102 -16 Values, Principles, Standards, and Norms of Behavior  18 
102 -17 Mechanisms for Advice and Concerns about Ethics   18-19 
  GRI 102: Governance 2016    
102 -18 Governance Structure  19 
102 -20 Executive -Level Responsibility for Economic, Environmental and Social Topics   19-20 
102 -21 Consulting Stakeholders on Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  20 
102 -22 Composition of the Highest Governance Body and its Committees  20 
102 -23 Chair of the Highest Governance Body  20 
102 -24 Nomination and Selection of the Highest Governance Body  20-21 
102 -25 Conflicts of Interest  21 
102 -29 Identifying and Managing Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts  21 
102 -30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes  21-22 
102 -31 Review of Economic, Environmental, and Social Topics  22 
102 -32 Highest Governance Body’s Role in Sustainability Reporting  22 
102 -33 Communication of Critical Concerns  22 
102 -35 Remuneration Policies  22 
102 -36 Process to Determine Remuneration  22-23 
102 -38 Annual Total Compensation Ratio  24 Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  GRI Content Index   70 
 
 General Standard  Disclosures      
    Page  
  GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement 2016    
102 -40 List of Stakeholder Groups  24 
102 -41 Collective Bargaining Agreements  25 
102 -42 Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders  26 
102 -43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement  26 
102 -44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised  26 
  GRI 102: Reporting Practice 2016    
102 -45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements  26 
102 -46 Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries  27 
102 -47 List of Material Topics  27 
102 -48 Restatement of Information  27 
102 -49 Changes in Reporting  28 
102 -50 Reporting Period  28 
102 -51 Date of Most Recent Report  28 
102 -52 Reporting Cycle  28 
102 -53 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report  28 
102 -54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance  with the GRI Standards  28 
102 -55 GRI Content Index  28 
102 -56 External Assurance  28    
 
 
 
  GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement 2016    
102 -40 List of Stakeholder Groups  p. 23  
102 -41 Collective Bargaining Agreements  p. 24  
102 -42 Identifying and Selecting  Stakeholders  p. 25  
102 -43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement  p. 25  
102 -44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised  p. 25  
  GRI 102: Reporting Practice 2016    
102 -45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements  p. 25  
102 -46 Defining Report Content  and Topic Boundaries  p. 25  
102 -47 List of Material Topics  p. 26  
102 -48 Restatement of Information  p. 26  
102 -49 Changes in Reporting  p. 26  
102 -50 Reporting Period  p. 26  
102 -51 Date of Most Recent Report  p. 27  
102 -52 Reporting Cycle  p. 27  
102 -53 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report  p. 27  
102 -54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance with the GRI Standards  p. 27  
102 -55 GRI Content Index  p. 27  
102 -56 External Assurance  p. 27     
 
  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  GRI Content Index   71 
 
 Category: Economic  
 
Specific Standard Disclosures      
    Page  
  GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016    
103  Management Approach  30 
203 -2 Significant Indirect Economic Impacts  30 
  GRI 205: Anti -Corruption 2016    
103  Management Approach  30-31 
205 -2 Communications and Training about Anti -Corruption Policies and Procedures  31 
205 -3 Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken  31 
  GRI 206: Anti -Competitive Behavior 2016    
103  Management Approach  31 
206 -1 Legal Actions for Anti -Competitive Behavior, Anti -Trust, and Monopoly Practices  32    
 
Category: Environmental  
 
Specific Standard Disclosures      
    Page  
  GRI 302: Energy 2016    
103  Management Approach  34-35 
302 -1 Energy Consumption Within the Organization  35-36 
302 -3 Energy Intensity  36 
  GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018    
103  Management Approach  37 
303 -3 Water Withdrawal  38 
  GRI 303: Emissions 2016    
103  Management Approach  38-41 
305 -1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions  42 
305 -2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions  42 
305 -3 Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions  42 
305 -4 GHG Emissions Intensity  43 
  GRI 306: Waste 2020    
103  Management Approach  43-44 
306 -3 Waste Generated  44 
306 -4 Waste Diverted From Disposal  45 
306 -5 Waste Directed To Disposal  45-46 
  GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016    
103  Management Approach  46-47 
  GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016    
103  Management Approach  48-49 
308 -2 Negative Environmental Impacts in the Supply Chain and Actions Taken  49    
 
 
1 The newly formed EHS Compliance Board is considering collecting this information.  Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  GRI Content Index   72 
 
 Category: Social  
 
Specific Standard Disclosures      
    Page  
  GRI 401: Employment 2016    
103  Management Approach  53-54 
401 -1 New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover  54-55 
401 -2 Benefits Provided to Full -Time Employees That Are Not Provided to Temporary or Part -Time Employees  55 
401 -3 Parental Leave  56 
  GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018    
103  Management Approach  56-58 
403 -9 Work -Related Injuries  58 
  GRI 404: Training and Education 2016    
103  Management Approach  58-59 
404 -1 Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee  60 
404 -3 Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews  60 
  GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016    
103  Management Approach  60-61 
405 -1 Diversity of Governance Bodies and Employees  62 
  GRI 406: Non -Discrimination 2016    
103  Management Approach  62 
406 -1 Incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken  63 
  GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment    
103  Management Approach  63-64 
412-2 Employee Training on Human Rights Policies or Procedures  64 
  GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016    
103  Management Approach  64-65 
414-2 Schulungen für Angestellte zu Menschenrechtspolitik und -verfahren  66 
  GRI 415: Public Policy 2016    
103  Management Approach  66 
415-1 Political Contributions  66 
  GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016    
103  Management Approach  66 
419-1 Non -Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Social and Economic Area  66    
 
 
 Sartorius  GRI Report  2021  Contacts   73 
 
 Contac ts 
Petra Kirchhoff  
Head of Corporate Communications & IR  
Phone : +49. 551.308.1686  
petra.kirchhoff@sartorius.com  
Katharina Tillmanns -Pelzer  
Head of Corporate Sustainability  
Phone : +49. 551.308.2893  
katharina.tillmanns@sartorius.com  
About This Publication  
Published by Sartorius AG  
Corporate Communications  
37070 Goe ttingen , Germany  
Editorial Deadline  
31.03.202 2 
Published On  
14.07.202 2 
Financial Reporting System firesys  
firesys GmbH  
Frankfurt | Main , Germany  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sartorius AG  
Otto -Brenner -Straße 20  
37079 Goe ttingen  
Telefon: +49.551.308.0  
Fax: +49.551.308.3289  
info@sartorius.com  
www.sartorius.com  