Partner for 
New Possibilities
SK Telecom Annual Report 2015
Partner for New PossibilitiesSK Telecom Annual Report 2015
SKT-kr-7.14-cover.indd   1 2016. 7. 14.   오후 2:38As an Integrated Annual Report prepared for the purpose of reporting the annual performance to the investors 
and stakeholders, this Report comprises not only the financial performance records of SK Telecom, but also 
comprehensive information on value creation including non-financial performance, future prospects and efforts 
to improve company value (Value Creation Story). The BOD gave the final approval for this Report in July of 2016. 
Integrated Reporting under International Guidelines
The International Integrated Reporting Council provides the International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework, a standard framework for the Integrated Reporting of both financial and non-financial performances. 
This Report was prepared in accordance with the guiding principles and report content suggested in the 
<IR> Framework, and the comprehensive requirements of the GRI G4 Guideline, a standards guideline for sustainability reports provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As one of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) 
LEAD companies, SK Telecom has been undertaking management activities conforming to the 10 principles 
of UNGC, and this Report was prepared in accordance with the documentation principles prescribed in the 
Communication on Progress (COP) of UNGC.
Scope and Boundary of the Report
In this Report, the terms, “SK Telecom” and “the company,” refer to SK Telecom, excluding its subsidiaries that are 
subject to consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). The financial data is based on consolidated financials, while the non-financial data on the 
environmental performance and fulfillment of the corporate social responsibility is based on a non-consolidated 
basis. The data presented in this Report exclude those for SK Telecom’s overseas branches, subsidiaries and invested companies unless otherwise indicated in the general descriptions and information section. Such 
data, however, were included on a separate basis in cases in which they are likely to have a significant impact 
on the stakeholders’ decisions, in consideration of SK Telecom’s financial and operational control and the actual influence and effects of its business. As for the geographical boundaries, this Report covers data for the 
company’s major places of business where 99% of revenue is generated, which is the Republic of Korea, while the 
temporal scope is between January 1 and December 31, 2015. This Report, however, may disclose a portion of the qualitative data generated until April 2016. In case of any changes in the previously reported data requiring 
attention, such data were re-calculated based on the 2015 data. The reporting period of this Report is one fiscal 
year, and the preceding report was the <SK Telecom Annual Report 2014> issued in July 2015.
Third Party Assurance and Disclaimer
Financial data in this Report have been audited by an independent audit corporation, and non-financial data have been assured independently by a third-party entity to secure the credibility of the Report. Greenhouse gas 
data have been separately assured as well. This Report contains predictive statements regarding SK Telecom’s 
and subsidiaries’ financial conditions, operating and sales performances, and plans and goals of management. Despite external assurances, there might be gaps between the future performance specified or inferred through 
predictive statements and the company’s actual performance due to political, economic, and circumstantial 
uncertainties surrounding business management.
SK Telecom became a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007, has participated as a LEAD company 
since 2011 and was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for eight consecutive years since 2008. In addition, SK Telecom has been participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the 
business network program of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).About This Report
003
SK Telecom has changed the world by leading 
the communications industry through network evolvement, and we are now preparing to launch into greater heights. We aim to grow from a wireless telecommunications company into a next-generation platform service provider that presents innovative values. By converging technology with life, we will be the first to achieve a brighter future. SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015PARTNER FOR NEW POSSIBILITIES
Partner for 
New PossibilitiesTomorrow’s network
The fastest 5G mobile communications
SK Telecom aspires to open a new chapter in the history of mobile communications with 5G mobile 
technology. This will begin with the world’s first commercialization of 2G CDMA 1X, followed by the first commercialization of 3G WCDMA and 4G LTE in South Korea. We are also preparing for the standardization of 5G technology, targeting a fast transmission speed of the minimum 1Gbps per second. When the full-fledged 5G commercialization service launches in 2020, brand new next-generation platform services will be made available. SK Telecom’s three core platform services ― the Lifestyle Enhancement Platform, Media Platform, and IoT Platform ― will dramatically revolutionize communications with the ultra high-speed, and mass-storage 5G infrastructure environment. These platforms will make life happier, further develop industries, enrich the world with amazing convenience, and upgrade efficiency. SK Telecom will meet the challenge that will change the future for everyone with next-generation platform services and 5G networks.
Transforming into a “Next-Generation Platform Provider” 
As the first to prepare for the 5G era, SK Telecom is carrying out key 
technology development and standardization activities through  
its 5G Global Innovation Center that was established in 2015.  
We also succeeded in demonstrating our 5G system with a 20.5Gbps 
data transmission speed in real time at the Mobile World Congress 
(MWC) 2016 in Barcelona, Spain. Through active technological 
development, we plan to commercialize our 5G services  
by 2020 for the first time in the world, following  
technological standardization in 2018. 
5G is an innovative network technology that enables  
ultra-low latency and mass-storage data processing at  
an ultra-high speed of at least 1Gbps per second. SK Telecom 
will present new value and newfound excitement by offering 
unprecedented next-generation platform services based on fast and 
efficient 5G networks. These will include virtual and  
augmented realities (VR and AR), artificial intelligence (AI) robots,  
3D holograms, smart homes, and driverless vehicles. 
Lifestlye 
Enhancement 
Platform
Making life happier by 
providing 
new values in all areas 
beyond communications 
services
Media
Platform
Offering individuals optimized 
content anytime, anywhere, 
through seamless wired 
and wireless integrated 
media services
IoT
Platform
Enhancing individual convenience 
and corporate efficiency 
by connecting all “Things” 
while analyzing  collected dataLeading the “5G Network” SK Telecom’s Lifestyle Enhancement Platform can generate values 
that are endless. Protecting our children’s safety, sharing information amongst those with similar interests, and making online and offline payments easier and simpler will be just the beginning. 
Life is more convenient and pleasant when high-quality communications 
services are combined with new platform services. SK Telecom’s Lifestyle Enhancement Platform will continue to increase happiness by offering differentiated benefits that meet the needs and lifestyles of our customers of all ages.  Delivering new value
in everyday life Lifestyle 
Enhancement 
PlatformOffering a personalized 
content environment 
SK Telecom’s Media Platform, which includes both wired and wireless services, allows 
users to enjoy their personalized media content anytime, anywhere. Not only do we provide individuals with optimized content and services in the integrated media platform environment, but we are also preparing to launch next-generation media platform services, such as AR, VR, and 3D holograms, to be enjoyed freely. Our Media Platform will go beyond the limits of time and space and the restraints of devices, and present unforgettable experiences for all users. Media 
PlatformSK Telecom’s IoT Platform will achieve a smart life for everyone. The “Smart 
Home” will provide solutions for people that will enable them to operate their home appliances with an alarm or a remote control, save energy including electricity and water, and safely lock their doors through smart functions.
We will continue to achieve a smart life for everyone by activating the IoT 
ecosystem with our partners in different industries. Our IoT Platform will provide individuals and companies with valuable services by going beyond the mobile device and connecting all “Things” while analyzing collected data.Connecting all “Things” 
beyond the mobile device Smart 
HomeEnhancing convenience and 
efficiency with innovation and connectivity 
SK Telecom’s IoT Platform that connects all “Things” is also leading in the 
development of infrastructures for driverless vehicles. These vehicles of the future start the engines on their own, self-drive in line with road situations, and are connected to relevant infrastructures in real time, and therefore require the integration of cutting-edge ICT technologies including 5G.  
SK Telecom continues to implement innovations into cars of the future 
by leading the development of key infrastructures for driverless vehicles, including the Vehicle to Infrastructure (V2I) technology and the cordless electric vehicle charging technology. SK Telecom’s advanced IoT platform will change the future by enhancing everyday convenience and the efficiency of industries.  IoT 
PlatformPursuing sustainable
growth for all
SK Telecom will secure full-fledged future growth potential by evolving 
into a next-generation platform service provider. In addition to this bold vision, we will continue to take into consideration the economic, social and environmental values while seeking harmonious growth with our stakeholders.  
In particular, we will also focus our efforts on further creating shared 
corporate and social values. These efforts will involve: achieving a “creative economy” as a new growth engine for the national economy; supporting ICT conversion-type venture start-ups such as “BRAVO! Restart”; reducing social greenhouse gases to cope with global warming and climate change; and advancing into new energy infrastructure industries. This will allow us to bring a sustainable future for all as a next-generation platform company and a true intelligent partner in life. 
8 years
Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index (DJSI) World for the eighth consecutive year, a first among telecommunications operators in Asia
KRW 4.1514 trillion
Ranked first among domestic service companies with a KRW 4.1514 brand value at the Best Korea Brands 2016 by Interbrand (ranked first among domestic 
telecommunications operators for the 
fourth consecutive year)
19 years
Ranked first in the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) survey by the Korea Productivity Center for nineteen straight years in 2016, ranking first for the 
longest period of time among domestic 
companies
NO. 1
Ranked first in the Broadband LTE, LTE-A, 3G Mobile Communications categories at the 2015 Communications Service Quality Evaluation by the Ministry of Science, ICT 
and Future Planning
34  startup teams
“BRAVO! Restart” is an ICT-based start-up 
support program, targeting young adults and middle-aged participants. Unlike conventional startup support programs, 
it offers an integrated assistance system 
from the development of startups to their commercialization and growth stages. Through this program, we have developed and fostered 34 teams of startup ventures since 2013.On its foundation as a South Korean mobile telecommunications service, SK Telecom 
is evolving into a Lifestyle Enhancement, Media, and IoT platform provider. SK Tele-com, as of December 31, 2015, accounted for about 49.4% share of domestic sub-scribers and is leading South Korea’s ICT ecosystem through the world’s ‘best’ and ‘first’ technology and services.
SHAREHOLDERS RETURN (NON-CONSOLIDATED, UNIT : KRW)
Net Income                  
Earnings per Share     
Total Dividend   
Stock Buyback                             
Dividend Payout Ratio  
Dividend per Share                              1,106.8 billion        13,707
708.1 billion
489.3 billion
64%
10,000 SHAREHOLDER STATUS (UNIT : %)
SK Corp. *
25.22%
Treasury Stock
12.55%
National Pension Fund
8.62%Institutional Investors and 
Minority Shareholders
53.61%1
OverviewLETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
OUR BUSINESS MODELYEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUES
PROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUES020024026
034
038
042046049 2
Business CasesBUSINESS CASE 1. TRANSFORMING TO THE PLATFORM PROVIDERBUSINESS CASE 2. SHARING THE INNOVATIONBUSINESS CASE 3. NEW CERTAINTY: PARIS AGREEMENT & CLIMATE CHANGE
3
GovernanceBOARD OF DIRECTORSGOVERNANCE REPORTRISK MANAGEMENT REPORT
TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY REPORT054
056064
068
5
AppendixCEO HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT 
HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT REPORTSUPPLY CHAIN REPORT
GRI INDEX
SASB INDEXUNGC INDEXNON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSK TELECOM GLOBAL NETWORK
INVESTOR INFORMATION116
118121
126
134135137143
1444
Financial   
& Non-Financial 
StatementFINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&ANON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORTTHIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENTGREENHOUSE GAS ASSURANCE STATEMENT072080089
091
107108109HIGHLIGHTS OF SK TELECOM (AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015)
Date of Establishment
Number of Subscribers
Number of Executives & Employees
Number of Subsidiary Companies
Stock Exchange Registration Status1984.03.29
About 28.63 million*
4,046
37
Korea Stock Exchange
New York Stock Exchange
London Stock Exchange
* Based on subscriber statistics from the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning
* Due to SK Corp.’s merger with its equity investment company, SK C&C, 
in 2015, the company name has been changed to SK Corp.About Us Inside This Year’s Report 016 017SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015ABOUT US INSIDE THIS YEAR’S REPORTOVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 018 019SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW OVERVIEW
1
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
OUR BUSINESS MODELYEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTSLONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUESPROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUES2024263438 OverviewOVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 020 021OVERVIEW OVERVIEW LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Letter to Stakeholders
Distinguished Stakeholders,
2015 was a year in which SK Telecom laid the groundwork for transformation not 
only as a mobile network operator (MNO), but also as a platform provider. 
The topics of interest in the telecommunications industry have moved beyond such quantitative 
competitions as LTE speed and acquiring subscribers, and are rapidly evolving to that of qualitative competition regarding products and services based upon high-quality data networks, which provide innovative value across individuals’ daily lives as well as the industry. In 2015, while SK Telecom provided the highest levels of customer value in the business through innovative products and services and led the data-centered market, it has also built the foundation to transform into a three platform business centered on Lifestyle Enhancement, Media and IoT that is based upon the capabilities and assets of the telecommunications business. As a result of these efforts, SK Telecom demonstrated financial results of KRW 17,136.7 billion in revenue as well as KRW 1,708 billion in operating profit on a consolidated basis in 2015. In addition, SK Telecom received the highest levels of external assessments across all of its management activities, as demonstrated by its efforts as a United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) LEAD company, status as the first Asian telecommunications company to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World for the eighth consecutive year, maintenance of the highest possible grade of “Excellent” from the Win-Win Index for the third consecutive year, first place rank in the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) for 19 years in a row, and first place rank in the network quality assessment of the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning.
Laying the foundation to become a next-generation platform provider
Meanwhile, as SK Telecom innovates the structure of the Mobile Network Operator with a focus on efficiency and cements its position as the market leader, it is also focusing on the company’s core capabilities centered on the three platform areas including the ‘Lifestyle Enhancement Platform’ that improves convenience and productivity by providing distinct value to customers that go beyond telecommunications services; the ‘Media Platform’ that provides customized content and a viewing experience optimized to the individual; and the ‘IoT Platform’ that provides valuable services by expanding the connectivity of all things.
In 2015, SK Telecom launched Lifestyle Enhancement Platform services in 2015 that satisfy 
segmented customer needs for a wide range of ages and lifestyles, some of which include the customized platform ‘Club T Kids’ for parents and children and ‘Petween’ for animal companions. The ‘Lifestyle Enhancement Platform’ service, which delivers unprecedented value on the foundation of the core assets of mobile telecommunications, is henceforth expected to contribute to customer base expansion in new business areas through enhanced service lineups and packages. 
At the beginning of 2016 in the media area, the successful launch of the mobile media platform 
‘oksusu,’ which combines ‘B tv mobile’ and ‘hoppin,’ was based upon increased wired IPTV subscribers and the growth of paid content revenue in 2015. SK Telecom is continuously SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 022 023OVERVIEW OVERVIEW LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
endeavoring to build a next-generation media platform delivery environment, as demonstrated by the 360° virtual reality service centered on ‘oksusu,’ release of exclusive content and the introduction of ultra-low delay broadcasting technology that reduces the real-time broadcast transmission speed up to three seconds.
In the IoT Platform area, while completing the IoT-exclusive network by building a national 
network for an IoT hybrid network, SK Telecom is leading the market by collaborating with various partners such as the city of Daegu, KEPCO and Korea University to expand open platform business models based upon the creation of IoT ecosystems in the areas of security·energy·automobiles·cities. Additionally, by driving the ‘home’ strategy that encompasses media and IoT, SK Telecom will continue to maximize the synergy and interconnectedness at the growth stage of each next-generation platform.
Strengthening market leadership through core competitiveness as a Mobile 
Network Operator 
SK Telecom, which has avoided wasteful marketing competition and led the market by focusing 
on customer retention, took the lead in changing the mobile telecommunication market’s competitive paradigm to one based upon the core competitiveness of products and services, as can be seen in the increase of the proportion of handset upgrade customers to over 50% among new and handset upgrade subscribers after the second quarter of 2015. The data-centered ‘Band Data Rate Plan’ that was introduced last May secured 7 million subscribers by the end of the year after its launch, and as it pioneered the structural change from products and services focused on voice calls to those focused on data, it drove the improvement of the effectiveness of data services. In addition, the success of the end-user device LUNA opened the way for the launch of a variety of affordable phones. The launch of a variety of products based on 2nd devices such as the Joon Kids Phone and T Pet led to an impressive 86.6% share (according to the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning) of the wearables market by the end of 2015, attesting to SK Telecom’s differentiated competitiveness.
Creating integrated social-corporate value through responsibility management
SK Telecom has supported the implementation of the ‘Creative Economy,’ which is the new growth driver of the national economy, and is promoting public-private cooperative businesses through the Sejong ·Daejeon Center for Creative Economy and Innovation. The ‘Creative 
Village,’ which was jointly founded by SK Telecom and the Sejong Center for Creative Economy and Innovation, is considered an outstanding example of effectively increasing agricultural competitiveness and convenience through ICT technology and smart networks. The ICT convergence venture support project, known as the ‘BRAVO! Restart’ program, has both contributed to the discovery of new growth drivers for SK Telecom and is also an integrated value creation program that unites ICT capabilities and plays a role in solving social problems. By the end of 2015, a total of 34 teams received support from SK Telecom and their results were evidenced by product releases, patent applications and expansion into global markets, leading social innovation through ICT technology.As international efforts to respond to climate change bore fruit with the signing of the Paris Agreement, it is anticipated that climate change and energy issues will go beyond general corporate social responsibility to become new areas of opportunity. SK Telecom exercises its environmental responsibility not only in terms of building low-power networks and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the course of business, but also by actualizing energy-related growth business models. In this regard, the ‘SK Telecom-KEPCO Collaboration Center’ in Naju, South Jeolla Province that was established through a long-term partnership with KEPCO for new energy businesses will serve as a valuable example. Beginning with the development of wireless charging facilities for the automobiles of the future and services to expand ICT infrastructure, SK Telecom will not only leverage eco-friendly ICT technology to reduce GHG and energy usage, but also has a vision to fuse such technology with the development of department stores, universities, and cities to discover growth opportunities in new dimensions.
Corporate value innovation through business transformation and performance 
turnaround
In 2016, SK Telecom steadfastly built up the appropriate capabilities for the platform businesses 
in terms of talent, infrastructure, and services. By effecting structural changes and innovation in its business, and having a robust organizational culture marked by speed and skill, SK Telecom came to possess world-class efficiency and competitiveness, and is now pursuing its successful transformation into a platform provider.
SK Telecom, which has pioneered Korea’s mobile telecommunications history thus far, 
possesses a sound competitive culture due to its core competitiveness and customer trust. Thereby, as the company leads the expansion of the ICT ecosystem and leads innovation that goes beyond competition, it will continue to advance and grow. SK Telecom will effectively deliver the highest values to customers through its successful transformation as a ‘next-generation platform provider.’ Furthermore, the company will innovate its corporate value by the momentum of the platform businesses’ performance, while at the same time playing a pivotal role in the country’s future ICT development.
I look forward to the unwavering interest and support of our customers, investors, and 
stakeholders. Thank you.
DONG-HYUN JANG
President and CEO SK Telecom
July 2016SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Expanding the Business Model to Lead the Platform Age
For the past thirty years, SK Telecom’s network has connected individuals and evolved to meet a new 
future. SK Telecom, which has written the new history of mobile telecommunications for South Korea through unprecedented services and advanced technology, is now preparing to evolve into a next-generation platform provider. Going beyond the limits of the mobile telecommunications industry, SK Telecom is evolving into a next-generation platform provider that offers innovative products and services that satisfy customers’ needs. Through the Lifestyle Enhancement Platform that provides new value in customers’ daily lives, the Media Platform that fulfills the need for individualized content, and the IoT Platform that connects all things in the world, SK Telecom will pursue its future growth.024 025 Our Business Model
Capital Input Output Value Creation Activity Outcome
Financial 
Capital
Human CapitalIn recognition of the fact that human capital is 
a pivotal part of SK Telecom’s business model 
and that competent individuals contribute to 
innovation and excellent business performance, 
policies are implemented to attract and retain 
excellent employees and due diligence is per -
formed to respect and uphold the human rights in the business processes.
Intellectual 
CapitalSK Telecom recognizes the importance of patented 
technology in the course of business and consid-
ers it to be a significant type of capital. Policies 
to foster the ICT ecosystem including open inno-
vation, big data hubs and open platforms are SK 
Telecom’s approach to sharing its strengths and 
enhancing the value and efficiency of the use of 
joint intellectual properties of society.
Manufac-
tured CapitalSK Telecom’s businesses are dependent on phys -
ical infrastructural assets such as networks, the 
stability and sustainability of which are main -
tained through efficient investment.
Social & 
Network CapitalWhile establishing cooperative relationships with 
various stakeholders including business partners 
and the government based on customer trust, SK 
Telecom is striving to earn more trust and respect 
by fulfilling its CSR and making efforts to contribute 
to society and create shared value.
Natural 
CapitalThe operation of nationwide networks and data 
centers requires large amounts of electric power, 
and such use of energy leads to indirect GHG 
emissions. Accordingly, efforts are being made 
to improve the environmental capital through 
use of ICT solutions and research to reduce so -
cial GHG emissions.SK Telecom is listed on the Korea Stock Exchange, 
New York Stock Exchange and London Stock 
Exchange. As SK Telecom’s business relies upon 
the financial capital provided by shareholders and 
investors, it strives to maximize shareholder value 
through dividends and the shareholder return policy.Unprecedented products 
and services
·  High-quality audio and data services
·  Service platforms for lifestyle enhancement through diverse 
needs
·  Experience the highest level 
of media content
· Innovative IoT solutions
Innovative customer experience
· Responsible marketing·  Personal information   protection
· Content responsibility· Promoting healthy ICT
Implementing social re -
sponsibility and promoting national growth
·  Fostering and supporting the ICT ecosystem
·  Mutual growth with partner companies
·  Social innovation through ICT and promoting the creative economySocial & Network Capital
·  Improving social capital through increasing access to internet
·  Enhancing lifestyle value 
through communicationHuman Capital
·   Direct and indirect job creation
·   Fostering ICT talents and 
improving human capital
Manufactured Capital
·  IT infrastructure that contrib -
utes to personal lives and business productivity (LTE- & IoT-exclusive networks)Intellectual Capital
·  Technological development 
through innovative ICT  technology, products, services and solutions
·  Contribution to a social  innovative technology
Natural Capital
·   Reducing social GHG through ICT
·  Contribution to the climate change response and adapta
-
tion through technology· Commerce businesses including 11th st, Syrup, Shopkick·  Healthcare businesses including non-invasive diagnostic devices and healthcare solutions
·  Lifewear including high-end audio, smart beams, robots and app accessoriesMNO Business
Platform Business
Lifestyle Enhancement  Platform
Providing differentiated value that fulfills individuals’  segmented needs across all lifestyles and ages
· Club T Kids - Customized platform for parents and children· T Pay - Make payments and get discounts with one app
Media PlatformProvide customized content optimized to the individual and  a next-generation media viewing experience
·  oksusu - Individualized mobile media service, provides   a differentiated viewing experience linked to AR/VR
·  Evolve into a platform service for next-generation video through 
multi network channels
IoT Platform
Improved convenience and productivity with big data analysis  
and IoT
· IoT solution service, IoT-exclusive network and platform·  Expand the automobile, rental, energy, security, city infrastructure and data solution areas
Growth Business & Etc.Products & Services
Community & SocietyCustomer & Consumer Financial Capital
·  Creating profit and returns
·  Shareholder returns
·   Contributing to GDP growth (indirect economic value)
· 2G / 3G / 4G LTE
·  5G (currently seeking technology 
standardization)
· IoT-exclusive network
·  High-speed internet networks such as giga internet
· Smartphones· Wearable devices ·  Home appliances and home 
control devices linked with Smart 
Home 
·  Devices to provide rental, 
security, Smart Farm and Smart 
Factory services·  App development through 
customer segment analysis 
·  Investment in and coopera-tion with content startups
· Multi Channel Network(MCN)
·  Cable broadcasting content provider/Individual media cooperation
·  Provide a great develop-ment environment for app developers and support commercializationNetwork
Building, maintaining and repairing the network 
and infrastructureDevelopm
ent, investment and cooperationfor apps and content
Telecommunications/smart device development,alliances and distribution
Contents
Device
* The six capitals and business model concepts of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) have been appliedBusiness Portfolio
Value ChainProviding fixed and wireless voice and data services
· Providing voice and data services·  
Fixed-line calls and international calls (SK Broadband,  SK Telink)
· Internet and IPTV (SK Broadband)SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
MNO 
Business
Platform  
Business
Growth
Business & Etc.OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX SK Telecom is on a journey to become a next-generation platform 
company from the firm foundation of its telecommunications capabilities.
2015 KEY PERFORMANCE  
Laying the Groundwork for Change in Platforms, Not Just Mobile Telecommunications
In 2015, SK Telecom provided the framework for change not only in terms of MNO, but also in platforms. 
SK Telecom reported an average monthly churn rate of 1.5% as of the end of 2015, notable for being the lowest since the introduction of the mobile number portability system in 2004. Since the second quarter of 2015, SK Telecom successfully changed the telecommunication industry’s competitive paradigm to one focused on customer retention, as demonstrated by the rate of handset upgrade subscribers increasing to over 50% among all new subscribers.
The data-centered Band Data Rate Plan, which was released in May 2015 and added industry-leading 
data capacity and benefits along with unlimited wireless and fixed-line voice calls, had a record 7 million subscribers by year-end and drove an increase in data usage. The success of the end-user device LUNA, which inspired a variety of subsequent low-cost devices, was a prime example of targeting niche markets.  In this way, SK Telecom has further burnished its reputation as a market leader while innovating the primary  structure of its MNO business. Also, along with strengthening the Life style Enhancement Platform that increases new experiences and value for customers across their daily lives, SK Telecom is making mid- to long-term moves to 
demonstrate results in the three platform areas that it has emphasized since last year. This includes the company’s concentration in media capabilities in order to make the leap as a next-generation media platform provider and the Smart Home service based on IoT.
Looking for Turnaround: Overcoming Growth Limits in the Telecommunications Market
In 2015, SK Telecom achieved KRW 17.1367 trillion in annual revenue and KRW 1.708 trillion in operating profit according to the consolidated financial statements of the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Despite growth limits in the domestic telecommunications market, SK Telecom maintained revenue volume at last year’s level, but operating profit decreased 6.4% compared to last year due to increased personnel expenses and the rising expenses of subsidiaries’ business activities. An annual net profit of KRW 1.5159 trillion was recorded, a 15.8% decrease compared to last year due to influences such as a decrease in profits in the equity method company SK Hynix.
SK Telecom made KRW 1.8913 trillion in capital expenditures (CAPEX) on a non-consolidated basis, a 
reduction of more than KRW 100 billion compared to guidance criteria. In terms of CAPEX, SK Telecom seeks to maintain stabilization in the mid- to long-term, following efforts to improve network operating technology 
advancement and investment efficiency. 026 027OVERVIEW OVERVIEW YEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOKYEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTSBUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK
Business Transformation and 
Performance Turnaround
PERFORMANCE BASED ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unit: KRW billion)PERFORMANCE BASED ON NON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unit: KRW billion)
201216,141
1,730
201417,164
1,825
201316,602
2,011
2015
17,137
1,708Operating Revenue
Operating Profit Operating Revenue
Operating Profit
2012 2014 2013 201512,333
1,675
12,860
1,970
13,013
1,737 
12,557
1,659SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 2016 FUTURE PLANS AND OUTLOOK 
Maximizing corporate value is a top priority of SK Telecom and to this end the company will strengthen 
the fundamentals of the mobile telecommunications market as well as develop a variety of platform businesses for future growth. In 2016, SK Telecom plans to achieve a goal of KRW 17.6 trillion in revenue, a 2.7% growth compared to last year through business transformation and performance turnaround.
-  Set a goal of achieving KRW 17.6 trillion in revenue through a net increase in subscribers by providing 
new value, enhancing the core competitiveness of products and services and business growth
-   Product differentiation through media content and strengthening of platform services that are in close 
contact with one’s lifestyle, which utilize MNO assets
-  Ensuring network quality competitiveness by acquiring optimal frequencies that comprehensively 
consider demand and cost efficiency
-  Present tangible results from the three major platform businesses, lifestyle enhancement, media and IoT 
Strengthening the Fundamentals through Core Competitiveness
Although there were factors, such as contract discounts, that caused declining revenue in the mobile 
telecommunications sector in 2016, SK Telecom plans to realize revenue growth through the launch of new products and services to increase the value of data usage. In order to strengthen competitiveness in the mobile telecommunications market, SK Telecom will solidify market leadership through the launch of special offer products, such as end-user devices, rate plans, and alliances and bundled services, according to customer needs from the first quarter. Market competition stabilized after the introduction of the Handset Distribution Act and SK Telecom took the lead in launching key products and services in this new environment. The company will reinforce the fundamentals of its telecommunications business by growing the proportion of LTE subscribers and promoting data usage. 
Transformation through Platform Businesses
While SK Telecom will initiate a turnaround by improving its core competitiveness in mobile telecommunications together with the cost reduction, it is a challenge to continue meaningful growth in a saturated market. Considering this situation, the company seeks to overcome the current growth limits in the market through its transformation into a platform provider.
SK Telecom is initiating three platform businesses centered on lifestyle enhancement, media and IoT, as 
they are areas of future opportunities. Each platform business is expected to increase mutual connectivity in the growth stage. For instance, as the home-based competitiveness is gained through enhanced media, synergy will be maximized by expanding this competitiveness to the IoT and lifestyle enhancement platforms.
Building the Foundation for the Three Platform Businesses
Through the Lifestyle Enhancement Platform, SK Telecom will provide unprecedented value to customers and prepare for monetization with a diverse service lineup that leverages the strengths of the mobile telecommunications market such as rates, devices and affiliated services. The Lifestyle Enhancement 
Platform enhances the competitiveness of the mobile telecommunications business while simultaneously aiming to reach a level of competitiveness at which it is possible for the platform service to scale  up and 
generate profits on its own. The company seeks to create future value by providing content, community 
and commerce features as well as differentiated benefits that suit the needs that subscriber segments have in common.
In the Media Platform area, SK Telecom secured a total of 7.56 million wireless TV subscribers including 
4.08 million B tv mobile subscribers by year end. In 2016, SK Telecom will emerge as a total media platform provider by expanding its media outward and developing new business models, a prime example of which is the recent success of the integrated mobile channel.
During the period that SK Telecom focused on extending an open-source ecosystem in the IoT Platform 
area, it has initiated market entry in the core areas of manufacturing, public services and smartphones. In particular, the Smart Home service was commercialized in May 2015 and formed 50 alliances and 70 linked products, with expectations to lead the IoT market by continually expanding that foundation. By integrating the home appliance category through more alliances, SK Telecom will analyze customers’ lifestyle patterns and offer them new value. By completing the exclusive networks with an IoT Hybrid network along with alliances with more partners in the automobile, energy, security and city infrastructure businesses, SK Telecom plans to fuse IoT technology to expand the ecosystem and pioneer a new market.
In terms of SK Planet, SK Telecom has implemented structural reorganization that divides the business 
into areas such as Commerce and Platform so that each area can have a structure that is flexible for success. First, on the basis of its steady success in the domestic market, the Commerce company has plans to further solidify its position in global operations in countries such as Turkey, Indonesia and Malaysia. SK Planet will strengthen its existing competitive services such as Syrup and OK Cashbag, further solidifying the foundation of Next Commerce, both domestically and internationally.
In 2015, SK Telecom strengthened its core competitiveness in the mobile telecommunications service 
and platform business divisions with innovative products and services, once again demonstrating its sustainable growth potential. Indeed, in 2016, SK Telecom will build leadership that pioneers the data age through differentiated network competitiveness and customer value-oriented services while developing into a next-generation platform provider that fulfills customers’ in-depth needs and provides new value.
Active Shareholder Return Policy  
SK Telecom made company innovation a top priority in 2015 and strove to improve shareholder value. Indirect shareholder return was achieved through the repurchase of shares on five occasions in the past 9 years. In 2015, SK Telecom raised annual dividends to KRW 10,000 dividend per shares (DPS) including an interim dividend of KRW 1000. Efforts will be made to increase corporate value by maintaining a balance between investment and shareholder returns. 028 029OVERVIEW OVERVIEW
2007 2009 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015682
119
682
92
682
670
656
210
655
208
656
657
708
48942%53% 53%
34%39%53%73%65% 64%YEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOKYEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTSBUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOKSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
ANNUAL SCALE OF SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
(Unit: KRW billion)Cash Dividends Repurchase of Shares Payout Ratio (%)SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 030 031OVERVIEW OVERVIEW
SK Hynix
SK Telecom is discovering new growth opportunities through the convergence of telecommunications 
and other industries due to SK Hynix, its global semiconductor subsidiary. Following the acquisition, SK Hynix recorded KRW 18.798 trillion in revenue (9.7% year-over-year growth) and KRW 5.3361 trillion in operating profit (4.4% growth year-over-year growth, 28.4% increase in operating margin) during 2015, again achieving the highest performance since its establishment for three consecutive years. In the terms of DRAM, a main revenue source, the storage capacity per device was increased and following the product expansion of DDR4 (Double Data Rate 4th Generation SD RAM), a 20% annual increase in demand is expected. Despite a slowdown in demand for mobile products, the demand for Nand Flash is forecast to grow about 30% owing to the strength of the SSD (Solid State Disk) market’s expansion.  
On the one hand, as SK Hynix mass-produces the early-class 20 Nano DRAM, it course of action is to strengthen its competitiveness by focusing on the development of the 10 Nano-class DRAM. In addition, it plans to improve profitability by operating a flexible product portfolio that is responsive to market demand. In order to overcome anticipated difficulties in the semiconductor industry such as slowed demand growth and intensifying competition, SK Hynix will become more competitive by making about KRW 6 trillion in investments in 2016 as well as pushing to improve cost competitiveness, investment efficiency and intensively reducing costs.
201210,162
-227
201417,126
5,109
201314,165
3,380
201518,798
5,336Revenue
Operating ProfitOPERATIONAL REVIEW
LTE Subscribers and Data Usage per Person
Due to SK Telecom’s differentiated services and core competitiveness, the number of LTE subscribers and monthly LTE data 
usage per person has increased. Accordingly, the billing-based ARPU has increased 1.3% (YOY) to KRW 36,582. (Please refer to the billing ARPU on p.84). 
1Q'13 1Q'14 1Q'15 2Q'13 2Q'14 2Q'15 3Q'13 3Q'14 3Q'15 4Q'13 4Q'14 4Q'15MONTHLY LTE DATA USAGE PER PERSON (Unit: GB) LTE SUBSCRIBERS
2013 1Q'15 2Q'15 3Q'15 4Q'1517.5
2014
16.7
17.9
18.513.5
19.053.7%59.2%62.3% 63.4% 64.8%66.3%
Market size (monthly average no. of new and 
handset upgrade subscribers, in thousands=)
Handset upgrade proportion*(%)Penetration rate No. of LTE subscribers 
(Unit: million)
Handset Upgrade Proportion and Churn Rate
The stabilization of the market and a change to a paradigm focused on handset upgrades have emerged and accordingly, the 
churn rate has been maintained at the lowest level since the start of mobile number portability.
*  The proportion of handset upgrade (excluding MVNO) in the monthly market 
size (new + handset upgrade)Launch of in-net-
work unlimited 
voice calls rate 
plan (March 2013)Launch of LTE unlimited data 
rate plan (April 
2014)
Launch of Band data rate plan 
(May 2015)
* Excluding one-time involuntary cancellations
*K-IFRS Consolidated Basis2013 1Q'15 2Q'15 3Q'15 4Q'15 20142.3%
2.0% 2.0%
1.4% 1.4% 1.4%1.81.92.0 2.02.12.62.93.0 3.03.33.73.9
CHURN RATE HANDSET UPGRADE
PROPORTION
2013 1Q'15 2Q'15 3Q'15 4Q'15 2014
845780
828
852874
83932.3% 28.0%38.1%54.7% 57.3% 59.4%YEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS
SUBSIDIARIESYEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTSBUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK
Creating ICT Synergy Through
Network, Hardware and PlatformSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Marketing Expenses and CAPEX
At 23%, marketing expenses are on a downward trend compared to revenue due to the easing of the overheated competition 
after market stabilization. Furthermore, the CAPEX has been reduced compared to guidance.
Marketing expenses
23.0% 23.8% 23.5%27.0%
25.7% 25.2%Proportion compared to operating profitCAPEX (NON-CONSOLIDATED) MARKETING EXPENSES
(NON-CONSOLIDATED)
1,100
825
832
816
846
740
749
721
1Q'14 1Q'15 2Q'14 2Q'15 3Q'14 3Q'15 4Q'14 4Q'15
517265
588
774
319
348
400
824
1Q'14 1Q'15 2Q'14 2Q'15 3Q'14 3Q'15 4Q'14 4Q'1533.7%
25.3%Network Non Network223 42
424 93
505 83
581 193
271 48
265 83
299 101
609 215SK HYNIX PERFORMANCE
(Unit: KRW billion)SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX SK Planet
SK Planet is a company that specializes in integrated & personalized commerce, seeking to bring more 
delight and convenience to customers’ lives through innovative and creative services. It connects the online and offline worlds and opens up new possibilities in mobile.  SK Planet provides diverse O2O (Online to Offline) services that deliver an optimized mobile commerce experience for the digital age and surpasses the competition in marketplace services and on-offline shopping as it leads the next commerce age. In 2015, SK Planet enhanced its market influence through the continuous growth of the mobile-focused 11th st, and strengthening existing services OK Cashbag and Syrup as well as expanding the vertical service. SK Planet also demonstrated tangible results through 11th st’s global expansion in Turkey, Indonesia and Malaysia. In February 2016, the commerce and platform businesses were restructured into commerce-centered business. In order to gain market leadership in e-Commerce and create new growth drivers, SK Planet acquired Commerce Planet and is in the process of creating business synergies. SK Planet’s platform business was established as a separate corporation and as a growth driver for SK Telecom’s Lifestyle Enhancement Platform, it is expected to enhance synergy. 032 033OVERVIEW OVERVIEW YEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS
SUBSIDIARIESYEAR 2015 ACHIEVEMENTSSUBSIDIARIES
SK Broadband
As the company that commercialized services such as the world’s first ADSL service, first domestic 
high-speed wireless internet service and first domestic Pre-IPTV service, SK Broadband is writing South Korea’s high-speed internet and IPTV history. SK Broadband seeks to become a company specializing in media and B2B that offers new value and delight in the media and B2B sectors.  SK Broadband secured 5.04 million B Internet subscribers by the end of 2015 due to the expansion of the IPTV subscriber base and broadband’s continuous growth. Although the usage and subscribers of home phone lines are continuously decreasing due to the substitution effect, IPTV subscribers are continuously increasing, and 3.48 million users were secured, a year-over-year growth of 23.5%. SK Broadband will play a major role in improving quality and service through efforts such as providing differentiated services as well as enhancing the convenience of subscribing through an expanded sales network, thus evolving the subsidy-focused competition for customers to a quality-focused competition. 
*K-IFRS consolidated basis, Increments stemming from the merger with SK M&C in Feb. 2013 have been added2012 2014 2013 201526
8.7
-5.9131,035
1,5131,378
1,659
2012 2014 2013 20152,492
82
2,654
2,73158
642,539
73
2014 2013 20154,569
4,568
2,081
4,810
4,513
2,819
5,036
4,450
3,482B Internet
B Phone
B tvSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
SK PLANET PERFORMANCE
(Unit: KRW billion)SK BROADBAND PERFORMANCE
(Unit: KRW billion)NUMBER OF SUBSCRIBERS
(Unit: thousand, cumulative)Revenue
Operating ProfitRevenue
Operating ProfitSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEW OVERVIEW LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUES LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUES SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
034 035 Material Issue Management for 
Mid- to Long-term Value Creation
Business Strategies  
and Risk Issues 3)Stakeholder-proposed Issues 1) Industry Context Analysis
(General Industry Level)Cost Impact Assessment
Company Context Analysis
(Specific Company Level)Revenue Impact 
Assessment
Risk Impact AssessmentMaterial  
IssuesIssue Pool
Business 
Relevance 
Analysis 4)
Impact 
Assessment 5)Relevance Impact
ApprovalReview by BOD
ValuationMATERIAL ISSUES
The material issues that SK Telecom selected in 2015 are as follows. 
International Standard Review 2)
·SDGs 
·UNGC Principles
·OECD MNE Guideline 
·GRI Guideline 
·SASB Matrix 
·ISO26000 1) Refer to the stakeholder engagement channels in the    
    Governance section on p.62
2)  Refer to the Non-Financial MD&A on p.91 for detailed 
engagement guidelines
3)  Business Strategy Issues - Refer to the Business 
Performance and Outlook section on pp.26-30
    Risk Issues - Refer to the Risk Management Report      section on pp.64-674) Refer to the Context on Material Issues section  
    on pp.36-37
5) Reflects the research and expert opinions of a 3rd      party expert institution (Korea Productivity Center)Cost
 
 Revenue
 
 Risk
 
 Level
Core
Moderate
RelevantImpact
Material Issues
ICT Convergence
Network Quality & Risk Mgt
Customer Retention & Responsible Marketing
Social & Business Innovation
Climate Change & Paris AgreementData Privacy
Supply Chain Assessment & Assurance 
Business Partner Mutual GrowthHuman Capital DevelopmentMATERIAL ISSUES
HighHigh
High  
ModerateModerate
HighRelevant
Relevant
Relevant  GRI Aspect
Economic Performance
Non-GRI
Marketing CommunicationsProduct & Service Labeling
Indirect Economic Impact
Energy / Emissions Customer Privacy
Supplier Assessment
Non-GRIEmployment  
Training & EducationRelevance  
Page
pp.42-44
pp.97-98
p.45  
pp.46-48pp.49-51pp.98-99
pp.121-125
p.99pp.94-95  SK Telecom considers the diverse economic, environmental 
and social changes that may impact future value creation and sustainability to discern material issues. The company discloses its responses and performance regarding each issue on an annual basis.
SK Telecom considers a wide range of economic, social and environmental issues, identifies the material issues that may impact the company’s mid- to long-term development, and ensures that they are reflected in management decisions. By material issues, SK Telecom refers to those issues that are relevant to the impact on the business and stakeholders as well as the actual level of impact that it has on the company’s ability to create sustainable value. After the material issues have gone through the technical analysis process, 
SK Telecom’s Corporate Citizenship Committee under the Board decides upon the priority of the issues.
The economic, environmental and social issues refer to global political-social issues including the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), global regulations, mid- to long-term social trends, issues raised by international organizations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) as well as externalities that became known in the company’s business process. These issues are managed in an issue pool and on the basis of the annual stakeholder participation process, the results of the relevance assessment and results of assessing the financial impact from the cost, revenue and risk perspectives are integrated through the industry level (analysis of similar businesses) and individual company level (collection of internal opin -
ions) and the priorities are identified. In 2015, SK Telecom selected nine material issues and among these, the company discloses the management methods, results and goals regarding ICT Convergence, Customer Retention & Responsible Marketing, Social & Business Innovation, Climate Change & Paris Agreement in Part 2 ‘Business Cases,’ and regarding the remaining material issues in Part 4 ‘Non-Financial Statements.’ Please refer to the next page for information regarding the material issue assessment and background.RelevanceMATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
ImpactEMERGING RELEVANT MODERATE CORE high
low
low highNetwork Quality & Risk Mgt
Social & Business 
Innovation
Supply Chain  
Assessment & Assurance 
Corporate 
PhilanthropyHuman Rights, Labor,  and Diversity 
Resource Efficiency and Responsibility
ComplianceHealth & Safety
Electromagnetic Fields
Biodiversity
Supply Chain Diversity Data Privacy
Business Partner  
Mutual GrowthClimate Change & Paris Agreement
Human Capital 
DevelopmentICT ConvergenceCustomer Retention 
& Responsible 
MarketingSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 036 037OVERVIEW OVERVIEW LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUES LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUES
CONTEXT ON MATERIAL ISSUES
ICT Convergence
The acceleration of second devices, wearable devices and IoT has led to the emergence of new hardware 
that have merged with services and a rapidly increasing volume of data production and consumption. These developments will soon connect with ICT convergence, which will bring about revolutionary changes across the industry. Long-term trends such as these are connected to changes in SK Telecom’s mid- to long-term business model and value creation model, and will also lead to extensive economic and social impacts stemming from ICT technology. SK Telecom is approaching this issue through the next generation Lifestyle Enhancement Platform, Media Platform and the IoT Platform strategies. Please refer to pp.42-44 for a more detailed business case, performance and outlook.
Quality Network Infrastructure
SK Telecom’s core service competitiveness rests on its telecommunications infrastructure and quality including the completion of the 5G mobile telecommunications network that followed the 4G network. Furthermore, considering that network infrastructure failures may lead to the collapse of economic and social systems, this constitutes business continuity risks for individual companies. According to higher frequency and scale of natural disasters resulting from climate change, it is expected that SK Telecom will face more physical threats to its network infrastructure. If it fails to build reliable and resilient infrastructure, it may encounter effects such as declining revenue resulting from large-scale network failures and unexpected capital expenses for repairs. While SK Telecom is continually investing to build a next-generation network infrastructure and network quality, it also has a systematic risk management system to respond to telecommunications failures and technical risks. Please refer to pp.98-99 for a more detailed business case, performance and outlook. 
Competitive Paradigm Focused on Customer Retention
In October 2014, the Handset Distribution Act came into effect in order to resolve the overheated subsidy competition in the mobile telecommunications market and establish transparent and orderly distribution. The Handset Distribution Act prohibits subsidy discrimination and introduced strengthened regulation of details with the aim of creating a sound distribution structure. As such, market competition is changing through the expansion of user protection, a more transparent distribution structure and a change to the competitive structure based on handset upgrades. SK Telecom rose above the wasteful marketing competition over subscribers and has instead improved customer value on the strength of its products and services. Through its core competitiveness, the company has shifted to a retention-centered policy and is striving to enhance marketing efficiency. As a result, in 2015, SK Telecom continued the trend in reducing the average churn rate achieved a monthly churn rate of 1.5%, the lowest recorded since the mobile number portability policy began. Please refer to p.45 for a more detailed business case, performance and outlook.Social & Business Innovation
ICT enables economic actors to connect with one another and it leads the sharing of knowledge and technology, paving the way for greater cooperation in society and business. In contrast with research and development, which require large investments, ICT plays a meaningful role in both the implementation of creative ideas as well as commercialization and entrepreneurship. ICT can also serve as a springboard for the implementation of the Creative Economy, which is based on innovation and creativity, not growth dependent on labor and capital. In order to become a contact point between the implementation of the Creative Economy, which is the government’s priority, and the economic value of ICT, SK Telecom has been making efforts to create open innovation by enhancing the ICT ecosystem and creating shared values between the company and society. Please refer to pp.46-48 for a more detailed business case, performance and outlook.
Climate Change and Paris Agreement  
In contrast with the Kyoto Protocol, by which only developed countries were obliged to reduce greenhouse gases, the Paris Agreement that was reached in 2015 is considered a new climate regime as it is the first binding agreement that 195 countries must uphold. South Korea, where SK Telecom’s main business is located, presented a 37% reduction goal compared to business as usual (BAU) by 2030. Prior to this, South Korea had implemented the Emissions Trading System (ETS). The ETS, as a regulation that responds to climate change by regulating the total quantity of emissions rights, allocated emissions rights to target companies and is a system that allows companies to freely trade with one another through market mechanisms. The increasing cost of complying with the increased energy and environmental regulations stemming from climate change may have a financial impact on SK Telecom, which relies on power production in order to maintain the reliability of networks and data centers. As the sources of energy consumption shift to clean and renewable energy sources across industries and society, SK Telecom may also be able to reap new business opportunities. Please refer to pp.49-51 for a more detailed business case, performance and outlook.
Data Privacy
As the use of mobile phones, internet and email services grow, customer privacy issues are being highlighted as an area of keen interest. The need for strong policy guidelines to safeguard information and the implementation of privacy protection measures has never been greater. In particular, the importance of issues related to the specific information that telecommunications companies save, such as location based services (LBS) and demographical statistical data that are utilized by third-parties and directly linked to revenue, is expected to rise. Along with data privacy, the use of personal information that uses ICT technology is evolving into a human rights problem. SK Telecom is endeavoring to prevent data privacy violations across all services through the human rights due diligence process based upon the companywide human rights policy. Please refer to pp.98-99 for a more detailed business case, performance and outlook. 
SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015OVERVIEW BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX ICT CONVERGENCE038 039OVERVIEW OVERVIEW
Progress on Material IssuesPROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUES PROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUES
The Lifestyle Enhancement Platform is 
expanding the business model by  1) creating more value with a platform 
that meets segmented needs with a 
focus on existing subscribers and 2nd device subscribers, and 2) developing a new platform that offers new lifestyle enhancement in the OTT area.In 2015, the number of 2nd device  (T Outdoor, T Kids, T Pocket-Fi, T Pet) subscribers stood at 599,000. The 
share of ‘wearable device’ subscribers 
according to the Ministry of Science, ITC and Future Planning was 86.6%.-  Securing 1.4 million cumulative 2nd device subscribers (by 2016).
-  Securing 10 million Lifestyle 
Enhancement Platform service 
subscribers by expanding 
subscribers and services that provide direct value to customer’s lives in the future (by 2018). Progress Number of 2nd Device Users Long-term Target
599,000 ’15Lifestyle Enhancement Platform   
IoT Platform   
The IoT Platform is expanding  linked devices and the alliance  
ecosystem with a focus on the LPWA 
(Low Power Wide Area)  based 
network and is developing  services that are competitive in the B2B/B2C area.  The IoT area revenue consists of the line charges and platform usage 
fee in the data rate plan as well as 
revenue from  area-specific devices, and equipment payment solutions. -  Continually expand the IoT Platform business model and achieve KRW  
1.1 trillion in revenue (by 2018).
Progress IoT Platform Area Revenue* Long-term Target
KRW 733.3 billion ’15Media Platform   
The Media Platform seeks to secure 
a variety of platforms including wired IPTV and wireless OTT, evolve into a total media platform that breaks away from the limits of time and space to establish itself as Ko -
rea’s number one media business.-  Expand the subscriber base and content competitiveness, secure 15 million Media Platform subscribers and KRW 1.2 trillion in annual revenue by enhancing the value chain with the oksusu service (by 
2018). ProgressNumber of B tv + B tv mobile  
Subscribers (cumulative) Long-term Target
’13
’142.89 million
5.19 million
7.56 million ’15
CHANGING THE MARKET PARADIGM TO CUSTOMER RETENTION-FOCUSED COMMUNICATIONS
2.3% ’13
2.0% ’14
1.5% ’15SK Telecom has continuously 
reduced the average monthly churn rate through policies focused on active maintenance and service differentiation.-  Continue the change to a customer retention-focused telecommunications market paradigm by achieving a monthly average churn rate at the 1% level (by 2018). Progress Average Monthly Churn Rate Long-term TargetExpanding Customer Value Through Core Service Competitiveness   SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
SOCIAL & BUSINESS INNOVATION
10 teams ’13
23 teams ’14
34 teams ’15As the representative entrepreneurial 
program that a large company has initiated, while BRAVO! Restart sup -
ports startups through a substantial support system, it is also strength -
ening its role as a platform that discovers growth business models.-  Supporting the development of 65  startup teams through the startup support program (by 2018).
ProgressNumber of S tartups S upported by 
BRAVO! Restart (cumulative)Long-term TargetBRAVO! Restart   QUALITY NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE
SK Telecom maintains a higher qual -
ity of data and voice calls compared to other companies, as can be seen in its selection as the provider of the 
fastest LTE service in the Ministry of 
Science, ICT and Future Planning’s Telecommunications Service Quality Assessment in 2015.Quality through I nvestment and O perational Risk M anagement   
-  Achieving zero (0) network failures and losses by carrying out long-term investment and operational risk management (by 2018).ProgressSignificant cases of 
‘service failures’ *Long-term Target
1 case ’13
1 case ’14
1 case ’15
CLIMATE CHANGE AND PARIS AGREEMENT
The GHG intensity rose slightly after 
the acceleration of the LTE and 5G networks, but by integrating network equipment such as base stations and 
relay stations in addition to reducing 
energy use at company buildings, GHG intensity decreased. SK Telecom will strive to lower GHG intensity through carbon offsetting, switching to renewable energy and introducing low-power networks.-  Reach a 2% annual GHG intensity reduction* (by 2020).
Progress GHG I ntensity Long- term Target
55.05 tCO 2e / 
KRW billion’13
57.09 tCO 2e /  
KRW billion’14
54.64 tCO 2e /  
KRW billion’1554.48 tCO 2e / 
KRW billion’18
53.39 tCO 2e /  
KRW billion’19
52.32 tCO 2e /  
KRW billion’20Expand E nergy/GHG Operational Efficiency   
DATA PRIVACY
Protecting Customer Information and Privacy   
SK Telecom has implemented on-site surveys at field organizations, business partners and distribution networks for customer information 
protection and has discovered, 
taken measures, and taken actions regarding key privacy issues.-  Maintaining serious customer in -
formation leakages at zero (0), and maintaing the rate of annual on-site audits for distribution network at 
100% (all stores) (by 2018).ProgressAuditing Distribution Networks’ 
Customer Information ProtectionLong-term Target
’13 New On Track Need for Improvement
 1,800 stores (41.9%)
4,700 stores (100%)’14
’15 N/A* Sum of revenues from line charges and solutions including Core Solution Business (CSB: retail, energy, smart work, big data and IoT).* According to the number of large-scale failures submitted to the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning
* Based on the average GHG intensity from 2013~2015
’16
’18KRW 828.4 billion
KRW 1.1 trillion SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEW2040 041BUSINESS CASES BUSINESS CASES
BUSINESS CASE 1. TRANSFORMING TO THE PLATFORM PROVIDER
BUSINESS CASE 2. SHARING THE INNOVATIONBUSINESS CASE 3. NEW CERTAINTY: PARIS AGREEMENT & CLIMATE CHANGE424649Business CasesSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEW042 043BUSINESS CASES BUSINESS CASES TRANSFORMING TO THE PLATFORM PROVIDER TRANSFORMING TO THE PLATFORM PROVIDER
SK Telecom is becoming a platform provider 
in order to surpass the limits of the mobile telecommunications market and sufficiently prepare for and respond to the new possi -
bilities and opportunities of the future. As a representative ICT provider, SK Telecom plans to foster openness and cooperation to overcome competition between industries and boldly develop a portfolio of growth businesses. In particular, through the three platforms, Lifestyle Enhancement, Media and IoT, SK Telecom plans to overcome the growth limitations of telecommunications by maximizing synergy between each business. Also, by driving the ‘home’ strategy that en -
compasses media and IoT, SK Telecom will continue to maximize the synergy and inter -
connectedness at the growth stage of each platform. SK Telecom is connecting the three platforms with the earlier growth businesses of healthcare and solutions while continuing to seek out business opportunities with in -
herent growth potential.
As SK Telecom makes considerations from 
the user’s perspective rather than that of the provider, it will become a platform provider ber of subscribers as well as services that provide direct value to customers’ lives, and has a goal of securing approximately 50 ser -
vices and 10 million subscribers by 2018, and on this basis it plans to create meaningful results.
Media Platform – Providing Customized 
Content Optimized to the Individual
The second next-generation platform strate -
gy is the ‘Media Platform.’ While continuing 
its wireless media competitiveness that max -
imizes customers’ ease of use, SK Telecom seeks to provide an media platform that of -
fers a seamless integrated experience. The Media Platform provides customized content and a viewing experience optimized to the individual based on customer analysis that allows the enjoyment of desired content any -
time and anywhere. SK Telecom seeks to es -With the spread of diverse mobile devices, companies such as SK Telecom that provide robust platforms are emerging as leaders in the ICT market. Due to the quantitative and qualitative growth of data, the importance of differentiated competitiveness by creating platforms based on big data is being high -
lighted. As an intermediary that promotes business between diverse customer groups and creates new value on the platform, SK Telecom is forming an ecosystem that at -
tracts and locks-in subscribers and users. The platforms exist in diverse forms such as technological operating standards (iOS, And -
riod OS, etc.), subscriber-based service sys -
tems (Facebook, Twitter, etc.) and markets (Amazon, Google Store, etc.) and as plat -
forms expand globally through increasing openness, their form and scale are further evolving. 
Considering that platform businesses can be 
linked to a variety of adjoining services and are e x panding into global mar ket s, such bu si -
nesses possess very high growth potential. Platform businesses also have databases with which purchasing behaviors and pattern recognition data can be analyzed across the entire range of consumer life. The creation of a big-data platform that leverages such da -
tabases and which can provide differentiated services is emerging as a major competitive factor for the future.
Following the evolution of the network 
through LTE, there exist diverse opportuni -
ties in the platform business such as mass storage multimedia streaming including personal broadcasting as well as high-defi -
nition location-based services including the cloud-based N-Screen service. Considering the nature of the platform business, which realizes profit by connecting advertising and commerce after first building a subscriber base and traffic, it can be determined that the recent growth trends of the commerce and advertisement markets will bring about new opportunities for platform businesses. that cooperates with diverse partners such as startups and SMEs without reservations and upon the principles of openness and sharing.
Lifestyle Enhancement Platform –
 Providing New Value in Customers’ Dai -
ly Lives beyond Telecommunications
SK Telecom’s first next-generation innovation 
strategy is to develop a Lifestyle Enhance -
ment Platform that provides unprecedented new value to customers throughout their daily lives. The Lifestyle Enhancement Plat -
form is a platform business that offers di -
verse value and enhances convenience and productivity, going beyond a telecommuni -
cations service for customers in every area of inconvenience and inefficiency in daily life. On the Lifestyle Enhancement Platform, there are plans to discover a new micro seg -
Transforming to the Platform Provider
Becoming a Pla tform 
Provider for Future 
Growth
SK Telecom will overcome the mo bile 
telecommunications industry’s 
limitations by becoming a platform 
provider that offers innovative value and services that surpass customer expectations and also ensures future growth potential. 
What are the issues?
-  Following the acceleration of communications 
technology and networks, as well as the convergence of ICT technology, innovative changes are emerging across society, leading to changes in SK Telecom’s 
business model and value creation model
-  Response necessary for the extensive social-
economical influences of ICT technology 
What is SK Telecom’s strategic approach?
-  On the basis of MNO infrastructure and subscribers, provide the three next-generation platform services, Lifestyle Enhancement Platform, Media Platform, IoT Platform and change the business model to an 
integrated platform service 
-  Lead value innovation across society on the basis of 
platform services
How is success measured?
-  Launch 50 services and secure 10 million subscribers on the Lifestyle Enhancement Platform by 2018
-  Achieve 15 million Media Platform subscribers and annual sales of KRW 1.2 trillion by 2018
-  Achieve revenues of KRW 1.1 trillion from the IoT Platform by 2018SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
‘Petween,’ a customized Lifestyle Enhancement Platform for 
animal companions.
ment market based on existing MNO com -
petitiveness including subscriber-based, big 
data, rate plans, devices, alliances and mem -
berships, and for it to consist of a diverse service portfolio that delivers new value. SK Telecom seeks to provide customized con -
tent, community and commerce features for each segment by analyzing life cycles and lifestyles, and create a business model by service characteristic including fixed month -
ly 
charges, commerce, advertisements and 
fees.  To this end, SK Telecom launched prod -
ucts associated with 2nd devices such as T Kids, T Outdoor and T Pet. Henceforth, while it builds a product portfolio with potential to evolve into a platform, it is in the process of executing a two-track field for securing new customers through OTT-area products that go beyond the subscriber base. Going forward, the company will expand the num -NEXT GENERATION PLATFORMS STRATEGY
Customer
Growth BusinessMNO Infra.Customer  
(Telecommunications + Platform)
Next-
Generation  
Platform
ProviderMNOIntelligent
Life
Partner
Discovery of Additional MNO-Centered  
Growth BusinessesProviding Diverse On/Offline Convergence 
Service in a Platform TypePerfectly Personalized Service Across All 
Areas Through Artificial IntelligenceRate Service Fee ServiceTelecommunication  
+ Convergence Service
3 PlatformsTransformation
Lifestyle
EnhancementMedia IoTSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEWLINK TO FINANCIAL MATERIALITY 2
The Financial Impact of Focusing on Customer RetentionLINK TO FINANCIAL MATERIALITY 1
Creating Long-Term Profit by Leading the 2nd Device Market
As diverse products such as smartwatches and smartbands 
emerged, 2015 was the first year that 2nd devices gained wide 
popularity. SK Telecom is successfully expanding the subscriber 
base in the 2nd device market, as can be seen in the high market share of 86.6% with about 363,000 domestic subscribers 
in wearable device market that was recorded by the end of 2015 
according to the Ministry of Science. According to forecasts by the International Data Corporation (IDC), shipments of wearable devices worldwide will increase by 42.6% on average annually 
until 2019.
SK Telecom is leading the 2nd device market’s growth with 
a focus on its Lifestyle Enhancement Platform services such 
as T Kids, T Outdoor, T Pet and T Pocket-Fi. The Lifestyle 
Enhancement Platform will go beyond launching device linked 
products to henceforth select target segments with lifestyle focuses and high growth possibilities and expand services.
SK Telecom plans to secure 1.4 million 2nd device subscribers 
by the end of 2016.  With 1.4 million 2nd device subscribers and 
their ARPU at KRW 10,308, it is estimated that this will lead to 
calculated annual revenue of about KRW 173.2 billion.044TRANSFORMING TO THE PLATFORM PROVIDER TRANSFORMING TO THE PLATFORM PROVIDER
tablish itself as a global media provider by 
securing multi-channels including wired IPTV and wireless OTT as well as evolving into a total media platform that sheds the con -
straints of time and space. 
IoT Platform – Going Beyond Mobile 
Devices to Connect All Objects
SK Telecom’s third next-generation platform 
strategy is fostering the IoT Platform. SK Telecom will enhance the competitiveness of its ecosystem by spreading the open IoT platform and cooperating with other provid -
ers, with plans to henceforth transform its business model through operating solutions and subscription services. The IoT Platform offers valuable services to individual and corporate customers alike by connecting all objects and collecting and analyzing the data produced in the process. Through the IoT-ex -
clusive network including the IoT Hybrid net -
work, SK Telecom has undertaken coopera -
tive projects to bring Smart City to the cities of Busan and Daegu, Smart Campus to Ko -
rea University and to co-develop driverless car infrastructure in the Naju Energy Valley with KEPCO. Henceforth, SK Telecom plans to build the ecosystem through not only home appliances and goods, but continued allianc-es with other industries such as construction, energy, security, automobiles and city in -
frastructure. Through this, it will complete the highest-level IoT Platform ecosystem by 2018 and on this basis, enter global markets through efforts such as cooperation with overseas providers.
1.  The T kids phone that can be used without regard to the 
parents’ mobile carrier .
2.  The T Care Service for the safety of individuals with Alzheimer’s Disease who are vulnerable to the risk of becoming missing.
1
2SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
045
The overheated competition from the mobile 
number portability system has led to accelerated subscriber churn and long-term customer churn, 
which may have a negative impact on SK Tele
-
com’s profit structure. Following the introduction 
of the Handset Distribution Act, the size of the 
wasteful mobile number portability market de -
creased and stabilization centered on handset 
upgrades became the trend.
SK Telecom has escaped the constraints of the 
competition to win new subscribers with wasteful subsidies and it is changing the marketing par
-
adigm in the mid- to long-term to be oriented toward core product and service competition. In 
addition, by sustaining the handset upgrade-cen
-
tered trend it has maintained cost effective mar -
ket operations. Market operations focused on 
handset upgrades contributes to improved cus -
tomer loyalty in the mid- to long-term and helps to prevent customer churn, which is expected to 
help maintain a stable customer base and qual
-itative improvements. Henceforth, a stable sub -
scriber base will also play a pivotal role in the 
successful growth of new businesses such as the 
Lifestyle Enhancement Platform.
As a result of such efforts, SK Telecom’s perfor -
mance demonstrates a high level of customer 
retention. In terms of the churn rate, a key indica -
tor, the total monthly average churn rate declined 0.5% compared to last year to 1.5%, the lowest 
churn rate recorded since 2004. SK Telecom’s 
marketing costs for new subscriber acquisition in 2015 was at the level of KRW 1.1708 trillion, according to the acquisition fee, and the acquisi
-
tion cost per new subscriber was KRW 244,000. In 2015, the 0.5% decline in the monthly churn rate 
can be converted to more than 1.55 million cus
-
tomers retained, and this can be converted into 
a reduction of approximately KRW 379.2 billion in 
subscriber retention costs.*Excluding involuntary one-time cancellations2013 2014 20152.3%
2.0%
1.5%MONTHLY CHURN RATE
About   1.55  million peopleCustomers retained due to a 
lower churn rate
About KRW   379.2  billionSavings realized due to 
reduced subscriber acquisition costs2016 Target for 2nd Device Subscribers
About  
173.2  KRW billionProjected Annual Revenue When Target Met
*  Estimate based on SK Telecom’s monthly ARPU of 
2nd device subscribers at KRW 10,308 (weighted 
average of T Outdoor, T Kids, T Pocket-Fi and T 
Pet), as of the end of 2015.About   1.4  million  No. of subscribers (thousand) 2nd DEVICE SUBSCRIBERS (SK TELECOM)
4Q’14 2Q’15 3Q’15 4Q’15 1Q’16370
1Q’15
260
49
60150
770
2Q’16 3Q’16 4Q’16
1,400With its Customer Experience Management (CEM) processes, SK Telecom seeks to make decisions that 
will provide the best experience for customers and demonstrate empathy with them. During the monthly 
customer-oriented management meeting, the company’s executives, including the CEO, gather to listen to 
the ‘voice of customers’ and determine the company’s direction. Accordingly, as the company’s leaders carry out decision-making from the perspective of the customer, they set the example and tone for the 
entire company. SK Telecom has been consistently recognized as the longest-running No. 1 company for 
customer satisfaction in Korea’s three major customer satisfaction surveys (NCSI, KCSI, KS-SQI). SK Telecom Company A Company BINTERNAL CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
INDEX (CSI) SURVEY RESULTS*
2013 2015 2014 
NCSI 
 
KCSI 
KS-SQI Supervising 
Organization
Korea Productivity 
Center  
Korea Management 
Association Korean Standards 
Association  
2015
76 
(No. 1 for 19 consecutive years, 
as of 2016)
75.7 
(No. 1 for 18 consecutive years)
74.5 
(No. 1 for 16 consecutive years)EXTERNAL CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
INDEX (CSI) SURVEY RESULTS (Unit: Points) (Unit: Points)CASE: SK TELECOM NAMED NO. 1 IN CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
FOR 19 YEARS BY THE NATIONAL CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
INDEX (NCSI)
* Results are the average of internal surveys conducted twice annually (in the first & second half of the year)76
75
73 7375
7475SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES BUSINESS CASESBUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEWSHARING THE INNOVATION SHARING THE INNOVATION
046
‘Braille Smartwatch’ for the blind.Sharing the InnovationSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
047
1
2
1.  SK Telecom received the ‘Wi-fi Industry Award’ in the 
best network infrastructure category.
2.  SK Telecom co-developed a group communications technology with Nokia that enables real-time sharing of 
the disaster area situation through public broadcasting 
channels when large-scale disasters occur.The Centers for Creative Economy and 
Innovation
To help foster the creative economy, the 
new growth driver of the national econo -
my, SK Telecom has engaged in cooperative projects through public-private collaboration with a focus on the Sejong and Daejeon Centers for Creative Economy and Innova -
tion. In particular, SK Telecom collaborated with the Sejong Center for Creative Economy and Innovation to create a ‘Creative Village,’ whereby ICT was introduced to a rural area with smart networks, improving agricultural competitiveness and convenience through an unattended sales system for agricultural products and processed goods, cold storage monitoring and Smart Farm. As an ICT-type role model for farming villages, the ‘Creative Village’ has been opened in three locations in December 2015 including Gyechon Vil -
lage in Pyeongchang (unmanned stalls), the Mungyeong Omija Zone (Smart Farm) and Nokhyang Wolchon in Gangjin (tourism infor -
mation), and starting in 2016 there are plans to expand nationwide.
Leading technological social innova -
tion with ‘BRAVO! Restart’‘BRAVO! Restart’ combines SK Telecom’s dif -
ferentiated ICT capabilities with existing startup support systems to discover startups and support commercialization through the program’s integrated support system that extends to growth support. The program also fosters ICT startups, which is an integral as -
pect of the creative economy. The most sig -
nificant achievement from the 3rd class of BRAVO! Restart is that some participating businesses expanded to the global stage. JD Sound and VisualCamp succeeded in global expansion and attracting overseas investors and in 2015 MagnaLAB’s application was rec -
ommended in Google Play’s recommended apps worldwide. 2015 was also an excellent year for the startup DOT, which experienced the honor of winning the ITU Telecom World Entrepreneurship Award at the ‘ITU Telecom World 2015’ in Budapest, Hungary in October. Since 2013, a total of 34 teams participated in BRAVO! Restart, and as befitting its status as the highest-level startup support program in South Korea’s ICT sector, 759 teams partic -
ipated in the contest for the 4th class.
‘Braille Smartwatch’ for the blind
DOT, a member of BRAVO! Restart’s 3rd class, first debuted its finished product the braille ‘smartwatch’ at the Mobile World Congress (MWC). Through BRAVO! Restart, SK Telecom supported DOT over the course of one year with plan consulting, development funds and office space so that it could complete its product, and also introduced the com -
pany at MWC as a representative company of the creative economy, lending its whole -
hearted support. DOT’s braille smartwatch, with a total of 30 small built-in pins, is the world’s first wearable device for the blind. This device expresses text from smartphone texts and social media into braille by trans -
forming the shape of the built-in pins in the smartwatch. Currently, because the text-to-speech (TTS) service that blind individuals mainly use converts text into sound, there are concerns of privacy exposure in public places. However, the braille smartwatch is considered an innovative idea because only the customer wearing the device can check the content with a finger.
Building the world’s first IoT-exclusive 
national network
As a member company of the LoRa Alliance, 
an IoT telecommunications technology alli -
ance, SK Telecom commercialized the LTE-M national network in March 2016 and went on to build Korea’s first LoRa national network in the first half of 2016. With the completion of the LTE-M + LoRa Hybrid type IoT national network, and through a completely different approach from the existing telecommunica -
tions industry’s direction, the company is planning bold investments that will provide a new turning point to the IoT industry’s development together with ventures and startups. Consequently, along with an ad -
ministrative notice to increase the 900mHz band IoT frequency output standard,  it is expected to bring a fresh wind to new IoT businesses in Korea.  In contrast with existing networks, which assure fast speeds but have high expens -
es, SK Telecom will build an IoT-exclusive national network that employs low-capaci -
ty, low-power technology. This will also en -
able a wide variety of future IoT devices to be used in an efficient manner.  Secondly, in order to find and nurture promising IoT ventures and startups and enable them to be principal IoT services, the company plans to create and operate an ‘IoT Service Vital -
ization Support Fund.’ A characteristic of IoT services is that due to low customer will -
ingness to spend, it is difficult to operate alone on a business model (BM) in which a network is offered and a monthly fee is col -
lected. In order to provide a service that is innovative and creative in both daily life and across the industry, SK Telecom will provide a ‘Playground’ where ideas from ventures and startups can be implemented. By think -
ing beyond a simple monthly payment model and enabling ventures and startups to choose diverse business models, such as a new busi-ness model in which suppliers such as device manufacturers and service providers can re -
ceive fees, benefits will flow to users and suppliers Thus, it is anticipated that ventures and startups will enjoy a greater likelihood of success.
SK Tel e com’s ef f or t s to c r e a te t h e IoT e co - s y s -
tem go beyond the fragmentary approaches 
that the telecommunications industry of the past took towards home IoT and healthcare IoT encompassing content that includes ex -
clusive networks, devices and platform. These efforts are expected to bring about great changes to not only the existing mo -
bile telecommunications competitive struc -
ture, but also the entire industry’s related technology, services, ventures and startups.
The global telecommunications-mobile 
service alliance ‘TIP’ with Facebook 
In 2016, SK Telecom jointly established the 
global alliance Telecom Infra Project (TIP) for infrastructure acceleration and mobile ser -
vice innovation. TIP includes SK Telecom and major  telecommunications companies from various countries such as Germany’s Deut -
sche Telekom and global IT companies such as Facebook, Nokia and Intel. TIP members plan to build a hotline between providers, share key telecommunications infrastructure technology and take part in joint research & development.  TIP was established with the goal of spur -
ring the development of services for emerg -
ing markets and developing 5G technology for advanced markets. Since last January, SK Telecom has already been participating as a main member of the ‘OCP Teleco Proj -
ect,’ which is part of the data processing system innovation project that Facebook es -
tablished, the Open Compute Project (OCP). TIP continues to revitalize the ecosystem and it is configured to reflect the requirements of companies that are researching and de -
veloping telecommunications infrastructure. What are the issues?
-  As a technology that connects economic agents, leads 
the sharing of knowledge and technology and stim-ulates cooperation, ICT technology has a significant impact on entrepreneurship and job creation
- SK Telecom seeks to increase its social role through its   
   telecommunications technology and the assets of an     ICT company’s value chain. 
What is SK Telecom’s strategic approach?
-  Expanding social innovation through ICT with the ‘BRAVO! Restart’ program
-  Building an ICT-exclusive network and ecosystem, and creating infrastructure for social-business 
innovation such as open data centers
-  Scale innovation through global business alliances
How is success measured?
-  Revitalize the startup ecosystem by supporting the 
founding of more than 65 startups (cumulative) by 2018
-  Continue to lead the ICT innovation platform with 
global participatory IT companies by 2020
-  Succeed in commercializing 5G as an international 
standard and launching a pilot service by 2020The Prese nt an d Future 
of ICT-based Social  
Innovation
SK Telecom will lead transform ation 
through ICT technology while 
promoting societal change with  
open innovation that engages  diverse entities. SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES BUSINESS CASESBUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEWLINK TO FINANCIAL MATERIALITY 3
Seeking Long-Term Growth through Digital Inclusion for Senior CitizensSHARING THE INNOVATION SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
048
The Global Innovation Center for the 5G revolution.049
the third round of the planning period it allo -
cated paid and unpaid emissions rights until 
2025, companies can transact with each oth -
er through market mechanisms, and seeks to achieve optimal social and environmental efficiency. Korea enacted the Low Carbon Green Growth Act in 2010, implemented the GHG and Energy Target Management Scheme (TMS) in 2011, and through the enactment of laws for the allocation and transaction of GHG emissions rights in 2012, it has consis -
tently carried out legislation, and in January of 2015, ETS opened in earnest. The way emissions rights are traded in Ko -
rea is that Korean Allowance Units (KAU) are allocated annually to companies by the government, an outside reduction agency approves the KAUs, and through outside re -
duction agency investments, companies can directly trade ‘credits’ for future anticipat -
ed emissions with one another. If there is non-compliance, a fine of up to three times the market price of the emissions right can be levied. 
SK Telecom and ETS
In SK Telecom’s case, during the implementa -
tion period of the first stage of the ETS (2015 to 2017), its expected cumulative emissions is 2.343 million tons, the government alloca -
tion amount is 1.991 million tons, and it is expected to lack about 352,000 tons of GHG emissions rights. In addition, when the com -
panies participating in ETS after 2016 begin purchasing emissions rights in earnest, pric -
es are expected to rise. In order to respond efficiently to the regulations and market environment resulting from the adoption of ETS, SK Telecom has established the creation of an amicable ETS environment, ef fective re -
sponse to ETS and building an eco-friendly management system as its three strategic measures. 
To create an amicable ETS environment, se -
curing emissions rights through eco-friend -
ly ICT solutions is recognized as a priority The establishment of a new climate
regime following the Paris Agreement 
There was consistent controversy regarding 
the practicality of the Kyoto Protocol that was adopted at the 1997 3rd Conference of the Parties (COP3) due to reasons includ -
ing that the obligation to reduce GHG was limited to some developed nations and that China and the United States, which emitted more than 40% of the world’s GHG emissions did not have reduction obligations. Hence, the Paris Agreement focused on leading the comprehensive participation of developed and developing nations alike and achieved the participation of a total of 195 nations and EU that are responsible for about 90% of the world’s GHG emissions. According to the Paris Agreement, each participating country will take the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC), increase the reduction target every five years and submit it, and to improve the realization and transparency of the new climate change regime, a global stocktaking regarding the implementation of the Paris Agreement will take place every 5 years starting in 2023. The top seven GHG emitting countries glob -
ally have received  global pressure to reduce GHG and in June 2015 they submitted an INDC of a high level that commits them to re -
ducing 37% of emissions compared to busi -
ness-as-usual (BAU) levels by 2030. Current -
ly, close to 70% of Korea’s power generation relies on fossil fuels and in order to achieve the country’s emissions target amount, the low-carbonization of the structure of the en -
ergy industry must be promoted and indeed following the strengthening of the regulation of companies’ GHG emissions, henceforth it is expected to have a major influence on companies’ business environment. 
Implementing a domestic Emissions
Trading System 
ETS, which began in 2015, is a climate change 
response regulation that trades emission rights by regulating the total amount, during New Certainty: 
Paris Agreement & Climate ChangeNEW CERTAINTY: PARIS AGREEMENT & CLIMATE CHANGE
Through TIP and OCP, SK Telecom plans to 
share research development results with global mobile telecommunications compa -
nies and contribute to the creation of the 5G ecosystem. 
Imagining a 5G future at the Global  
Innovation Center
In order to build up 5G-related technical com-
petence, which is a cross-national agenda, and to enhance its tech leadership, SK Tele-com founded the 5G Tech Lab, affiliated with the Institute of Technology, in 2015, and it is in the process of co-developing key 5G tech-nology with the manufacturers of major equip-ment as well as carrying out standardization activities. In addition, as the chair company of Korea’s 5G forum, along with leading the domestic 5G ecosystem, through the Institute of Technology’s 5G Test-Bed, it is providing an experiential environment to SMEs and new startups, and is co-developing new services. In October of 2015, SK Telecom built a 5G in -
novation center that includes a test bed and a virtual experience space for experiencing future services in which global IT companies leading the 5G technological innovation such as Samsung Electronics, Ericsson, Nokia, In -
tel and Rohde & Schwarz, can jointly par -
ticipate. SK Telecom made the 5G Global In -
novation Center an advance base and plans to standardize the technology by 2018 as well as be the first to start a 5G commercial service in 2020. Through a fast transmission speed of a minimum 1Gbps per second, 5G is a service based on high-capacity data and it is expected to deliver unprecedented value and innovation in people’s lives. Henceforth, the 5G Innovation Center will play a key in -
frastructure role in connecting and evolving the services that will be actualized in the near future such as autonomous cars, artifi -
cial intelligence, video/gesture recognition, drones, robots and VR/AR.
What are the issues?
-  The 2015 Paris Agreement is the first influential 
climate change response agreement between countries, with 195 countries having adopted the Agreement
-  South Korea has submitted a 37% reduction target 
compared to BAU by 2030
What is SK Telecom’s strategic approach?
-  Create an amicable emissions trading system 
(ETS) environment through active engagement in governmental policies
-  Effective ETS response
-  Enhancing eco-friendly management maintenance system
How is success measured?
-  Reach a 2% annual GHG intensity reduction by 2020 (Based on the average GHG intensity from 2013~2015)
-  Achieve 2.40 million tCO
2e in ICT solution-based 
GHG reductions by 2018The Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change and Response to the New Climate Regime
SK Telecom is activel y joining in the 
climate change agreement that is 
emerging as a main global agenda and it will create innovative new opportunities through efforts to 
prevent climate change with ICT 
technology platforms. 
2013 2014 201534%44%57%SUBSCRIBERS OVER
60 YEARS OF AGE
202014%
14.4%
15.3%Rate of smartphone subscribers 
over 60 years of ageRate of SKT subscribers over 60 years of age
23.3%2020 Rate of Koreans 
over 60 compared to total population (forecast)No. of participants (cumulative)
* Smartphone use education for those over 60 years of ageRESULTS OF SMARTPHONE EDUCATION
FOR SENIOR CITIZENS (CUMULATIVE)
2007 2009 2010 2011 20123,132
2008
1,335
4,752
6,711340
8,611
2013 2014 2015
11,94610,026
11,046According to findings of the domestically conducted Digital 
Divide Survey (2015), the digital inclusion of Korean senior 
citizens stood at a very low rate of 56.3%. Not only do senior 
citizens experience a low rate of digital inclusion, but they are also particularly vulnerable to crimes such as voice phishing. 
For those senior citizens who have difficulty accessing the silver 
rate plan and using smartphones, SK Telecom has provided a variety of services to increase digital inclusion including the T 
Silver service. At the same time, the company offers smartphone 
education for senior citizens and is proactively responding to the digital divide issue. Such digital inclusion efforts have indirectly led to an increased rate of customers over the age 
of 60 (a 1.3% increase over three years) as well as a long-term 
increase in the rate of smartphone subscribers (a 23% increase 
over three years).
SK Telecom’s digital inclusion efforts for senior citizens not 
only helps to resolve the social issue of the digital divide, 
they will also contribute to expanding long-term profits and the growth base as senior citizen customers switch over to 
smartphones and increase their data usage.  As a result of SK 
Telecom’s efforts, after 2013 the proportion of smartphone 
subscribers over 60 years of age has been increasing 11.5%p 
annually on average. If this trend continues, it is estimated 
that the proportion of smartphone customers over 60 years of 
age will exceed 90%. Accordingly, at least 1.2 million feature 
phone users will switch to smartphones and this is predicted to 
lead to an estimated KRW 194.4 billion profit increase annually.  SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES BUSINESS CASESBUSINESS CASES GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX OVERVIEWLINK TO FINANCIAL MATERIALITY 4
New Energy Business for Future Corporate Value050NEW CERTAINTY: PARIS AGREEMENT & CLIMATE CHANGE NEW CERTAINTY: PARIS AGREEMENT & CLIMATE CHANGE
task. The telecommunications industry is 
one in which the measurement, reporting and verification of the reduced GHG amounts are possible, and the company will create opportunities to secure emissions rights in the telecommunications industry through the revitalization of GHG reduction research for ICT solutions such as UN-ITU and busi -
ness expansion. Along with this, SK Telecom will implement joint private-public research regarding the characteristics of the tele -
communications business’s emissions and potential reductions that consider such dif -
ferences, creating a discussion about the telecommunications business’s optimal level of GHG emissions. 
To respond effectively to ETS, SK Telecom 
will discover an internal GHG reduction business in  the GHG network and company building management and also achieve its GHG emissions allocation targets through di -
verse methods of purchasing GHG emissions rights and carbon credits. In terms of net -
works, a GHG reduction goal of 3% annually by 2017 has been set and a variety of reduc -
tion plans such as increasing the efficien -
cy of relay bases, extended application of natural air-conditioning and integrating the WCDMA network with the 2.1G LTE network are being considered. In terms of company building management, it is expected that GHG emissions can be reduced 1.2% annually by making existing equipment high efficien -
cy, decreasing the lamp load and changing the air conditioning and heating. Regarding the  emission reductions that were not satis -
fied through internal reduction activities, the company plans to secure emissions rights through multi-faceted transaction methods.
In addition, in order to build an eco-friend -
ly management system by enhancing in -
ternal operational capacity, the company 
is strengthening the system for collecting, calculating and reporting internal GHG emis -
sions as well as building a response system for ETS. While SK Telecom is improving the features such as changing the calculation factors, algorithms and data log manage -
ment to enable the GHG inventory, which is centered around the GHG and Energy TMS, to be applied in the GHG ETS. It is also planning to further strengthen internal capabilities by training for individuals in charge of collect -
ing and calculating GHG emissions quantities and recruiting talent with climate change ex -
pertise.
New ICT convergence energy businesses
Following the Paris Agreement, in order to fulfill the national task of reducing GHG emissions by 37% by 2030, the Korean gov -
ernment is actively promoting new energy businesses with the goal of creating a KRW 100 trillion new market by 2030. To satisfy the government’s policy to foster new energy businesses, SK Telecom concluded a Memo -
randum of Understanding (MOU) with KEPCO (Korean Electric Power Corporation) for coop -
erating in the area of new energy businesses. SK Telecom and KEPCO will concentrate an investment of a total of KRW 500 billion (SK Telecom KRW 200 billion, KEPCO KRW 300 billion) in new energy businesses by 2020 and seek to show tangible success early on. It plans to actively develop business models in the area of energy business where electric power and ICT technology have converged, strengthening of investment cooperation as well as expansion into overseas markets. 
In order to develop technology related to 
new energy businesses and business models in earnest, the ‘SK Telecom-KEPCO Collabo -
1.  Development of a smart energy management 
service for unmanned stores.
2.  The Smart Home service, which creates a home that is safe and also saves energy.
1
2SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
051ration Center’ was opened in the Naju Bitga -
ram Energy Valley last April with a focus on 
developing businesses for smart grids, cars of the future and electric charging infrastruc -
ture.
In terms of smart grid, with a goal of reducing 
GHG and improving energy efficiency through the convergence of cutting edge electric power and ICT technology, SK Telecom and KEPCO will first build an IoT-exclusive net -
work and are propelling the telecommunica -
tions building business that develops related services and performance verification of the Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) that uses the IoT-exclusive network.
In terms of the cars of the future, SK Tele -
com and KEPCO will develop Vehicle to In -
frastructure (V2I) technology that recog -
nizes unexpected situations in advance by 
SK Telecom’s representative energy efficiency solution, the ‘Energy Management System (EMS),’ is a 
business that identifies facility management improvements and optimized management directions for 
buildings, factories, public institutions, vehicles and facilities. SK Telecom identifies the optimal energy 
reduction measures for a building or factory’s characteristics, and SK Telecom provides a business model in which after it invests in advance and builds the EMS solution and high-efficiency equipment, it assures the reduction results and during the length of the contract, the company collects operation expenses based 
on the amount saved. SK Telecom’s Cloud EMS is a solution that collects the energy usage status of large 
buildings, department stores and hospitals in real-time, and enables the analyzed data to be checked and managed at any time and any location through smartphones and tablets.
The companies that use SK Telecom’s EMS solution have demonstrated energy saving results including about 
KRW 170 million at the Hyundai Department Store in Ulsan and KRW 160 million at the Jeju Halla Hospital.
In 2016, SK Telecom has plans to oversee the sophistication of the energy solutions business through 
the improvement of the competitiveness of EMS products by analyzing energy optimized data, launch of 
new EMS products in freezing and cooling logistics category as well as promoting demand management administration. In the Smart Grid area, it plans to initiate businesses for the spread of Smart Grids at a scale 
of KRW 49 billion in Jeju Island, Changwon and Busan, and it plans to implement the businesses in earnest 
on the basis of the business regions. In addition, it plans to launch new products for energy efficiency businesses in the area of transportation.CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN
2016 2015 2017(E)GHG Emissions Credit
0.50.60.70.8‘15~’17 Cumulative Emissions
Shortfall 
352,000
tons
‘15~’17 Cumulative 
Allocated Amounts0.9
Achieve carbon neutrality by 
reducing GHG and buying 
credits for the shortfallreceiving information about transportation, 
road and weather conditions from road fa -
cilities and communicate them to cars. The companies will also develop electric car wire -
less charging technology that automatically charges the car without a charging cable when it parks in the charging location.
In terms of electric charging infrastructure, 
SK Telecom and KEPCO plan to discover re -
lated business models in the future through the development of electric car charging technology and test operations such as the development of travel route recommenda -
tions that reflect electric car charging station information including T map charging station locations, types of chargers and rates and the development of connection technology between the electric car charging system and accounting system.
SK Telecom and K-water signed an Smart Water 
management MOU.
About  KRW  34 billion2015 Energy Solution* Revenue
*  Energy Solution: Includes BEMS, FEMS, TEMS, Smart Grid and Advanced Metering 
Infrastructure (AMI) solutionsSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
(Unit: tCO 2e million)BUSINESS CASES BUSINESS CASESBUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 3
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
GOVERNANCE REPORTRISK MANAGEMENT REPORTTRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY REPORT54566468053SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
GovernanceGOVERNANCE
052GOVERNANCE SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX Board of Directors 054 055GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Jay-Young Chung
Chairman of the Board
Independent Director
(March 2008)
Honorary professor at Sungk yunkwan University
(2010-present)
Chairman of Asia Pacific Economic Association
(2013-2014)
Vice President of Sungkyunkwan University
Humanities & Social Science Campus
(2003-2006)
Member of the Corporate Citizenship Committee
Member of the Compensation Committee
Member of the Independent Director
Recommendation Committee
Member of the CAPEX Review CommitteeJae-Hoon Lee
Independent Director
(March 2014)
President of Korea Polytechni c University
(2014-present)
Second Vice Minister of Knowledge Economy
(2008-2009)
Second Vice Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy
(2007-2008)
Member of the Audit Committee
Member of the Corporate Citizenship Committee
Member of the CAPEX Review Committee
Dong-Hyun Jang  
President & CEO
(March 2015)
President & CEO of SK Telec om (2015-present)
COO of SK Planet (2013-2014)
CMO of SK Telecom (2011-2013)
Member of the Independent Director
Recommendation Committee
Jae-Hyeon Ahn
Independent Director
(March 2014)
Head of KAIST Advanced Innovation  
Management Program (2015-present)
Dean of the External Affairs Dep t. at KAIST
College of Business (2013-2015)
Dean of KAIST Graduate School of Information &
Media Management (2011-2013)
Member of the Audit Committee
Member of Corporate Citizenship Committee
Member of the Compensation Committee
Member of the CAPEX Review Committee
Dae-Shick Oh
Independent Director
(March 2013)
President of Jeil T&M (201 6-present)
Advisor for BKL LLC (2008-2016)
Commissioner of the Seoul Regional Tax Office
(2007-2008)
Member of the Audit Committee
Member of the Compensation Committee
Member of the Independent Director
Recommendation Committee
Member of the CAPEX Review Committee
Dae-Sik Cho
Executive Director
(March 2013)
President & CEO of SK Holdings (2013-present)
Head of Business Support Division and Autono -
mous Responsible Management Support Team  
at SK Holdings (2011-2012) 
Head of LNG Business TF at SK Holdings (2011)
To secure transparency in the decision-making process and achieve efficiency in everyday business 
operations via checks and balances, SK Telecom has established an independent corporate governance 
str uc ture. SK Telecom’s Board of Direc tor s (BOD) consist s of t wo e xecutive direc tor s and four independent 
directors for a total of six directors. All independent directors satisfy SK Telecom’s requirements for 
‘independence and expertise.’ To achieve transparency in management decisions, the positions of the 
Chairman of the Board and the CEO are assumed by different individuals.SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
* The date in parentheses indicates the date of appointment for each BOD member.SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX Establishment of a Governance Model based on 
Independence, Transparency and Expertise056 057
Independence and Expertise of the Board
Since 2009, SK Telecom has separated the Chairman 
of the Board and CEO positions to strengthen the in-dependence of the governance structure and since in 2012, an independent director that satisfies all in -
dependence requirements has assumed the respon -
sibility of Chairman of the Board. The statement for the independence of independent directors is in accor-dance with the Korean Commercial Act, Fair Trade Law and other laws as stipulated in the Board’s Articles of Incorporation. In addition, in order to prevent con-flicts of interest, directors are restricted from engaging in transactions pertaining to the company’s business interests without prior approval or becoming a general partner or director of a company within the industry.  In the nomination and selection process for directors, SK Telecom has an election process in which the Board can reflect opinions from diverse perspectives includ-ing the level of independence and expertise such as industry experience & tenure in the industry, as well as educational background and gender. Through this, along with the candidate’s individual competence, SK Telecom focuses on securing skill balance & diversity in the Board. In terms of the requirements for electing directors, SK Telecom nominates and elects director candidates who have expertise and deep experience in the areas of economics, management, accounting, law and telecommunications, and must contribute to the company’s development, risk management and protection of the rights and interests of shareholders through accurate decision-making on this basis. This is stipulated through SK Telecom’s corporate Articles of Incorporation, and the company is nominating and electing director candidates, those who are experts who can meet the skill gap in comparison with the company’s goals for the Board’s expertise.
The Board’s Efficiency and Committees 
SK Telecom enhanced the operational efficiency of the Board and in order to strengthen the transparency of the independent director-focused Board’s operation, through the General Shareholders’ Meeting in March 2015, it was voted to reduce the Board size from 8 members (5 independent directors and 3 executive directors) to 6 members (4 independent directors and 2 executive directors), increasing the percentage of independent directors. Currently, the percentage of independent directors is 66.7%, which is higher than that of the listed large corporations on average (49.5%; Fair Trade Commission data reported in Dec. 2015). In addition, independent directors and audi-tors are limited to holding only two concurrent po-sitions. In 2015, a total of 13 Board meetings were held, and the attendance rate was 99%. SK Telecom operates five committees: the Independent Director Recommendation Committee, Audit Committee, Com -
pensation Committee, CAPEX Review Committee and Corporate Citizenship Committee. To ensure fairness and transparency, all of the committees, except for the Independent Director Recommendation Commit-tee, are entirely comprised of independent directors. 
Independence of the Audit Committee
At SK Telecom, the organization, operation, authority and responsibility of the Audit Committee, comprised entirely of independent directors, conform to the Com-mercial Act, other applicable laws related to capital market and financial investment, and the Articles of Incorporation of SK Telecom. The Audit Committee overseas accounting and audits the financial state-ments and supplementary schedules (the procedure and results of the audits performed by independent accounting firms), reviews company’s major issues and the operating status of the company’s internal ac-counting system as reported by an internal accounting manager and an external auditor.
The Board’s Responsibility and Role in Risk 
Management 
The SK Telecom Board mediates diverse stakeholders 
including shareholders, approves management de-cisions and holds the responsibility and role as the highest decision-making body. As such, the Board undertakes the deliberation and approval of matters such as of conflicts of interest including those related the company’s investment plans and internal trans-actions as well as transparent compensation, and it also reviews and undertakes responsibility for the company’s risk management including tax risks, fi-nancial risks and environmental and social risks. In particular, in order to protect long-term corporate val-ue, the Board holds responsibility for independently reviewing the positive and negative impacts that the company’s decisions may have on its stakeholders.
Board Activities and Evaluation
SK Telecom evaluates the directors’ long-term per-formance and evaluations are considered during re-nomination after the end of his/her term, and the remuneration and severance pay for directors is de-termined by vote at a General Shareholders’ Meeting and paid in a fair, transparent manner. This evaluation of directors covers their expertise in the company’s businesses and technologies, responsibilities and roles on the Board and an evaluation of their Board activities and the results are discussed at a Board meeting. In addition, when a director is re-nominated by the Independent Director Recommendation Com -
mittee after the end of his/her term, his/her previous performance as a Board member is considered. GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT
Disqualification 
Criteria
Conflict of 
Interest1.   Current executives, executive officers and employees involved in the business affairs of criteria the company, or former executives, executive officers and employees who were involved in the business affairs of the company in the past 2 years
2. The largest shareholder of the company, and his/her spouse and lineal descendants and ascendants3. In case the largest shareholder is a corporate body, its directors, auditors, executive officers and employees4.  Spouses and lineal descendants and ascendants of the directors, auditors and executive officers of the company
5. The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of the parent company or subsidiaries6. The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of corporate bodies that are major stakeholders7.   The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of other companies at which a director, executive officer or employee of the company is serving as a director or executive officer 
1.   Person who controls a company having competitive relationship with the Company, as of interest specified in the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law(FTL) or any person relating to such a person
2.   Person who is, or has been within last two years, an officer or an employee of a company having competitive relationship with 
the Company, or a company which belongs to the same enterprise group as such competitor under the Fair Trade Law(FTL)
3.   Person who is, or has been within last two years, an officer or an employee of a corporation which is the largest Shareholder or the 2nd largest Shareholder of a company having competitive relationship with the Company, or a company which belongs to the same enterprise group as such corporation under the Fair Trade Law(FTL) GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
Independence and Conflict of Interest Statement of SK Telecom
Committee
Independent Director 
Recommendation 
Committee
Audit Committee
 
Compensation  
Committee
CAPEX Review 
Committee
 
Corporate Citizenship 
Committee  Composition and Responsibilities of the Committees within the Board
Composition
Executive director 1
Independent directors 2
Independent directors 3
Independent directors 3
Independent directors 4
 
Independent directors 3 
 Authority and Responsibility
Recommend candidates for independent directors for the General Shareholders’ Meeting 
for appointment purposes
· Inspect and audit the directors’ job execution, work performance, and financial status
·   Investigation of the Board, injunction of violated actions, and convene an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with the Commercial Act
·   Review and approve the transactions of affiliates including private contracts for transactions that are above a certain amount
Review the remuneration system and level for the CEO
·   Review the CAPEX plan for the following year and review the business plan CAPEX plan 
when comprehensively changing the business plan for the current year
·   Change the major CAPEX (exceeding 10% of CAPEX) / Review the quarterly or semi-annual CAPEX execution performance
· Set and review the CSR initiative direction / Report CSR initiatives to the Board· Handle stakeholder communication and resolve their difficulties· Comprehensive review of the company’s social and environmental risks
*  The CAPEX Review Committee and the Corporate Citizenship Committee began to be entirely comprised of independent directors in 2015. Director Election Process
Expertise
Independence
Industry experience & 
tenure in the industry
Individuals who do not fall under 
conditions for independence 
disqualification or conflicts of 
interest (Individuals falling under Article 32 (3) of SK Telecom’s 
articles of incorporation) ·   The majority of the Board 
members attending and 
appointment by a majority vote
·  Directors with special 
interests are prohibited from exercising their voting rightsNomination of 
candidates by the 
Independent Director 
Recommendation 
CommitteeResolution on 
the appointment 
at the General 
Shareholders’ 
MeetingPool of
outside
expertsSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 058 059Board Activities (2015)
Session
371st
372nd
373rd 
374th 
375th 
376th 
377th 
378th 
379th
380th
381st 
382nd 
383rd Main Agendas
31st fiscal year financial statements / 31st fiscal year business report
Bond issuance 
Namsan Office Building Sublease Deal with SK Broadband
Operating status of the internal accounting management system
2014 Q4 follow-up reportConvoking the 31st General Shareholders’ MeetingResults of evaluating the operating status of the internal accounting management 
system
Appointment of the CEO / Appointment of the Chairman of the Board
Re-appointment of the committee members
Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm , SK Securities
Comprehensive stock exchange with SK Broadband / Selling treasury stock
Investment to promote growth at Neos Networks
Appointment of the compliance officer
Payment for the operating expenses of the SUPEX Pursuance Association for 2015  
/ 2015 Q1 follow-up report
Approval of stock exchange with SK Broadband
SK Broadband stock purchase
Report related to the SK Planet and Cloud Streaming business equity spinoff
2015 Q3 transaction with SK C&C / 2015 Q3 transaction with InfosecBond issuance / Company bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm,  SK Securities
Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities
Service deal with SK China Investment Management Company LimitedInvestment to promote growth at Intrix / Promote Korea IT Fund (KIT) extension of expiry
Promote SK Telecom CVC extension
Promote next-generation IT / 2015 Q4 transaction with Infosec2015 Q4 transaction with SK / Securities transaction with SK Planet
Acquire treasury stockCompany bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities
Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK SecuritiesPlan to participate in internet specialty bank consortiumBond issuance / 2015 Q3 follow-up report
CJ HelloVision equity acquisition
Transaction with SK Forest for 20162016 business aircraft co-management agreement
Approval of short-term electronic bond issuance limits
Maintenance and repair service for base stations in 2016Results of law-abidance and effectiveness evaluation
2016 Management Plan
2016 Q1 transaction with SK2016 transaction with Infosec2016 re-sale of cable product with SK Broadband
Company bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm, SK SecuritiesFund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities
2016 purchase of PS&M customer terminal bonds2016 operation service of customer contact channelsDate
Feb. 5, 2015
Feb. 24, 2015
March 20, 2015
April 23, 2015
May 6, 2015
May 29, 2015
June 25, 2015
July 23, 2015
Sept. 24, 2015
Oct. 19, 2015
Nov. 2, 2015
Nov. 26, 2015
Dec. 18, 2015Director Attendance Rate
87.5%
100%
100%
 
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Activities of Independent Director Recommendation Committee (2015)
Committee
Independent Director 
Recommendation 
Committee Members
Dong-Hyun Jang
Jae-Hoon Lee
Jae-Hyeon AhnMain Agendas
Chairman appointment – Dong-Hyun 
JangDate
April 23, 2015Director Attendance Rate
100%
Committee
CAPEX Review 
CommitteeMembers
Jay-Young Chung 
Dae-Shick Oh 
Jae-Hoon Lee 
Jae-Hyeon AhnMain Agendas
Chairman appointment – Jae-Hoon LeeReport on the status of major investee companies
Report on the status of major investee companies2016 CAPEX planDate
April 22, 2015
Sept. 23, 2015
Nov. 25, 2015
Dec. 17, 2015Director Attendance Rate
100%Activities of CAPEX Review Committee (2015)Activities of Audit Committee (2015)
Committee
Audit 
CommitteeMembers
Dae-Shick Oh 
Hyun-Chin Lim 
Jae-Hyeon AhnMain Agendas
· Evaluation of the operating status of the internal accounting
· management system
·   2014 second-half management diagnosis and audit results/2015 management diagnosis and audit plan
· Auditor’s opinion on the internal monitoring system· SKTCH service agreement· 2016 Q1 transaction with Infosec
· Nomination of outside auditors from 2015 ~ 2017
· Results of the accounting audit for the 2014 fiscal year
·   Results of reviewing the internal accounting management system for the 
2014 fiscal year
·   Evaluation of the operating status of the internal accounting management 
system 
·   Confirmation of the bill for the 31st General Shareholders’ Meeting and 
the opinion on the document examination
· 31st audit report
· Construction of fixed and wireless communications network in 2015
· 2015 contract for customer gift provision·  2015 Q2 transaction with SK C&C
·  2015 Q2 transaction with Infosec
·  2015 Transaction for SK Planet’s VIP program
· Appointment of the Chairman of the Committee
· Purchase of consumable materials from Happynarae
· Remuneration for outside auditors in 2015· Comprehensive approval of service provision by outside auditors in 2015
· 2015 accounting audit plan
·  Construction of fixed and wireless communications network in 2015
·  Increase in remuneration for outside auditors in 2015
·  Results of the half-yearly review of outside auditors for the 2015 fiscal year
·  2015 first-half management diagnosis and audit results, and plan for the 
second-half of the year
·  2016 exchanger maintenance service
·  2016 transmission equipment/optical cable maintenance service
·  Lease transaction for electrical communication equipment for 2016
·  Commissioned fixed-line communication services for 2016
·  Construction of fixed and wireless communications network in 2015
·  2016 accounts receivables collection delegation
·  Service transaction with SKY Wyverns in 2016Date
Feb. 4, 2015
Feb. 23, 2015
March 19, 2015
April 22, 2015
May 29, 2015
July 22, 2015
Nov. 25, 2015
Dec. 17, 2015Director Atten -
dance Rate
100%GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Committee
Corporate 
Citizenship 
Committee
 
 Members
Jay-Young Chung
Dae-Shick Oh
Jae-Hyeon Ahn
 Main AgendasChairman appointment – Jay-Hyeon Ahn
Measures to reinforce performance and promote  
“BRAVO! Start Up”Material issues of the 2014 Annual Report (Integrated Report)
Ethical management initiative performance / plan in 2015
2015 mutual growth initiative plan and key performanceCustomer empathy CEM initiative activities
Corresponding measures for emissions trading planDate
April 22, 2015 
 
June 24, 2015
Sept. 23, 2015
Nov. 25, 2015Director Attendance Rate
100%
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee  Members
Jay-Young Chung
Dae-Shick Oh
Jae-Hoon LeeMain Agendas
Chairman appointment – Jay-Young ChungDate
April 22, 2015Director Attendance Rate
100%Activities of Compensation Committee (2015)
Activities of Corporate Citizenship Committee (2015)SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 060 061GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Seong-min 
Ha 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
Dong-Seob 
Jee
 
 
  
 
 Position
Executive 
Director  
  
 
  
 
 
Executive 
Director
 
 
 
 
 Remuneration Calculation Standard and Method
○ Remuneration that is not included in the total remuneration amount: Retirement benefits
○ The total remuneration amount of KRW 716 million is the sum of earned income, other income and retirement income 
    -   Earned income: Consists of the pay of KRW 163 million (2015 salary. Determined according to the Position Grade that reflects the value 
of the work within the range of director remuneration limits. One-twelfth of the total amount of annual pay was paid equally each month 
and the KRW 163 million is the calculated working amount that reflects the tenure as director), incentive pay of KRW 553 million (the management incentive for the 2014 performance was paid at the start of 2015 and consists of the target incentive and profit sharing. 
The payment of the director’s performance-based compensation of 0~200% of the annual salary is determined by a comprehensive 
evaluation of measurable indices such as financial performances including revenue and operating profit and the non-measurable indices such as leadership, achievement of strategic goals, expertise, and contribution to the company’s management performance. With an 
operating revenue of KRW 17.16 trillion in 2014 and operating profit of KRW 1.825 trillion [consolidated basis], the results were achieved 
from the measurable indices perspective, and despite the overheated market, through the strengthening of core competitiveness, Market Leadership was solidified [No. 1 in NCSI for 17 consecutive years, world’s first commercialization of L2, etc.] and considering that long-
term sustainability was strengthened by providing the basis for creating results in growth businesses such as strengthening the Solution, 
ICTV and Healthcare business foundations, the performance-based pay of KRW 553 million was paid.)
    - No remarks regarding other income and retirement income
○ Remuneration that is not included in the total remuneration amount: Retirement benefits
○ The total remuneration amount of KRW 527 million is the sum of earned income, other income and retirement income
    -   Earned income: Consists of the pay of KRW 82 million (2015 salary. Determined according to the Position Grade that reflects the 
value of the work within the range of director remuneration limits. One-twelfth of the total amount of annual pay was paid equally 
each month and the KRW 82 million is the calculated working amount that reflects the tenure as director), incentive pay of KRW 441 million (the management incentive for the 2014 performance was paid at the start of 2015 and consists of the target incentive and 
profit sharing. The payment of the director’s performance-based compensation of 0~200% of the annual salary is determined by a 
comprehensive evaluation of measurable indices such as financial performances including revenue and operating profit and the non-measurable indices such as leadership, achievement of strategic goals, expertise, and contribution to the company’s management 
performance. In 2014 as the Head of the Strategic Planning Division, he contributed to the results were achieved from the 
measurable indices perspective including an operating revenue of KRW 17.16 trillion in 2014 and operating profit of KRW 1.825 trillion [consolidated basis], and despite the overheated market, and considering the contributions made to lead the increase in corporate 
value by changing SKT’s market perception into a positive one, the performance-based pay of KRW 441 million was paid.)
    -  Other income: KRW 4 million (about KRW 4 million was paid according to the company medical expenses and educational expenses 
support criteria)
    - No remarks regarding retirement incomeIndividual Remuneration Payments for Directors/Executives
Total Payment 
Amount
KRW 716 
million  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
KRW 527 
million
 
 
 
 
 
* According to the directors/executives whose remunerations were above KRW 500 million in 2015, includes the directors/executives who retired Remuneration Payments 
Since 2014, in the case of directors and auditors 
whose remunerations were above KRW 500 million, SK Telecom has disclosed their individual remuner-ations in the business reports. The salaries for di-rectors are calculated according to the value of their duties, and the salary must be within the limits set at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. Performance- based compensation of up to 200% of the annual salary is determined by a comprehensive evaluation of measurable indices such as financial performances including revenue, operating profit and EVA and the non-measurable indices such as leadership, achieve-ment of strategic goals, expertise, and contribution to the company’s management performance. For the management, external perception indices including the 3 major customer satisfaction survey results and DJSI evaluation results along with environmental and social indices including reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, revenue from environmental solutions and corporate revenue from social contribution solutions are reflected in the performance evaluation.
     
          
                      
Executive director
Independent director
Audit committee 
member or auditor
TotalNumber of 
Directors
4
2
3
9Average  
Remuneration 
(KRW million)
567
66
-Remuneration Payments for Directors
Total  
Payment  
(KRW million)
2,266
132
199
2,598
* Includes the directors/auditors who retired in 2016
*  As of the 2016 reporting date, the total number of people is 6  
(2 executive directors, 4 independent directors and 3 Audit  
Committee members or auditors among the independent directors)The Ratio of the Highest Remuneration to 
the Mean Employee Remuneration
Employee Remu -
neration (mean)*
KRW 101 millionYOY Increase R ate
-50.4%*Ratio
7.09
* The calculated value of the increased ratio of 7.09 
based on the 2014 ratio of 14.29CEO R emuneration 
(total)*
KRW 716 millionBoard-Centered Responsibility Management 
and Propelling Stakeholder Engagement
Corporate Sustainability Governance
In order to fulfill its social responsibility as a glob -
al company, SK Telecom established and began to 
operate the Corporate Citizenship Committee in May 2008 with the aim of making it a part of core man -
agement activities. As the top decision-making body for responsibility management under the Board, the Corporate Citizenship Committee sets forth the mid- to long-term implementation strategies for SK Telecom’s responsibility management activities and evaluates the outcomes thereof. The Corporate Cit -
izenship Committee consists of 3 independent di -
rectors, whose roles include setting the direction of implementation in the 5 major sustainable manage -
ment areas including customer-centered manage -
ment, mutual growth, CSV and social contribution, transparent ethical management and eco-friendly management as well as advising on CSR and CSV initiative activities and monitoring the key issues and outcomes.
In accordance with the continuously increasing de-
mand to strengthen the top decision-making body’s role and participation regarding corporate sustainabil-ity management by the GRI Guidelines (GRI G4), UN Global Compact (UNGC) and Communication on Prog-ress (COP), SK Telecom is further strengthening the role of the Corporate Citizenship Committee including through the operation of a consultative body that can support the Corporate Citizenship Committee’s activities, and expanded the Board’s sustainability management responsibility and role. Furthermore, in order to enhance the expertise of the Board, SK Telecom implemented CSR education for the Board including the implementation of a UNGC LEAD Board program for the Corporate Citizenship Committee. SK Telecom will continuously implement activities to strengthen the CSR competency of the company’s highest decision-making body through efforts such as providing CSR education to the Corporate Citizenship Committee and performance evaluations.
Stakeholder Engagement Policy
SK Telecom has operated distinct communication channels for 6 different types of stakeholders, which include customers, business partners, em -
ployees, local communities, NGOs, shareholders and the government and is implementing communi -
cation-oriented management practices. SK Telecom is making efforts to understand and meet the expec -
tations and needs of diverse stakeholders, so that the company’s subsistence and development can be a foundation for value creation for stakeholders, the development of society and the economy as well as for the happiness of mankind. 
In 2013, SK Telecom established and disclosed its 
stakeholder engagement policies and revealed its commitment regarding its stakeholder engagement policies internally and externally. Based upon this, the company further improved the transparency and efficiency of its management through stakeholder engagement and seeks to acquire stakeholders’ support and trust. SK Telecom’s stakeholder en -
gagement policies define the minimum requirements for internal and external stakeholders to participate in all of SK Telecom’s management activities, pro -
vide guidelines from the companywide perspective related to stakeholder communication to the related company organizations, and these policies apply to all of SK Telecom’s management activities including overseas operations.
SK Telecom Sustainability System
Board of Directors
Social contributionEco-friendly 
managementMutual growthTransparent ethical 
managementCustomer-centered 
managementCorporate Citizenship 
CommitteeSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 
72
      1,894     686  94514,250062 063GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Stakeholder Communication
In order for individual departments to be able to 
manage and process each of SK Telecom’s stake -
holder communication channels according to the stakeholder management policy, the responsible or -
ganization and individuals in charge are designated and operate according to a responsibility system. Of the feedback and complaints received through each stakeholder communication channel, those that are deemed to have a substantial impact or are considered important are reported to the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the Board.Customer Grievances and Complaints
Regarding the social responsibility promises that SK Telecom made to stakeholders, if there are opin -
ions, cases of going against social responsibility in the business process, or grievances and complaints about damage cases, SK Telecom seeks to under -
stand the grievances and complaints and actively resolve C SR issues. SK Telecom operates an integrat -
ed channel on the company’s website that collects stakeholders’ CSR complaints and grievances relat -
ed to labor, human rights, environmental and ethical management practices. After verifying the content 
Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Channels
-  Policy proposal by participating in meetings 
and discussions supervised by the government
- Public-private Project Participation
- Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning- Korea Communications commission- Fair Trade Commission- Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership-  VoC Collection channels such as On/offline 
Customer Center, “T World”
-  Customer interaction within distribution network through stores/branches
- CRM questionnaires- Customer satisfaction survey- SK Telecom homepage-  Social media pages such as blog, Facebook, etc.
- Customer advisory board
- Meetings and events across the year- VoP reception channel- Portal site for business partners (Open2U)- Win-Win Conference- Partner’s Day- One-on-One Meeting- Win-Win Innovation Center website- Win-Win Growth Satisfaction Survey- T Open Lab, Open Innovation Center
Online CSR
Grievances/
Complaints
ChannelGovernments Customers Business partners
- Investor meetings (conferences, NDR, etc.)- Seminars on business status- Information to investors (homepage)- Public disclosure (FSS, KRX, SEC, LSE, etc.)- Shareholders’ meeting- Semi-annual meetings with NGOs - Online volunteer platform- Online donation platform-  Local Residents’ Council (participating in community development)
- Social contribution programs - CSV Advisory Council- Labor union (labor union website)- Labor-Management Council- Letter to the HR (intranet)-  Company newsletter and in-house broad -
casting, and communication media
CSR Grievances / Complaints Channel
The resolution process of grievances/complaints on human rights, labor, social and environmental , customer information protection issues.Shareholders Employees Communities
01
Fact check
with due diligence
by relevant
department(s)02
Take action
issues and actively
resolve them03
Report major measures
taken to Corporate  
Citizenship Committee
under the Board04
Drive
improvement
to prevent
similar issues05
Disclose major
issues measures
taken, and external
informationof the feedback and grievances received through the 
CSR grievance channel, SK Telecom actively resolves them through the operating department’s monitoring and due diligence. In addition, the content and han -
dling process of CSR issue-related cases that were judged and acted upon as critical issues are reported to the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the Board, and actively reflected in management activ -
ities and improvement efforts are being developed to prevent similar cases from occurring. 
UN Global Compact
As the first among Korea’s top four companies to join the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007, SK Telecom participated as a founding member and Steering Committee member of UNGC Korea, a local association of UNGC, undertaking a variety of activ -
ities in an effort to solve domestic and international social issues and to spread global CSR trends. SK Telecom is adhering to the 10 principles in 4 sectors including human rights, environment, labor and an -
ti-corruption, and advocating for a wide range of the UN’s development plans including the Sustainable Development Goals, and it became the first Korean company to be designated as a UNGC LEAD in Janu -
Economic Value Distributed Economic Value RetainedIn 2015, SK Telecom has generated a total economic value of KRW 18.478 trillion, consisting of financial investment returns that includes operating revenues of KRW 17.137 trillion, revenue from asset disposals and other revenue. Among the total value created, KRW 17.847 trillion has been distributed reasonably to stakeholders, considering the future value of the company and investment efficiency, and after the distribution, the total retained economic value of KRW 631 billion has been added to the total equity. On the other hand, a total of KRW 27 billion in governmental tax deductions were received in 2015 for investing in the development of research personnel, productivity improvement and energy saving.CREATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE
(Unit: KRW billion)
KRW 631  billion
KRW 
17.847 
TRILLION 
Business Partner & Other
Executive & Employee
Shareholder & InvestorGovernment
CommunityDistribution to Business Partners and Other Operating Expenses: 
Economic value distribution to business partners and other operating expenses such as cost of goods sold, commissions paid, R&D and network investment.Distribution to Executives and Employees: Executive and employee 
wages, benefits and welfare as well as the reserve for retirement allowances.Distribution to Shareholders and Investors: Dividends and in interest payments.Distribution to the Government: Payment of corporate taxes among 
other taxes and frequency usage fees applied.Distribution to the Local Communities: Pure donations to local 
communities, not including indirect impact resulting from business investments and infrastructure support.ary 2011. As Korea’s first company to participate in 
LEAD, SK Telecom has offered the Board Program (a CSR education program for board members) to the Corporate Citizenship Committee and took the initia -
tive to apply the global CSR best practices to Korea. In particular, SK Telecom declared its support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the human rights principles in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie Framework, and SK Telecom’s CEO affirmed that the company would fulfill its responsibility related to respect for human rights. 
Participation in Sustainability Initiatives
SK Telecom is actively participating in diverse glob -
al initiatives for the improvement of sustainability. The company complies with ISO 26000, the stan -
dard for corporate social responsibility management system, and also participates in the Carbon Disclo -
sure Project (CDP) and the Integrated Reporting (IR) Business Network. Gaining recognition for its efforts to improve sustainability at home and abroad, SK Telecom has been included in the Dow Jones Sus -
tainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for eight con -
secutive years since 2008.SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Operation of a Specialized  
Risk Management Governance
Independent Risk Management Governance
SK Telecom’s Board defines the companywide risk 
profile and threshold levels by risk and holds the top responsibility for overall risk management de -
cision-making. In the decision-making process for management issues by major issue, the Board con -
ducts decision-making regarding potential risks by issue and risk management. Namely, the Board rec -
ognizes the risks that the company may face and conducts the ultimate decision-making regarding the company’s tolerance to exposure and response strategy regarding all of the risks including strategic risk, financial risk, investment risk, operational risk and reputational risk. Monitoring of and response to companywide risks occurs centrally through the Management Support Office, which is directly un -
der the CEO. The Management Support Office is in charge of managing the risk profile, mapping the responsible department regarding key risks, defin -
ing the response by risk, and implementing moni -toring, the spread of risk awareness and responses according to the defined risk levels through close cooperation with the business departments. If an urgent risk occurs, the Management Support Office reports to the CEO and has the authority to summon the personnel of the Companywide Crisis Response Situation Room, supervised by the relevant COO, to take the necessary response measures
Managed Risks
The range of SK Telecom’s companywide risk man -
agement covers financial and non-financial risks including the business risk area such as strategic risks, financial risks (market, interest rates, foreign exchange, taxation) and regulatory risks; business operation risks such as large-scale customer com -
plaints, customer information leakages and network failures; and reputational (social responsibility) risks that can impact the company’s reputation such as unfair trade, bribery and treats.
Risk Management Areas and Factors
Business Risks
Employees
Customer Values
Business Partner 
Governance 
Relationship·    Strategy – Predict customer needs and demands, business decision-making, changes in technology and industry environment
·  Regulation risk – Sudden changes in related systems and policies
·  Financial – Exchange rate, changes in interest rate, liquidity, credit, assets, debt management
·  Operation process – Appropriateness of organization design, performing incorrect processes
·   Individual corruption – Leaking company information, financial dealings with employees and stakeholders, illicit 
profits/usage, embezzlement of public funds, violation of prohibition on concurrent positions/outside work
· Sexual ethics – Sexual harassment, gender discrimination
· Employee conflict – Conflicts between employees, leaders, or the company
·   Employee incidents/accidents – Death from negligence or serious injuries from accidents, job-related 
accidents, public criticism (e.g. assault)
· Company losses due to job-related negligence – Neglectful sales, asset management
· (Collective) customer actions
· Large customer complaints – Service failures, computational errors
· Customer information leaks – Leak of subscribers’ personal data, leak of terminal information and call records
· Spread of negative press through media press and social media
·   Unfair transactions – Transaction with relatives/paper company, unfair transactions, giving a favor to a specific 
enterprise or overlooking faults
· Giving/receiving money and valuables or special treatment
·   Business partners violating data privacy – Business partners leaking trade secrets externally, business 
partners wrongfully using company information
· Business partners’ illegal actions – Customer fraud at authorized dealerships/stores
· Fair trade violations – Illegal subsidies, violation of Protection of Communications Secret Act, collusion
· Inappropriate entertainment – Offering bribes/other special treatment
· Accounting fraud – Creating slush funds, fraudulent accounting, disclosure violations
·   Search/Investigation by state institutions – Violation of laws, search/investigations such as investigation of the company’s business policiesCrisis Response Process 
Since 2014, SK Telecom has been strengthening its 
risk management system to operate a companywide crisis response center to respond promptly to serious crisis situations. The Companywide Crisis Response Situation Room is called upon during serious crisis situations necessitating urgent responses such as when the risk may affect various organizations with-in the company or may have a serious impact on business operations, including a dramatic increase or spread of traditional and social media reports of a certain situation and drastic increases in reports of the same type of customer complaints (e.g. Voice of Customer complaints) in a short period of time. Such companywide crisis situations include a nationwide network failure (incl. failures caused by natural di-sasters), leakage of customer information, as well as investigations and media coverage of unethical be-haviors of executives and employees of the company.  
Expanding the Scope of Risk Awareness and 
Strengthening Standards 
In 2015, SK Telecom strengthened risk awareness 
and risk awareness dissemination systems so that when a risk occurs, the relevant business department can respond promptly. In particular, the internal risk awareness standard related to network failures was strengthened, and while compared to the past even a low number of customer VoCs received will be rec-ognized as a risk situation and it will be preemptive-ly dealt with, the awareness level of things such as the malfunction of important equipment, checking whether there are real-time trending searches on the main portals, online articles and issues spread-ing on SNS has been expanded on a national level. The management standard has been strengthened so that the company can respond promptly to the awareness standards of information security, business risks, reputational risks as well as customers’ and the public’s awareness level by monitoring the trend of public opinion through the main portals and terrestri-al broadcasting, daily newspaper reports, online and SNS. The strengthening of risk awareness standards such as these are also applied to invested companies. In the first half of 2016, autonomous risk manage-ment systems by area were established and each busi-ness area’s autonomous risk response systems were strengthened, thus solidifying the advance checking systems by business area regarding potential risks.
Support the Risk Management Systems of 
Subsidiaries  
SK Telecom has built a companywide risk manage-
ment system that includes primary subsidiaries. The company has clarified the inter-company situation re-porting standards for each major risk type, and has established an organic risk responding system for subsidiaries to share information in the event of unexpected emergency situations and to cope with crises through prompt decision-making. 
In particular, in order to enhance the management sta -
bility within the even more organic cooperative system, SK Telecom is operating a companywide risk manage
-
ment working group, and has also formalized risk man -
agement meetings, in which subsidiaries are to partic -
ipate, in order to continually seek out potential risks going forward. In the future, SK Telecom will continue to ensure the stability of business operates through thor
-
ough oversight of its risk management system.
Business RisksBusiness RisksRisk management responsibility
Department/
Headquarters Investment 
companiesHead of Division, Head 
of Department/Director 
of the Headquarters, 
nvestment company 
representative
Management 
Support Office
Business RisksCompanywide crisis 
response centerCEOBoardRisk management 
responsibility
Monitoring & auditing risk management
Risk 
perceived/
occurred3 7
4 54
21
6Situation report: The executives of SK Telecom and 
investment companiesPost-examination: Regulation risk – Related Management Support Office and individuals in charge of risk management at investment companies
Perceive 
situationReport
Crisis 
response
Spread of 
situationCooperative responseSpread of 
situationDetermine 
whether 
to callDetermine whether to callReport to CEO064 065SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 066Long-term Risks & Opportunities By thoroughly analyzing the newly emerging risks in the company’s management environment and catego -
rizing risks and initiating strategic responses according to short-, mid- to long-term impacts, SK Telecom is 
implementing a strengthened risk management that considers the company’s future risks.067
Risk
 
 
 
 Context
·   There exists a possibility that competition between companies may erupt due to the trend of 
policies for market overheating prevention and stabilization including governmental subsidy 
regulations and the Handset Distribution Act, or due to the limits of the market size.
·    There is a need to secure and maintain frequencies and network capacity following the surge in 
data traffic.
·   Failure to respond to the development and introduction of new telecommunications networks and network technology can lead to a long-term drop in competitiveness.
  
·   As telecommunications companies’ networks are public goods by nature, personal information 
protection of telecommunication companies is not only the foundation of customer trust, but also a fundamental obligation of an operator.
·   Personal information protection is part of basic rights and is protected by laws such as the 
Protection of Communications Secrets Act, however, it can also be restricted for the public interest 
in cases of certain criminal suspects as well as terror and national security.
 
·   Risks associated with climate change have emerged as a major agenda in global governance: as 
a result, related regulations such as GHG target management and emissions trading systems, etc. have been changing with increasing uncertainty.
·   The Korean government began to implement the Emissions Trading System in January of 2015, and following the completion of the post-Kyoto Protocol at the COP21 (Paris Agreement) at the end of 2015, the government set a national target of reducing GHG emissions by 37% compared to BAU by 2030, and is strengthening market and non-market regulations.Potential Impacts on SK Telecom
·   There are 40 million smartphone users in Korea, which is a mobile penetration 
rate of over 110%, and in the mature market there is a possibility that subscriber 
growth may experience long-term stagnation. 87% of SK Telecom’s operating profit 
depends on the mobile telecommunications revenue, so it is possible that limits to market expansion may lead to limits to growth.
·   It is necessary to discover new revenue sources by delivering new added value such as data- and media-centered services, IoT services and wearable devices.
·    
The wireless telecommunications business depends upon the continuous development of technology. After the successful commercialization of the LTE-A service through the introduction of carrier aggregation (CA) technology in 2013, the securing of the best network competitiveness through the preemptive introduction of technology related 
to network investment, such as the commercialization of 3-Band LTE-A in 2014 and 
achievement of over 50% regional coverage for 3-Band LTE-A in 2015, is recognized as the long-term core competitiveness of the MNO business. Network quality competitiveness has a significant impact on securing the customer base and a competitive advantage in the market, financial performance such as revenue, public recognition, and securing a technological base for future growth businesses.
·  If the development and execution of next-generation network technology such as 5G is not successfully achieved, SK Telecom’s long-term competitiveness may be negatively impacted.
·  Securing optimal frequencies, continually investing in networks and developing 
technology requires a high level of capital expenditures, and this may have mid- to 
long-term financial impacts.
·  If a personal information leakage occurs, an MNO may face serious financial risk from subscriber churn, fines and orders to temporarily suspend operations levied by governmental and regulatory agencies
·  Mobile telecommunications companies have an obligation to not only prevent tangible damage to subscribers including hacking, viruses and spam, but also to protect equal information access rights to the internet and protect secrets regarding personal telecommunication information. Accordingly, they must establish clear and balanced positions and policies between requests from the government or the political sphere to provide personal information and customers’ protection.
·  The three largest Korean telecommunications companies according to mobile 
phones received about 86,000 requests for communication verification documents 
from national organizations in the first half of 2014, 104,000 requests in the first half of 2015, and received about 370,000 requests for communications documents in the first half of 2014, and this increased to about 440,000 documents requests in the first half of 2015, leading to expectations that the importance of the use of personal information including for public safety and crimes will further increase.
·  In order for SK Telecom to secure the best network quality through network acceleration, a large amount of electric power is consumed by the operation of data centers and networks, so there is a limit to the reduction of GHG emissions for business operations. According to the introduction of the Emissions Trading System and national GHG emission reduction 
targets, there is an increasing need to manage the financial impact of GHG emissions.
·  In particular, along with SK Telecom’s financial burden including a lower allocation of 
GHG emission rights compared to forecasted GHG emissions, long-term uncertainty in the emissions trading market and the occurrence of environmental debt, it is judged that there will be a negative impact on future business operations.What are we doing about it?
·  Along with efforts to improve profits through improved retention and strengthened 
market efficiency through core competitiveness, and in the saturated market, the 
company is seeking to raise the net increase of new subscribers such as 2nd device 
users, young targets and foreigners.
·  The company is establishing mid- to long-term strategies and reorganizing the business structure to go from being a traditional mobile telecommunications company to a next-generation platform provider in order to deliver new value to customers and create new profits based on value.
·  Using SK Telecom’s subscriber-based, big data assets in its existing telecommunications business, the company will overcome the growth limits of telecommunications by maximizing synergy between businesses on the three platforms of Lifestyle Enhancement, Media and IoT, and discover a new business portfolio for new profit creation.
·  Alongside making appropriate investments to develop leading network technology in order to secure competitiveness to provide the best quality, efforts are being made 
for continuous technological development in order to increase network efficiency.
·  While SK Telecom is making efforts to minimize the expense of securing optimal 
frequencies by establishing plans to secure optimal frequencies through efforts such as subscriber analysis and forecasting data network demand and operating auction strategies, it is also doing its best to operate cost-effective networks by executing CAPEX at a reasonable level annually. 
·  While SK Telecom is leading participation in domestic and international 5G technological standardization initiatives in order to secure 5G technology leadership, it is also providing a 5G testing environment for small and medium equipment developers and startups in order to create the ecosystem as well as initiating co-development of new services.
·  In addition, the company is operating a contingency plan in order to prevent serious network breakdowns such as from natural disasters as well as network failures. 
·     Along with publicly supporting the ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ and the UN Human Rights Committee’s ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights,’ SK Telecom established human rights principles regarding freedom of expression and misuse of technology through a formalized corporate human rights policy, and is 
doing its best to protect users’ rights and interests as well as human rights.
·  Cooperation regarding ‘communications documents,’ ‘communications verification 
documents,’ and ‘communications restrictions’ are carried out according to the strict procedures and limitations specified in current law, and along with continuous diagnostic activities to check for elements of potential violations of users’ rights, the company provides only the minimum practical information through customer data segmentation and big data analysis if necessary for the public interest, thereby doing 
its best to protect human rights.
·  Along with SK Telecom’s pursuit of the achievement of its goal of zero (0) cases of customer 
information leakages by providing customer information protection using ICT technology, infringement blocking technology and safety services centered around the Information Protection Planning Team, it is also making efforts to improve customer satisfaction.
·   The amount of energy consumption and GHG emissions are managed as major indicators and efforts to reduce GHG through the development of high-efficiency telecommunications equipment such as low-power relay bases and increase of application are included in business planning.
·   The GHG emissions reduction calculation method using T map Navigation was recognized as an international standard, and this resulted from the company’s efforts to conduct research on reducing social GHG emissions using ICT and providing 
infrastructure to minimize risks in the future.GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE
Intensification of 
competition in a mature 
market
Securing network 
competence and response 
to technology evolution
Changes in climate 
change regulations and 
regimesData privacy  
and human rightsSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDIX 068 069TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY REPORT TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY REPORT
Building a Culture for Ethical and 
Transparent Company Management 
Enhancing Prevention 
SK Telecom is practicing ethical management on 
the basis of Prevention – Detection – Response. In particular, the company placed a priority on en -
hancing the area of prevention in 2015. SK Telecom examined the practical diagnostic topic of SKMS, SK Group’s management system, and created new topics including ethics awareness, measures to take in the event of occurrence and reporting obligations, and confirmed potential ethical management risks by implementing an internal survey. The 2015 survey results showed that the main ethical management risks included information protection ethics regard -
ing company information leak risks, male/female sexual harassment and internal/external abusive practices. Through prevention inspections and ed -
ucation regarding the assessed potential risks, SK Telecom is implementing proactive prevention and employee protection activities regarding case occur -
rences, such as the implementation of the Code of Ethics Practice Pledge and ethical education for all employees.Code of Conduct and Practice Guidelines
Through the Code of Conduct, SK Telecom declared its responsibility to stakeholders including employ -
ees, partner companies, customers, shareholders and the local community, and clearly presented a direction regarding the company’s comprehensive ethical management such as the application stan -
dards and attitude of the Code of Ethics that em -
ployees must keep, and is applying a Zero-Tolerance Policy regarding compliance with the Code of Ethics. Based on the standards in the Code of Conduct, the detailed ethical implementation status was estab -
lished in the Code of Ethics and Practice Guidelines, Efforts to Internalize Ethical Management 
Practice among Employees
In order to instill ethical awareness among employ -
ees and business partners and to promote the in -
ternalization of ethical management practice, SK 
Telecom conducts ethical management education annually on a long-term basis. In addition, in or -
der to promote and ethical management culture, SK Telecom has expanded the scope of targets for ethical management education to business partners and the distribution network, and is providing ethi -
cal management education at the same level as the ethical management education conducted for SK Telecom’s employees.in order to prevent any confusion that may arise from discrepant interpretation from individual to individual regarding SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct and ethical standards. 
In addition, in order to present understanding of and 
response standards regarding diverse situations in which ethical issues may occur, the Practice Guide -
lines for Code of Ethics (FAQ) is provided to employ -
ees, as SK Telecom seeks to further increase the guideline’s concreteness and adherence through a revision of the Practice Guidelines for Code of Ethics (FAQ) in 2015.Ethical Management Prevention – Detection – Response ProcessGOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE
Prevention Detection Response
Examination of  
Education/Prevention
Reflected in PreventionRegular Monitoring Diagnosis and Audit Information Channel Disciplinary Action
Follow-up
-  Information  
Dissemination 
- System Improvement- Follow-up EducationIndividual OrganizationSurvey
Feedback
Type
Entertainment and other special treatment
False reporting and budget abuse
Misappropriation of company moneyReputation damage
Excessive loans
Sexual harassmentViolation of the work policy
Management responsibility
Breaches on Antitrust PolicyTotalAction
Dismissal / Pay Cut
Dismissal / Suspension / Pay Cut / Reprimand Actions Taken Against Violations of the Code of Ethics in 2015
Cases
2
0
00
0
40
0
06SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct Framework
SK Telecom CEO Human Rights Statement (2013)
Universal Declaration of Human Rights (2004)
UNGC 10 Principles (2008)
Ruggie Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (2012)Employees Employees Employees Employees Business Partners
· Code of Ethics· Practice guidelines·  Ethical managementpractice guide
· Practice pledge·   Anti-bribery and customer 
information protection
·  Compliance with SK 
Telecom’s standard 
social and environmental 
responsibilities ·  Detailed pledge for customer information protection and practiceguidelines
·  Personal Information Protection Policy·    Employment, evaluation and compensation regulations
·  Detailed regulations on anti-discrimination·  Prevention of money laundering and insider trading
·  Anti-monopoly and anti-competition behavior preventionCode of Ethics HR PolicyCustomer
Information
Protection PolicyAutonomous Fair
Trade Compliance
GuidelinesFair Trade Consent 
Form
and CSR Guidelines
for Partners
2013 2015 201416
7
6Number of Actions Taken Against Violations of the
Code of EthicsSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
070Ethics Counseling and Reporting
SK Telecom operates an Ethics Counseling Center 
to enable regular reporting of ethical management issues and counseling. SK Telecom ha s opened chan -
nels such as the corporate website, interviews and mail correspondence to make ethics counseling and reporting services freely available to all stakehold -
ers including employees, customers and business partners. These channels not only enable reporting of wrongful conduct and corruption, but also con -
sultation on diverse ethical issues that stakeholders may face. The counseling and reporter protection program is operated in conjunction with these chan -
nels in order to protect the identities of service us -
ers and consulted matters; the related content is kept confidential to prevent it from becoming public against the service users’ wishes. 
Additionally, SK Telecom operates diverse internal 
ethics counseling and reporting channels for em -
ployees. If direct reporting is desired, there is a di -
rect reporting channel connected to the Chairman of the Audit Committee with efforts being made to support internal employees’ ethics and grievance consulting and resolution including through mul -
tifaceted methods such as ‘My Counselor’,’ ‘Letter to the HR,’ the availability of female counselors for sexual harassment cases as well as the Intranet.
Strengthened Protection of Internal Reporters
Since September 2015, SK Telecom strengthened the policy of protecting internal reporters and stipulat -
ed a provision for protecting the internal reporter’s identity and content of the counseling and report -
ing, and introduced a disciplinary action system re -
garding the leakage of the reporter’s identity.
Fair Competition, 
Transparent Transaction Culture
In order to improve the practice of fair competition 
and transparent transactions among its business partners, SK Telecom is conducting the Autonomous Fair Trade Compliance Program and included a fair and transparent trade category in the Ethics Practice Pledge and making fair trade compliance mandato -
ry. The fair trade compliance standards for business partners are applied equally without regard to coun -
try or region, and compliance to the standard are firmly carried out including the fact that failure to provide consent or comply with matters will result in non-approval for registration or termination of ex -
isting contracts.Anti-Trust Compliance
SK Group, which SK Telecom is part of, enacted the ‘SK Compliance System Guidelines’ starting in 2008 and is strengthening fair trade systems by dissemi -
nating these guidelines. 
In 2015, SK Telecom was not involved in any an -
ti-trust investigations, nor did it pay any fines for 
violations related to fair trade. SK Telecom was not involved in any anti-trust investigations or paid a fine for a violation related to fair trade in 2014. SK Telecom will continue to endeavor to spread the fair trade culture while simultaneously leading ICT in -
dustry growth through collaboration with its part -
ners. 
Public Policy Cooperation
SK Telecom abides by Korea’s Political Fund Act, which prohibits companies from making political contributions. The company is also in full cooper -
ation with the public policies implemented by the government such as job creation, gender equality and creative economy and attempts to meet the so -
cial demands such as anti-corruption and fair com -
petition.4
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&ANON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTSNON-FINANCIAL MD&AINDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORTTHIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENTGREENHOUSE GAS ASSURANCE STATEMENT72808991
107109113Financial & Non Financial 
Statements071TRANSPARENCY & INTEGRITY REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BY STAKEHOLDER
BY TYPE OF INFORMATIONEthics Counseling Center Operation (Unit: %)
Business 
Partners
Ethics Counseling/
Information 
(Survey)Customer Complaints 
(Transferred to Relevant 
Department)Employees CustomersSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
11 84
5
9BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS072 073FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Financial Statements
The 32nd  As of 2015.12.31
The 31st  As of 2014.12.31
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31
Assets
 Current Assets
  Cash and cash equivalents
  Short-term financial instruments
  Short-term investment securities
  Accounts receivable—trade, net
  Short-term loans, net
  Accounts receivable—other, net
  Accrued revenue
  Advance payment
  Prepaid expenses
  Derivative financial assets
  Inventories, net
  Advanced payments and other
  Assets classified as held for sale
 Non-current Assets
  Long-term financial instruments
  Long-term investment securities
   Investments in associates and joint ventures
  Property and equipment, net
  Investment property, net
  Goodwill
  Intangible assets, net
  Long-term loans, net
  Long-term account receivable
  Long-term prepaid expenses
  Guarantee deposits
   Long-term derivative financial assets
  Deferred tax assets
  Other non-current assets
 Total Assets32nd
5,160,242
768,922
691,090
92,262
2,344,867
53,895
673,739
10,753
96,570
151,978
0
273,556
0
2,610
23,421,145
10,623
1,207,226
6,896,293
10,371,256
15,071
1,908,590
2,304,784
62,454
2,420
76,034
297,281
166,399
17,257
85,457
28,581,38731st
5,083,148
834,429
313,068
280,161
2,392,150
74,512
690,527
10,134
70,772
134,404
0
267,667
10,510
4,814
22,858,085
631
956,280
6,298,088
10,567,701
14,997
1,917,595
2,483,994
55,728
3,596
51,961
285,144
70,035
25,083
127,252
27,941,23330th
5,123,415
1,398,639
311,474
106,068
2,257,316
79,395
643,603
11,941
20,966
108,909
10
177,120
3,667
4,307
21,453,100
8,142
968,527
5,325,297
10,196,607
15,811
1,733,261
2,750,782
57,442
0
32,008
249,600
41,712
26,322
47,589
26,576,515Liabilities and Equity Current Liabilities
  Accounts payable—trade
  Accrued payables—other
  Unearned revenue
  Withholdings
  Accrued expenses
  Income tax payable
  Unearned income
  Derivative financial liabilities
  Current liabilities
  Short-term borrowings
   Current portion of bonds payable and long-term borrowings
  Current portion of capital lease Liabilities 
  Long-term non-trade payable
  Other current liabilities
  Liabilities classified as held for sale
 Non-current liabilities
  Debentures
  Long-term borrowings
  Long-term payables—other
  Long-term unearned revenue
  Finance lease liabilities
  Defined benefit obligations
  Derivative financial liabilities
  Other non-current liabilities
  Deferred tax liabilities
  Other non-current liabilities
 Total Liabilities
Equity  Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company
 Share capital
 Other paid up capital
 Retained earnings
 Reserves
 Non-controlling interests
 Total Equity
 Total Liabilities and Equity32nd
5,256,493
279,782
1,323,434
136,844
865,327
920,739
381,794
224,233
0
40,988
260,000
703,087
26
120,185
0
54
7,950,798
6,439,147
121,553
581,697
2,842
0
98,856
89,296
29,217
538,114
50,076
13,207,291
 
15,251,079
44,639
189,510
15,007,627
9,303
123,017
15,374,096
28,581,38731st
5,420,310
275,495
1,381,850
129,255
1,053,063
952,418
99,236
327,003
0
51,075
366,600
590,714
3,804
189,389
408
0
7,272,653
5,649,158
149,720
684,567
19,659
26
91,587
130,889
36,013
444,211
66,823
12,692,963
14,506,739
44,639
277,998
14,188,591
(4,489)
741,531
15,248,270
27,941,23330th
6,069,220
214,716
1,864,024
102,931
728,936
988,193
112,316
441,731
21,171
66,775
260,000
1,042,276
19,351
206,800
00
6,340,738
4,905,579
104,808
838,585
50,894
3,867
74,201
103,168
28,106
168,825
62,705
12,409,958
13,452,372
44,639
317,508
13,102,495
(12,270)
714,185
14,166,557
26,576,515 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (Unit: KRW million)SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS074 075FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Operating revenue
 Revenue
Operating expense Labor cost
 Commissions paid
 Depreciation and amortization
 Network interconnection
 Leased line
 Advertising
 Rent
 Cost of products that have been resold
 Other operating expense
Operating income Finance income
 Finance cost
  Gain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, net
 Other non-operating income
 Other non-operating expense
Profit before income taxIncome tax expense from continuing operationsProfit from continuing operationsDiscontinued operation incomeNet of income continued operationsAttributable to Owners of the Parent Company
 Non-controlling interests
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share (in won)
 Diluted earnings per share (in won)Net of income continued operationsOther continued comprehensive income  Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
  Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations after income tax
  Items that maybe be reclassified to profit or loss:
  Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale financial assets
  Net change in other comprehensive income of invest-ments in associates and joint ventures
  Net change in unrealized fair value or derivatives
  Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations
 Total comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income attributable toOwners of the Parent CompanyNon-controlling interests32nd
17,136,73417,136,734
(15,428,728)
1,893,745
5,206,951
2,845,295
957,605
389,819
405,005
493,586
1,955,861
1,280,861
1,708,006
103,900
350,100
786,140
30,910
243,491
2,035,365
519,480
1,515,885
0
1,515,885
1,518,604
(2,719)
 
20,98820,98832nd
1,515,885
1,835
(14,489)(14,489)
16,324
(3,661)
(5,709)
(1,271)
26,965
1,517,720
1,522,280
(4,560)31st
17,163,79817,163,798
(15,338,693)
1,659,777
5,692,680
2,714,730
997,319
399,014
415,857
460,309
1,680,110
1,318,897
1,825,105
126,337
386,673
906,338
56,279
273,558
2,253,828
454,508
1,799,320
0
1,799,320
1,801,178
(1,858)
25,15425,15431st
1,799,320
(28,486)
(32,942)(32,942)
4,456
27,267
8,187
(45,942)
14,944
1,770,834
1,777,519
(6,685)30th
16,602,05416,602,054
(14,590,945)
1,561,358
5,498,695
2,661,623
1,043,733
448,833
394,066
443,639
1,300,375
1,238,623
2,011,109
113,392
571,203
706,509
74,467
507,173
1,827,101
400,797
1,426,304
183,245
1,609,549
1,638,964
(29,415)
23,21123,21130th
1,609,549
18,497
5,9465,946
12,551
2,009
3,034
11,222
(3,714)
1,628,046
1,655,570
(27,524)Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd  2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31The 32nd  2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS076 077
The 32nd  2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31
2013.01.01 (Basic Capital)
Total Comprehensive profit
Dividends paid
Issuance of hybrid bondInterest on hybrid bondAcquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockChanges in the scope of consolidationBusiness combination under common control Changes in equity of subsidiaries2013.12.31 (End of term capital)2014.01.01 (Basic Capital)Total Comprehensive profit
Dividends paid
Issuance of hybrid bondInterest on hybrid bondAcquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockChanges in the scope of consolidationBusiness combination under common controlChanges in equity of subsidiaries2014.12.31 (End of term capital)2015.01.01 (Basic Capital)Total Comprehensive profit
Dividends paid
Issuance of hybrid bondInterest on hybrid bondAcquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockChanges in the scope of consolidationBusiness combination under common controlChanges in equity of subsidiaries2015.12.31 (End of term capital)Share Capital
44,639
0
00
0000000
44,63944,639
0
00
0000000
44,639Share Capital
44,639
0
00
0000000
44,639Equity Equity
Controlling Interest of Parent Company Controlling Interest of Parent Company
Non-controlling 
InterestNon-controlling 
InterestTotal Equity Total Equity
Reserves
(25,636)
0
13,366
00000000
(12,270)(12,270)
0
7,781
00000000
(4,489)Reserves
(4,489)
0
17,078
0000000
(3,286)
9,303 Other Paid up 
Capital
(288,883)
0
00
398,518
0
0
271,536
0
(61,854)
(1,809)
317,508317,508
0
00
00000
(28,641)(10,869)
277,998 Other Paid up 
Capital
277,998
0
00
00
(490,192)
425,744
00
(24,040)
189,510Elements of Parent 
Company
11,854,777
1,638,964
16,606
(655,946)
398,518
(8,420)
0
271,536
0
(61,854)
(1,809)
13,452,37213,452,372
1,801,178
(23,659)
(666,802)
0
(16,840)
000
(28,641)(10,869)
14,506,739Elements of Parent 
Company
14,506,739
1,518,604
3,676
(668,494)
0
(16,840)
(490,192)
425,744
00
(28,158)
15,251,079Retained Earning
12,124,657
1,638,964
3,240
(655,946)
0
(8,420)
00000
13,102,49513,102,495
1,801,178
(31,440)
(666,802)
0
(16,840)
00000
14,188,591Retained Earning
14,188,591
1,518,604
(13,402)
(668,494)
0
(16,840)
0000
(832)
15,007,6271,000,005
(29,415)
1,891
(2,242)
000000
(256,054)
714,185714,185
(1,858)
(4,827)
(170)
0000
23,667
0
10,534
741,531741,531
(2,719)
(1,841)
(143)
0000
(5,226)
0
(608,585)
123,01712,854,782
1,609,549
18,497
(658,188)
398,518
(8,420)
0
271,536
0
(61,854)
(257,863)
14,166,55714,166,557
1,799,320
(28,486)
(666,972)
0
(16,840)
00
23,667
(28,641)
(335)
15,248,27015,248,270
1,515,885
1,835
(668,637)
0
(16,840)
(490,192)
425,744
(5,226)
0
(636,743)
15,374,096Consolidated Statements of Changes in EquityFINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
(Unit: KRW million)
Net of income continued 
operationsOther continued comprehensive incomeNet of income continued operationsOther continued comprehensive income
Net of income continued operationsOther continued comprehensive incomeFINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS078 079FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Cash flows from operating activities
 Cash generated from operating activities
  Net income of continued operation
  Adjustment for income and expenses
   Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating  activities
 Interest received
 Dividends received
 Interest paid
 Income tax paid
Cash flows from investing activities Cash inflows from investing activities
  Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net
  Decrease in short-term investment securities, net
  Collection of short-term loans
  Decrease in long-term financial instruments
  Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities
   Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures
  Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment
  Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets
   Net proceeds from the disposition of non-current assets held for sale
  Collection of long-term loans
  Decrease of deposits
  Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets 
  Increase in cash due to acquisition of a subsidiary
  Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries 
 Cash outflows for investing activities
  Increase in short-term loans 
  Increase in short-term investment securities, net 
  Increase in short-term loans 
  Increase in long-term loans 
  Increase in long-term financial instruments
  Acquisition of long-term investment securities 
  Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures
  Acquisition of property and equipment 
  Acquisition of intangible assets
  Increase in assets held for sale 
  Increase in deposits 
  Increase in other non-current assets 
  Cash outflows due to business overtake
  Acquisition of subsidiary business, net of cash acquired32nd
3,778,129
4,080,294
1,515,885
3,250,143
(685,734)
43,400
62,973
(275,796)
(132,742)
(2,880,499)
914,542
0
105,158
398,308
7,424
149,310
185,094
36,586
3,769
1,009
2,132
14,635
607
10,355
155
(3,795,041)
385,612
0
370,378
16,701
10,008
312,261
65,080
2,478,778
127,948
0
12,536
2,542
13,197
031st
3,677,385
4,070,982
1,799,320
2,978,995
(707,333)
56,706
13,048
(280,847)
(182,504)
(3,683,165)
341,387
5,627
0
207,439
2,535
65,287
7,333
25,143
10,917
3,667
4,454
8,891
94
00
(4,024,552)
0
174,209
202,501
4,341
2,522
41,305
60,020
3,008,026
130,667
552
6,903
18,233
124,486
250,78730th
3,558,570
3,915,055
1,609,549
3,275,376
(969,870)
64,078
10,197
(300,104)
(130,656)
(2,506,477)
1,251,786
186,425
0
290,856
16
287,777
43,249
12,579
2,256
190,393
13,104
8,509
683
0
215,939
(3,758,263)
0
45,032
279,926
4,050
7,510
22,141
97,366
2,879,126
243,163
0
83,314
1,830
0
94,805Cash flows from financing activities Cash inflows from financing activities
  Proceeds from short-term borrowings
  Issuance of debentures
  Proceeds from long-term borrowings
  Issuance of hybrid bond
 Cash inflows from derivative transactions
  Cash outflows for financing activities
  Repayment in short-term borrowings, net 
  Repayment of long-term non-trade payables 
  Repayment of debentures
  Repayment of long-term borrowings 
  Cash outflows from derivative transactions
  Decrease in finance lease liabilities
  Payment of dividends 
  Interest on hybrid bond
  Acquisition of treasury stock
  Decrease in cash from the consolidated capital transaction
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalentsCash and cash equivalent at beginning of the yearEffects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalentsCash and cash equivalents at end of the year 32nd
(964,583)
1,375,206
0
1,375,031
0
0
175
(2,339,789)
106,600
191,436
620,000
21,924
655
3,206
668,494
16,840
490,192
220,442
(66,953)
834,429
1,446
768,92231st
(559,399)
1,421,088
102,868
1,255,468
62,552
0
200
(1,980,487)
0
207,791
1,039,938
23,284
6,444
19,388
666,802
16,840
0
0
(565,179)
1,398,639
969
834,42930th
(573,157)
1,852,237
0
1,328,694
105,055
398,518
19,970
(2,425,394)
340,245
161,575
771,976
467,217
0
20,342
655,946
00
8,093
478,936
920,125
(422)
1,398,639Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd  2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS080 081FINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL MD&A SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Financial MD&A
(Management Discussion & Analysis )
Financial MD&A
This Management Discussion & Analysis (MD&A) is 
provided to enable readers to assess our results of operations and financial condition for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, compared to the pre -
ceding year.  This MD&A section should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts are presented on a consolidated basis and are based on our audit -
ed consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by Korea. All amounts are in Korean Won (KRW). All references to “we,” “us” or “our” shall mean SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and, un -
less the context otherwise requires, its consolidated subsidiaries. References to “SK Telecom” shall mean SK Telecom Co., Ltd., but shall not include its con -
solidated subsidiaries.
This MD&A section contains “forward-looking state -
ments,” as defined in the U.S Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended, that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry. The for -
ward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We caution you that reliance on any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties, and that although we believe that the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, as a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions could be incorrect. Risks and un -
certainties associated with our business are more fully described in our latest annual report on Form 20-F and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not conclude that we will necessarily achieve any plans and objectives or projected financial results referred to in any of the forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to release the results of any revisions of these for -
ward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. 1. 2015 Overview 
In the midst of an industry environment defined by fast-paced changes centered around LTE net -
work-based data in the wireless telecommunications industry, we have strengthened the competitiveness of its telecommunications business and pursued a shift in the competitive paradigm by launching in -
novative products and services. As part of this ef -
fort, we enhanced customer value by launching new ser vices to meet the needs of its customers by intro -
ducing, among others, “Band Data” plans, which are data-centric rate plans, the Luna phone. We are also further developing its three next-generation growth platforms, IoT, Lifestyle Enhancement and Media. Our operations are reported in three segments: (1) cellular services, (2) fixed-line telecommunication services and (3) other businesses. 
Cellular Services
We offer wireless voice and data transmission ser -
vices, sell wireless devices and provide IoT and lifestyle enhancement platform services through our cellular services segment. Our wireless voice and data transmission services are offered through our backbone networks that collectively can be accessed by approximately 99.0% of the Korean population. We maintained our leadership position in the wireless business in 2015 with 28.6 million subscribers (including subscribers of mobile virtu -
al network operators (MVNOs) that lease our net -
works) as of December 31, 2015, of which 19.0 mil -
lion subscribed to our LTE service and 20.6 million used smartphones. Our share of the Korean wireless market based on the number of subscribers (includ -
ing subscribers of MVNOs) was approximately 49.4% as of December 31, 2015 compared to 50.0% as of December 31, 2014, a 0.6% decrease.
The Korean wireless telecommunication industry is 
considered to have reached its maturation stage with more than a 100% penetration rate. However, with continued advancements in network-related technology, we are able to increase the quality of cellular services we provide to our subscribers. By continuing to be innovative in developing core com -petencies, we have firmly established our position as the market leader in wireless telecommunica -
tions.  We developed various rate plans that are tailored to meet our customers’ needs according to the trend of increased data usage. In 2015, we developed the “Brand Play Pack” plan, which offers exclusive ac -
cess to the mobile IPTV service “oksusu” that was created for the video content age. We also offered “T Data Coupons,” through which subscribers can make data calls up to the fixed amount of data. We continue to endeavor to strengthen our customer relationships by engaging our subscribers to inte -
grate our service offerings in various aspects of their daily lives such as “T map,” our interactive navigation service which we provide to our wire -
less subscribers free of charge, “Club T Kids,” and “Smart Home,” a home monitoring service platform for residential customers. In addition, we developed the Luna phone, a high-quality device with conve -
nient features at a reasonable price point that runs exclusively on our networks. 
In 2015, our cellular services segment revenue was 
KRW 13.27 trillion, representing 77.4% of our consol -
idated operating revenue. 
Fixed-line Telecommunication Services
We offer fixed-line telephone, broadband Internet and  media platform services (including IPTV) and business communications services through our fixed-line telecommunication services segment. Our fixed-line telecommunication services are provided by our subsidiaries, SK Broadband and SK Telink. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 4.45 
million fixed-line telephone subscribers (including subscribers to VoIP services of SK Broadband and SK Telink), approximately 5.03 million broadband 
Internet access subscribers and approximately 3.48 million IPTV subscribers, with market shares of 16.2%, 25.1% and 12.1%, respectively, based on the number of subscribers.  As part of our initiative to be the leading next-gen -
eration platform provider, we aim to provide an media platform with various media content and service offerings. We currently offer IPTV services under the brand name “B tv” with access to more than 130 live high definition channels as well as video-on-demand service providing a wide range of media content, including recent box office movie re -
leases, popular U.S. and other foreign TV shows and various children’s TV programs. We also offer “B tv UHD,” which is an ultra-high definition IPTV service and has a resolution that is four times as high as the standard high definition broadcasting service in the IPTV industry.  
Further, we provide mobile IPTV services through 
“oksusu,” that is a combination of the services we previously provided as “B tv mobile” and “hoppin” and provides subscribers access to a wide variety of media contents, including various television pro -
grams, movies and other video contents that can be downloaded to wireless devices. Subscribers of “oksusu” have access to more than 100 live TV channels, a wide range of sports contents and pop -
ular U.S. and other foreign TV shows, among other contents.   
In 2015, our fixed-line telecommunication services 
segment revenue was KRW 2.49 trillion, represent -
ing 14.6% of our consolidated operating revenue. FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS082 083SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Other Businesses
We strive to continually diversify our products and 
services and develop new growth engines that we believe are complementary to our existing products and services, such as our commerce business and our hardware business, which we include in our oth -
ers segment.  
Our key platform in the commerce business is “11th 
st” which is an online marketplace that offers a wide range of products through an online and mobile in -
terface. As of December 31, 2015, the mobile version of 11th st was the leading mobile commerce plat -
form in Korea in terms of unique visitors according to Korean Click. The mobile version of 11th st is continuing to grow, with an increase in the percent -
age of annual gross merchandise volume, which rep -
resents the total annual monetary value of customer purchases of goods and services, net of estimated refunds, to 41% in 2015 from 28% in 2014. We have also expanded our online open marketplace busi -
ness globally to Turkey, Indonesia and Malaysia. We have also further expanded the scope of our online-to-offline (“O2O”) commerce businesses pro -
vided under the “Syrup” brand name.
In our hardware business, we manufacture projec -
tion display devices, high-end audio devices and 
intelligent agent machines. We believe the IoT busi -
ness is one of the main features of the changing ICT business environment and with the development of our hardware business, we believe we have estab -
lished a strong foundation to further engage in the smart device business and develop products which leverage our expertise in telecommunications and technology.
In 2015, our others segment revenue was KRW 1.37 
trillion, representing 8.0% of our consolidated oper -
ating revenue. 2. Executive summary
In our cellular services segment, we earn reve -
nue principally from our wireless voice and data transmission services through monthly plan-based fees, usage charges for outgoing voice calls, usage charges for wireless data services and value-added service fees paid by our wireless subscribers as well as interconnection fees paid to us by other telecom -
munications operators for use of our wireless net -
work by their customers and subscribers. We also derive revenue from sales of wireless devices by our subsidiary, PS&Marketing.  
In our fixed-line telecommunication services seg -
ment, we earn revenue principally from our fixed-
line telephone services and broadband Internet ser -
vices and media platform services (including IPTV) through monthly plan-based fees and usage charges as well as interconnection fees paid to us by other telecommunications operators for use of our fixed-line network by their customers and subscribers.  
In our others segment, we earn revenue principal -
ly from our commerce business through third-party 
seller fees earned (including commissions) for trans -
actions in which we act as a selling agent to the “mini malls” on 11th st, our online open marketplace platform, as well as advertising revenue from 11th st and our O2O commerce solutions. We also earn rev -
enue from our hardware businesses through sales of projection display devices, high-end audio devices and intelligent agent machines. 
The following selected consolidated financial infor -
mation has been derived from, and should be read 
in conjunction with, the audited consolidated finan -
cial statements included in this annual report.Our operating revenue decreased by 0.2% to KRW 17.14 trillion in 2015 from KRW 17.16 trillion in 2014 due to decreases in interconnection revenue and initial subscription fees, among other reasons. Our operating expense in 2015 increased by 0.6% to KRW 15.43 trillion from 15.34 trillion in 2014, primar -
ily due to increases in cost of products that have been resold, labor cost and depreciation and amor -
tization. As our operating revenue decreased and operating expense increased in 2015, our operating income decreased by 6.4% to KRW 1.71 trillion in 2015 from KRW 1.83 trillion in 2014 and our oper -
ating margin decreased by 0.6%p to 10.0% in 2015 and EBITDA margin decreased by 0.1%p to 27.4% in 2015. Our profit for the year decreased by 15.7% to KRW 1.52 trillion in 2015 from KRW 1.80 trillion in 2014. Statement of Income Data
Operating revenueEBITDA
(1)
Operating expenseOperating incomeProfit for the yearStatement of Financial Position DataTotal assets Cash & marketable securities
(2)
Total liabilities Interest-bearing financial debt
(3)
Total equityFinancial Ratios (%)EBITDA marginOperating margin Net marginDebt-to-equity ratio
(4)2015
17,137
4,701
15,429
1,708
1,516
28,581
1,505
13,207
7,557
15,374
27.4
10.0
8.8
49.22014
17,164
4,717
15,339
1,825
1,799
27,941
1,298
12,693
6,792
15,248
27.5
10.6
10.5
44.5Change
-0.2%-0.3%
0.6%
-6.4%
-15.7%
2.3%
15.9%
4.0%
11.3%
0.8%
-0.1%p
-0.6%p
-1.7%p
4.7%pSelected Financial Information (Consolidated basis) (Unit: KRW billion)(1)  EBITDA = Operating income + 
Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expense
(2)  Cash & marketable securities = Cash & cash equivalents + Marketable securities + Short-term financial instruments  
(3)  Interest-bearing financial debt = Short-term borrowings + Current portion of long-term debt + Debentures + Long-term borrowings  
(4)  Debt-to-equity ratio = Interest-bearing financial debt/Total equity
Our total assets increased by 2.3% to KRW 28.58 
trillion as of December 31, 2015 from KRW 27.94 tril -
lion as of December 31, 2014, primarily due to an increase in investments in associates resulting from an increase in the carrying amount of our 20.1% stake in SK Hynix. Total liabilities increased by 4.0% to KRW 13.21 trillion as of December 31, 2015 from KRW 12.69 trillion as of December 31, 2014, primar -
ily due to an increase in debentures issued during 2015. Total equity increased by 0.8% to KRW 15.37 trillion as of December 31, 2015 from KRW 15.25 tril -
lion as of December 31, 2014, primarily due to an in -
crease in retained earnings. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2015 was 49.2%, compared to 44.5% as of December 31, 2014. FINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS084 085SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
3. Revenue
Our operating revenue in 2015 decreased 0.2% to 
KRW 17.14 trillion from KRW 17.16 trillion in 2014.  This decrease was primarily attributable to a de -
crease in interconnection revenue from decreases in interconnection rates and land-to-mobile call volume and a decrease in initial subscription fees which we ceased charging beginning November 2014. 
Subscribers & Market Share
The total number of wireless subscribers in Korea was approximately 57.9 million as of December 31, 2015 with a wireless telecommunications service penetration rate of 112.4%. Despite the saturated wireless market in Korea, SK Telecom continued to add new subscribers throughout the year, and end -
ed the year 2015 with approximately 28.6 million subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs that lease SK Telecom’s networks). SK Telecom’s wireless market share based on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) slightly decreased by 0.8%p to 49.4% as of December 31, 2015 from 50.2% as of December 31, 2014.
The number of SK Telecom’s LTE subscribers in -
creased to 19.0 million as of December 31, 2015 from 
16.7 million as of December 31, 2014. ARPU  
SK Telecom’s billing average monthly revenue per subscriber (billing ARPU) increased by 1.3% to Won 36,582 in 2015 from KRW 36,101 in 2014. This in -
crease was primarily due to the increase in LTE sub -
scribers who subscribe to data plans with higher monthly basic charges than our other wireless tele -
communications services and greater data service usage attributable to increases in the number of smartphone users. 
SK Telecom’s total average monthly revenue per 
subscriber (total ARPU) decreased by 0.3% to KRW 43,970 in 2015 from KRW 44,124 in 2014. This de -
crease was primarily due to decreases in initial sub -
scription fees which we ceased charging beginning November 2014 and interconnection revenue. Subsidiaries  
The consolidated revenue of SK Broadband, which is mostly generated from its fixed-line telecommunica -
tion services, increased by 2.9% to KRW 2.73 trillion in 2015 from KRW 2.65 trillion in 2014, primarily as a result of an increase in revenue from IPTV services attributable to an increase in the number of IPTV subscribers.  
PS&Marketing’s revenue, which is mostly derived 
from sales of handsets, increased by [10.1]% to KRW 1.79 trillion in 2015 from KRW 1.63 trillion in 2014, (Unit: thousand, %)
(Unit: KRW billion) Consolidated Operating Revenue
(Unit: KRW)ARPU in 2015Subscribers & Market Share in 2015
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q49.7 49.749.649.4
28,62628,47428,31328,026Subscriber M/Sprimarily due to the reflection of the full year impact of the acquisition by PS&Marketing in April 2014 of the retail distribution business of SK Networks in 2015 compared to 2014 in which the acquisition only impacted revenue for part of the year. 
SK Planet’s revenue, which is mostly derived from 
11th st and its O2O businesses, increased by [7.4]% to KRW 1.66 trillion in 2015 from KRW 1.51 trillion in 2014, primarily due to an increase in the annu -
al gross merchandise volume of 11th st through its mobile version.
4.  Profitability
Continuing operations
Operating revenueOperating expense Labor cost
(1)  
 Commissions paid(2) 
 Depreciation and amortization(3)
 Network interconnection
 Leased line 
 Advertising
 Rent
 Cost of products that have been resold
 Other operating expenses
Operating income Finance income
 Finance costs
 Gain (losses) related to investments  
   in  subsidiaries and associates, net Other non-operating income
 Other non-operating expenses
Profit before income tax Income tax expense from  
   continuing operations
Profit from continuing operations Discontinued operationsProfit (loss) from discontinued  operations, net of income taxesProfit for the year EBITDA
(4)2015
17,137
15,429
1,894
5,2072,845
958390405494
1,956
1,281
1,708
104
(350)
786 
31
(243)
2,035
519 
1,516
- 
1,516
4,701% of Revenue
100.0%
90.0%
11.1%
30.4%
16.6%
6.2%2.3%2.4%2.9%
11.4%
7.5%
10.0%
0.6%
(2.0%)
4.6% 
0.2%
(1.4%)
11.9%
3.0% 8.8%
- 
8.8%
27.4%2014
17,164
15,339
1,660 
5,693 
2,715 
997 
399 
416 
460 
1,680 
1,319 
1,825
126 
(387)
906 
56
(274)
2,254 
455 
1,799 
 
- 
1,799 4,717% of Revenue
100.0%
89.4%
9.7%
33.2%
15.8%
6.5%2.3%2.4%2.7%9.8%7.7%
10.6%
0.7%
(2.3%)
5.3% 
0.3%
(1.6%)
13.1%
2.6% 
10.5%
 
- 
10.5%
27.5%Statement of Income Data (Consolidated Basis) (Unit: KRW billion)
(1)  Labor cost = Salaries + Provisions for 
defined benefit liabilities
(2)  Includes marketing commissions and other commissions
(3) Excludes R&D-related depreciation (4)  EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expenseActions Taken Against Violations of the Code of Ethics in 2015FINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL MD&A
Billing ARPU Total ARPU
4Q
44,224
2014 
Overall
44,124
2015 
Overall
43,970
1Q
43,486
2Q
44,071
3Q
44,10336,58236,101
36,319
36,601
36,729
36,680FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
2014
17,164
2015
17,137BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS086SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Operating Expense 
Our operating expense for 2015 amounted to KRW 
15.43 trillion, representing a 0.6% increase from KRW 15.34 trillion in 2014. The increase in operat -
ing expense was primarily due to a 16.4% increase in cost of products that have been resold, a 14.1% increase in labor cost and a 4.8% increase in depre -
ciation and amortization.   SK Communication’s common shares to SK Telecom.  Our effective tax rate in 2015 increased by 5.3%p to 25.5% in 2015 from 20.2% in 2014. 
Profit for the Year
Principally as a result of the factors discussed above, our profit for the year decreased by 15.7% to KRW 1.52 trillion in 2015 from KRW 1.80 trillion in 2014. Net margin was 8.8% in 2015 compared to 10.5% in 2014
5. FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Current Assets
We had current assets of KRW 5.16 trillion as of De -
cember 31, 2015, a 1.5% increase from KRW 5.08 
trillion as of December 31, 2014. Our cash and mar -
ketable securities (including short-term financial instruments) increased by 15.9% to KRW 1.51 tril -
lion as of December 31, 2015 from 1.30 trillion as of December 31, 2014, primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents from increased bor -
rowings. 
Non-current Assets 
We had non-current assets of KRW 23.42 trillion as of December 31, 2015, a 2.5% increase from KRW 22.86 trillion as of December 31, 2014. Our invest -
ment assets, consisting of long-term financial instru -
ments, long-term investment securities and invest -
ments in associates and joint ventures, increased by 11.8% to KRW 8.11 trillion as of December 31, 2015 from KRW 7.26 trillion as of December 31, 2014. This increase was mainly attributable to an increase in the carrying amount of our 20.1% stake in SK Hynix.  Our property and equipment decreased by 1.9% to KRW 10.37 trillion as of December 31, 2015 from KRW 10.57 trillion as of December 31, 2014, primarily due to decrease in acquisition of LTE related equipment.The increase in cost of products that have been re -
sold was primarily due to the reflection of the full year impact of the acquisition by PS&Marketing in April 2014 of the retail distribution business of SK Networks in 2015 compared to 2014 in which the acquisition only impacted associated costs for part of the year and an increase in high-end wireless de -
vice sales.  The increase in labor cost was primarily due to one-time severance payments in connection with our early retirement program and the increase in the number of employees at SK Broadband to fur -
ther expand our media platform service business and in connection with several acquisitions in 2014, including the acquisition by PS&Marketing of the retail distribution business of SK Networks in April 2014 and the acquisition by SK Planet of Shopkick in October 2014. The increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to increased capital investments to upgrade our LTE network and broad -
band Internet fixed-line network and the increase in amortization of software.
Operating Income and EBITDA
Our operating income decreased by 6.4% to KRW 1.71 trillion from KRW 1.83 trillion in 2014 and our operating margin decreased to 10.0% in 2015 from 10.6% in 2014 as our operating revenue decreased and our operating expense increased. Our EBITDA decreased by 0.3% to KRW 4.70 trillion in 2015 from KRW 4.72 trillion in 2014.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Our finance income decreased by 17.8% to KRW 104 billion in 2015 from KRW 126 billion in 2014, pri -
marily due to a decrease in interest income and a decrease in gain on valuation of derivatives. Our fi-nance costs decreased by 9.5% to KRW 350 billion in 2015 from KRW 387 billion in 2014 primarily due to a decrease in interest expense and a decrease in loss relating to financial liability at fair value through profit or loss. Gains related to investments in sub -
sidiaries and associates decreased 13.3% to KRW 786 billion in 2015 from KRW 906 billion in 2014, primarily due to a decrease in share of profits of SK Hynix, in which we have a 20.1% interest. Our other non-operating income decreased by 45.1% to KRW 31 billion in 2015 from KRW 56 billion in 2014, par -
tially due to a decrease in value-added tax refunds.  Our other non-operating expenses decreased by 11.0% to KRW 243 billion from KRW 274 billion in 2014, primarily due to decreases in impairment loss on property and equipment and intangible assets and loss on disposal of property and equipment and intangible assets.
Income Tax
Income tax expense from continuing operations in -
creased by 14.3% to KRW 519 billion in 2015 from KRW 455 billion in 2014 notwithstanding a 9.7% decrease in profit before income tax, primarily due to changes in unrealizable deferred taxes mainly re -
lated to the dividend in kind made by SK Planet of 494
460
1,956
1,680405
416
1,281
1,319Advertising
Rent
Cost of Products that 
have been resold
Other Operating 
ExpensesOperating Expense
1,894
1,660
958
9975,6935,207
390
3992,845
2,715Labor Cost
Commissions Paid
Depreciation and 
Amortization
Network 
Interconnection
Leased Line(Unit: KRW billion)
2015 Total : 15,429 2014 Total : 15,339Other Non-Current 
AssetsCash & Marketable Securities
Accounts Receivable 
(trade and other)
Short-term Loans
InventoriesOther Current AssetsCurrent Assets
1,505
1,298
274
2683,019
3,083
308
35954
75(Unit: KRW billion)
2015 Total : 5,160 2014 Total : 5,083
Property and 
Equipment
Intangible Assets
Investment AssetsNon-current Assets
10,371
10,568
2,305
2,484
2,631
2,5518,114
7,255(Unit: KRW billion)
2015 Total : 23,421 2014 Total : 22,858FINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
087BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS088 089NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Liabilities
We had KRW 13.21 trillion of total liabilities as of 
December 31, 2015, a 4.0% increase from KRW 12.69 trillion as of December 31, 2014, mainly due an in -
crease in debentures issued during 2015 to acquire treasury stock. Our total interest-bearing financial debt increased by 11.3% to KRW 7.56 trillion as of December 31, 2015 from KRW 6.79 trillion as of De -
cember 31, 2014. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of De -
cember 31, 2015 was 49.2%, compared to 44.5% as of December 31, 2014. 
Equity
Our total equity as of December 31, 2015 amounted to KRW 15.37 trillion, representing an increase of 0.8% from KRW 15.25 trillion as of December 31, 2014.  This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in retained earnings to KRW 15.01 trillion as of December 31, 2015 from KRW 14.19 trillion as of December 31, 2014.  6. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 
(SEPARATE BASIS)
SK Telecom spent approximately KRW 1.89 trillion 
for capital expenditures in 2015 compared to KRW 2.15 trillion for capital expenditures in 2014, each on a separate basis. Of the amount spent in 2015, we spent approximately KRW 1.02 trillion, or 54.1%, on capital expenditures related to expanding and enhancing the quality of our LTE network and KRW 0.45 trillion on other non-network related capital expenditures primarily related to developing new products and maintenance and upgrades to our in -
formation technology systems. Share Capital
Capital Surplus  
(Deficit) and  
other Capital 
Adjustments
Retained  
Earnings
Reserves
Non-controlling  
interestsEquity
45
45
9
-4190
278
123
74215,008
14,189(Unit: KRW billion)
Long-term 
Borrowings 
(excluding current portion)Short-term 
Borrowings
Current Portion of 
Long-term Debt
Debentures 
(excluding 
current portion)Interest-Bearing Financial Debt
260
367
703
592
123
1526,470
5,682(Unit: KRW billion)
2015 Total : 7,557 2014 Total : 6,7922015 Total : 15,374 2014 Total : 15,248Non-Financial Statements
MD&A
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
 Total Employment Total Number of Employees
 Special Employment and Minority
 Overseas Employees
Recruitment and Turnover
 Total New Employees
 Total Number of Turnover Employees
Maternity and Parental Leave Employees on Maternity Leave
 Employees on Parental Leave
Human Capital Improvement Annual Training Hours per Employee
  Rate of Employees Subject to Performance  
Evaluation (%)
Labor Practices, Safety, and Welfare Labor Union Membership Rate (%)
 Occupational Accident Rate (%)2013
4,203
200
103
418
238
161 (male: 124)
25 (male: 2)
83.7
96 
84.2
0.022014
4,253
215
99
396
265
146 (male: 110)
71 (male: 9)
91
96 
83.4
02015
4,046
188
79
563
681
173 (male: 133)
77 (male: 7)
82
96 
85.0
0Section 1. Human Capital
MD&A2.1
 
2.2
 
2.3 Access to Service 
 LTE Subscribers Rate (%)
 Average Monthly Churn Rate
 Number of Participants in the ICT Education Program
  Amount of Rate Reductions for the Disadvantaged Groups 
(KRW million)
Network Quality and Risk Management
 Annual Data Traffic Processed (GB)
  Wireless Communication Production Capacity  (wireless lines in thousands)
 Cases of Serious Network Failures
Data Privacy  Customer Information Leakages
 Rate of Micropayment Fraud VoC (%)2013
57.0
2.3
1,121
211,617
355,885
35,980
1
0
0.122014
58.5
2.0
1,353
196,806
550,329
33,120
1
0
0.102015
66.3
1.5
1,404
188,453
779,201
36,160
1
0
0.03Section 2. Social CapitalFINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS090 091NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NON-FINANCIAL MD&A SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Non-Financial MD&A
(Management Discussion and Analysis)
Basis of Preparation
Reporting Standards and Principles
This Non-Financial Management Discussion & Analy -
sis is prepared to present our management’s analyt -
ical opinions on the key non-financial performances 
of the company in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption among others. SK Telecom is participating in the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary policy initiative implemented by UN organizations and businesses for the purpose of improving the internal environment and social eth -
ical practices, and is also participating in GC LEAD, a group for leading UNGC companies, which was made to develop and spread excellent cases that correspond with the UNGC Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we submit a Communication on Progress (COP), highlighting our business perfor -
mance in line with the Ten Principles every year, and the social and environmental performance tables included in the Non-Financial Statement of Social & Environmental Performances meets GC Advanced Level of COP requirements. In addition, this Non-Fi -
nancial MD&A complies with international reporting principles as follows:
01 _ International Integrated Reporting 
Framework (<IR> Framework) 
The <IR> Framework of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC) requires a concise report on how an organization’s strategies, governance, performance and future outlook are connected to its short-, mid-, and long-term value creation in the economic, social, and environmental context. Please refer to pp.22-26 for the capital model implemented to adhere to the integrated reporting principles of IIRC, and pp.34-35 for the assessment of importance to define key subjects according to the impact on value creation.
02 _ Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI)  
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4
The GRI provides information on the aspects and 
indicators of reporting from economic, social and environmental perspectives so that stakeholders can discern the organization’s performance. It de -
fines the subject according to the correlation of each aspect from the impact on stakeholders and from economic, social and environmental perspectives. Please refer to pp.34-35 for the results of the Mate -
riality Assessment conducted in accordance with the GRI requirements.
03 _ Accountability AA1000
The AA1000 series identifies and prioritizes sustain -
ability issues in relation to the organization and de -
fines its framework and principles. The information in this report is verified by third parties according to the Assurance Standard (AA1000AS). Please refer to pp.109-112 for the result of the third-party assurance performed by an independent institute.
References
01 _ UNGC COP (UN Global Compact   
Communication on Progress)
A guideline for reporting compliance to the Ten Prin -
ciples of UNGC by a member of UNGC
02 _ ISO26000
An international social responsibility standard pre -
sented in November 2010 by ISO (International Stan -
dard Institution)
03 _ SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standard Board) - Telecommunication Standards
Core issues and key performance indicators in the 
telecommunications industry released in April 2014 by the U.S. SASB
Scope of Data
The scope of the Non-Financial Statement of Social & Environmental Performances is limited to the data of SK Telecom without the inclusion of the data of its subsidiaries and supply chain, unless stated oth -
erwise. This coincides with the scope of unclassified sales of SK Telecom, which is a holding company according to K-IFRS. The environmental data on en -
ergy, greenhouse gas (GHG), waste, and water is estimated based on 26 domestic business sites* (in -
cluding networks and data centers). More than 95% of SK Telecom’s sales are generated in South Korea, and accordingly, the data coverage meets the 95% requirement against the sales.MD&A
2.4
2.5
2.6Mutual Growth with Partners 
 Mutual Growth Agreements
Sustainability of Supply Chain Total Number of Newly Registered Partners
  Number of Human Rights, Environment, Ethics, and Social 
Issues Assessments
Investment into Local Communities
 Cumulative Donations Collected on GiveU (KRW million)
 Cumulative Volunteer Cases Registered on WithU2013
205
346
346
740
-2014
291
712712
890
40,7552015
325
706706 
1,030
67,529Section 2. Social Capital
2013
707,963
55.05
14,589
46,487
2,729
1.13
683,387
53.14
1,646
0.126
69.4
8.0
987,848
-
91
184
521
6,084
18,9282014
742,884
57.09
15,271
45,729
2,729
1.17
695,725
53.46
1,763
0.135
77.0
4.5
2,831,082
-
650
5,105
475
7,368
30,6062015
686,118
54.64
14,081
44,731
2,729
1.12
757,658
60.34
1,928
0.154
83.9
3.6
2,894,971
1.31
947
6,051
709
8,9125
37,504MD&A
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6 
-
3.7
3.8 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
 Total Emissions (tCO 2e)
 Intensity (tCO 2e/KRW billion)
Energy Consumption
 Total Energy Consumption (TJ)
 Total Electricity Saved (MWh)
  New Renewable Energy Generation Facilities (MWh)
 Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)
Water Consumption
 Annual Water Consumption (m3)
 Intensity (m3/KRW billion)
Waste and Recycling
 Total Waste (Ton)
 Intensity (Ton/KRW billion)
Resources Rate of New Electronic Bill Subscribers (%)
 Device Retrieval Rate (%)
 Mobile Card Issuance (case)
Social GHG Reduction
 Annual Social GHG Redcution(tCO
2e million)
Biodiversity
 Base Stations within Protected Areas
 Relay Stations within Protected Areas
Environmental Investment and Cost Total (excl. Green Purchase) (KRW million)
 Green Purchase Cost (KRW million)
Electromagnetic Fields
        Number of Measurements Conducted at Base StationsSection 3. Natural CapitalFINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS092 093
*26 business sites: T-Tower, Namsan, Guro, Jangan, 
Seoul National University, FMI, Yongin, Boramae, Seongsu, Suyu, Incheon, Bundang, Dunsan (Old & New), Busan, Cheongju, Wonju, Taepyeong, Bolli, Sincheon, Buam, Data Center, Anrak, Wusan, Song -
jeong, Jeonju, Jeju
Section 1. Human Capital
1.1  Total Employment
The total number of employees includes those who 
are permanent employees, who have signed em -
ployment contracts directly with SK Telecom, and temporary (contract-based) employees, and this fig -
ure does not include the employees and executives of its subsidiaries. The total number of employees was 4,046 as of the end of 2015. In 2015, the com -
pany supported the voluntary retirement of some of the employees that contributed to the company’s growth and development in accordance with their personal wishes, and the size of the workforce was reduced by 4.8%. 
The percentage of female employees decreased by 
0.5%p compared to last year to 13.4%, and a simi -
lar percentage is being maintained. In terms of age group, the percentage of employees in their 20s to 30s increased 3.5% to 40.3% compared to 36.8% last year, recovering the 2013 level of 40%.
The total number of overseas personnel including 
expatriate employees and local employees is 79, a level that is not high compared to the total work -
force. The percentage of local managers at over -
seas business locations is 33.3%, and after rising above 30% in 2014, the increasing trend is being sustained.
The company plans to continue recruiting the nec -
essary personnel for SK Telecom’s successful evolu -
tion as a platform company. While maintaining the 
appropriate staffing level necessary for business development, the company plans to secure diversity in employment and develop a competitive human capital structure. 
Expatriates Employees
Local Employees
Total Number of Overseas 
EmployeesTotal Number of Managers 
Overseas
Total Number of Local ManagersPercentage of Local Managers2013
31
72
103
28 
5
17.92014
26
73
99
19 
6
31.62015
20
59
79
15 
5
33.3Overseas EmploymentNON-FINANCIAL MD&A NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
Employment Type
Gender
Age
Total Number 
of EmployeesPermanentTemporary
Male
Female20s
30s
40s50s and older2013
4,081
122
3,616
587
328
1,340
2,372
163
4,2032014
4,147
106
3,662
591
290
1,277
2,450
236
4,2532015
3,925
121
3,504
542
326
1,304
2,229
187
4,046Total Number of Employment
Special Employment and
Minority
2013
14645
201455
155
201554
132Disabled VeteransTotal Number of Employees
2013 2014 20154,203
4,253
4,046SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Gender
Age
Total Number 
of EmployeesMaleFemale20s30s40s50s and older2013
317
101
189
161
64
4
4182014
302
94
220
97
66
13
3962015
421
142
296
187
72
8
563New Employees
Gender
Age
Involuntary Turnover 
(Dismissal) Total number of employeesMaleFemale20s30s40s50s and older2013
141
97
116
57
52
13
6
2382014
181
84
157
62
37
92
2652015
467
213
180
121
230
149
1
681Turnover1.3. Maternity and Parental Leave
The number of individuals using maternity and pa -
ternal leave, which are among the key indicators 
related to women’s access to work, has been ris -
ing trend. The number of individuals using paternal leave is 48 people, a large increase compared to the 26 people two years ago, and the rate of male employees using paternal leave is at 10%. Due to voluntary retirements, the rate of turnover after re -
turning from paternal leave temporarily increased in 2015, but SK Telecom is continuously implementing supportive maternity and childcare policies to re -
duce employees’ maternity and childcare burdens. Along with maternity support systems such as lounges for women, nursing rooms, congratulatory allowances for childbirth, maternity leave systems and the removal of disadvantages in evaluations of individuals who used maternity and paternal leave, the company is implementing a variety of childcare support programs as part of supporting the raising and educating of employees’ children. These pro -
grams include financial assistance for personal de -
velopment, scholarships for children, operation of 1.2. Recruitment and Turnover 
The total number of new employees was 563, an increase of 42.2% compared to last year. In par -
ticular, regarding employment, a national priority, policies to expand diversity were considered, and the percentage of female employees among the new employees was expanded to 25.2%. The number of employees in their 20s who were hired, in contribu -
tion to solving the youth unemployment problem, was 296 (a 34.5% increase compared to last year), with the company achieving a continuous trend in increasing youth employment over the past 3 years. In terms of turnover, a temporar y rise in turnover oc -
curred in 2015 following voluntary retirements and the transfer of work to subsidiaries and investment companies. 
Employees on Maternity Leave (M)
Employees on Maternity Leave (F)
Rate of Return (%)
Employees on Parental Leave (M)Employees on Parental Leave (F)
Rate of Return (%)
Rate of Retirement within 12 Months after Return (%)2013
138
38
100
3
23
96
62014
126
35
100
5
35
98
42015
133
37
100
5
43
79
31Maternity Leave and Paternal Leave
* Due to changes in the criteria for calculating maternity and paternal 
leaves and a discovery of a data error in in last year’s report, this report 
reflects the amended information.
Number of Individuals Who Took Paternal Leave Paternal
Leave
2013 2014 201512%13%
484026Percentage of Men
10%418
396
563Total New Employees
2013 2014 201542.1% increase (YOY)
* Due to changes in the internal criteria for calculating special 
employment of handicapped individuals, this report reflects the 
amended information. (2014: calculated 2 severely handicapped 
individuals according to national reporting recommendation criteria; 
2015: calculated according to simply the number of people)FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS094 095SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
an in-house daycare center, flexible time system and 
camps for children. Maternity leaves are paid (for up to 90 days), and five days of paid leave are given to male employees upon childbirth. The option to take parental leave is available for both the female and male employees for a maximum of 1 year per child. 
1.4. Human Capital Improvement
Through a strategy of attracting and fostering talent that focuses on the results of investing in those in -
dividuals, SK Telecom is improving its human capital and building up its future growth drivers. In 2015, the total number of training hours invested per em -
ployee was 82 hours, and the training expense per employee was KRW 2.84 million. The average annual training hours per employee decreased by 9 hours, with 2013 levels being maintained. The training ex -
pense per person decreased by 18%, but this was a result of improving training results and efficiency by using more in-house instructors and deepening the training’s connection with actual work.
As one of the central results of 2015, the team lead -
ers’ ability to execute changes and leadership ca -
pacity were strengthened in order to support the 
value creation of the organizational units. In addi -
tion, in order to improve the skills of the team lead -
ers who will advance the company’s future growth, education was newly implemented and the key tal -
ents who are candidates for future leadership candi -
dates were fostered in a consistent and systematic manner.
SK Telecom seeks to both enhance its employees’ 
skills and the competitiveness of the MNO business by focusing on the essentials. The company also aims to help employees become market leaders so that they are able to respond with promptness and accuracy. Based on this, the MNO area has inten -
sively fostered skills by organization and improved the training system by department. The training sys -
tem was also built and implemented to allow growth areas to help employees gain the skills that are also required by the company in advance. In addition, the company is encouraging employees’ voluntary  participation in training through the  the indepen -
dent development plans (IDP).Average Annual Training Hours 
per Employee (hours)
Training Expense per Employee 
(KRW million)2013
83.7
3.382014
91
3.46
 2015
82
2.84Status of Employee TrainingIn terms of training on employee values, the com -
pany is helping employees to internalize SK values 
and carry out necessary changes. Furthermore, programs to energize new employees (entry-level and recruited managers) and help them to settle in promptly as well as organizational revitalization programs to improve team vitality were implement -
ed. During the first half of the year, change practice workshops were held and in the second half of the year, a total of 109 teams participated in organiza -
tional revitalization program workshops.
In order to measure the level of improvement of hu -
man capital from the ROI perspective, SK Telecom 
is using HR EVA as a ratio. The training expense ROI is displayed as the Economic Value Added (EVA) according to inherent operating activity compared to the main HR capital inputs such as employees’ sal -
ary, benefits and training expense. In this category, the HR EVA is the cost calculated by subtracting the capital costs from the after-tax operating profit and divided into the employee expenses. In 2015, the HR EVA ratio was 75.10 and it increased by about 28.5% compared to last year. Whereas the increased amount of EVA was maintained at the same level as last year, following efforts focused on developing key skills including the use of in-house instructors and skills training by each organization’s needs, the main cause of the increase in HR EVA was the increased effectiveness of the training investment. 
Through employee performance evaluations based 
on regular performance management, SK Telecom provides support so that organizational results can be achieved and employees’ skills can be improved. In 2016, the system has been improved to enable the improvement of the performance and compensa -
tion systems at the companywide level and to carry out optimized performance evaluations by area. In particular, besides profit sharing in the area of in -SK Telecom carried out disaster and emergency re -
sponse training such as regular fire drills, CPR, fire extinguisher and gas mask usage practices and is maintaining a low accident rate. In 2014 as well as 2015, there were no cases of occupational accidents.
Number of Employees Eligible for 
Labor Union Membership (Person)
Labor Union Members (Person)
Labor Union Membership Rate (%)2013
2,513
2,118
84.22014
2,497
2,082
83.42015
2,316
1,968
85.0Labor Union Membership
Number of Occupational Acci -
dents (Person)
Occupational Accident Rate (%)2013
1
0.022014
0
02015
00Occupational Accidentscentives, the appropriate performance systems are 
applied in the areas such as long-term incentives, target incentives and betting, and they are differ -
entiated and adopted by area. The company keeps annual performance evaluation results in order to add points toward promotion and reflect them in incentives in the long-term.
2014
962015
96 Rate of Employees Subject to 
Performance Evaluation (%)2013
96Rate of Conducting Performance EvaluationsEconomic Value Added (EVA) (KRW 100 million)
EVA per person  
(KRW 100 million / Person)Training expense per  
person (KRW 100 million)
HR EVA (Ratio)2013
8,544
2.033
0.0338
60.142014
8,601
2.022
0.0346
58.432015
8,629
2.133
0.0284
75.10HR EVA
* HR EVA = Financial Capital Gain / Human Capital Input
HR EVA
2013 2014 201560.14 58.4375.10
0.02840.03460.0338HR EVA Training expense per person 
(KRW 100 million)
1.5. Labor Practices, Safety and Welfare
SK Telecom actively protects employees’ freedom of 
association based on ILO Convention 87 and 98 as well as Korean labor laws. In accordance with free -
dom of association, SK Telecom’s employees have voluntarily formed a labor union and join the labor union according to each individual’s free will. The NON-FINANCIAL MD&A NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
labor union membership rate is the ratio of current members of the labor union to total number of mem -
bers eligible for membership.
For the purpose of desirable labor-management re -
lations, SK Telecom is making efforts to promote a 
mutually beneficial labor-management culture and improve employees’ working conditions. To this end, it resolved the regular wage issue, introduced the wage peak system, reached an agreement to extend the retirement age in 2014, and introduced the pen -
sion support system in 2015. To prepare for interna -
tional labor conventions, SK Telecom is continuously monitoring domestic business sites’ business areas to check if there are any in which potential human rights risks exist, and up to the present, none have been found to have human rights-related risks at a level that require special attention.FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS096 097SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Total Subscribers (in thousands)
LTE Subscribers (in thousands)
LTE Subscribers Rate (%)2013
25,130
13,490
53.72014
28,610
16,740
58.5%2015
28,626
18,980
66.3%LTE SubscribersSection 2. Social Capital
2.1 Access to Service
SK Telecom’s expansion of service accessibility lays 
the groundwork for providing even more convenient mobile telecommunications services by securing and maintaining the absolute number of subscribers and expanding telecommunications devices. It consists of promoting digital inclusion for disadvantaged groups including low-income individuals and senior citizens. Digital inclusion efforts can potentially lead to the growth of the subscriber base and average revenue per user (ARPU). This may not only have a positive impact on SK Telecom’s future revenue, but from a social standpoint, it improves the quality of individual lives.  The rate of LTE subscribers is an indicator for mobile internet access. In 2015, the ratio of SK Telecom’s LTE subscribers was recorded as 66.3%, a 7.8%p in -
crease compared to 58.5% last year. As SK Telecom continues to improve access to service by expanding the use of wearable and 2nd devices, the company anticipates  that access to service will continue to grow in the future as well. At the end of 2015, the expansion of service accessibility on the basis of diverse devices achieved 3.21 billion T outdoor sub -
scribers, 2.04 billion T Kids subscribers, 70,000 T Pocket-Fi subscribers and 4,000 T pet subscribers. SK Telecom achieved a 86% share (according to the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning) of the wearable device market by the end of 2015.To improve access to service through education, programs to resolve the digital divide for disadvan -
taged groups, such as mobile phone education for senior citizens, mobile phone usage education for North Korean defectors and multicultural families as well as IT challenge contests for disabled youth are being carried out, and the number of par ticipants in -
creased 3.8% to 1,404 people compared to last year.In the interest of digital inclusion, SK Telecom con -
tinues to increase access to service by offering rate 
reductions for disadvantaged groups. In 2015, the total amount of rate reductions for disabled and low-income individuals was KRW 188,453 million, a 4.2% decrease from last year. Reasons such as the departure of target subscribers are considered the cause of the decrease and the level of the total rate reduction is being maintained.
53.7%58.5%66.3%LTE Subscribers Rate
2013 2014 2015In 2015, to provide standard telecommunications services to low-income individuals and residents of sparsely populated areas, universal loss of services compensation was 18.1 billion won, a 1.1% increase from last year. To expand service accessibility, new base stations are being installed in places such as re -
mote mountainous areas, hiking trails and island ar-eas, and in 2015, the company increased the number of base stations in remote mountainous regions by about 3.3 times compared to last year. In 2015, 5,182 base stations were installed in remote mountainous regions, 75 in hiking trails and 392 in island areas.
Universal Loss of  Service Com -
pensation (KRW billion)2013
16.92014
17.92015
18.1Strategy for Remote Areas
2.2 Network Quality and Risk Management
To telecommunications companies, network infra-structure failures may become business continuity risks, and if failures continue to occur, they may even cause a temporary collapse of economic and social systems. Providing a high-quality network is SK Tele -
com’s fundamental asset in terms of its core com -
petitiveness.
In 2015, the company’s annual wireless telecommuni-
cations wireless network capacity was 36.16 million lines and the total number of subscribers was 28.62 million, so it has 126% of retention capacity. 
The data traffic processed annually increased at a high 
level, with increases of 63.8% in 2014 and 41.6% in 2015 compared to the previous year, and this trend is expected to continue in the long-term. Minimizing the service failure rate while appropriately assimilating the increased data traffic at a high level and main-taining quality, is a major challenge for those in the 
Wireless Network Capacity  
(wireless lines in thousands)
Annual Data Traffic Processed (GB)2013
35,980
335,8852014
33,120
550,3292015
36,160
779,201Wireless Network Capacity and Data Traffic 
Processed Annually(Unit: GB) Annual Data Traffic Processed
2013 2014 2015355,885
550,329
779,201
telecommunications industry including SK Telecom. In 
2015, in order to prevent service failures, SK Telecom focused on three areas including investment in data equipment expansion, development of preventative solutions and strengthening of response capability, thereby mitigating risk. In addition, the operational organization that had been dispersed to each region was reorganized into a focused operational system and by strengthening the cooperative system, the response capability towards failures has greatly im-proved. 
Efforts to strengthen the network infrastructure base 
through R&D have continued. With a focus on pre -
emptively securing the network’s primary compet-itive differentiation technology and finding technol-ogy-based future growth drivers, investment was expanded in evolving technology areas such as stor-age, big data, artificial intelligence, quantum, video cloud, IoT, LTE-A and 5G, and a base was created for new growth businesses. 
Due to the promotion of LTE enhancement, strength-
ening IT infrastructure and next-generation infrastruc-ture evolution, as well as investment in new technol-ogy development in growth businesses such as flash storage and big data, R&D investment expenditures increased 17% since 2014 to KRW 641 billion. In par-Number of Network Failure Cases2013
12014
12015
1Network Failures
*  According to the number of large-scale failures submitted to the 
Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning
Total Number of Participants in the 
ICT Education ProgramSmartphone Usage Education for Multicultural Families (person)Smartphone Usage Education for Senior Citizens (person)Mobile Phone Usage Education for North Korean Defectors (person)IT Challenge (person)2013
1,121
47
905
48
1212014
1,353
169
1,020
32
1322015
1,404
334
906
50
114ICT Education
Total Participants in the ICT Education
Program
2013 2014 20151,121
1,353
1,404NON-FINANCIAL MD&A NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
Total Rate Reduction for Disadvantaged 
GroupsRate Reduction for Disadvantaged Groups – Disabled Rate Reduction for Disadvantaged Groups – Low-income Rate Reduction for Disadvantaged Groups – VeteransRate Reduction for Disadvantaged Groups – Miscellaneous2013
211,617
138,443
62,891
10,105
1782014
196,806
128,422
58,299
9,931
1542015
188,453
122,462
56,058
9,800
133Rate Reduction (Unit: KRW million )FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS098 099SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Customer Information Leakages 2013
02014
02015
0Customer Information Leakage2.3 Data Privacy
SK Telecom recognizes customer information pro -
tection as a key management issue and is paying 
special attention and care to identify and remove potential risks in advance, strengthen and give training regarding information protection systems, and enhance inspections of stores and subsidiaries. As a result of making efforts to maintain a high level of customer information protection, there was not a single case of customer information leakage from events such as hacking at SK Telecom since 2011.
Rate of Micropayment Fraud VoC2013
0.122014
0.102015
0.03Customer Safety Indicator (Unit: %)information leakage annually. 224 audits (100%) of information protection based on products/services have been implemented. From 2015 and into 2016, the company plans to perform customer information protection assessments and audits across 100% of the distribution network and products/services.
2.4 Mutual Growth with Partners
SK Telecom is contributing to the growth of a healthy invigorated ICT industry by establishing mutual growth partnerships. In 2015, SK Telecom 
Type
Adjustment of unit 
cost
Support for partners 
to generate increased 
revenueFunding 
(financing)
Improvement of 
payment method and date
Technical support 
and protection
Education/training 
and HR/recruitment support  
Other support
Other voluntary 
practicesExecution
Increased the unit cost upon being requested (due to changes in prices of raw materials and other 
costs)
- 100% reflection of the requestsScale of transactions with partners increased by 1.6%
- Supported revenue increase in 250 cases (exhibition support and pioneering of sales channels)
Directly invested in private-government technology R&D program, operated a network loan system, 
and created a Mutual Growth fund of KRW 167.5 billion
-  More than KRW 3.7 bil. invested into the private-government technology R&D program and a deposit of KRW 78.1 bil. in the Mutual Growth fund (increase of KRW 100 mil. compared to the previous year), etc.
100% cash payments and payments are made within 10 days-  100% cash payment policy (continuous) and payment date is within 10 days of delivery (SME pay -
ment priority program)
Active implementation of technical support and protection-  Technology transfers, joint R&D, open collaboration, infrastructure support, creative economy inno -
vation center, technical data loans, patent application and registration assistance, etc.
A total of 10,000 entrusted people for education and training-  Training at the SK Win-Win Growth Academy, seminars and MBA courses for partner companies’ CEOs,  differentiated class-based training, dispatch of specialists, and support recruitment of special -
ized high school graduates, etc.
KPI allocated to organization specializing in Mutual Growth, entrusted information notification system, continuous ethical management activities, autonomous fair trade compliance program, etc.
Direct/indirect support related to management of partners
-  Support the welfare of partners, private contracts with excellent partners, management consulting, green purchases, etc.Achievement Rate
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
 
100%
100%Major Performances of the Mutual Growth Agreements in 2015strengthened its outreach efforts to SMEs by being 
the first company to conclude an agreement with KOTRA to create ‘Global Branch Support,’ which al -
lows KOTRA’s trade centers to be utilized as over -
seas branches. SK Telecom has also partnered with the Center for Creative Economy and Innovation (CCEI) to assist SMEs in various Fair Trade Commis -
sion (FTC) practices (contract conclusion, partner selection and management, internal review board establishment and management and written records issuance and retention) by providing SMEs with funds, increasing their revenue potential, as well as offering technical, educational and HR support.  SK Telecom has been commended for its commit -
ment to mutual growth with its partners, obtaining the Top Excellence grade in the Win-Win Index As -
sessment (mutual growth agreement by the Kore -
an Commission for Corporate Partnership) for three consecutive years, and was selected as a top honors company. ticular, 7.2% of the R&D expenses, KRW 46 billion, was invested in building next-generation IT infrastruc-ture.
The dispersed R&D organization was integrated into 
a technology institute, synergy between diverse R&D areas was created and technology-based growth was  accelerated. In 2015, the scale of the R&D personnel increased by 1% compared to last year and there are now a total of 1,165 individuals.
Total R&D Expenditure  
(KRW billion)
R&D Personnel (person)2013
435
1,0942014
526
1,1532015
614
1,165R&D Investment
CAPEX  
(SK Telecom non-consolidated)2013
2,3162014
2,1452015
1,895CAPEX(Unit: KRW billion) Total R&D Expenditure
2013 2014 2015435
526
614Number of Store Assessments on Customer In -
formation Protection in Distribution Network 
Rate of Assessments Conducted Among Total 
Stores (%)Number of Audits on Products/Services  
Information Protection Management  
Rate of Audits Conducted Among Total  Products/Services (%)2014
1,800
41.9
 -
- 2015
4,700
100
224
100 Distribution Network Customer Information Protection 
The rate of micropayment fraud VoC, which is an in -
dicator of customer safety, is the ratio of the number 
of micropayment fraud complaint VoC to the number of received consultations. This indicator has been managed since 2013, and it is maintained at a low rate of less than 1%. In particular, in order to provide a safe communications environment for customers, the company is continuously strengthening customer safe-ty services centered on four goals including preventing bill shock, personal information protection, children’s safety as well as eradicating illegal fraudulent messag-es like spamming and phishing. Accordingly, the rate of it was markedly reduced and recorded at 0.03% in 2015, a 70% decrease since last year. 
SK Telecom implemented personal information pro -
tection assessments of approximately 4,700 stores 
(100% compliance) in the marketing and solutions areas and remotely implemented regular assess -
ments of 20,000 distribution network PCs related to NON-FINANCIAL MD&A NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
(Unit: KRW billion) FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS100 101SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
2.5 Sustainability of Supply Chain
SK Telecom defines the main risks that occur in the 
supply chain perspective and reflects this in the supply chain responsibility assurance process. The risk factors identified are formalized in the official ‘Supply Chain CSR Guidelines’ and ‘Fair Trade/Trans -
parent Transactions CSR Practice Agreement’ and partners are notified. While SK Telecom requires compliance with these principles in the contract process, through a long-term monitoring process, it takes diverse measures such as requiring corrective measures and terminating business relationships. Please refer to pp.121-125 for SK Telecom’s supply chain principles and information related to respon -
sibility assurance contained in the Supply Chain Report. 
In 2015, of the 2,346 partner companies registered 
1,270 companies (54.1%) were subject to a written audit with 212 companies (9.5%) subject to an on -
site audit. Furthermore, in 2015, additional 100 part-ners that were candidates for mutual growth coop-eration participated in a third-party external review conducted by the Korean Commission on Cooperative Partnership. 
2.6 Community Investment
SK Telecom’s community investment strategy prior -
itizes 1) Creating ICT-based sharing value, 2) Pro -
viding technology-based platforms for communities, and 3) Minimizing the digital divide.
SK Telecom creates ICT-based sharing value through 
the Center for Creative Economy and Innovation and fostering of ICT social business and startups in the BRAVO! Restart program, through which the compa -
ny supported 34 startups to date (an increase of 11 startups since last year).
In order to serve communities by creating technolo -
gy-based platforms, a public interest platform was 
built with mobile technology and a mobile donation program was operated starting in 2004, providing users with an easy way to donate and is helping to spread the donation and sharing culture. The donation platform ‘GiveU’ and volunteer matching platform ‘WithU’ programs are being developed and operated and by the end of 2015, a cumulative KRW 1.03 billion was collected and a cumulative 67,529 cases of registered work were recorded, an increase of 15.7% and 65.6% respectively since last year.
In terms of digital inclusion, the company is involved 
in investment activities to increase access to ser -
vice for individuals vulnerable to the information di -
vide such as the disabled and senior citizens. Please refer to the 2.1 Access to Service category for de -
tailed information on performance.
Organization
Korea Differently Abled Federation
Korea Blind Union
KJChoi FoundationSK Happiness
SESNET
Busrugy: Leftover Love Sharing Community
Korea Association of Senior Welfare Centers
Motion and Sound 4 AllKorea Handball Federation
UN Global Compact
Korea Institute of Startup & Entrepreneurship Development
Korean Federation of Science and Technology Societies 
Korea Fencing Federation 
Smile Microcredit Bank
Korean e-Sports AssociationInternational e-Sports Federation
Barun ICT Research CenterProgram
Hosted the Disabled Youth IT ChallengeOperated audio book application “Happy Library”, an app for the visually impaired
Scholarships for college/univ. students from low-income familiesProvided meals (Happy Dosirak) for malnourished children during school vacations, 
invigorate the social company ecosystem and foster social entrepreneurs
Operation of a pro bono volunteer team and management systemSupport for English learning at regional children’s centers (Challenge! English Up!)
Guide senior citizens on how to use a mobile phone
Cultural art education for developmentally disabled youthSupport the reinforcement of trainer and athlete competency and provided training for the 
Olympic Games
UNGC LEAD annual membership fee payment and assistance in the Global CSR ConferencePromoting SK youth businesses
Science and technology silvertown construction business
Support the reinforcement of trainer and athlete competency and provided training for the Olympic Games
Support the business operation of the SK Smile Microcredit Bank
Support the Korean e-Sports AssociationSupport the International e-Sports Federation
Support research related to the building of a healthy ICT cultureCumulative donations collected on GiveU(KRW million)
Cumulative volunteer cases registered on WithU2013
740
-2014
890
40,7552015
1,030
67,529Donation Platform Status
List of Main Beneficiaries of SK Telecom
*Subsidiaries and affiliated companies are not included in this list of the main beneficiaries of SK Telecom.NON-FINANCIAL MD&A NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
Total Number of Registered Partners
Number of Partners Surveyed in 
Writing (Audit)
Number of Partners Surveyed On-Site (Audit)  
Number of Partners Surveyed by 3rd Parties  
 
Average Number of Days to Pay Sub-Suppliers
Number of Suppliers that Improved 
the Management Environment through Mutual Growth PartnershipsNotes
*  Includes separate discussions 
with Construction/Equipment 
Partners and 1-on-1 meetings 
*  Partner experience survey 
conducted by the Korean 
Commission for Corporate 
Partnership
Notes
 
 
 2013
1,496
974 
162 
 
- 
  
2013
8.7 
201 
 2014
1,510
815 
205 
 
- 
  
2014
7.1 
291 
 2015
2,346
1,270  
212 
 
100 
  
2015
8.7 
323 
 2016 Target
2,567
More than 1,200 
250 
 
100 
  
2016 Target
8.7 
204 
 Supply Chain Risk Assessment (Audit)
Supply Chain ESG Performance Management Indicators
Suppliers who Received Corrective Measures
Banned Temporarily 
Banned PermanentlyNotes
Reviewed by the Procurement Review 
Committee 
2 year suspensionPermanent suspension 2013
2 
112014
2 
112015
2 
0
2Risk-related Corrective Measures for Partners Total Number of Newly Registered Partners
Number of Human Rights·Environment · 
Ethics · Social AssessmentsRate of Advance AssessmentsNotes
 
*  Service/Construction/
Equipment/Goods partners
 2013
346 
346 
100%2014
712 
712 
100%2015
706 
706 
100%2016 Target
710 
710 
100%Supply Chain Risk Assessment (Screening) (Unit: Company)
(Unit: Company)FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS102 103SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Section 3. Natural Capital
3.1 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
GHG emissions are estimated based on SK Telecom’s 
26 company buildings including data centers and the guidelines on preparing and managing the state -
ments for the emissions trading system. The scope of this estimation includes emissions from all of the network facilities (base stations and equipment), but it does not include emissions from subsidiaries and supply chains. Greenhouse gas intensity, on the other hand, is calculated by dividing the total emis -
sions of greenhouse gas by SK Telecom’s parent-on -
ly revenues (data coverage).
In 2015, total GHG emissions of SK Telecom were 
686,000 tons, a 7.6% decrease from the previous year, due to diverse GHG emissions reduction activ -
ities. The main cause of the decrease in GHG emis -
sions, in the case of networks, was the integration of equipment such as base stations and replace -
ment of worn-out air conditioners, and in company buildings, it was due to the energy reduction efforts including the adjustment of air-conditioning and heating. In the future, there are plans to discover and implement independent reduction activities such as the use of high-efficiency relay stations and integrating the management of base stations. In addition, by securing carbon offsets through co -
operation with partners and SMEs, SK Telecom will actively participate in the emissions trading scheme and achieve its targets. SK Telecom plans to achieve a 2% annual average reduction in GHG emissions compared to the current intensity and achieve 52.32 tCO
2e per KRW billion in revenue by 2020.3.2 Energy Consumption
SK Telecom’s energy consumption is managed in compliance with guidelines on preparing and man -
aging the statements for the Emissions Trading Sys -
tem, and the numerical figures are aggregated by entering billing invoices from energy suppliers into the system. The intensity of energy consumption is calculated by dividing the total energy consumption by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (data cov -
erage). Regarding energy reduction results due to the use of natural air-conditioning and renewable energy development, the estimated value measured data from the previous year (2012~2013) has been equally applied to 2015.
Total energy consumption in 2015 was 14,081 TJ, 
was a 7.7% decrease from the previous year, and the target of consuming less than 15,318 TJ was achieved. The use of energy sources for the heating and cooling systems of company buildings was re -
duced and energy consumption was further reduced through the integration of network equipment such as relay stations and base stations as well as the replacement of worn-out air conditioners. For SK Telecom, indirect energy consumption resulting from the use of electricity accounts for 99.1% of the total consumption. Accordingly, SK Telecom is endeavor -
ing to achieve improved energy efficiency by man -
aging company buildings with a focus on replacing low-efficiency and old equipment and generating electricity through renewable energy facilities. SK Telecom plans to achieve a 2% annual average ener -
gy reduction compared to the current intensity and achieve 1.17 TJ per KRW billion in revenue by 2020.
Direct Emissions
 Stationary Combustion
 Mobile Combustion
Indirect Emissions Electricity
 Steam
Total EmissionsIntensity (tCO
2e/KRW billion)2013
7,375
5,236
2,139
700,588
700,484
104
707,963
55.052014
7,124
4,877
2,248
735,750
735,664
86
742,859
57.082015
8,431
5,650
2,781
677,687
677,585
102
686,118
54.64Greenhouse Gas EmissionsTotal Emissions (tCO 2e)Intensity (tCO 2e/KRW billion)
55.0557.0854.64Greenhouse Gas Emissions
2013 2014 2015707,963
742,859
686,118
3.4 Waste and Recycling
Waste discharge volume is estimated based on 
SK Telecom’s 26 company buildings, and does not include consumption by subsidiaries and supply chains. The intensity of waste discharge is calculat -
ed by dividing the total waste discharge volume by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (data coverage). As of 2013, waste production is classified into do -
mestic, food, large-size, recyclable and designated wastes.
In 2015, the waste discharge volume was record -
ed at 1,763 tons, a 9.4% increase compared to the 
previous year. Large-scale and domestic waste in -
creased due to office and warehouse organization, and in the case of food waste, due to an increase in drinking water consumption and in-house dining at some company buildings, the amount of waste increased.Direct Consumption (TJ)
Natural gas (Nm3)
Diesel (Liter)
Kerosene (Liter)
Indirect Consumption (TJ)Electricity (MWh)
Steam Consumption (GJ)
Total Energy Consumption (TJ)Building Management (Mh)
Natural Air-conditioning 
System (MWh)Total Power Consumption 
Reduction (MWh)
New Renewable Energy Gen-eration Facilities (MWh)
Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)2013
163
1,610,880
116,984
509,323
14,426
1,502,377
3,318
14,589
3,901
39,857
46,487
2,729
1.132014
121
1,561,961
66,000
439,182
15,150
1,577,830
3,192
15,254
3,143
39,857
45,729
2,729
1.172015
146
1,912,250
279,084
495,790
13,954
1,453,265
2,692
14,081
2,145
39,857
44,731
2,729
1.12Energy Consumption
Waterworks Usage
Groundwater Usage
Annual Water Consumption
Intensity (m3/KRW billion)2013
623,429
59,908
683,387
53.142014
632,304
63,421
695,725
53.462015
687,087
70,571
757,658
60.34Water Consumption (Unit: m3)
(Unit: tCO2e)
683,387
695,725
757,65853.14 53.4660.34Annual Water Consumption (m3)
Intensity(m3/KRW billion)Water Consumption
2013 2014 2015
3.3 Water Consumption
Water consumption is estimated based on SK Tele -
com’s 26 company buildings, according to invoices 
for water usage, and does not include consumption by subsidiaries and supply chains. The intensity of water consumption is calculated by dividing the to -
tal water consumption by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (data coverage).
Following business expansion, there was an increase 
in drinking water consumption, including from train-ees and customer center employees, and also follow-ing the increase of the air-conditioning cooling load from the rise in telecommunications use, there was an increase in cooling tower supplementary water, and therefore water consumption in 2015 was 757,658m
3, 
a 8.9% increase from the previous year. 
14,589
15,254
14,0811.131.17
1.12Energy 
Consumption
2013 2014 2015Total Energy 
Consumption (TJ)Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)NON-FINANCIAL MD&A NON-FINANCIAL MD&A FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS104 105
Domestic Waste
Large-sized Waste
Recyclable Waste (B)
Food WasteDesignated Waste
Total Waste (A)
Recycling Rate (B/A) (%)Intensity (Ton / KRW billion)2013
556
85
583
373
29
1,646
36
0.1262014
685
79
548
416
33
1,763
31
0.1352015
648
91
666
505
18
1,928
35
0.154Waste Volume (Unit: Ton)
(Unit: Ton)SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
1,646
1,763
1,92836 3135Waste Volume and Rate of Recycling
2013 2014 2015The device retrieval rate was calculated by dividing 
the number of devices sold by the total annual de -
vices retrieved. In 2015, the device retrieval rate was 3.6%, a reduction of 0.9%p compared to 2014. The main reason for the decrease was that the operation of SK Telecom’s discarded phone recycling business was turned over from ‘Happy Eco-Phone’ to the SK Group.
Devices Sold (in thousands)
Devices Retrieved (in thousands)
Device Retrieval Rate (%)2013
9,838
785
8.02014
8,133
370
4.52015
9,063
326
3.6Device Retrieval RateTotal Electronic Bill Subscrib-
ers (in thousands)
Rate of Subscription (%)2013
17,861
69.42014
19,604
77.02015
21,328
83.9Electronic Billing Service Subscription Trend
3.8 Electromagnetic Fields
In terms of electromagnetic fields, following the im -
plementation of mandatory electromagnetic fields 
measurements since June 2007 until the present, SK Telecom has been fulfilling this regulation, and in 2015, a total of 37,504 cases of electromagnetic fields at wireless stations have been measured. The measurement results show that the actual measure -
ment of SK Telecom’s wireless stations is less than merely 1/10 of the standard for human protection, and more than 99.9% of the measured wireless sta -
tions have received a judgment of a level one stan -
dard in the electromagnetic field rating system, and since the implementation of the system (since Aug. 2014), almost all of the wireless stations have been recorded at the safest level, level one.
Along with this, SK Telecom has been supporting the 
five-year research project on electromagnetic fields’ human impact conducted by the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science since Au -
gust 2014. The project is currently in its second year and the company is bearing 50% of the KRW 1.5 billion won total cost.
Number of Measurements Conducted at Base Stations
18,928
30,606
2013 2014 2015
37,5043.5 Resources
The total number of electronic bill subscribers in -
cludes customers who receive their bills via smart phone, email or MMS. The rate of new subscription indicates customers who subscribe to the electronic billing service.
Since the introduction of the smart billing service 
in 2010, the number of subscribers to the electronic billing service has increased at a steady pace. By the end of 2015, the total number of electronic bill subscribers reached approximately 21.32 million, an 8.8% increase from 2014. The electronic billing ser -
vice has the benefits of improved security of person -
al information and reduced usage of resources such as paper. For these reasons, the number of elec -
tronic bill subscribers has been steadily increasing over the years. The new electronic bill subscription rate has also been increasing continually and it was recorded at 83.9% in 2015, a 6.9p% increase com -
pared to last year.Total Waste(A) Recycling Rate(B/A)2013 2014 20151,226
743
1,460
1,174
1,4921,748Environmental Volunteers Environmental Volunteers
Environmental Volunteer HoursNON-FINANCIAL MD&A NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
3.7 Social GHG Reduction 
In terms of reducing social GHGs, SK Telecom refers to using ICT services to reduce the GHG emissions that result from daily life. SK Telecom’s T map navigation service contributes to the reduction of fuel use and GHG emissions by informing drivers of optimal routes that take into account the distance and real-time road conditions between the user’s current location and destination. The amount of social GHGs that SK Tele -
com reduced in 2015 are estimated to be 1.31 million tons, and the company is setting mid-term goals for 1.60 in 2016, 1.95 in 2017 and 2.40 in 2018. 
Annual Social GHG Reduction  
(tCO 2e million) 2013
-2014
-2015
1.31Social GHG Reduction3.7 Environmental Investment and Cost 
The environmental investment and cost is estimated on SK Telecom’s parent-only basis. Green purchase cost refers to the cost of purchasing products with an energy efficiency grade, high-efficiency energy certification, high-quality recycled product certifica -
tion, environmental mark certification, environmen -
tal product declaration, etc. 
In 2015, the total environmental cost, excluding 
green purchases, has increased. The main reasons for the higher environmental cost include increases in education/training expenses, charges for facili -
ties environmental improvements such as company building and network equipment as well as expens -
es for responding climate change. Due to the ex -
pansion of green certification centered on high-price equipment purchases, green purchases increased 12.1 times compared to last year.
Waste Disposal Service 
Education & Training Cost
Miscellaneous
Recycling ServiceExternal Nature Conservation 
Cost
Charges & TaxesEnergy Saving and Climate 
Change Response Cost
Total Environmental Unit Cost (excl. Green Purchases)2013
94
35
0
29
18
148
197
5212014
101
13
0
24
7
123
207
4752015
95
24
0
20
0
328
242
709Total Environmental Cost (Excl. Green Purchases)
*  Beginning with this year’s report, following a change in the calculation 
of the environmental cost (including energy saving and climate change 
response), the data from the past year’s report has been correctly 
written together.(Unit: KRW million)
(Unit: KRW million)Green Purchase Cost
2013 2014 20156,084
7,368
89,125
2015 2016 20171.31
1.60
1.95
2018
2.40Annual Social GHG Reduction
TargetTargetsPerformance
(Unit: tCO 2e million)FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS106 107INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Other Disclosures
SK Telecom is committed to complying with regulations of the supervising agencies including the Fair Trade 
Commission (F TC), Korea Communications Commission (KCC) and Ministr y of Science, ICT and Future Planning (MSIP), and undertakes management activities, while actively reflecting demands made by stakeholders and the government, which expect fair market competition. Despite these efforts, however, SK Telecom was subject to the following sanctions from KCC in 2015, and corrective actions were taken accordingly.
List of Sanctions and Corrective Measures
March 12, 2015
Fine of KRW 934 million and corrective action order in relation to the “Case of correction in relation to 
the violation of the Handset Distribution Act related to the ‘Used Phone Prior Compensation System’ ”  by 
KCC. Paid the fine and reported the corrective measures to KCC by April 2015
March 26, 2015Fine of KRW 23.5 billion and corrective action order in relation to the “Case of correction in relation to 
the violation of the Handset Distribution Act” and a 7-day new subscription suspension by KCC. Paid the 
fine and reported the corrective measures to KCC by May 2015. Carried out the 7-day new subscription 
suspension in October 2015 (October 1st to 7th, for seven days)
May 28, 2015Fine of KRW 350 million and corrective action order in relation to the “Cases of correction in relation to 
acts reducing user benefits regarding false/exaggerated advertising of bundled products” by KCC. Paid the 
fine by August 2015. Reported the result of the corrective measures to KCC by October 2015
December 10, 2015Fine of KRW 560 million and corrective action order in relation to the “Cases of correction in relation to 
acts reducing user benefits regarding false/exaggerated advertising of bundled products” by KCC. Paid the fine and reported the corrective measures to KCC by February 2016Date of Sanction
Sanctions and 
Corrective Measures
Date of Sanction
Sanctions and 
Corrective Measures
Date of Sanction
Sanctions and 
Corrective Measures
Date of Sanction
Sanctions and 
Corrective MeasuresIndependent Auditors’ Report
To The Board of Directors and Shareholders
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statement of SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries 
(the “Group”). Which comprise the consolidated statement of the financial position as at December 31, 2015 and 2014, the consolidated statement of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and note, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion.FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSNON-FINANCIAL MD&A SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS108 109INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Third-Party Assurance Statement
Opinion  
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated 
financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2015 and 2014 and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards.
Other Matter
The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries.
Seoul, Korea     
February 23, 2015
KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp.
This report is effective as of February 23, 2016, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any.Introduction
SK Telecom Inc. (hereinafter referred to as “SK Telecom”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “DNV GL”), part of  DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2015 (the “Report”). 
The directors of SK Telecom have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of 
DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of SK Telecom in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith.
Scope of Assurance
The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st January to 31st December 2015. This included: 
·  Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 
(APS) 2008 with Type 2, moderate level of assurance as stated in AA1000 Assurance Standard (AS) 2008.
·  Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines G4 (Comprehensive option) (Aggregated level of data from the period between January and December in 2015).
·  Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report.
Basis of our opinion
We performed our work using AA1000AS(2008) and DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM, which is 
based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice. We applied the moderate level  of assurance  with Type 2. The audit was carried out in May and June 2016. The site visits were made to SK Telecom Head office in Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process:
·  Challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness 
of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls;
· Interviewed representatives from the various departments;·  Conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data;
· Reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment report.FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS110 111THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Limitations
The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of SK 
Telecom’s subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as SK Telecom’s website (http://www.sktelecom.com). 
These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. 
Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement.
Opinion and Observation
On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles in AA1000APS(2008) nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI G4 Comprehensive option. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles, as set forth in the AA1000APS (2008) are made below;
The Foundation Principle of Inclusivity
SK Telecom has identified stakeholder groups such as Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Local communities · NGOs, Shareholders and Governments. The Stakeholder engagement policy and process have been established and is clearly described in the Report. Various channels are used to engage stakeholders by respective business units and material issues are reported to the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the Board of Directors. 
Materiality
The report presents the materiality assessment process. The relevant issue pool was formed by analysing key issues from various information sources and material issues were determined based on the relevance and impact of projects and stakeholders. The audit team has not noted that the material information is intentionally omitted that may influence the decision making process of stakeholders during the engagement. The audit team has judged that nine material issues are properly identified and prioritized based on the stakeholder’s concerns and expectation through the materiality assessment process.Responsiveness
Material issues selected through the materiality assessment process covers economic, environment and social impacts of sustainability and the report is prepared to properly respond to the views, interests and expectations of stakeholders. Contexts of material issues provide the background information to understand the business strategy and performance of SK Telecom and 3 years quantified data help to understand the trend of sustainability performance. 
Accuracy and Reliability
Any errors and misstatements identified during the engagement were corrected prior to the Report being published. Data and information contained in the report has been described as an accurate and reliable way on the basis of sample checked, other reported information and other available evidence. 
Findings in relation to specific sustainability performance information:
DNV GL has evaluated the nature and extent of SK Telecom’s adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles as described above. In addition, the reliability of data and information is evaluated for Type 2 Assurance. DNV GL has interviewed the personnel responsible for the data and information in order to figure out the generation, aggregation and processing of data and information and reviewed the relevant documents and records based on which the statements in the Report are addressed. Especially the in-depth review is conducted on the reliability of data and information with regard to Water consumption, Waste generation, Accident rate and Ethics & Compliance for Type 2 Assurance. 
The reporting of the management performance presented in the Report make it possible to understand the 
company’s impact in economic, social and environmental areas, as well as the company’s achievements in those regards. SK Telecom has developed an effective methodology for gathering the specific information and data respectively for reporting. The data owners interviewed are able to demonstrate to trace the origin and the data source of the specific data and information are identifiable. From our analysis of the data and information, and SK Telecom’s processes, we conclude that the data and information included in the Report are the results of stable and repeatable activities.FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE APPENDIX FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS112 113THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT GREENHOUSE GAS ASSURANCE STATEMENT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
Competence and Independence
DN V GL Bu sin e s s A s su r anc e i s p ar t of DN V GL G r ou p and a g lob al pr ov id e r of c e r t if ic a t ion , ve r if ic a t ion , 
assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement.Terms of Engagement 
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for SK Telecom.
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by SK Telecom to assure its GHG Inventory 
Report for the calendar year 2015 (hereafter referred to as “the Report”) and the GHG data summarised in Table 1 below. The Report has been prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea. The Report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions.
Management Responsibility
The management of SK Telecom is responsible for preparing the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over all the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract with SK Telecom.
Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of SK Telecom.
LRQA’s Approach
Our verification has been conducted in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: 
Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to reasonable level of assurance.
In order to form our conclusions we have:
·  Visited sites and reviewed processes to control the data and records regarding GHG emissions and energy uses.
·  Interviewed the relevant persons responsible for managing and maintaining raw and consolidated data.
·  Verified the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 2015.
Level of Assurance & Materiality
The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance and at a 2.5% level of materiality.
LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach we have found that the GHG and energy data  presented in the Report are materially correct, subject to the following qualifications:
·  The GHG emissions from some small devices of which electricity consumptions have not been monitored 
have been estimated using data from similar devices. Those GHG emissions are so small that don’t affect our conclusions. It is noted that the number of small devices of which GHG emissions have been estimated is not reported here according to SK Telecom’s request for confidentiality.DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE KOREA LTD.
Country Representative IN KYOON AHN
13 June 2016
Seoul, Republic of Korea
FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSFINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTSCEO HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT
HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT REPORTSUPPLY CHAIN REPORTGRI INDEXSASB INDEXUNGC INDEXNON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOM  GLOBAL NETWORK
INVESTOR INFORMATIONAppendix5115APPENDIX
114GREENHOUSE GAS ASSURANCE STATEMENT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
116
118121126134135137143144ON BEHALF OF LLOYD’S REGISTER 
QUALITY ASSURANCE LTD.
SANG-KEUN YOO31 March  2016
Scope (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea)
Direct GHG EmissionsEnergy Indirect GHG Emissions
Total GHG EmissionsLRQA Reference: SEO 601712
Year 2015
8,431
677,687
686,118Table1. GHG emissions reported in the Report
This document is subject to the provision below:
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers.
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents 
are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the ‘Lloyd’s Register Group’. The Lloyd’s Register Group 
assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is 
exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and 
regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate.  
The Korean version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for 
versions translated into other languages.
Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2016. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.
17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, 
Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea
Data is presented in tonnes of CO 2 equivalent.FINANCIAL & 
NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS117 116 CEO Human Rights Statement
Under the SKMS principle, “For the company’s continuous development, the 
company creates value for customers, employees, and shareholders, fulfills a key role in social and economic development, and makes contributions to the happiness of mankind,” SK Telecom aims to accomplish its business goals while fulfilling its social responsibilities and codes of conduct. The company’s social responsibilities defines its human rights duties towards customers, employees, partner companies, and the community.
SK Telecom, as a company that practices a high level of awareness of global 
citizenship, respects the basic rights of all stakeholders that it encounters through products, services, contracts, purchases, and other business activities.
SK Telecom declares its support for the human rights principles stated in the UN 
Universal Declaration Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Ruggie Framework and pledges to fulfill its human rights responsibilities. SK Telecom will make every effort to prevent human rights abuses involving business and avoid complicity in such abuses. Furthermore, the company will ensure governance with integrity to take measures and provide communication regarding an organization responsible, under the UNGC Human Rights / Labor Principles, the operating structure, the monitoring process, and incidents. SK Telecom will exercise due diligence to assure compliance with the policy within the whole supply chain as well as SK Telecom and its subsidiaries.
Specifically, SK Telecom, as an ICT provider, is aware of potential human rights 
risks in the following aspects and will do its utmost to prevent any problems that may occur:
01)  Human Rights of Employees and Partner Companies    
(Human Rights in the Workplace)
•   Fundamental prevention of wrong labor practices, such as child and forced  
 labor
•  Prevention of discrimination by gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, and race
•  Political, religious, and physical freedom, and respect for civil rights
•   Other labor principles recommended by the International Labour Organization  
 (ILO) and endorsed by the government: safety/health, working hours, etc.APPENDIX APPENDIX CEO HUMANS RIGHTS STATEMENT CEO HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT
02) Human Rights in Privacy Policies
•  Demanding minimum personal information, recording and saving to comply  
 with laws
•  Notification prior to saving information, fiduciary duty, and ability to freely  
 delete information
•  Optimal security system for preventing leaks, including data encryption
•   Limited and responsible use of personal information for service/marketing  
 purposes
03) Human Rights in Access to Information & Freedom of Expression
•     Obligation to ensure equality of access to services regardless of class/  
 disabilities
•   Efforts to bridge the digital/smart divide: education, rate plans, and systems
•   Responsibility for distributed information to protect minors, including children  
 and adolescents
•   Fundamental support for freedom of expression
04)  Prevention of Misuse of Technologies, Services, and Data (Human Rights in  
Technology)
•  Refusal to use technologies, electronic devices, and data for dual purposes
•   Prevention of misuse of technologies, such as wiretapping, signal interference,  
 or hacking
SK Telecom always keeps the channels of stakeholder communication open 
to prevent any human rights violations. If you have witnessed or experienced incidents of such violations, please inform the company through the appropriate channel. (http://sktelecom.com/en/sktelecom/csr/csr04_02.jsp)
SK Telecom is committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities and pursuing 
the happiness of stakeholders and pledges to take the lead in advocating and complying with the Human Rights principles.
May 2016SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
DONG-HYUN JANG
SK Telecom President and CEOSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS118 119 Human Rights Assessment ReportAPPENDIX APPENDIX HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Compliance with Human Rights Due Diligence 
SK Telecom upholds the utmost respect of all indi -
viduals’ basic human rights in its managerial and 
business operations. Through shared communica -
tion and exchange of information between individ -
uals via ICT, SK Telecom believes that communica -
tions technology can make valuable contributions to the progression of human rights as well as societal wellbeing, openness, and knowledge, leading to an overall improvement in people’s quality of life. In line with these beliefs, the company is striving to integrate the values prescribed in the Universal Dec -
laration of Human Rights, and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into its comprehen -
sive corporate structure.
1. Applying the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights
The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights provide companies and shareholders with a corporate framework to promote human rights. By understanding and cultivating principles related to human rights protection, respect, and remedy, com -
panies are expected to hold themselves accountable for respecting the rights of others and eliminating any negative influences that would constitute a possible rights violation. In order to implement a company-centered approach to human rights, SK Telecom established its own Human Rights Poli -
cy following a Gap Analysis with the UN’s Guiding Principles, in order to determine essential rights relevant to SK Telecom’s business model. Among those selected include 1) the human rights of all SK Telecom employees and business partners, 2) the protection of personal information and privacy, 3) the right to access information and freedom of expression, and 4) the prevention of the ill-use of technological services and data as central elements of the company’s human rights value system.
Furthermore, as human rights issues become further 
integrated with the due diligence process, a com -
prehensive analysis is also required to determine the current status of human rights within new mar -ket expansion projects as well as implementation of new products and services. From 2015 to 2016, SK Telecom carried out company-wide human rights monitoring operations to evaluate compliance and strengthened relevant company policies set in place to protect the rights of employees, partners and customers.
2. Human Rights Due Diligence and Analysis 
Results
2-1. The Human Rights of SK Telecom Employ -
ees and  Business Partners
SK Telecom values the rights of all its company 
employees (both directly employed and indirectly employed through the supply chain) and ensures the protection of all employees’ universal human rights. The company’s Code of Ethics and Practice Guidelines assert SK Telecom’s respect for employ -
ees as individuals and its promise to respect their human rights. SK Telecom has a zero-tolerance poli -
cy on any kind of discrimination towards or amongst workers.
As dependence on global suppliers rises, the risk of 
growing human rights violations or unsuitable work and labor conditions within the supply chain sub -
sequently increases. To encourage fair/transparent trade and actualize CSR engagement through sus -
tainable management principles, SK Telecom has enforced mandatory levels of compliance in relation to work and labor rights protection as well as safety and health standards in communication with its sub -
sidiaries including through the CSR Practice Agree -
ment. Please refer to the “Supply Chain Report” on pp.121-125 for further information on supply chain sustainability and compliance monitoring. 2-2. Personal Information and Privacy 
Protection
Over the course of its business processes, SK Tele -
com has handled the personal information of over 
22 million people, including resident registration numbers, addresses and phone numbers, as well as call logs and histories. The company keeps and manages such information on servers, and at con -
tact points with customers such as online and of -
fline channels, the information is managed through store personnel. In order to prevent personal infor -
mation and privacy violations, all of SK Telecom’s distribution partners undergo regular audits and re -
ceive corrective measures in the case of leakages. In 2015, SK Telecom implemented inspections and au -
dits of about 4,700 stores (100% of the total number of stores) in marketing and solutions. SK Telecom also remotely implemented regular audits related to information leakage of 20,000 store PCs annually, gave professional development training to auditors (once monthly) and enhanced relevant guidance through regular information protection training ac -
tivities for stores (once per quarter). Not only this, but because SK Telecom carried out activities to en -
hance customer information protection at stores in advance, the company maintained zero (0) cases of personal information leakages. SK Telecom sought to install personal information detection solutions on the computers of individuals handling personal information, enabling the company to prevent the risk of personal information leakages in advance.Furthermore, 100% of products and services have undergone audits regarding information protection in 2015. As a result, SK Telecom has discovered 322 cases that call for security improvement and has completed taking measures for them at the appro -
priate time. Through efforts such as this, the com -
pany is doing its utmost to prevent the occurrence of human rights violations stemming from personal information leakages. 
2-3. The Right to Access Information
Inability to exercise one’s right to access the inter -
net or information is an infringement of one’s social and political rights. SK Telecom believes that the right to equally access information is a crucial hu -
man right in the modern world and works diligent -
ly to improve people’s access to information. The company has taken steps to improve information access by bolstering 1) Access through Affordability 2) Access through Education and 3) Access through Technology, by taking steps to enhance infrastruc -
ture of outdated networks and increase technologi -
cal access to information. Please refer to “Access to Service” on pp.96-97 to see what efforts are being taken and what progress has been made to enhance people’s right to access information
Children’s rights are an invaluable part of human 
rights. SK Telecom supports general laws and regu -
lations (restriction to adult material, illegal content) implemented to keep children safe as they access internet content. Therefore, SK Telecom has enact -
ed a policy related to children’s internet access and safety. Various steps have been taken in order to supply responsible content and ensure the safety in internet browsing. The company has integrated a self-regulating monitoring system to scan for ille -
gal or potentially illicit content, and the “T Teenager Safety Service” is also provided to block harmful content at its source.
2-4. Prevention of Technology, Service and 
Data Abuse
SK Telecom principally opposes the abuse of tech -
nology for criminal use, citing criminal acts as a hin -
drance to overall progress and wellbeing of society. 
In 2015, there were no reported company cases of technology abuse that resulted in the need for com -
prehensive oversight.Number of Store Assessments on Customer In -
formation Protection in Distribution Network   
Rate of Assessments Conducted Among Total 
Stores (%)2014
1,800  
41.9 2015
4,700  
100 Customer Information Protection in Stores
Number of Audits on Products/Services  Information Protection Management  
Rate of Audits Conducted Among Total  
Products/Services (%)Number of Security Violations Found
Number of Cases - Short-term Measures 
Completed2014
- 
- -
- 2015
224 
100 
502
194 Audits on Products/Services Information Protection
ManagementNumber of Newly 
Registered Suppliers
Number of Registered 
Partners screened for Human Rights, Ethics, 
and Social Issues
Rate of Assessment2013
346 
346 
 
 
100%2014
712 
235 
  
100%2015
706 
706 
  
100%Notes
  
* Service/
Construction/
Equipment/
Goods partnersSupply Chain Risk Assessment (Screening)
(Unit: Company)SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS120 121APPENDIX APPENDIX HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Supply Chain Report
Competitiveness through  a responsible value chain
1. Context
This Repor t discloses SK Telecom’s supply chain sus -
tainability management policies and processes, and 
has been written to provide information to stake -
holders related to responsibility and assurance for the products and services value chain. In the pro -
cess of its business operation, SK Telecom depends upon a variety of suppliers for the development and spread of network devices, building and operating the network infrastructure as well as providing and developing platform content. This Report contains information regarding SK Telecom’s efforts to review and resolve significant risk factors of suppliers in the supply chain as well as support enhancement of the ability to discover possible opportunities.
Processes for Responsible Supply Chain Management at SK Telecom
Awareness Guidance & Monitoring Action
· Code of Conduct
· Procurement· Guidelines·  Registration  
requirements
· Contract provisions· Evaluation
· Audit
SCM 
Risk ProfilePolicy MonitoringCorrective 
measures
Contract 
terminationStakeholder Engagement 
Channels
· Annual Stakeholder Survey
·  Business Partner Meetings (Win-Win Conference, 1-on-1 meetings, voice of partners)
· Business Partner SurveyGlobal Guidelines and 
Standards
· UNGC Principle
· OECD MNE Guidelines·     
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
· EICC, etc 
Internal Risk Management 
Processes
· RM Working Group
· Procurement Review
2. Analysis of Supply Chain Risk Exposure
SK Telecom has identified the core supply chain 
through the task of procurement analysis, and ana -
lyzed the key supply chain risks. The areas analyzed have been categorized into procurement categories that include equipment (network and infrastruc -
ture), services (software and solution development), goods, and construction partners, which account for 100% of the amount of procurement. SK Telecom has designated a ‘critical supplier’ group having com -
prehensively considered the impact on the compa -ny’s continued operations as well as the degree to which the company depends upon the transactions.
SK Telecom’s critical suppliers are comprehensively 
considered, categorized and managed according to their 1) relevance to the company’s core businesses and reliability, 2) high level of transaction amounts, 3) possession of proprietary technology for which substitution is not possible. Accordingly, as of 2015, 325 companies are categorized into the critical sup -
plier group out of a total 2,346 registered partners.3. Additional Human Rights Issues that May 
Require Attention
3-1. Land Use
Violations of land, property and indigenous rights 
can occur, if not monitored, when expanding the scope of a business site or entering a new market. For telecommunications companies, who regular -
ly conduct construction and infrastructure expan -
sion activities, the risk of violating indigenous land rights can become a problem. SK Telecom has as -
sessed that latent risk of violating indigenous rights abroad in overseas markets currently remains low, as 95% of the company’s revenue originated in the Republic of Korea. The company is diligently work -
ing to prevent violation of citizens’ human rights when expanding business or network infrastruc -
ture by conducting preventative assessments, and also processing and handling customer grievances through existing channels such as the customer cen -
ter while continuing operation of the CSR opinion collection channel. 
3-2. e-Waste
According to UN data, developed countries collect tremendous amounts of technological waste such as mobile phones, laptops, tablets and cameras, which they then dispose of in developing nations. The ma -
jority of e-waste contains toxic materials such as mercury, lead and cadmium, all requiring intensive oversight in their process and handling, and end up negatively impacting the environment, air quality, and the human rights of citizens in developing na -
tions. SK Telecom is working to legally and safely handle waste materials through programs such as “Happy Eco-Phone,” a collection service for used cellphones. However, additional research is needed to provide insight into the way SK Telecom may be impacting developing nations and cooperative effort and attention is needed from the telecommunica -
tions industry to address this widespread problem.
3-3. Conflict Mineral
Conflict minerals, mainly gold, tungsten, tin, and tantalum, have emerged as a major issue within the electronics industry after the existence of armed rebels within the Democratic Republic of Congo us -
ing conflict minerals to extract personal funds was revealed to the global community. Products that are of major concern in relation to conflict minerals in -
clude electronics such as mobile phones and lap -
tops. While SK Telecom does not personally manu -
facture electronic materials, the company evaluates all purchased materials, equipment and parts by utilizing the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) provided by the EICC (Electronic Industr y Cit -
izenship Coalition) and GeSI (Global e-Sustainabil -
ity Initiative) to identify the country of origin and conduct due diligence regarding conflict minerals. According to the 2015 origin report, no additional need for conflict mineral due diligence was found within SK Telecom’s supply chain. 
 
Employees’ and Business 
Partners’ Human RightsPersonal Information and 
Privacy Protection
Access to Information RightsTechnology, Service and Data 
Abuses   
Related Group
General, Child,  
Migrant Labor
General  
Genral, Child
General  
  
Risk Level
Moderate  
High  
Moderate
Low 
 Assessment  
and Due Diligence
100%  
100%  
100%
- 
  
Notes
 
 
 
Specific grievances are received 
and assessed through grievance 
resolution channelsHuman Rights Risk Assessment and Due DiligenceSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS122 123APPENDIX APPENDIX SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
3. Identification of Key Supply Chain Risks
SK Telecom comprehensively reflects the risk factors 
discovered through internal risk processes includ -
ing business partner surveys such as the biannual Win-Win Growth Satisfaction Survey, partner com -
pany meetings, listening to the voice of partners and risk management working groups, and reviews 
4. Policy and Engagement
The identified risk factors have been formalized in the ‘Supply Chain ESG Policy’ and ‘CSR Practice Agreement for Fair Trade’ and apply to 100% of SK Telecom’s registered suppliers. While SK Telecom requires compliance with these principles in the contract process, it also takes a variety of steps including requesting corrective measures and con -
tract termination through the long-term monitoring process.
4.1 Policy
SK Telecom’s Supply Chain ESG policy is composed of three parts including scope, risk management process and policy. The Supply Chain ESG policy applies to all business partners that have contract relationships with SK Telecom. All business partners are requested to apply the principles to their sub
-
contractors as well. SK Telecom further requests its par tner companies to ensure that suppliers and busi
-the results of the risk gap analysis of each supplier group and risk mapping by supplier at the monthly ‘procurement performance analysis and improve -
ment meeting.’ SK Telecom defines the main risks that may occur in the supply chain as follows, and reflects these in the supply chain sustainability pro -
cess.
ness partners are also in compliance with the agreed upon principles. Items that compose the Supply Chain ESG Policy, including 1) anti-corruption, 2) fair trade compliance, 3) data privacy and protection, 4) financial transparency, 5) appropriate participation in public policies, 6) respect for customer value, 7) environmental protection, 8) employees’ welfare and safety, 9) community involvement, and 10) human rights, are disclosed through SK Telecom’s homep
-
age (http://www.sktelecom.com/supplychain.)
4.2 Screening
The CSR Practice Agreement for Fair Trade is an offi -
cial document that requests compliance and agree -
ment with the Supply Chain ESG Policy. SK Telecom requests that all partner companies comply with such policies across the contract process through the CSR Practice Agreement for Fair Trade on the Open2U System (an online contract system) regard -
ing the company’s supply chain policies.  
Risks
Economic  
Risks  
 
 
Social Risks 
 
 
Environmental 
Risks  
  
Main Risk Factors
Ethical and Anti-Corruption Principle Violations in the Contract ProcessCollusion or Other Unfair Trade Practices
Delayed Payment to Subcontractors 
Unsound Financial Structure (low credit rating)Violation of ILO Labor Regulations and Reasonable 
Labor Practices (compliance with work hours, wage 
payment, and other labor rights)Conflict Minerals
Violation of Environmental Regulations
High GHG EmissionsFailure to Adopt an Environmental Management 
System 
Risk Level
High  
HighHigh
High
Moderate  
 
Low
ModerateModerate
Low  
Sourcing Group
All Suppliers 
All Suppliers
All Suppliers
All Suppliers
Service Partners 
Construction Partners  
Equipment Partners
Equipment Partners
Equipment Partners
Construction Partners
Equipment Partners Rate of Tier 1 Suppli -
ers Risk Exposure 
100%  
100%
100%
95%  
 
23%23%
23%
40%  Supply Chain Risk Identification (2015)4.3 Reflection in Contracts
SK Telecom’s contracts with partners all reflect prin -
ciples of compliance with the official supply chain 
policy. Furthermore, the company is also extending compliance with SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct to partners’ transactions with sub-suppliers and within their overall business practice. 
4.4 Cooperative Initiatives with NGOs such as 
3rd Parties and International Organizations
As a representative company of UNGC LEAD, SK Tele -
com reflects the UNGC principles in its supply chain 
guidelines, on the foundation of its UNGC LEAD ac -
tivities. SK Telecom’s supply chain guidelines refer to the global e-sustainability initiative e-Gesi’s JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) Guidelines.
5. Risk Assessment and Evaluation, Monitor -
ing and Measures
5.1 Advance Monitoring
In 2015, 100% of newly registered partner compa -
nies were screened according to the CSR Practice 
Agreement for Fair Trade through Open2U, SK Tele -
com’s electronic contract system.
5.2 Ongoing Monitoring, Diagnostics and As -
sessments
SK Telecom’s is confirming the key diagnostic and assessment activity indicators of the proportion of registered partners that have undergone written surveys and on-site surveys. In 2015, among the 2,346 tier 1 suppliers, 1,270 have done written sur -
veys, 212 have undergone on-site surveys (includes separate visits and meetings with partners and 1-on-1 meetings). Among these, the partners that were judged to be exposed to ‘high risk’ in the risk identification process were given 100% risk assess -
ments to prevent risks in advance. In 2015, addi -
tional 100 partners that were candidates for mutual growth cooperation participated in a third-party ex -
ternal review conducted by the Korean Commission on Cooperative Partnership. The company is also currently applying its supply chain policy and per -
formance indicators to both domestic and interna -
tional suppliers. Due to the majority of SK Telecom’s total procurement amount (KRW 4.38 trillion) being made up of domestic suppliers, with international procurement making up roughly 0.46% at 18.5 bil -
lion KRW, performance indicators are also managed with a focus on Korea.
5.3 Incentives, Support, Corrective Measures
Every year, based on the results of diagnostics and assessments, programs for capability improvement and various incentive programs are implemented for exemplary partners. Programs to improve capa -
bilities include technological support such as tech -
nology transfer and Open Collaboration as well as security activities, and also include the SK Win-Win Academy, where partners can engage in CEO semi -
nars, MBA courses and training  support for risk re -
duction. Risk reduction training includes topics such as mutual growth partnerships and includes training regarding procurement policies and policy compli -
ance. For outstanding partners, the details of the incentive and support programs include unit price adjustment, funding (financial) assistance, technol -
ogy and training support, and welfare.
In the event of a partner company failing to meet SK 
Telecom evaluation standards, SK Telecom creates a plan for corrective measures and requests that part -
ner companies make effort to improve their ESG per -
formance. Despite these efforts, in 2015, a total of 2 companies received corrective measures according to the diagnosis and assessment results, and due to the seriousness of their policy violations including fair trade violations, and occurrence of unethical is -
sues, a permanent suspension of transactions was implemented against the two companies.SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS124 125APPENDIX APPENDIX SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN REPORT
Total Number of Registered PartnersNumber of Partners Surveyed in Writing (Audit)Number of Partners Surveyed On-Site (Audit)  
Number of Partners Surveyed by Third-Parties  
Average Number of Days to Pay Sub-SuppliersNumber of Suppliers that Improved the Management Environment through Mutual Growth PartnershipsNotes
 
*  Includes separate discussions 
with Construction/Equipment 
Partners and 1-on-1 meetings 
* Partner experience survey 
conducted by the Korean Com-mission for Corporate Partnership
Notes
 
 
 2013
1,496
974 
162 
 
- 
 
2013
8.7 
201 
 2014
1,510
815 
205 
 
- 
 
2014
7.1 
291 
 2015
2,346
1,270  
212 
 
100 
 
2015
8.7 
323 
 2016 Target
2,567
More than 1,200 
250 
 
100 
 
2016 Target
8.7 
204 
 Supply Chain Risk Assessment (Audit)
Supply Chain ESG Performance Management Indicators
Suppliers who Received Corrective MeasuresBanned Temporarily Banned PermanentlyNotes
Reviewed by the Procurement Review Committee 2 year suspensionPermanent suspension 2013
2 
112014
2 
112015
2 
0
2Risk-related Corrective Measures for Partners Total Number of Newly Registered PartnersNumber of Human Rights·Environ -
ment · Ethics · Social AssessmentsRate of Advance AssessmentsNotes
 
* Service/Construction/Equipment/Goods partners
 2013
346 
346 
100%2014
712 
712 
100%2015
706 
706 
100%2016 Target
710 
710 
100%Supply Chain Risk Assessment (Screening) (Unit: Company)
(Unit: Company)risk management and cost efficiency through a mid-
to long-term procurement expense analysis including pre/post investigation, maintenance and compensa -
tion expenses. In particular, regarding companywide integrated expense efficiency, the company has car -
ried out supply chain expense analyses in 2015 and has reduced expenses (KRW 300 million) by simpli -
fying the donor development for the high-capacity repeater (MiBos) and also reduced new investment expenses (KRW 7.6 billion) by recycling idle repeat -
ers and products in warehouse storage.
In addition, SK Telecom has integrated affiliated 
businesses such as electricity, air-conditioning, fire extinguishing systems, rectifiers, uninterruptable power supply (UPS) generators with the main busi -
ness and reduced maintenance expenses (KRW 2 billion) by carrying out batch ordering from multi -
ple small businesses, and achieved a total annu -
al expense reduction of KRW 11 billion from ef -
forts including the reduction of KRW 500 million through signing annual integrated contracts for 15 repeat-purchase items such as distribution network visual merchandisers.
In terms of qualitative results, SK Telecom has im -
proved business relationships by building supply 
chain relationships on the basis of long-term coop -
eration such as batch ordering/integrated ordering for exemplary businesses. It has also contributed to an efficient procurement process by discovering potential suppliers as well as reducing time and ex -
penses for maintenance and compensation.
6. Case Study- Procurement Strategy and Sup -
ply Chain Sustainability
The priorities of SK Telecom’s procurement strate -
gy are 1) gaining competitiveness by improving the procurement structure through TCO (Total Cost Own -
ership), 2) revitalizing strategic integrated procure -
ment through a ‘procurement synergy consultative group’ with SK subsidiaries and invested companies, 3) improving cost efficiency by checking the produc -
tion cost structure from the zero-base perspective, 4) optimizing and enhancing business-friendly pro -
curement processes, and 5) creating an environment for advance procurement risk management and fair trade compliance. Through this strategy, SK Telecom ensures that its partners and the company maximize their creation of resources, while removing any inef -
ficient practices, formalities or procedures from the procurement processes. Next, the following busi -
ness case will explain how responsible supply chain risk management can manifest itself to create stra -
tegic procurement achievements for the company.Business Case 1.  Cost Reduction Through Re-
use/cycle of Unused Antennas
In 2015, SK Telecom implemented recycling projects involving its unused antennas by melting down and selling aluminum and plastic modules, and reusing brackets when installing new antennas in an effort called the ‘SCM Re-Use/Cycle Initiative,’ effectively lowering costs. Quantitative achievements added up to a 30% profit for partner suppliers, raw material conservation of up to 8% for antenna suppliers, and a 30% recorded improvement in cost efficiency for SK Telecom’s sales and procurement departments. In terms of qualitative achievements, par tner suppli -
ers were able to improve their eco-friendly image by supporting and participating in environmental initia -
tives that utilized government-approved technology and superior recycled materials.
Business Case 2. Executing Competitive Pro -
curement by Improving TCO
As SK Telecom’s procurement expenses are not one-time transaction expenses, the company is pursuing As a party to a transaction with SK Telecom, we, the undersigned hereby agree to actively cooperate with 
SK Telecom’s CSR Practice Agreement (corporate social responsibility), which includes ethical management, and to enable a fair and transparent transaction culture to take root, we agree to the following.
1.  Regarding transactions with SK Telecom, we will not offer any bribes, entertainment or conveniences 
either directly or through a third-party in order to influence transactions including to influence the transaction’s establishment or to set favorable transaction conditions.
2.  In the case that an SK Telecom employee requests offers such as bribes, entertainment or convenience during transactions, we will promptly report it to SK Telecom’s Ethical Counseling Center (http://www.sktelecom.com, Tel.080-801-6262, Fax. 080-801-6272).
3.  Regarding SK Telecom’s management information including subscriber information made known to us during transactions with SK Telecom, we will not use such information for transactions with other businesses without prior consent, nor share the information with any third-parties.
4. We will not engage in unfair trade practices including collusion practices.
5.  We will actively participate in practicing CSR in transactions with SK Telecom.
 1) We will prohibit wrongful labor practices including forced/compulsory labor and child labor.
 2)  We will prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, race, religion, disability and maternity.
 3) We will respect political, religious, physical freedom as well as civil rights.
 4)  We will recognize our responsibility regarding environmental protection and pursue the 
development of eco-friendly technology.
 5) We will cooperate in enabling fair and transparent trade and the spread of mutual growth.
 6)  We will comply with all labor principles that the International Labour Organization (ILO) recommends and that which the government ratifies regarding safety, welfare and work hours.
6.  In the case that we violate this agreement, we agree to accept responsibility for the measures SK Telecom may take, including limiting the volume of transactions and contract termination, according to the degree of the violation and internal standards.CSR PRACTICE AGREEMENT FOR FAIR TRADE / TRANSPARENT
TRANSACTIONS (2015)SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS127APPENDIX APPENDIX GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
126SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Strategy and Analysis Stakeholder Engagement
G4-1
G4-2CEO MessageKey Impacts, risks and opportunities ●
●√
√pp.20-23pp.20-23, pp.66-67 G4-24G4-25
G4-26
G4-27Stakeholder groups engagedBasis for identification and selection of stakeholders
Approach to stakeholder engagement
Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders, and how the organization has responded to those topics●
●
●
●√
√
√
√ pp.61-62pp.61-62
pp.34, 61-62
pp.34, 61-62
Report Profile
G4-28G4-29
G4-30
G4-31G4-32
G4-33Reporting period
Date of most recent previous report
Reporting cycle (Annual, biennial)
Contact point‘In accordance’ option
Policy and current practice with external assurance●
●
●
●●
●Inside front cover
Inside front cover
Inside front cover
p.142
Inside front cover
Inside front cover√√
√
√√
√Organizational Profile
Governance
G4-34
G4-35
 
G4-36
 
G4-37
 
G4-38
G4-39
G4-40  
G4-41  
G4-42  
 G4-43
 
G4-44  Governance Structure of organization including the highest 
governance body and its committee
Process for delegating authority for economic, 
environmental, and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees
Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level 
position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics
Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the 
highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics
Composition of the highest governance body and its 
committeeWhether the Chair of the highest governance body is also 
an executive officer
Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees
Processes for the highest governance body to ensure 
conflicts of interest are avoided and managedHighest governance body’s and senior executives’ 
roles in the development, approval, and updating the 
organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies and goals to economic, environmental 
and social impacts
Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, 
environmental and social topics
Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, 
environmental and social topics●
● 
●
 
●
 
●●
●
 
● 
● 
 
●
 
●
 pp.54-57
pp.56-59  
pp.56-59  
p.61 
p.57-59
p.56  
pp.56-57  
pp.56  
pp.57, 61 
 
pp.61  
pp.57  √ 
√ 
 
√ 
 
√ 
 
√ 
√ 
√ 
√ 
√ 
 
 
 
√ 
 
√ 
 G4-3G4-4
G4-5
G4-6G4-7
G4-8
G4-9
G4-10
G4-11  
 
 
G4-12
G4-13
G4-14  
G4-15
 
G4-16Name of the organization
Primary brands, products, and services
Location of the headquarters
Number and name of countries the organization operatesNature of ownership and legal form
Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, 
and types of customer and beneficiaries)Scale of the organization
Total number of employees
Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements  
 
Organization’s supply chain
Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply 
chain
Whether and how the precautionary approach is addressed 
Externally developed economic, environmental and social 
charters, principles or other initiatives to which the 
organization subscribes Memberships of associations●●
●
●●
●
●
●
●
 
 
 
●●
●
 
●
●SK Telecom Co., Ltd. 
pp.24-25
SK-T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 
pp.24-25, 143p.144, Corporation 
pp.24-25
pp24-33, 92
p.92
p.95, As stated in Article 35 in the Labor Union & Labor Relations Act, 
100% of the target for the collective 
bargaining agreement is covered with 50% of labor union membership)
p.121
pp.26-33
 
pp.20-23, SKT supports precautionary principles, and responds to large risks 
through UNGC LEAD activities, although 
climate change is unpredictable
p.63
 
Inside front cover√√
√
√√
√
√
√
√
  
√√
√
√
√
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17
G4-18
G4-19
G4-20
G4-21G4-22
G4-23  Entities included in the organization’s consolidated 
financial statements, and whether any entity is not 
covered by the report
Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and the application of reporting principles on 
the process
List of all material aspects identified in the process Aspect Boundary within the organization limitation related 
to the Aspect Boundary within the organization 
Aspect Boundary outside the organization limitation related to the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 
Any restatements of information provided in previous 
reports, and the reasonsSignificant changes from previous reporting periods in the 
Scope and Aspect Boundaries●
●
●
●
●●
● 
 pp.31-33, The entities list is included 
on p.6 of the 2015 Business Report 
pp.34-37  
pp.34-37
pp.34-37
pp.34-37  
Specific attention indicated as notes 
if necessary  
Specific attention indicated as notes 
if necessary  √
√
√
√
√√
√GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures
Indicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
Assurance● Reported /  ○ Not Reported
Indicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
Assurance● Reported /  ○ Not ReportedSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
GRI  (Global Reporting Initiative) IndexAPPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTSAPPENDIX
128GRI INDEX SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
129APPENDIX GRI INDEX
Ethics and IntegrityG4-45  
 
G4-46  
G4-47  
 G4-48  
G4-49  
G4-50  
 G4-51  
 
 
 
G4-52  
 
 
G4-53  
 G4-54  
 
 
G4-55  
 
 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social 
impacts, risks, and opportunities 
Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management process
Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of 
economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities
Highest committee or position that formally reviews and 
approves the sustainability reportProcess for communicating critical concerns to the highest 
governance body
Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body, and policy 
to resolve the concerns
Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and remuneration policy 
performance criteria and highest governance body and 
senior executives’ relevance to economic, environmental and social goals
The process for determining remuneration (Participation 
of remuneration advisory committee, independent management performance, relationship of remuneration 
advisory committee with organization)
How stakeholder’s view and sought and taken into account regarding remuneration (Includes vote result and 
suggestion for remuneration policy)
Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median 
annual total compensation for all employees (excludes the 
highest- paid individual)Ratio of the percentage in annual total compensation for 
the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median 
percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excludes the highest- paid individual)● 
 
● 
● 
 
● 
● 
● 
 
● 
 
 
 
● 
 
 
● 
 
● 
  
● 
  p.57  
 
pp.57, 61  pp.57, 61 
 
p.61 
pp.58-59, 61 pp.58-59  
 pp.57, 60 
 
 
 
pp.57, 60 
  
pp.57, 60 
 
p.60  
 
 
p.60  
 
 √ 
 
√ 
√ 
 
√ 
√ 
√ 
 
√ 
 
 
 
√ 
 
 
√ 
 
√ 
  
√ 
  
G4-56
G4-57
G4-58Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such 
as codes of conduct
Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on 
ethical and lawful behaviorInternal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns 
about unethical or unlawful behavior (System report, 
whistle blow system, hotline etc.)● 
● 
● 
 p.68  
p.70  
p.70  
 √ 
√ 
√ 
 Indicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
Assurance● Reported /  ○ Not Reported GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures
 Economic
 EnvironmentalEconomic Performance
G4-DMAG4-EC1
G4-EC2  
G4-EC3  
 
G4-EC4Disclosures on Management Approach
Direct economic value generated and distributed
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
due to climate changeCoverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan 
obligations  
Financial assistance received from government●
●
● 
● 
 
●p.36
p.63
pp.37, 49-51, 66-67  
Applied to all full-time employees 
as Defined Constructions or Defined 
Benefits
p.63√√
√
 
√ 
 
√
Indirect Economic Impacts
G4-DMA
G4-EC7  
G4-EC8Disclosures on Management ApproachDevelopment and impact of infrastructure investments and 
services supported
Significant indirect economic impacts●●
 
●pp.37, 46-48pp.46-48  
pp.39, 46-48√√
 
√Market Presence 
G4-EC5  
 
 
  
 
G4-EC6  Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared 
to local minimum wage 
 
  
 
Proportion of senior management hired from the local 
community● 
  
  
 
● SK Telecom provides entry level 
wages higher than the local minimum 
wage in all regions and operations, 
and there is no discrimination due to employee’s gender. However, details 
were not disclosed due to internal 
information policies. √ 
 
 
  
 
√ 
Energy
G4-DMA
G4-EN3
G4-EN4
G4-EN5G4-EN6
G4-EN7Disclosures on Management Approach
Energy consumption within the organization 
Energy consumption outside of the organization 
Energy intensity
Reduction of energy consumption
Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ●
●
●
●●
●pp.37, 49-51
p.103
pp.50-51
p.103p.103
pp.50-51, 66-67√
√
√
√√
√
Water
G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● p.103 √* SK Telecom GRI G4 material aspects : economic performance, indirect economic impacts, energy, emissions, supplier 
environmental assessment, employment, training and education, supplier assessment for labor practices, supplier human 
rights assessment, supplier assessment for impacts on society, product and service labeling, marketing communications, 
and customer privacy
Indicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
Assurance● Reported /  ○ Not ReportedSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS130 131APPENDIX APPENDIX GRI INDEX GRI INDEX SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Emissions
G4-DMA
G4-EN15
G4-EN16
G4-EN17  
 
G4-EN18
G4-EN19
G4-EN20
G4-EN21Disclosures on Management ApproachDirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)
Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)
Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)  
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity
Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
Emissions of ozone  depleting substances (ODS)
NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions●
●
●
● 
 
●●
○
○pp.37, 49-51p.102
p.102
pp.50-51,104. SKT reduces social GHG with ICT technology (T map, 
EMS and Smart City) 
p.102p.102
Not applicable
Not applicable
Supplier Environmental Assessment
G4-DMAG4-EN32  
G4-EN33  Disclosures on Management ApproachPercentage of new suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria
Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken●●
 
● pp.121-125pp.122-124  
pp.122-124  √√
 
√ √√
√
√
 
 
√√
√
√
Effluents and Waste
G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● pp.103-104 √
Products and Services
G4-EN27  Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services● pp.51, 66-67 √ 
Compliance
G4-EN29  
 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non  monetary sanctions for non  compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations● 
 0 cases, no fine or penalty paid 
 √ 
 
Overall  
G4-EN31  Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type● p.105  √ 
Environmental Grievance Mechanisms
G4-EN34  
 Number of grievances about environmental impacts led, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 
mechanisms● 
 p.62  
 √ 
 
Employment
G4-DMA
G4-LA1  
G4-LA2  
G4-LA3  Disclosures on Management ApproachTotal number and rates of new employee hires and 
employee turnover by age group, gender, and region
Benefits provided to full  -time employees that are not  
provided to temporary or part-  time employees
Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, 
by gender●●
 
● 
● pp.92-93p.93  
p.93  
p.93  √√
 
√ 
√   Social - Labor Practices and Decent WorkOccupational Health and Safety
G4-LA6  
 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work  
related fatalities, by region and by gender● 
 p.95  
 
Training and Education
G4-DMAG4-LA9  
G4-LA10  
 
G4-LA11  
 Disclosures on Management Approach
Average hours of training per year per employee by 
gender, and by employee category
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and 
assist them in managing career endings
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by 
employee category●
● 
● 
 
● 
 pp.94-95pp.94  
p.94  
 
p.95  
 √
√ 
√ 
 
√ 
 
Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices
G4-DMAG4-LA14  
G4-LA15 Disclosures on Management ApproachPercentage of new suppliers that were screened using 
labor practices criteria
Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken●●
 
● pp.121-125pp.122-124  
pp.122-124  √√
 
√ Diversity and Equal Opportunity
G4-LA12  
 
 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 
employees per employee category according to gender, 
age group, minority group membership, and other 
indicators of diversity● 
 
 pp.54-55, 92 
 
 √ 
  √ 
 
Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms
G4-LA16  
 Number of grievances about labor practices led, 
addressed, and resolved through formal grievance  
mechanisms● 
 p.62  
 √ 
 
Child Labor
Forced or Compulsory LaborG4-H R5 
 
G4-HR6  
  Operations and suppliers identified as having significant 
risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 
contribute to the effective abolition of child labor
Operations and suppliers identified as having significant 
risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 
measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of 
forced or compulsory labor● 
 
● 
 
 pp.116-120  
 
pp.116-120  
  √ 
 
√ 
    Social - Human Rights● Reported /  ○ Not Reported ● Reported /  ○ Not Reported
Indicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
AssuranceIndicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
AssuranceSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS133APPENDIX APPENDIX
132GRI INDEX GRI INDEX SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Supplier Human Rights AssessmentSupplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Assessment 
G4-DMA
G4-HR10  
G4-HR11  G4-DMAG4-SO9  
G4-SO10  G4-HR9  
Disclosures on Management ApproachPercentage of new suppliers that were screened using 
human rights criteria
Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Disclosures on Management ApproachPercentage of new suppliers that were screened using 
criteria for impacts on society
Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions takenTotal number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments
●●
 
● ●●
 
● ● 
pp.121-125pp.122-124  
pp.122-124  pp.121-125pp.122-124  
pp.122-124  pp.118-120  
√√
 
√ √√
 
√ √ 
Labor Practices Grievance MechanismsGrievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society 
G4-HR16  
 G4-SO11  
 
Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 
mechanismsNumber of grievances about impacts on society filed, 
addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 
mechanisms
● 
 ● 
 
p.62  
 p.62  
 
√ 
 √ 
 
Product and Service Labeling 
G4-DMA
G4-PR3  
 
G4-PR4  
 G4-PR5Disclosures on Management Approach
Type of product and service information required by 
the organization’s procedures for product and service 
information labelingTotal number of incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and 
service information labelingResults of surveys measuring customer satisfaction●●
 
 
● 
 
●pp.36, 45pp.98-99  
 
p.106  
 p.45√
√ 
 
√ 
 
√
Marketing Communications
G4-DMAG4-PR6  
G4-PR7  
 Disclosures on Management ApproachSale of banned or disputed products 
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 
communications●
● 
● 
 pp.36, 450 cases. SK Telecom does not sell 
any banned or disputed product
p.106
 
 √√
 
√ 
 
Customer Privacy
G4-DMAG4-PR8  Disclosures on Management ApproachTotal number of substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data●
● p.36, 45p.98
 √√
 
Compliance  
G4-PR9  
 Monetary value of significant fines for non  compliance with 
laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 
products and services ● 
 p.106  
 √ 
  Social - Product Responsibility
Local Communities
G4-SO1  
  
G4-SO2  Percentage of operations with implemented local 
community engagement, impact assessment, and 
development programs  
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities● 
  
● Community engagement was focused on 
Korea, where over 95% of the revenues 
are generated, and SKT did impact 
assessments and development programs No significant potential/actual/negative 
impacts on local communities found √ 
  
√ 
Anti-corruption
G4-SO3  
  
G4-SO4  
G4-SO5Total number and percentage of operations assessed 
for risks related to corruption and the significant risks 
identified   
Communication and training on anti  corruption policies and 
procedures 
Conformed incidents of corruption and actions taken● 
  
● 
●p.68, There is a companywide ethical 
management diagnosis process; 
the corresponding number and 
percentage is not applicable p.69  √ 
 
 
√ 
√
Public Policy
G4-SO6  Total value of political contributions by country and 
recipient/ beneficiary● p.70,  No donations to political parties or politicians √ 
G4-SO7  Anti-competitive Behavior
Total number of legal actions for anti  competitive behavior, 
anti trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ● p.106  √ 
Compliance  
G4-SO8  
 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 
non monetary sanctions for non  compliance with laws and 
regulations  ● 
 p.106  
 √ 
  Social - SocietyIndicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
Assurance● Reported /  ○ Not Reported
Indicator Reported DescriptionCross Reference/
Direct Answer/Omission3rd Party 
Assurance● Reported /  ○ Not ReportedSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS135APPENDIX APPENDIX UNGC INDEX
134 UNGC Index
UNGC Headquarters
UNGC Korea
UNGC LEADMay 2007
Sept. 2007
Jan. 2011Involvement in the global CSR initiative activities helped advance the 
internal CSR system and gain a better reputation in CSR at home and abroad  UNGC Activities
Associations / Initiatives  Joining date Purpose / RemarksAs the first among Korea’s top four companies to join the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007, SK Telecom 
participated as a founding member and Steering Committee member of UNGC Korea, a local association of UNGC, undertaking a variety of activities in an effort to solve domestic and international social issues and to spread global CSR trends. 
SK Telecom is adhering to the 10 principles in 4 sectors including human rights, environment, labor and 
anti-corruption, and advocating for a wide range of the UN’s development plans including the Sustainable Development Goals, and it became the first Korean company to be designated as a UNGC LEAD in January 2011. As Korea’s first company to participate in LEAD, SK Telecom has offered the Board Program (a CSR education program for board members) to the Corporate Citizenship Committee and took the initiative to apply the global CSR best practices to Korea. In 2014, SK Telecom actively participated in major events hosted by the UNGC Korea such as the Y-CSR Conference and Korea-China-Japan Round Table Talks. By undertaking such diverse activities, SK Telecom is gaining recognition as a leading company in CSR.
In particular, SK Telecom declared its support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the human 
rights principles in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie Framework, and SK Telecom’s CEO affirmed that the company would fulfill its responsibility related to respect for human rights. 
Criterion 1 
Criterion 2pp.20-23, 63 pp.63, 116-117, 121Commitment to integrate the UNGC 10 principles into business function and 
units
Practicing the UNGC 10 principles across the value chain UN Global Compact Advanced Criteria Index 
Cross Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Advanced Criteria
Fulfillment of the UNGC 10 Principles in Strategy and Operation
Criterion 3
Criterion 4      
Criterion 5 pp.116-117
pp.118-120  
pp.118-1120  Human rights commitment, strategy, and policyEffective management system to incorporate the human rights principles into 
business and management procedures
Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the human right principles in the business and management procedures Definite Human Rights Policy and ProcedureSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015SASB INDEX 
Wireless Subscribers 
Wireline Subscribers
Broadband Subscribers
Network traffic, percentage on cellular network, and percentage on fixed networkNetwork bandwidth capacity, percentage leased 
 
 
Total energy consumed, percentage grid electricity, percentage renewable energy; amount of energy 
consumed by (a) cellular and (b) fixed networks
Discussion of policies and practices relating to collection, usage, and retention of customer information and 
personally identifiable information
Percentage of users whose customer information is collected for secondary purpose, percentage who have 
opted-in
Amount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated with customer privacy
Number of government or law enforcement requests for 
customer information, percentage resulting in disclosureNumber of data security breaches and percentage 
involving customers’ personally identifiable information
Discussion of management approach to  identifying and addressing data security risks
Materials recovered through take back programs, 
percentage of recovered materials that are (a) reused, (b) recycled, and (c) landfilled
Average interruption frequency and average interruption 
durationDescription of systems to provide unimpeded service 
during service interruptions
Amount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated with anti-competitive practicesEnvironmental Foot -
print of Operations 
Data Privacy 
 
 
  
 
 
Data Security 
  
 
 
Product End-of-Life 
Management  
Managing Systemic Risks from Technol -
ogy Disruptions 
Fair Competition TC0301-A
TC0301-B
TC0301-C
TC0301-D
TC0301-E  
 
  
TC0301-01  
 
TC0301-02  
 
TC0301-03  
 
TC0301-04  
TC0301-05  
TC0301-06  
TC0301-07  
TC0301-08  
 
TC0301-09  
TC0301-10  
TC0301-11  p.30p.33
p.33
p.97pp. 47-48, SK Telecom directly owns 
the networks in the domestic mobile 
telecom business; it rents lines to MVNO businesses as required by the 
Telecommunications Business Act
pp.102-103  
 
pp.98-99  
 - 
 
No data privacy fines No data privacy fines 
No information security violations 
p.98  
pp.103-104  
 p.39  
p.65  
p.106  Activity Metric
Disclosure MetricAccounting Metric
Accounting Metric TopicCode
CodePage
PageSASB  (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) 
Index - Telecommunication StandardsAPPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS137APPENDIX APPENDIX SASB INDEX NON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
136 Non-Consolidated Financial StatementsSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
32nd
 
2,713,529
431,666
121,500
92,262
1,528,751
47,741
264,741
7,505
80,926
92,220
45,991
226
0
20,433,411
10,062
726,505
8,810,548
7,442,280
1,306,236
1,766,069
35,080
29,802
166,656
139,923
250
23,146,94031st
2,689,913
248,311
143,000
197,161
1,559,281
67,989
305,990
6,354
51,619
86,070
23,694
444
0
20,022,549
69
608,797
8,181,769
7,705,906
1,306,236
1,928,169
38,457
28,551
156,807
67,728
60
22,712,46230th
2,817,782
448,459
166,000
102,042
1,513,138
72,198
388,475
5,682
9,112
82,837
24,596
1,576
3,667
20,009,637
7,569
729,703
8,010,121
7,459,986
1,306,236
2,239,167
39,925
23,007
152,057
41,712
154
22,827,419Assets
 Current Assets 
  Cash and cash equivalents
  Short-term financial instruments
  Short-term investment securities
  Accounts receivable - trade, net
  Short-term loans, net
  Accounts receivable—other, net
  Accrued revenue
  Advance payment
  Prepaid expenses
  Inventories, net
  Advanced payments and other
  Assets classified as held for sale
 Non-current Assets
  Long-term financial instruments
  Long-term investment securities
  Investments in associates and joint ventures
  Property and equipment, net
  Goodwill
  Intangible assets, net
  Long-term loans, net
  Long-term prepaid expenses
  Guarantee deposits
  Long-term derivative financial assets
   Other non-current assets
 Total AssetsNon-Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd  As of 2015.12.31
The 31st  As of 2014.12.31
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Cross Reference / Direct Answer UNGC Advanced Criteria
Criterion 9
Criterion 10 
 
Criterion 11 pp.20-23, 49-51
pp.49-51, 102-105  
 
pp.49-51, 102-105  Environment commitment, strategy, and policy
Effective management system to incorporate the environmental principles 
Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the 
environmental principles in the business and management procedures Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the 
environmental principles in the business and management proceduresDefinite Environmental Policy and ProcedureCriterion 6
Criterion 7 
 
 
Criterion 8 
 p.95p.95, Through the trade union and collective 
bargaining, the labor principles are integrated 
and the Labor Management Council holds regular meetings
pp.62, 95, The Labor-Management Council 
holds regular meetings and operates the grievance channel for employees Labor commitment, strategy, and policyEffective management system to incorporate the labor principles into 
business and management procedures 
 
Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the labor 
principles in the business and management procedures Definite Labor Policy and Procedure
Criterion 12Criterion 13 
Criterion 14 pp.68-70
pp.68-70  
pp.68-70  Ethics commitment, strategy, and policyEffective management system to incorporate the ethical principles into 
business and management procedures
Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the ethical principles in the business and management proceduresDefinite Ethics and Compliance Policy and Procedure
Criterion 15 
Criterion 16 
Criterion 17 
Criterion 18 pp.46-51  
pp.46-51, 101 
pp.46-51, 63 
p.63  Contribution through key businesses to help achieve the UN objectives and 
goals
Strategic community investment and charity work to help achieve the UN 
objectives and goalsPublic engagement and communication to help achieve the UN objectives 
and goals
Partnerships and outside initiatives to help achieve the UN objectives and goals Activities to Support the More Broad and Comprehensive UN Objectives and Goals
Criterion 19Criterion 20 
Criterion 21pp.20-23
pp.58-59, 63 
pp.61-62CEO’s sustainability commitment and leadership
The Board of Directors’ selection and oversight of sustainability agenda 
items
Stakeholder engagementGovernance and Leadership for SustainabilityAPPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS139APPENDIX APPENDIX NON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTSNON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
138SK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015
32nd
3,491,306
927,170
50,100
607,690
540,770
375,189
10,014
0
37,551
230,000
592,637
120,185
5,876,174
5,033,495
72,554
550,964
2,768
4,006
89,296
20,055
56,274
46,762
9,367,480
44,639
369,446
13,418,603
(53,228)
13,779,460
23,146,94031st
 3,378,046
1,086,485
39,148
801,119
615,488
91,315
92,783
0
50,456
200,000
211,863
189,389
5,792,195
4,655,137
80,147
657,001
19,544
15,555
130,889
27,676
144,876
61,370
9,170,241
44,639
433,894
12,996,790
66,898
13,542,221
22,712,46230th
 
4,288,073
1,556,201
43,599
574,166
653,742
104,564
178,569
21,170
66,559
260,000
622,703
206,800
5,223,938
4,014,777
85,125
828,721
50,894
22,886
100,210
19,537
44,601
57,187
9,512,011
44,639
433,894
12,665,699
171,176
13,315,408
22,827,419Liabilities and Equity
 Current Liabilities
  Accrued payables—other
  Unearned revenue
  W i t h h o l d i n g s  Accrued expenses
  Income tax payable
  Prepaid income
  Unearned income
  Derivative financial liabilities 
  Current liabilities
  Short-term borrowings
  Current long-term borrowings
 Non-current liabilities
  Debentures 
  Long-term borrowings
  Long-term payables-other
  Long-term unearned revenue
  Defined benefit obligations
  Derivative financial liabilities
  Other non-current liabilities
  Deferred tax liabilities
  Other non-current liabilities
 Total Liabilities
Equity Share capital
 Other paid up capital
 Retained earnings
 Reserves
 Total Equity
Total Liabilities and EquityNon-Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd  As of 2015.12.31
The 31st  As of 2014.12.31
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 32nd
12,556,97912,556,979
10,898,203
694,666
5,102,723
2,155,531
720,879
358,031
175,776
403,317
462,256
825,024
1,658,776
246,394
314,191
15,277
132,993
3,819  
1,469,444
362,683
1,106,761
 
15,23315,23331st
13,012,64413,012,644
11,275,484
588,635
5,591,245
2,095,702
771,786
370,549
213,605
377,112
457,049
809,801
1,737,160
82,276
293,338
37,422
184,177
57,593  
1,321,750
293,209
1,028,541
14,26214,26230th
12,860,37912,860,379
10,890,695
598,885
5,333,869
2,006,896
770,125
412,217
237,291
362,659
399,810
768,943
1,969,684
81,196
422,764
47,618
417,252
37,685  
1,220,797
310,640
910,157
12,83712,837Operating revenue Revenue
Operating expense Labor cost
 Commissions paid
 Depreciation and amortization
 Network interconnection
 Leased line
 Advertising
 Rent
 Cost of products that have been resold
 Other operating expense
Operating incomeFinance incomeFinance costOther non-operating incomeOther non-operating expenseGain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, net 57,593 37,685Profit before income taxCorporate taxNet profit for the termEarnings per shareBasic earnings per share (in won)Diluted earnings per share (in won)Non-Consolidated Income Statement (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd 2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31
32nd
1,106,761
(119,740)
386 
386
(120,126)
(121,528)
1,402
987,02131st
1,028,541
(118,086)
(13,808)  
(13,808)
(104,278)
(66,103)
(38,175)
910,45530th
910,157
22,515
5,927  
5,927
16,588
4,795
11,793
932,672Net profit for the termOther inclusive gains and losses  Items not reclassified as a profit or loss during the follow-up period
  Remeasurement factors of defined benefit systems
  Items reclassified as a profit or loss during the follow-up period
  Gain or loss from appreciation of tradable financial assets
  Gain or loss from appreciation of derivative products
Total inclusive gains and losses for the termNon-Consolidated Statements of Income (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd 2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS2013.01.01 (Basic Capital)
Payment of dividendsChanges in other capitalIssuance of hybrid bondInterest on hybrid bondAcquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockTotal income
2013.12.31 (End of term capital)
2014.01.01 (Basic Capital)Payment of dividendsChanges in other capitalIssuance of hybrid bondInterest on hybrid bondAcquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockTotal income
2014.12.31 (End of term capital)
2015.01.01 (Basic Capital)Payment of dividendsChanges in other capitalIssuance of hybrid bondInterest on hybrid bondAcquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockTotal income
2015.12.31 (End of term capital)44,639
0
000000 
0 
44,639
44,639
0000000 
0 
44,639
44,639
0000000 
0 
44,639The 32nd 2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st 2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31
Share 
CapitalRetained 
EarningsReserves Total Equity
Capital 
Excess of 
Par ValueTotal Other 
Paid Up 
CapitalLoss on 
Disposal of 
Treasury 
StockTreasury 
StockHybrid 
BondOtherEquity
 Other Paid up Capital
(18,855)
0
0000
768
0 
0 
(18,087)
(18,087)
0000000 
0 
(18,087)
(18,087)
00000
18,087
0 
0 02,915,887
0
000000 
0 
2,915,887
2,915,887
0000000 
0 
2,915,887
2,915,887
0000000 
0 
2,915,8870
00
398,518
0000 
0 
398,518
398,518
0000000 
0 
398,518
398,518
0000000 
0 
398,51812,413,981
(655,946)
0
0
(8,420)
00
910,157  
5,927  
12,665,69912,665,699
(666,802)
00
(16,840)
00
1,028,541  
(13,808)  
12,996,79012,996,790
(668,494)
00
(16,840)
00
1,106,761  
386 
13,418,603(2,410,451)
00000
270,768
0 
0 
(2,139,683)
(2,139,683)
0000000 
0 
(2,139,683)
(2,139,683)
0000
(490,192)
369,249
0 
0 
(2,260,626)(722,741)
0
000000 
0 
(722,741)
(722,741)
0000000 
0 
(722,741)
(722,741)
00000
38,408
0 
0 
(684,333)154,588
0
000000 
16,588  
171,176171,176
0000000 
(104,278)  
66,89866,898
0000000 
(120,126)  
(53,228)(236,160)
00
398,518
00
271,536
0 
0 
433,894
433,894
0000000 
0 
433,894
433,894
0000
(490,192)
425,744
0 
0 
369,44612,377,048
(655,946)
0
398,518
(8,420)
0
271,536
910,157  
22,515  
13,315,408
13,315,408
(666,802)
00
(16,840)
00
1,028,541  
(118,086)  
13,542,22113,542,221
(668,494)
00
(16,840)
(490,192)
425,744
1,106,761  
(119,740)  
13,779,460Statements of Changes in Equity141APPENDIX APPENDIX
140SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Net of income continued 
operationsOther continued comprehensive income
Net of income continued operationsOther continued comprehensive income
Net of income continued operationsOther continued comprehensive income32nd
2,947,129
3,219,373
1,106,761
2,811,718
(699,106)
18,786
59,462
(221,309)
(129,183)
(2,062,182)
745,965
105,158
21,500
387,922
7
22,106
185,557  
23,372
343
000
(2,808,147)
0
364,687
10,000
296,254
306,382
1,752,804
77,830
190
031st
3,221,433
3,580,032
1,028,541
2,886,389
(334,898)
20,954
13,048
(224,119)
(168,482)
(2,622,617)
319,389
0
30,500
197,925
2,522
54,218
0 
25,677
1,127
3,667
3,660
93
(2,942,006)
94,802
195,700
2,522
28,801
210,060
2,319,016
91,060
0
4530th
3,022,473
3,315,722
910,157
3,120,427
(714,862)
29,695
20,641
(246,632)
(96,953)
(2,393,763)
531,208
0
13,300
279,815
0
29,762
1,808  
3,148
965
190,393
11,727
290
(2,924,971)
45,031
275,913
7,500
9,313
206,791
2,201,354
179,069
00Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operating activities
  Net profit for the term
  Adjustment for income and expenses
   Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating activities
 Interest received
 Dividends received
 Interest paid
 Income tax paid
Cash flows from investing activities Cash inflows from investing activities
  Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net
  Decrease in short-term investment securities, net
  Collection of short-term loans
  Decrease in long-term financial instruments
  Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities
   Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures
  Disposition of tangible assets
  Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets
   Disposition of non-current assets scheduled to be disposed of
  Collection of long-term loans
  Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets
  Cash outflows for investing activities
  Increase in short-term investment securities, net
  Increase in long-term financial instruments
  Acquisition of long-term investment securities
  Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures
  Acquisition of property and equipment
  Acquisition of tangible assets
  Acquisition of intangible assets
  Increase in other non-current assets
  Increase in long-term loansNon-Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd 2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31NON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTSNON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK TELECOMANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX BUSINESS CASES OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL & NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTSAPPENDIX
142SK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
32nd
(701,420)
927,204
30,000
0
0
897,029
175
(1,628,624)
0
12,814
190,134
250,000
668,494
490,192
16,840
150
183,527
248,311
(172)
431,66631st
(798,911)
801,035
0
3,552
0
797,364
119
(1,599,946)
60,000
12,814
207,668
629,940
666,802
0
16,840
5,882
(200,095)
448,459
(53)
248,31130th
(436,749)
1,529,858
0
96,455
398,518
1,014,859
20,026
(1,966,607)
70,000
457,110
161,575
621,976
655,946
000
191,961
256,577
(79)
448,459Cash flows from financing activities Cash inflows from financing activities
  Proceeds from short-term borrowings
  Proceeds from long-term borrowings
  Issuance of hybrid bond
  Issuance of debentures
  Cash inflows from derivative transactions
 Cash outflows for financing activities
  Repayment in short-term borrowings, net
  Repayment of long-term borrowings
  Repayment of long-term non-trade payables
  Repayment of debentures
  Payment of dividends
  Acquisition of treasury stock
  Interest on hybrid bond
   Outflow of cash due to transaction of derivative products
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalentsCash and cash equivalent at beginning of the yearEffects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalentsCash and cash equivalents at end of the year Non-Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unit: KRW million)The 32nd 2015.01.01 to 2015.12.31
The 31st  2014.01.01 to 2014.12.31
The 30th  2013.01.01 to 2013.12.31NON-CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
143APPENDIX SK TELECOM GLOBAL NETWORK
SK Telecom Global Network
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office
8F, NBF Hibiya Bldg., 1-1-7, Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, JapanTEL : 81-3-3591-3800 JAPANSK Telecom Americas310 De Guigne Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085TEL : 1-408-328-2900FAX : 1-408-328-2931U.S.
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. New York Office10F, 55 East 59th Street, New York, NY 10022, USATEL : 1-646-737-3462U.S.
The Representative Office of SK Telecom Co.,Ltd. in Ho Chi Minh City, VietnamUnit 1212A, 12F, Diamond Plaza, 34 Le Duan Street, Ben Ngha Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, VietnamTEL : 84-8-3822-9145SK Telecom (China) Holding Co., Ltd.25F, SK Tower, No. 6 Jia, Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, China TEL : 86-10-5920-7777FAX : 86-10-5920-7724CHINA
VIETNAM
SK Malaysia Representative OfficeSuite 53A, Level 53, Vista Tower, The Intermark, 348 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, MalaysiaTEL : 603-2166-9011 MALAYSIASK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015APPENDIX INVESTOR INFORMATION
144 Investor Information
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea82-2-6100-2114http://www.sktelecom.comCORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
March 29, 1984DATE OF ESTABLISHMENT
KRW 44,639 million As of December 31, 2015PAID IN CAPITAL
80,745,711 Shares As of December 31, 2015NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES
Korea Stock Exchange: 017670.KS (Common Stock)New York Stock Exchange: SKM (ADS)SECURITIES LISTINGS
Kookmin BankSecurities Agency Business Department,36-3, Yeoido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, KoreaTel: 82-2-2073-8110Fax: 82-2-2073-8111TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
Form 20-FForm 6-K: Quarterly Reports, Proxy Statements, and other material announcementsAVAILABLE FILINGS
www.sktelecom.com/en/COMPANY WEBSITETuesday, March 22, 2016, at 10 AMSK Telecom Boramae Building, 1, Boramaero-5gil, Gwanak-gu, Seoul, KoreaANNUAL GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING
Email: SKT.IR@sktelecom.com 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, KoreaINVESTOR RELATIONSSK TELECOM
ANNUAL REPORT 2015Participants of SK Telecom
Ethics Management TeamManagement Support Team
CEM Team
Information Security Planning TeamCustomer Billing TeamPricing TeamPayment Business TeamInfra Strategy TeamCorporate Development Strategy TeamCorporate Strategy TeamGrowth Strategy TeamAccounting TeamTax TeamIR Office
Corporate Partnership Planning Team
Compliance Team
EMD TeamLabor Relations TeamHR Team
Values Development Team
Business Cooperation Team
Technology Cooperation Team
Competition Policy TeamCreating Shared Value Team
Seoul CEI Team
Office of the Board of DirectorsJung-Ah Kwak
Young-Jin Kim
Tae-Hoon Kim
Hye-Sung Kim
Dong-Hwi Lee
Jin-Ha Lee
Hye-Seong Kim
Young-Youp Lee
Seung-Hoon Lee
Joon-Yub Lee
Jong-Ho Kim
Hwan-Seok Jeong
Seung-Hyun Lee
Tae-Seuk Kim
Un-Jong Lee
Sun-Hyun Kim
Hyunny Lee
Dae-Yong Woo
Woon-Seo Hwang
Kyeong-Hyeon Song
Ji-Hwan Park
Mi-Jung Song
Tae-Hyun Kim
Min-Ji Cho
So-Cheon Yoon
Ji-Hye Park
Myung-Ju Kim
Seong-Yeon Ryu
Won-Suk Lee
Sang-Yup Lee
Kwang-Hwa Jung
Hyung-Eal Jang
Sung-Nam Shin
Seung-Hee Lee
Jin-Sok LeeYou can download this Report as a PDF file fromthe official website of SK Telecom (www.sktelecom.com/en/)To contribute to resource recycling and environmental protection,SK Telecom used Forest Stewardship Council’s FSC
TM-certified
paper to publish the Annual Report 2015 and print it using soy-based ink certified with the FSC
TM Chain of Custody (Certificate 
No.: C110010). The company also participates in the Carbon Neu-tral Program run by the Korea Energy Management Corporation to offset greenhouse gas emissions generated from the pulp and energy used to print reports.Despite the company’s varying efforts to reduce environmentalimpacts, since the process of making and printing in paper gener -
ates pollutants, this Report is published both in print and as  an PDF file. SK Telecom plans on reducing resource and energy use through using more PDF files and the official website of  SK Telecom that contain a lot more information than in the print version due to lack of space. We encourage our readers to access this Report as a PDF file instead of the print edition and visit the official website to save resources and protect the environment, while accessing a lot more information more conveniently.SK Telecom 
Annual Report 2015
Partner for 
New Possibilities
Publication Date
July 2016
Publishing
SK Telecom
Publisher
Dong-Hyun Jang
Production Responsibility
Sung-Hyung LeeJeong-Hwan ChoiHee-Jun ChungHye-Seung HanJung-Hyun Kim
Contact
hyeseung.han@sk.com
Planning & AdvisoryKorea Productivity Center
Editing & Design
IM creative
Printing
Iljin PrintingYou can download this Report as a PDF file from
the official website of SK Telecom (www.sktelecom.com/en/)To contribute to resource recycling and environmental protection,SK Telecom used FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council
Ⓡ)-certified 
paper, bearing the logo carried only by products made using timber from environmentally developed and managed forests.  The report was printed at a FSC-certified print shop using soy oil ink which drastically reduces the emissions of air pollutants.  The company also participates in the Carbon Neutral Program  run by the Korea Energy Management Corporation to offset  greenhouse gas emissions generated from the pulp and energy used to print reports. 
Despite the company’s varying efforts to reduce environmental 
impacts, since the process of making and printing in paper gener -
ates pollutants, this Report is published both in print and as  an PDF file. SK Telecom plans on reducing resource and energy use through using more PDF files and the official website of  SK Telecom that contain a lot more information than in the print version due to lack of space. We encourage our readers to access this Report as a PDF file instead of the print edition and visit the official website to save resources and protect the environment, while accessing a lot more information more conveniently.
SKT-kr-7.29-cover.indd   3 2016. 7. 29.   오후 3:14