TRANSFORMING 
THE NEW FUTURE
ANNUAL REPORT
2020SK Telecom has been expanding its innovation based 
on ICT technology, while also extending cooperation in 
various fields and taking the lead in creating value through 
ESG (Environmental, S ocial, and G overnance). Our pace 
of innovation and cooperation was accelerated in 2020 
despite the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, which in turn resulted 
in achieving robust growth amid the difficult business 
environment. We also helped our communities fight 
against COVID-19 by leveraging our ICT capabilities.
In the “new normal” era, where change has become a  
part of everyday life, we pursue innovation beyond change. 
In the “next normal” era, where we face unprecedented 
changes, we will further speed up our efforts in ESG 
management, and thus grow into a big tech company 
that is globally recognized and respected by all our 
stakeholders.
Our tireless pursuit of innovation will continue through  
the new era.THE NEW NORMALBEYOND
About SK Telecom 029
CEO Message 032
Business Model 040
Sustainability Management  
Directions 042
Subsidiaries 0441. ABOUT COMPANY
Issue Report 055
Creating Economic Value 058
Materiality Assessment 060
Stakeholder Engagement 068
Mid-to Long-term Strategy 071
Strengthening ICT Infrastructure 072
Creating New Value through  
Business Restructuring 076
Pursuing Sustainable Growth through  
Openness and Collaboration 0802. VALUE TO BUSINESS
Corporate Governance 083
Risk Management 102
Ethical Management 112
Compliance 116
Supply Chain Management 121
Cyber Security 129
Customers 1333. VALUE TO GOVERNANCE
Environmental Management 1394. VALUE TO ENVIRONMENT
Employees 149
Human Rights Management 154
Occupational Safety and Health 159
Social Contributions 1645. VALUE TO SOCIETY
Financial Statement 175
Non-financial Statement 210
Index 234
GRI Standards Index / SASB /  
TCFD / UNGC / UN SDGs
About This Report 2626. APPENDIXTRANSFORMING
THE NEW 
FUTUREBUSINESS AREAS
We are creating a new future with advanced technology and  
exceptional innovation in the hyper-digital era marked by hyperconnectivity.
SK Telecom is opening a new chapter of hyper-digital era by commercializing 5G technology 
and shaping a new future where everything is connected through ICT technology. In 2020, a year 
in which we recorded highest revenue ever, we completed the reorganization of our business 
structure to be such five business areas as MNO, media, S&C, commerce, and mobility, and made 
significant progress to becoming a “global new ICT company”. Going forward, we will further 
strengthen our competitiveness in all business areas and expand synergy creation among them, 
with a goal of opening a new era with limitless possibilities through hyper connectivity. 
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 004 005Mobile Network OperatorMNO
Ushering in a hyper-digital era where imagination  
becomes reality through 5G technology
In 2019, SK Telecom succeeded in commercializing 5G for the “first” time  
in the world, which was followed by the “best” performance ever in 2020. 
As of the end of 2020, the number of our 5G subscribers stood at 5.48 million,  
confirming our undisputed No. 1 position in the industry. We also ranked 
first in the 5G quality evaluation by the Ministry of Science and Technology, 
and maintained our first place in Korea’s top 3 customer satisfaction 
surveys1) for the longest period, in what we interpret as milestones in our 
endeavors to lay the groundwork for sustainable growth. In 2021, we will 
accelerate the pace of our evolution into an “AI-based subscription service 
Co.” by adding AI to our differentiated competitiveness in order to provide 
differentiated customer value in offering products and services.
1)  National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI), Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI), and Korean 
Standard-Service Quality Index (KS-SQI)
Commercialization of 5G for the first time in the world
& a leader in the 5G market in Korea
T Factory Virtual Tour
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 006 007No. of 5G subscribers as of the end of 2020 
(46% market share)
Operating profit of KRW 1, 023.1 billion, up 7.5% YoYMedia
Leading change in the media market  
to create a new ecosystem
In the rapidly changing media and content market, SK Telecom precisely 
analyzes the market trends and proactively responds to customer needs.  
In 2020, we successfully completed the merger between SK Broadband and 
t-broad, and achieved record revenue of KRW 3,713.5 billion, on the back 
of growing number of IPTV subscribers, thereby maintaining solid growth 
pace. Going forward, we will build a platform optimized for the market, 
such as “wavve” , an integrated over-the-top (OTT) media service optimized 
for the Korean market, and provide differentiated contents. Focusing on 
the advancement of next-generation media technology, SK Telecom will 
continue leading the way toward a new media and content ecosystem.
Operating profit of KRW 230.9 billion, up 59.2% YoY
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 008 009
Record high performance on the back of 
successful merger between SK Broadband and t-broad
No. of paying TV subscribers as of the end of 2020S&C Safety & Care
Building a safer society with future-oriented 
convergence security in the hyper-connected era
SK infosec, Korea’s No. 1 information security company, and  
ADT Caps, a physical security company with 700,000 subscribers, 
joined forces to become “Korea’s No. 1 convergent security 
company”. The merger of the two entities into a single corporation 
was completed in the first quarter of 2021, which will be followed 
by the introduction of a new concept of convergent security 
service that combines SK infosec’s information security platform 
with ADT Caps’ cutting-edge control system and dispatch 
infrastructure based on SK Telecom’s ICT capabilities. In particular, 
we will break down boundaries between physical security and 
information security to build a safe society which provide the 
value of safety and comfort to our customers simultaneously and 
furthermore lead the future security industry.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 010 0111st place in the crime prevention and security
service sector of the K-CSBI for 7 consecutive years
No. of professionals at ADT Caps
Revenue of KRW 1.3 trillion, up 12.2% YoYCommerce
Evolving into a commerce portal that provides  
fun and excitement beyond shopping
11st, a commerce subsidiary of SK Telecom, provides customized 
solutions optimized for customers in the entire shopping process, 
from product search to purchase, based on ICT technology, and 
is evolving into a commerce portal that offers a differentiated 
customer experience beyond an open market. As a result, in 
2020, its transaction volume increased by more than 10%, with 
revenue growth turning upward. SK stoa maintained its strong 
growth pace by achieving the No. 1 position in the T-commerce 
market in Korea and recording a year-on-year increase of 37.1% 
in revenue. In 2021, 11st plans to join forces with Amazon, 
the world’s largest e-commerce company, to provide the best 
possible customer experience and grow into a global distribution 
hub platform.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 012 0131st place maintained in customer satisfaction surveys 
conducted by KCSI and KS-SQI
No. of 11st members as of the end of 2020
Revenue of KRW 814.3 billion, up 12.1% YoY
(11st + SK stoa)Mobility
Building an entirely new integrated mobility 
platform based on hyper-cooperation
In December 2020, we launched T map Mobility Co. - a mobility 
specialist that provides an all-in-one mobility service  
ranging from navigation to surrogate driving and public 
transportation. The company plans to expand the platform 
business by applying ICT technology to its core assets such as 
T map, Korea’s signature mobility platform, and to expand 
collaboration with various companies including automobile 
manufacturers. It will also focus on launching a variety of 
innovative services aimed at bolstering customer convenience 
and safety. In April 2021, the company formed a partnership 
with Uber to establish UT, a joint venture, and aims to expand 
cooperation. SK Telecom also plans to improve its corporate 
value on the back of technology and data, and take the lead  
in mobility service innovation.
Established integrated mobility platform based on  
T map, the best mobility platform in Korea
Accumulated total number of T map subscribers  
as of the end of 2020
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 014 015TRANSCENDING
ALL
BOUNDARIESHYPER COLLABORATION
We are breaking down all boundaries and limitations through 
innovation and collaboration in the Industry 4.0 era marked by  
hyper-convergence.
SK Telecom is creating a differentiated brand story based on its advanced technology and  
driven by innovations. Furthermore, in our efforts to strengthen digital capabilities in the era 
of digital transformation, where industry boundaries are blurring, we take bold action to 
collaborate with domestic and foreign players in diverse fields such as media, games,  
commerce, and mobility, in addition to MNO, as a widely recognized leader in the field of  
hyper-cooperation. Going forward, we will continue to expand collaboration as a means of 
securing new growth engines while taking the lead in building a new global ICT ecosystem.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 016 017Leading the 5G era by broadening  
the scope of global collaboration
SK Telecom is preparing for innovations that connect today 
and tomorrow through cross-border hyper-collaboration 
in the 5G domain. In 2020, we concluded an agreement to 
launch a 5G technology joint venture (JV) with Deutsche 
Telekom as a bridgehead for the joint effort to create 
new miracles on the Han River and the Rhine for the 
Fourth Industrial Revolution. The advanced technologies 
which the JV is planning to develop include 5G inbuilding 
solutions. In addition, we have developed a new method 
of global cooperation based on contactless solutions 
and remote support systems that can help businesses to 
expand their mutual cooperative relationships amid the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, we will strive to develop 
technologies and services that will deliver new values to 
humankind in the post-COVID era.Hyper 
collaboration on a 
global scale
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 018 019[SK Telecom X the Cultural 
Heritage Administration] 
2021#great peace
5G-based hyper
 collaboration
Creating a 5G-based robust  
hyper-collaboration ecosystem
SK Telecom is providing a new 5G-based customer experience in 
close collaboration with global ICT companies, while securing new 
growth engines for sustainable growth. In December 2020, we joined 
forces with Amazon Web Services (AWS) to commercialize “SKT 5GX 
Edge” , the first 5G edge cloud service in Korea, which applies AWS’s 
Wavelength to the 5G mobile edge computing (MEC) infrastructure to 
create new value by maximizing the advantages of 5G networks which 
enables high-speed and hyper-low latency services. In September 
2020, we partnered with Microsoft to launch “5GX Cloud Game” which 
allows players to enjoy games provided by Microsoft’s ‘Xbox’ on mobile 
devices. We also expanded 5G content business, with Jump Studio 
taking a central role. Equipped with “Microsoft’s 3D volumetric video 
capture” technology, for the first time in Asia, Jump Studio introduced 
such hyper-reality content as “AR Taepyeongmu Dance” , a Korean 
traditional dance prying for peace reinterpreted and developed 
through augmented reality (AR) technology, delivering a message of 
support during the COVID-19 pandemic in our own unique way.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 020 021
TRANSLATING
ESG INTO
SUSTAINABLE VALUEESG VALUE
In an era that requires greater solidarity and cooperation than ever before,  
we are increasing ESG value where we excel through ICT.
SK Telecom pursues management that achieves long-term sustainable growth with society based  
on the principle of the “Double Bottom Line” - with such two pillars of business performance as 
economic value (EV) and social value (SV). In particular, we are developing environmental, social,  
and governance (ESG) values with our cutting-edge ICT technologies and infrastructure, while 
extending collaboration with various players to nurture our ICT impact on building a sustainable 
society. Such efforts have been recognized in ESG evaluations conducted by various domestic and 
foreign institutions, such as Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI), Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index (DJSI), and Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS).•	Winner of GSMA Awards in 3 Categories
 -  “Smart Fleet” , a data analytics platform for intelligent mobility; advanced driver assistance 
systems for hearing impaired taxi drivers; and “Happy Coding School” , a software education 
program for teenagers with disabilities
*  GSMA Global Mobile Awards: Annual presentation of awards by Global Mobile Operators Association in recognition of outstanding 
communication-related technologies and services developed and released around the world over the previous year KEY AWARDS
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 022 023Increasing environmental sustainability through ICT solutions
SK Telecom is evolving into an eco-friendly ICT company by accelerating  
its transition to renewable energy sources while taking the lead in reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions based on ICT capabilities. We have also 
joined hands with citizens to create a sustainable environment by offering 
eco-friendly services that they can use in their daily lives, including  
“Safe Driving with T map” , which adds eco-friendliness to safe driving, and 
“happy habit” designed to reduce the use of disposable plastics.Green ICT 
Green Action
•		Joined the RE100 for the first time in Korea (Dec. 2020)
•		Became the first telecommunication company in Korea to secure carbon credits by reducing 
GHG emissions (Mar. 2021)
•		Signed a “Green Premium” contract for certification of the use of renewable energy (Feb. 2021)
•		Launched “happy habit” , an ICT-based environmental project to reduce the consumption of 
single-use plastics (Nov. 2020)KEY HIGHLIGHTS
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 024 025Changing society for the better with our people-centered ICT technology
Leveraging our ICT technology, SK Telecom has been making continuous efforts to improve 
public access to information, facilities, and services to ensure that no one is left behind, while 
also playing as a social safety net. We introduced the “NUGU Care Call” service, where AI checks 
the status of self-quarantined COVID-19 patients and others on the active monitoring list.  
In cooperation with social enterprises and local governments, we provide the “AI Care” service 
to help resolve issues associated with seniors living alone, including loneliness, physical safety, 
and dementia, and also to develop smart social protection models. In addition, we help people 
with disabilities improve their quality of life through our ICT technologies, including the  
“T map Taxi” app designed exclusively for taxi drivers with hearing impairments, and the 
“Happiness Coding School” for children and adolescents with disabilities.ICT for
Social Impact
•	Applied the AI Care Service and won projects
•	Launched the “11st Prepayment Service” , an innovative financial service for small business owners
•	Signed an MOU with UNICEF Korea to promote and spread an ICT-based culture of donation
•	Developed an “AI-based dementia screening program” with Seoul National University’s College of Medicine
•	Supported the growth of startups in collaboration with SKT BizKEY HIGHLIGHTS
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 026 027
About CompanySECTION 1.
•About SK Telecom
•CEO Message
•Business Model
•Sustainability Management Directions
•SubsidiariesAbout SK Telecom
SK Telecom is building its “New Biz” business areas of media, S&C, commerce, and mobility in addition 
to its wired and wireless communications businesses. Based on 5G communication technology, we are 
staying ahead of the curve in such areas as AI, big data, IoT, and quantum cryptography, 
and growing into a global ICT leader.
In addition, as an ICT Synergy Company, we are striving to create new values for our customers, 
employees, and stakeholders, and to contribute to social and economic development and the  
future happiness of humankind. Going forward, we will lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution era with 
AI technology and digital transformation, while also providing solutions to social challenges  
we face through ICT innovation.
Corporate Overview
Date of Establishment March 29, 1984
Number of Employees 5,352
Number of Subsidiaries 49
Address of Headquarters SK T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea
Corporate WebsiteKorean https://www.sktelecom.com
English https://www.sktelecom.com/index_en.html
* As of December 31, 2020
Information for Investors
Paid-in Capital KRW 44,639 million Available Filings
 
 Number of 
Shares Issued 72,060,143
Stock Exchange 
Registration StatusKorea Stock Exchange  
107670.KS (common stocks)
New York Stock Exchange  
SKM (Depositary Receipts)
London Stock Exchange  
SKMD (Depositary Receipts)
Transfer AgentSecurities Agency Department,  
KB Kookmin Bank
26, Gukjegeumyung-ro 8-gil, 
Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07331, 
Korea
T. 82-2-2073-8100 
F. 82-2-2073-8111
Annual General 
Shareholders 
Meeting (37th)Thursday, March 25, 2021
SK T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, 
Seoul 04539, Korea
Contact 
InformationEmail: skt.ir@sk.com
T. 82-2-6100-2114
* As of May 2021Korean
Electronic Disclosure System of 
Financial Supervisory Service
http://dart.fss.or.kr
→	 Search	for	“SK	Telecom”
Public Disclosure Channel of  
Korea Exchange
http://kind.krx.co.kr
→	 Search	for	“SK	Telecom”
English
New York Stock Exchange
www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/
companysearch.html
→		Company	Name:	Search	for	
“SK Telecom”
London Stock Exchange
www.londonstockexchange.com
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 028 About Company 029ICT Synergy Company that pursues the happiness of 
customers, employees, and other stakeholders as number 1 priority
Innovation and technology
We utilize technology such as 
5G and AI to create innovative 
products and services.Social value creation
We work alongside our society on 
social challenges, and we find solutions 
through ICT innovation.New customer experiences
We offer services that are tailored to our 
customers by applying the AI technology 
to various sectors including media, 
security, commerce, etc.Global Network * As of December 31, 2020
•	SK Malaysia Representative Office
  Suite 53A, Level 53, Vista Tower,  
The Intermark, 348 Jalan Tun Razak,  
50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
 T. 603-2166-9011•	SK Telecom Japan Inc.
  8F, NBF Hibiya Bldg., 1-1-7 , Uchisaiwai-cho,  
Chiyo-da-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, Japan
 T. 81-3-3591-3800•	SK Telecom (China) Holding Co., Ltd
  27F, SK Tower, No. 6 Jia, Jianguomenwai 
Avenue, Chaoyang District,  
Beijing 100022, China
 T. 86-10-5920-7777     F. 86-10-5920-7724China
Malaysia
United StatesJapan
•	SK Telecom Americas, Inc.
  310 De Guigne Drive, Sunnyvale,  
CA 94085, USA
 T. 1-408-328-2900  F. 1-408-328-2931Recognition of excellence in ESG
Recognized for superior ESG management by various rating agencies including domestic and international 
institutions, NGOs, government, investment institutions, etc.
Recognized for excellence in 
sustainability management by 
MSCI, DJSI, and other global 
evaluation
Korea Corporate Governance 
Service
A+ in Governance, Grade A+ Overall
* As of 2020 year-endRated Excellent on the Win Win Index 
by Korea Commission for Corporate 
Partnership
Excellent Business of Honor for 8 consecutive 
years
GSMA Global Mobile Awards
Won at 3 categories including the Best Mobile 
Innovation for Automotive
Global Telecom Awards
Won at 2 categories including the Best Operator
GOVERNANCE
SK Telecom’s business sectors and affiliates
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 030 About Company 031Number 1 in all three of Korea’s major customer satisfaction surveys
SK T elecom has ranked number one on the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI), the Korean Customer 
Satisfaction Index (KCSI) and the Korea Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) for the longest-running period.
NCSI  
24
consecutive 
yearsKCSI 
23
consecutive 
yearsKS-SQI  
21
consecutive 
yearsA company offering 
wire-based services such 
as high-speed internet, 
IPTV, and voice over IPBusiness in manufacturing audio devices 
and music contents services
A company that provides 
T map-based all-in-one 
mobility servicesA company that provides 
international calling and MVNOBest lifestyle curating 
digital platform in KoreaA company that creates 
new value in data-based 
businessesOnline commerce 
portalDigital advertising business 
including Media Lab and Darwin, 
a platform for digital advertising
World’s number 
1 quantum 
cryptographic 
telecommunications 
company based in 
Switzerland
A company specializing in security 
including unmanned security, video 
security, and access control services
* Integrated entity launched in March 2021
CEO Message
Dear respected stakeholders,
I’m Jung Ho Park, President and CEO of SK Telecom.
When I delivered my greetings to you a year ago, the COVID-19 situation was believed to be a 
temporary crisis that would be overcome shortly, but one year has passed without much change to 
the situation. In 2020, the pandemic was a black swan event that upended our lives, and the global 
economy was seriously impacted by this unprecedented crisis. Against these circumstances, SK 
T elecom strived to adapt to the major waves of change and achieve growth.
For MNO business, we carried out distribution innovation to cater to the non-face-to-face business 
environment and built a foundation for a subscription service company while solidifying our 5G 
leadership. We strengthened the New ICT portfolio by adding Mobility as a key business division 
to the portfolio that includes Media, Security and Commerce. The successful merger between SK 
Broadband and t-broad resulted in an integrated entity with scale and service competitiveness. For 
security business, the merger between ADT Caps and SK infosec created a foundation to enhance 
operational efficiency and become Korea’s No.1 integrated security business. For commerce, 11st 
achieved revenue growth amid rising competition and SK stoa enjoyed rapid growth as a strong 
T-commerce player.
These achievements led to strong financial results. Both MNO and New ICT businesses achieved 
solid growth with a consolidated revenue of 18.6 trillion won, another record year following 2019. In 
particular, the operating income contribution by the New ICT businesses, including Media, Security 
and Commerce, increased 10%pt Y oY to 24%. It demonstrates that the new ICT businesses have 
passed the initial stage of quantitative growth accompanied by cost increase and entered the 
phase of qualitative growth where meaningful contributions to earnings are achieved.
It is also meaningful to note that SK T elecom’s efforts to provide ICT safety net for society have 
helped the vulnerable in the pandemic era. For instance, NUGU Care Call is a service where Al 
calls people in self-quarantine to check on their conditions, and the Happy Community Al Care 
provides ICT-based smart welfare services to senior citizens who live alone. These services clearly 
illustrate that SK T elecom's Al technology has contributed to providing better welfare for vulnerable 
members of our society and thereby strengthening the social safety net.
In order to move beyond a telecom business and become a global ICT company, SK T elecom strives 
to expand its scope of collaboration and partnership with global companies. Amid intensifying 
competition among global ICT players, we have forged partnerships with companies like Microsoft, 
Amazon and Uber to enhance global competitiveness and promote convenience for customers. 
Given the constantly changing business environment, continuous enhancement of corporate value 
can only be achieved through cooperation with major global players based on our ICT capabilities 
and business portfolio. Thus, SK T elecom and its ICT companies will continue to be bold and active 
in pursuing partnerships and collaborations with external partners to generate success stories in a 
sustainable manner.
Please allow me to elaborate on our achievements and strategies.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 032 About Company 033Media, Emergence as a Mega Platform Company
With the completion of the merger with t-broad, SK Broadband became a media platform company 
with 8.6 million paying subscribers. SK Broadband’s IPTV subscriber base has been growing on the 
back of the increase in one-person households, and we are now gaining more time share of users 
based on stronger content competitiveness and personalization based on Al. As a result, in 2020, SK 
Broadband revenue grew 17% Y oY to record 3.7 trillion won, breaking last year’s record yet again.
SK Broadband will not simply remain as a cable network or pay TV service provider but aims to 
become a home entertainment platform for TV content, games and music and serve as a platform 
for addressable TV and local advertising. In addition, data center business will be promoted to 
create new business opportunities.
wavve, an OTT media service born in partnership with three terrestrial broadcasters, is expanding 
its subscriber base thanks to a line-up featuring superior original content. With the target of 
increasing the paying subscriber count to 5 million by 2023, wavve will strengthen partnerships 
with domestic and global content providers and expand investment in original content production 
to be positioned as a leader of the domestic media ecosystem.
S&C, On Track to be an  
Integrated Security Service Provider
In 2018, SK T elecom acquired ADT Caps, No. 2 physical security company, and SK infosec, No. 1 
information security company, to build a foundation to develop security business as a new growth 
driver. Based on active partnership with SK T elecom and ICT family companies of SK Group as well 
as the launch of new services in response to rising demand for non-contact services in 2020, the 
security business enjoyed sustained growth and recorded a double-digit revenue growth in 2020 
as it did in 2019.
T o accelerate growth as an integrated security company, we pursued a merger between ADT 
Caps and SK infosec, which resulted in the formation of a merged entity in March 2021. The new 
company aims to become a Safety and Care provider that encompasses the existing physical and 
information security business as well as life care and epidemic prevention services for consumers. 
We will enhance operational efficiency and maximize synergy by combining SK T elecom’s Al and 
5G technology, SK infosec’s information security platform and ADT Cap’s security infrastructure. 
We will also lead the technology-based integrated security market to be positioned as the absolute 
leader in terms of profitability and corporate value.Achievements by Businesses
MNO, Stronger 5G Leadership
For MNO business, 2020 was a year when we made a new leap forward based on 5G. Since the 
world’s first commercial launch of 5G, the subscriber base has been expanding to reach 5.5 million 
at the end of 2020. With the development of new business models based on cloud and MEC and 
the expansion of B2B services, 5G has become our key network.
SK T elecom’s 5G leadership has been confirmed in terms of network quality and customer service 
innovation. We ranked first in key quality indices in the 5G quality assessment by the Ministry of 
Science and ICT at the end of last year, and we earned the absolute No. 1 position in the nation’s 
three customer satisfaction indexes (KCSI, NCSI and KS-SQI).
Amid challenges related to COVID-19, we turned the crisis into an opportunity by innovating the 
distribution chain to be optimally suitable for the non-face-to-face environment. New business 
models have been developed, including the 5G-based cloud game in collaboration with Microsoft 
and the V Coloring service whose platform is open to other telecom customers. These new 
initiatives are solidifying our 5G leadership.
After building a foundation for structural growth with 5G in 2019, the MNO division achieved a 
successful turnaround in 2020 with the annual revenue growth of 3% and the operating income 
growth of 8% Y oY on a non-consolidated basis. While maintaining sustainable revenue and income 
growth based on 5G competitiveness, MNO will pursue an evolution to an Al-based subscription 
service company by expanding subscription services such as music, OTT, rental, insurance and 
delivery and growing the subscriber base to include all Koreans through optimally personalized 
packaging.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 034 About Company 035Commerce, Growing as a Global Distribution Hub
With a rapid transition to a contact-less environment, the Korean e-commerce market has been 
growing rapidly. In this context, 11st utilized strategic marketing such as Live Commerce to 
offer differentiated shopping experience and achieved more than 10% of GMV growth without 
compromising profitability. SK stoa also recorded more than 50% growth in GMV based on the 
virtuous cycle of growing customer base and better product sourcing capability.
In November last year, SK T elecom agreed to collaborate with Amazon, the world’s largest 
e-commerce player, which has provided a new momentum to break free from the constraints of 
domestic market competition. Korean consumers will be able to shop products listed on Amazon 
at 11st, which will enhance customer experience and boost shopping convenience. This change 
is expected to contribute to the growth of direct cross-border purchase as well as domestic 
e-commerce business through the increase in shopping traffic.
The Commerce business will focus on strengthening delivery services such as grocery shopping 
service and next-morning delivery and taking the leadership in the areas of growth with more 
sophisticated Live Commerce function and other emerging services. It also aims to become a global 
distribution hub based on full-fledged partnership with Amazon.
Mobility, The Fifth Key Business Division
The spin-off of the mobility business resulted in the establishment of T map Mobility Co. as a wholly 
owned subsidiary in December 2020. The new entity will engage in service innovation in various 
areas including taxi e-hailing service in close partnership with Uber, a global company.
Based on T map, Korea’s best mobility platform, T map Mobility Co. plans to develop T Map Life 
Platform, a B2C platform that includes existing services such as advertising and parking, T Map Auto, 
a B2B platform for automobile OEMs, Mobility-on-Demand business that supports mobility including 
designated driver service, and MaaS (Mobility-as-a-Service) that provides various transportation 
services on a single platform.
In particular, for taxi e-hailing service, T map Mobility Co. will establish a joint venture with Uber in 
the first half of 2021 to combine T Map Platform and its technology for map and traffic flow analysis 
together with Uber’s global business operation know-how in order to offer innovative and convenient 
services for consumers and expand the business portfolio. Financial Results and Dividend
(Consolidated basis, Unit: KRW billion)
Category 2019 2020 YoY
Revenue 17 ,740.7 18,624.7 5.0%
MNO 11,421.3 11,746.6 2.8%
New ICT1)5,087.7 5,866.4 15.3%
Operating income 1,108.2 1,349.3 21.8%
EBITDA 5,128.6 5,518.8 7.6%
Net income 860.7 1,500.5 74.3%
DPS (KRW) 10,000 10,000 -
1) Media, S&C, Commerce combinedFinancial Highlights and Dividend
The revenue for FY 2020 saw a 5% growth Y oY to record 18 trillion 624.7 billion won, a record 
high result. The MNO division successfully achieved an annual revenue turnaround thanks to 5G 
subscriber growth. We also enjoyed overall growth in all New ICT businesses including Media 
and S&C.
Consolidated operating income recorded a 22% growth Y oY on the back of earnings improvement in 
all business areas such as MNO, Media and Commerce based on stronger competitiveness.
Dividend for 2020 was decided by the Board at 10,000 won per share, which is the same as last 
year. Under the principle of maintaining a balance between returning profit to the shareholders and 
securing financial resources to develop growth drivers, we will strive to ensure that the company’s 
growth will ultimately translate into profit for the shareholders.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 036 About Company 037Environmental, Social, Governance
Stakeholders are increasingly paying attention to ESG and sustainability as well as our financial 
performance. Since the pandemic, there has been growing interest and investment in eco-friendly 
and social businesses. As such, companies are accelerating their efforts to strengthen ESG 
practices.
SK T elecom’s sustainable business management was recognized in major Korean and 
international ESG evaluations such as MSCI, DJSI and KCGS. Under the management principle 
of DBL (Double Bottom Line), where economic value and social value are the two main goals 
of business performance, SK T elecom has been serving as a social safety net by utilizing ICT 
technology to allow anyone in our society to access information, facilities and services more 
conveniently. These endeavors have afforded us trust from customers and society.
We introduced NUGU Care Call in May 2020 to check conditions of people subject to self-
quarantine or close monitoring, which has contributed to more efficient epidemic prevention and 
control by lessening the burden of COVID-19 frontline workers. 
In partnership with social enterprises and local municipalities, the Happy Community Al Care 
service is designed to provide care for senior citizens who live alone. The service is used by 
15,000 households as of last year, and has been recognized as a smart welfare model that 
satisfies all stakeholders including users, government, municipalities and local communities. We 
will continue to carry out various initiatives in the areas of environment, society and governance 
to further enhance our ESG levels. Based on SK T elecom's unique ESG stories, we will create value 
for society and enhance corporate value by sharing good ESG practices.
Under the RE100 Initiative to which our membership was finalized in December last year, we will 
take concrete action to increase the share of renewables to 100% by 2050 and gain recognition 
as an eco-friendly ICT leader. We will also continue to exert positive influence through campaigns 
such as happy habit to encourage customers to reduce the use of disposable plastic products.2021,
a year when a new growth story will unfold as we 
aim to become an Al-based company
Dear Stakeholders,
The circumstances surrounding us are extremely challenging.
The population in Korea, a key factor for MNO business growth, recorded a decline for the 
first time in 2020, and COVID-19, a black swan event, forced us to shift our daily paradigms. In 
short, comprehensive and fundamental changes are demanded of us.
However, we have made successful change to our business fundamentals to become a new 
ICT company. In the ever-changing environment, SK T elecom will continue to work hard to gain 
support and trust of the stakeholders, lead market changes with Al technology, and write new 
growth stories.
This year, we will prepare for IPOs of the new ICT portfolio, starting with ONE store, so that 
the value of these new businesses will be recognized by the market. We will do our best to 
continue to evolve as a global new ICT company and ensure that the assets we have built for 
future growth will receive proper valuation in the market.
I kindly ask for your continued interest and support in our journey.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 038 About Company 039Jung Ho Park
CEO and President, SK Telecom
Business Model
SK Telecom is expanding its New ICT portfolio to include mobile communication (MNO), media, 
S&C, commerce and mobility, and is taking a big step toward a Big Tech. We will promote business 
cooperation through our internal and external shared infrastructure and continue to lead corporate 
sustainability through innovation and growth. We will achieve win-win growth with our stakeholders by 
creating social values as well as generating economic growth based on our ICT technological prowess.
New Biz.
Creating new values through  
Global New ICT ecosystem-based 
innovation, collaboration and 
transformation
Capital Input Capital Output Value Creation Activities
Financial
•		Listed on Korea Exchange, New York Stock Exchange and 
London Stock Exchange
•		A virtuous cycle of investments in growth businesses and 
shareholder return and the maximization of stakeholder value
Human
•		Implementing various policies to attract and retain talents
•		Core driving force for business innovation and performances
Intellectual
•		Using intangible assets, based on organization’s 
knowledge, such as technical licenses and know-how,  
as a main capital
•		Building shared ICT infrastructure ecosystem to enhance 
the value of social intellectual assets and efficiency
Manufactured
•		Tangible assets available for manufacturing products and 
offering services
•		Maintaining network stability and sustainability through 
cost-effective investment
Social
•		Building cooperative relationship with stakeholders,  
such as business partners, local communities, government, 
customers and NGOs, based on customer trust 
•		Creating ICT-based social value through business performance
Natural
•		Providing ICT-based environmental solutions to minimize 
environmental impacts of business operations, including 
nation-wide network and company buildings
•		Seeking to boost environmental capital efficiency in 
providing products and servicesFinancial
•		Building a base for sustainable growth through creation of 
revenue and profit
•		Contributing to growth of GDP (indirect economic value)
Human
•		Direct and indirect job creation
•		Nurturing ICT specialists and developing human resources
Intellectual
•		Technology development and ecosystem creation  
through R&D
•		Social development through innovative technology
Manufactured
•		Improving personal and corporate customers’ productivity
•		Leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution based on New ICT
Social
•		Resolving social issues based on shared infrastructure
•		Improving people’s quality of life through products and 
services
Natural
•		Reducing social greenhouse gas emissions using  
ICT technology
•		Responding to climate change with ICT technology
MNO
5G leadership / Subscription service marketing company
• Accelerating 5G-based mobile business growth
•  Strengthening AI-based subscription service marketing business
• Promoting 5G/cloud-based enterprise business growth
•  Securing the foundations for sustainable growth by expanding 
partnerships with global players
Media
Leading the media platform market  
with differentiated contents
• Home entertainment platform 
• Developing diverse original contents
• Strengthening the advertising platform business
• Securing the business capabilities of the Global Data Center
S&C
Evolving into a technology-based safety & care operator
•	Converging physical security and information security
•	Expanding business identity by developing new business models
•		Expanding into all new tech business areas such as AI,  
digital transformation, cloud and quantum
Commerce
AI/Data-based comprehensive commerce portal /  
Providing customer-oriented services
• Offering differentiated shopping experiences such as AI search
• Providing various delivery options
• Differentiating through live commerce
• Strengthening partnerships with domestic/foreign top players
Mobility
Pioneering the mobility market based on  
T map competitiveness
•	T map Life Platform: Advertising, parking, UBI, etc.
• T map AUTO: In-vehicle infotainment (IVI) for OEM
•	Mobility on Demand: Surrogate driving, etc.
•	Mobility as a Service: New concept of a comprehensive service
•	Taxi business through JV with Uber
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 040 About Company 041Sustainability Management Directions
Management 
StrategyESG Strategic 
DirectionsSK Telecom will integrate all our ICT services - media, S&C and commerce, as well as MNO, 
our core business - through AI technology and provide as a whole. AI, as an umbrella, will integrate 
all our services, including those run by our external partners, and provide our customers with 
innovative service experiences.As a leader of ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) management, SK Telecom has set 
a strategic direction for its ESG management at the company level and makes continuous efforts 
to strengthen its corporate sustainability.
Anticipating that the next ten years will be the “era of AI”, SK T elecom aims to transform its identity into an “AI 
company that is both internally and externally recognized”.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 042 About Company 043
SKT’s New Identity
Services of SK ICT and external partners
Offering as one integrated serviceAI Umbrella
“Era of AI” over the next 10 years
AI company that is both internally 
and externally recognized
“Connected with AI” - Providing innovative service experience
External partners
Pursuing sustainable growth with all its stakeholders  
by expanding environmental and social impact  
of its ICT technologies, infrastructures and solutions
E
S
G
Evolving into  
an eco-friendly ICT
•		Transitioning to eco-friendly  
ICT infrastructure
•		Aiming to achieve RE100
•		Strengthening the eco-impact 
of ICT Biz•		Improving quality of life based 
on AI
•		Increasing digital inclusion and 
mitigating polarization
•		Building an ICT ecosystem and 
promoting win-win growth•		Strengthening the BOD’s 
independence and transparent 
management practices
•		Protecting and enhancing 
shareholder value 
•		Improving customer data 
transparencyEnhancing responsible & 
transparent managementCreating of 
social value of ICTGrowing into a leading 
ICT-based ESG companySubsidiaries
SK hynix The demand for and use of semiconductors continue to grow in line with the development 
of ICT, such as 5G, non-face-to-face environment, AI and autonomous driving. Founded in 
1983, SK hynix manufactures such memory semiconductors as DRAM, NAND flashes and 
multi-chip packages (MCPs), which are essential for a wide range of computing devices 
including mobile devices, servers and storage solutions, and such system semiconductors 
as CMOS image sensor (CIS).
In 2020, amid the unprecedentedly difficult business environment engendered by the COVID-19 crisis, the 
memory market appeared to be entering a sluggish phase, unlike expectations, due to declining demand and 
prices. Nevertheless, SK hynix achieved a significantly improved business performance compared to the previous 
year by quickly developing pioneering technologies and flexibly responding to rapid changes in demand. In DRAM 
business, the company proved its quality competitiveness with the largest share in the server market. Its SSD 
Revenue for data centers and PCs increased by 6 times and 1.6 times, respectively, compared to the previous year, 
strengthening its market position. SK hynix also entered into an agreement to acquire Intel’s NAND business, which 
will help it overcome its reliance on DRAM and promote the growth of NAND business. The company completed 
the construction of a new semiconductor plant, the M16 Fab (FAB), in Icheon, Gyeonggi-do, securing a production 
base capable of responding to mid- to long-term growth in demand.
SK hynix has been pursuing innovation across its entire value chain in a bid to transcend its existing performance. 
Having joined the RE100 for the first time in the semiconductor industry in Korea, SK hynix now aims to continue 
expanding its use of renewable energy to meet 100% of its energy needs by 2050. As ESG has become an 
essential factor for the survival and growth of a company, SK hynix will create more economic and social values 
through its ESG performance while contributing to improving living conditions for humankind in order to create a 
virtuous cycle in which its social contributions lead to corporate growth.
•Business Areas
  Memory semiconductors, 
such as DRAM and NAND 
flash, and non-memory 
semiconductors such as CIS
•Web Site
 www.skhynix.com
• Address
  2091, Gyeongchung-daero, 
Bubal-eup, Icheon-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, Korea
•2020 Revenue  
(KRW billion)
 31,900.4 
 (consolidated basis)
•No. of Employees
 29,008
 (headquarters basis)
Key Activities and Achievements in 2020
July: Launch of the mass production of 
high-speed DRAM “HBM1) 2E”•	460 GB/sec data processing at 3.6 Gbps speed
•		Optimal memory solution to lead the development of Industry 4.0, including AI 
and supercomputers
October: Launch of the 2nd generation 
10-nano class DDR5•		Data transfer up to 1.8 times faster than the latest DDR4, power consumption 
reduced by 20%
•	Realization of a 16 Gb-based 256 GB high-capacity module
October: Announcement of acquisition 
of Intel’s NAND business (excluding 
NSG’s Optane Business Division)•		Acquisition of Intel’s NAND memory and storage businesses, including NAND SSD, 
NAND memory unit, wafer business, and Dalian Fab in China for USD 9 billion
November: Joined the RE100 initiative •	Target of sourcing 100% renewable electricity by 2050
1) High Bandwidth MemoryRevenue & Operating Income (Unit: KRW billion)
2018 2019 2020
Revenue 40,445.0 26,991.0 31,900.4
Operating Income 2,084.4 271.9 501.3
DRAM (M/S)1)28.3% 27.4% 28.6%
NAND Flash (M/S)1)12.2% 11.0% 11.8%
1) IDC data; based on Revenue; and 2020 figure is the average of quarterly share
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 044 About Company 045New Growth Engines
•5G, AI, automotive, etc.Key Strategies
With the development of the ICT industry, IT devices are becoming mobile and smarter, 
which requires the development of more advanced semiconductors. SK hynix is consolidating 
its technological leadership position to respond to the trend while further strengthening its 
product competitiveness in the high value-added premium product market. In particular, it 
is working tirelessly to take the lead in such important fields as mobile, server and storage 
solutions, based on which it plans to respond to the increasing demand for memory that is 
expected to increase in line with the introduction of 5G, expansion of non-face-to-face work 
environments, and proliferation of autonomous vehicles. Furthermore, the company will 
lead a new market by preparing technological requirements for new memory.SK Broadband
Revenue & Operating Income (Based on consolidated figures, Unit: KRW billion)
2018 2019 2020
Revenue 3,078.4 3,167.9 3,713.5
Operating Income 202.3 145.0 230.9
Subscribers (Unit: 1,000 persons)
2018 2019 2020
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q
IPTV 4,464 4,554 4,659 4,729 4,848 4,971 5,083 5,193 5,298 5,403 5,532 5,657
High-speed 
Internet1) 5,159 5,193 5,238 5,266 5,323 5,374 5,423 5,469 5,512 6,405 6,445 6,476
1) t-broad subscribers added from April 2020 (859,000 as of April 2020)
M/S (Unit: %)
2018 2019 2020
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q
IPTV 28.4 28.4 28.5 28.5 28.6 28.7 28.8 28.8 28.9 28.9 29.0 29.2
High-speed 
Internet24.7 24.8 24.8 24.9 25.0 25.0 25.1 25.1 25.2 29.1 29.0 29.0Key Activities and Achievements in 2020
March: 1st place in the National 
Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI)  
for 10 consecutive years•		Ranked first place in the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) survey in the 
IPTV and high-speed Internet categories for 10 years in a row
•	Reflected VOCs collected through the Customer Advisory Council
April: Launch of new corporation by 
merging SK Broadband and t-broad•	 Contributed to the development of the media industry by strengthening the 
competitiveness of IPTV and cable TV services
• Emerged as a media platform operator based on 8.4 million paying TV subscribers
July: Service innovation with the 
concept of “Lovely B tv” that puts the 
customer first•	 “Lovely B tv” available anytime, anywhere, with family, happiness and sharing as 
its core values
•	 Overhauled UI and UX, and launched innovative services, including ZEM Kids, 
monthly movie subscription plan OCEAN, and mobile B tv
July: Launched OCEAN, a subscription 
service with the largest number of the 
latest films in Korea•	 Provided the largest latest movies and popular overseas TV shows offered by 
overseas major studios such as Disney
•	 Available on up to four mobile devices including smartphone for each B tv 
subscriber through mobile B tv
December: Acquired SK telink’s  
B2B business•	Entered into agreement with SK telink to acquire B2B business
•		Goal of strengthening the SK ICT Family’s competitiveness through reorganization 
of its B2B business
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 046 About Company 047Since its launch in 1997 , SK Broadband has been leading the development of broadcasting 
and communication services in Korea - good examples include the world’s first 
commercialization of high-speed Internet ADSL and the launch of Korea’s first IPTV service. 
In 2020, based on the merger with t-broad, a cable broadcasting company, the company secured 8.6 million 
paying TV subscribers and 6.5 million high-speed Internet subscribers, further strengthening its position as a 
communications and media platform.
As the company’s core business, Btv provides a variety of contents and services tailored to customers’ 
expectations and needs, such as ZEM Kids, Mobile Btv and OCEAN, a monthly movie service. The company is 
expanding its media business into digital advertising and the multi program provider (MPP) business. While leading 
the 10Giga high-speed Internet business with the industry’s most advanced communication technology, SK 
Broadband is striving to advance its strategic communication infrastructure, such as overseas submarine cables 
and next-generation internet data centers (IDCs), in order to achieve mid- to long-term growth.
Fully recognizing the importance of ESG management, it is working to create social values by providing smart sign 
language broadcasting and contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions with the development of a 
high-efficiency STB, along with its existing social contribution activities.
As a result of these efforts, the company won the first place in the 2021 National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) 
survey in the broadband Internet and IPTV service categories for the 11th consecutive year.•Business Areas
  IPTV, high-speed Internet, 
CATV, home phone, 
corporate ICT service
•Web Site
 www.skbroadband.com
• Address
  24, Toegye-ro, Jung-gu, 
Seoul, Korea
•2020 Revenue  
(KRW billion)
 3,713.5 
•No. of Employees
 2,415
New Growth Engines
•Multi program provider (MPP)
•Home entertainment platform
•Advertising platform
•Global data centerKey Strategies
• Launched MPP business in April 2021 with the aim of strengthening content 
competitiveness and growing into a top-tier channel operator
•Responding to the media market with a home entertainment platform that provides 
various contents and services
•Commercialization of addressable TV advertising1) and local advertising platform business
•Strengthening capability in DC business which has been growing sharply in line with 
increasing demand for cloud services by expanding new IDCs
1)  Customized advertising for each household according to the household’s characteristics and interests identified through the 
analysis of the data collected from its set-top boxADT Caps
Key Activities and Achievements in 2020
Seizing business opportunities
amid the COVID-19 situation•  Preoccupied the market by launching contactless solutions, such as facial 
recognition-based walk-through speed gates, contactless body temperature 
monitors, etc. (March)
•  Entered the sterilization and disinfection market to provide total hygiene 
solutions for sterilization and pest control (November)
Full-scale expansion of the 
home safety business•  Increased the number of home safety subscribers by launching the “Caps Home 
Door Guard” designed for multi-dwelling housing and apartments (January)
Restructuring into an intelligent 
platform-based convergent security 
operator•  Launched the “Caps SUMiTS” , an integrated convergent security platform 
(December)
Creating quality jobs, protecting the 
socially vulnerable, and contributing 
to creating a safer Korea•  Selected as the Best Company for Job Creation in Korea by the Ministry of 
Employment and Labor (July)
•  Provided night control and care services for seniors living alone and households 
eligible for special care
•  Won the Commissioner General of the Korean National Police Agency Award 
in the corporate social contribution category at the Korea Crime Prevention 
Awards (October)Main Products
Cloud Security Caps Home Caps SUMiTS T map Parking Caps Clean Care
One-stop information security 
services optimized for the 
cloud environment, such 
as security consulting and 
construction/operation 
of solutions, following the 
introduction of cloudA home security service 
focused on front door security 
(family facial recognition 
via AI function, roamer 
detection and notification, 
24-hour dispatch service)An intelligent 
convergent security 
platform that provides 
one-stop access to physical 
and information security 
and building managementA specialized parking 
lot management service 
that combines SK Telecom’s 
T map with ADT Caps’ 
parking lot operation and 
management expertiseA professional 
comprehensive quarantine 
service that provides 
customized services 
ranging from virus 
sterilization to pest control
Revenue & EBITDA (Unit: KRW billion)
2018 2019 2020
Revenue 1,016.4 1,193.2 1,338.6
EBITDA 278.8 357.0 357.1
*  Such financial information as revenue and EBITDA over the last 3 years of ADT Caps, disclosed in this annual report, is the sum of figures for ADT Caps, SK infosec, 
and CAPSTECH (neither audited nor reviewed)
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 048 About Company 049Established in 1971, ADT Caps is a convergent security specialist that combines  
physical and information security with New ICT, accumulating a wealth of security 
expertise and trust over the past 50 years. 
After joining as a subsidiary of SK T elecom in October 2018, the company completed its merger with SK 
infosec and was officially launched as the integrated corporation ADT Caps in March 2021.
ADT Caps is leading the convergent security market based on its innovative security technologies and 
platforms, and is now evolving into a new ICT-based safety & care (S&C) operator. T o this end, it is expanding 
into new business areas, including a full coverage security service in the cloud area, a smart home safety 
platform linking home devices and insurance services, customized unmanned solutions such as unmanned 
stores and unmanned parking, and care and quarantine services for seniors and the socially disadvantaged.
As a result of these efforts, in 2020 ADT Caps recorded revenue of KRW 1,338.6 billion, a year-on-year 
increase of 12%.
ADT Caps will accelerate the application of New ICT, such as AI, digital transformation, cloud and quantum, 
thereby breaking down the boundaries between the physical security and information security industries, and 
leading the tech-based convergent security industry.
Key Strategies
Positioning itself as a “Life Care Platform Operator” that protects people’s lives and property and provides peace of mind by 
integrating New ICT in the four growth areas of cloud, home safety & care, unmanned operations, and convergent security
Cloud
Accelerating growth as a 
one-stop cloud security 
specialist that encompasses 
consulting, solutions, 
and control based on 
cooperation with global 
cloud companiesHome Safety & Care
Expanding the subscriber 
base by fully converting 
to AI for family facial 
recognition etc. and 
strengthening third-party 
collaboration on safes and 
door locksUnmanned Operations
Providing 24/7 security 
to all stores including 
convenience stores and 
Internet cafes, and  
offering core solutions 
such as bio-based access/
paymentConvergent Security
Leading the market with 
an integrated solution 
encompassing physical 
and information security 
and building management 
based on an intelligent 
control platform•Business Areas
  Unmanned security, 
information security, 
convergent security,  
cloud security, smart 
home, unmanned parking, 
sterilization and quarantine, 
etc.
•Web Site
 www.adtcaps.co.kr
• Address
  23, Pangyo-ro 227beon-gil, 
Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 
Gyeonggi-do, Korea
•2020 Revenue  
(KRW billion)
 1,338.6
•No. of Employees
 5,970
 * Based on full-time workers11st
Key Strategies
11st is striving to lead the e-commerce market by achieving growth and profitability, while evolving into a future-
oriented commerce company, with the goal of becoming the “best commerce portal trusted by customers”. 
To this end, we will make continuous efforts to improve UI, UX and search platform, establish a differentiated 
business model for each product category, and expand the scope of business to include digital contents and 
intangible services for further enhancing our platform competitiveness. In addition, we will apply personalized 
recommendations, search and AI technologies to commerce, thereby accelerating innovation, and will create a 
better customer experience through partnerships with various asset and service platforms owned by SK affiliates 
in the areas of mobile communication, IPTV and music.
Key Activities and Achievements in 2020
Ranked 1st place in the e-commerce category of Korean Standard-Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) for  
13 consecutive years (July); and 1st place in the open market category of Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI)  
for 12 consecutive years (October)
Expanded Today’s Grocery Shopping service (exclusive launch of E-Mart Mall, April)
Improved customer retention through the launch of SK pay money (June)
Improved delivery competitiveness through the launch of Same-day Delivery service (June)
Enhanced product search convenience (multi-tab search, July)
Expanded contents and video live commerce to provide fun/information/engagement value
Promoted win-win cooperation through dealing of local fresh produce and quick payment to merchants suffering 
difficulties due to the COVID-19 crisisRevenue & Operating Income (Unit: KRW billion)
2018 2019 2020
Revenue 674.4 531.0 545.6
Operating Income -68.0 1.4 -9.8
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 050 About Company 051Since its launch in 2008, 11st has been growing rapidly to establish itself as an open 
market platform where sellers and buyers can trade with confidence.
It is developing into a leading company in the e-commerce market with 44.2 million members while striving to 
provide high-quality products at affordable prices. In addition, it aims to become a “commerce portal” that offers 
customer convenience throughout the overall shopping experience, including online and mobile device searches 
and purchases, as well as simple payment services such as SK pay.
In 2020, in order to respond to the rising non-face-to-face consumption trend driven by the spread of COVID-19, 
we provided a differentiated customer experience by enhancing live commerce, video product reviews, and the 
“T oday’s Grocery Shopping” service while firming foundations for growth by signing a partnership agreement with 
Amazon, the world’s largest e-commerce company. We will continue evolving into the best commerce portal and 
enhance consumer convenience and satisfaction by earning the trust of customers and society.•Business Areas
  E-commerce
•Web Site
 www.11st.co.kr
• Address
  416, Hangang-daero,  
Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea
•2020 Revenue  
(KRW billion)
 545.6
•No. of Employees
 1,070T map 
Mobility Co.
Key Activities and Achievements in 2020
Dec. 2020: Launch of T map Mobility Co.
Mar. 2021: Launch of the “T map Celebrity” service
Apr. 2021: Launch of UT, a joint venture with UberBM
T map Life Platform, T map AUTO, Mobility on Demand, Mobility as a Service (MaaS), e-Hailing
Key Strategies
T map Life Platform
Based on the Life Platform, we will create differentiated values in subscription services, UBI, advertising and parking.
T map AUTO
In response to the transformation of automobiles into smart devices, we provide specialized services based on 
those offered by the SK ICT Family, and actively cooperate with automobile manufacturers by upgrading EV-specific 
functions and maps for advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS).
MOD (Mobility On Demand)
We will strengthen our competitiveness based on our existing T map platform and boost our competitiveness in the 
market by providing premium services.
MaaS (Mobility as a Service)
We recommend optimal mobility services customized for each customer’s situation. As a “mobility partner for 
everyday movement” , T map Mobility Co. aims to contribute to creating a better world through mobility innovation. 
Ultimately, we will pioneer the future mobility market, including autonomous driving and flying cars, while taking the 
lead in fostering a new paradigm of mobility.
e-Hailing
Based on the competitiveness of T map and Uber, we will promote innovation in taxi hailing platform services and 
reorganize the related ecosystem.Cumulative No. of T map subscribers
(Unit: 1,000 persons)
* As of the end of 202018,584
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 052 About Company 053Launched in December 2020, T map Mobility Co. is a mobility specialist that is leading the 
innovation of mobility services by introducing an all-in-one mobility service for navigation, 
surrogate driving and public transportation.
We will expand the role of the platform, to include parking and advertisement, based on T map, while increasing 
cooperation with automobile manufacturers by promoting the T map AUTO business for finished cars with the aim 
of providing in-vehicle infotainment (IVI) and in-vehicle payment systems.
In April 2021, we launched UT, a JV with Uber, the world’s largest car sharing company. By combining T map’s 
map and vehicle traffic analysis technology with Uber’s management and operation know-how, we will introduce 
innovations to taxi hailing platform services.•Business Areas
  T map applications, 
mobility platform services 
(surrogate driving, parking, 
etc.)
•Web Site
 www.tmapmobility.com
• Address
  Floor 24-26, B-dong, 26, 
Ujeongguk-ro, Jongno-gu, 
Seoul, Korea
•2020 Revenue  
(KRW)
 0
 * Spin-off in December 2020
•No. of Employees
 125
 *  As of December 31, 2020; 
235 persons as of March 31, 
2021
Value to BusinessSECTION 2.Major COVID-19 Response Activities and AchievementsIssue Report
Creating an 
ICT-based 
Safe Work 
Environment
Helping Local 
Communities 
Overcome the 
CrisisHealthcare and institutionalization of telecommuting      SK T elecom was the first major corporation in 
Korea to introduce telecommuting as a way to respond promptly and effectively to the need to protect its 
employees’ health and safety. T o this end, we built the infrastructures required to ensure the efficiency of 
telecommuting, including cloud-based Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI), T Phone, and Microsoft T eams, 
which have not only secured our employees’ health but also changed the way we work for the better.
Innovations in the way of working      SK T elecom aims to incorporate the telecommuting model into 
its corporate culture while introducing innovations in the way we operate in the COVID-19 era. Having 
strengthened its ICT-based “smart solutions”, employees of the SK ICT Family are now using various non-
face-to-face solutions to conduct business with one another, such as T Phone group calls and group video 
call “MeetUs”. In addition, we have maximized work efficiency by allowing our employees to commute to 
“commuter hubs” situated just 10-20 minutes travel from their homes, instead of the headquarters.
Building a new normal in the contactless era     SK T elecom has introduced a new recruitment process 
to suit the needs of the new contactless era. For the first time in the industry, we held an online job briefing 
session and conducted “interactive contactless” recruitment consultation and interviews as a method of non-
face-to-face group communication. We provided unlimited data for device and communication required for 
the interview process, while building a robust system to block data leakage, among other things, as part of our 
own mobile device security program. Although many companies have postponed or canceled their recruitment 
drives due to the COVID-19 crisis, SK T elecom has succeeded in recruiting excellent talents by fully utilizing its 
technologies and services.
 
Providing a temporary living quarters and medical center to curb the spread of COVID-19      As the 
number of confirmed COVID-19 cases increased exponentially, SK T elecom provided the SK T elecom’s 
Future Management Institute in Icheon as temporary living quarters for citizens of Gyeonggi-do returning from 
overseas to fulfill our responsibilities as a responsible  corporate citizen. By providing a place to accommodate 
overseas travelers in need of self-quarantine and isolation, we participated in measures to manage their self-
quarantine and curb the spread of the infectious disease in local communities systematically. We also made the 
institute available as a medical center to alleviate the shortage of beds for asymptomatic persons and patients 
with mild symptoms as another wave of the infectious disease raised the number of confirmed cases in the 
metropolitan area in particular. Our actions helped quickly isolate confirmed cases, ensure prompt treatment 
and prevent the spread of Covid-19 throughout the community while playing a key role in getting COVID 
patients treated quickly. We will fulfill our social responsibility by doing everything we can to overcome the crisis 
together with the people, serving as a new safety net for society, customers and our employees.On March 11, 2020, World Health Organization (WHO) declared COVID-19 as the third pandemic 
(global pandemic) following the outbreaks of Hong Kong flu and swine flu. Since then, the entire 
world has been required to make changes in every aspect of life to overcome the pandemic, and 
corporations in particular have been forced to take preemptive measures throughout their corporate 
activities amid a protracted period of uncertainty. In the face of this global crisis caused by an 
infectious disease, SK Telecom strives to overcome it wisely together with its stakeholders, while also 
properly managing the health and safety of its employees.
•Issue Report
•Creating Economic Value
•Materiality Assessment
•Stakeholder Engagement
•Mid-to Long-term Strategy
•Strengthening ICT Infrastructure
•Creating New Value through  
Business Restructuring
•Pursuing Sustainable Growth through 
Openness and Collaboration
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 054 Value to Business 055Growing 
Together 
with Partner 
Companies Hit 
by the CrisisSK T elecom has helped partners experiencing difficulties due to the COVID-19 crisis to buttress their business 
stability by providing them with direct and indirect forms of support. We have prepared and implemented a 
comprehensive mutual growth plan to provide practical assistance to our distribution networks and business 
partners across the country, and will continue to review ways of providing them with support for mutual growth 
in an effort to pursue a beautiful and happy companionship with them based on openness and communication.
Welfare system for elderly citizens     As the COVID-19 pandemic is prolonged, the isolation of single-person 
households, especially the elderly, is emerging as a serious social issue. In response, SK T elecom provides 
the Happy Community AI Care Service using AI speaker ‘NUGU’. The service helps vitalize senior citizens in 
their everyday lives through diverse non-face-to-face contents, connects them to emergency services 24/7, 
and offers specialized services to reduce the risk of dementia. The service also helps reduce the elderly 
communication divide and increase their digital intimacy, thereby boosting their self-efficacy. Launched in April 
2019, the service is offered to 15,000 households nationwide, and is expected to extend its scope from 2021. 
As of February 2021, the service had received 1,831 emergency calls, including 89 that were linked to the 119 
Safety Service. In terms of usage of the AI speaker contents, music and intimate conversations accounted for 
58% and 15%, respectively, which suggests that the service could be instrumental in reducing seniors’ feelings 
of loneliness. In addition, research has revealed that seniors’ use of the service has improved their long-term 
memory, working memory, and language fluency by 10-16%, indicating that the service could be of great help 
in preventing dementia, as the figures can be translated into the effect of reducing the incidence of dementia 
by about 30%. After using the AI care service, seniors showed a significant increase in their use of digital 
devices for information retrieval from a host of sources, which has played an important role in bridging seniors’ 
information gap by awakening them to the joy of using digital devices and boosting their self-efficacy while 
reducing their anxiety.Realizing 
Social Value 
through ICTHelping improve work efficiency in fighting against COVID-19 using the “NUGU Carecall”      SK T elecom 
developed the AI-based “NUGU Carecall” system to support self-isolation and monitoring of persons with 
COVID-19 symptoms among those subject to active monitoring. The AI system checks symptoms related to 
COVID-19, such as fever, coughing and sore throat, over the phone. The guidelines of the Korea Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention require that people in self-quarantine and active monitoring should be checked 
for any symptoms over the phone (non-face-to-face) twice a day. As the NUGU Carecall system does the job, 
the overall monitoring task has dropped by 85%, while 48 institutions that had adopted the system have been 
better able to focus their human resources on field work.
Support for the underprivileged      SK T elecom has offered 20,000 sets of the Safe Management Pack, a 
management support solution, free of charge, to small business owners, and provided the SKT Family ICT 
Service (Internet, security, online marketing services, etc.) to 20 small business owners. In partnership with 
the Small & Medium Business Distribution Center, we have worked with Y ouT ube influencers to help 404 
small businesses. We supported online marketing activities of 51 social enterprises by working together with 
influencers, which attracted 11 million views and earned a total of KRW 334 million through home shopping 
channels and online revenue. In addition to business support, our employees participated in a group-wide 
blood donation relay in which 2,688 persons from 40 SK Group affiliates took part, in response to the sharp 
drop in the blood donor population. Also, to expand the country’s non-face-to-face infrastructure, we helped 
321 elementary, middle and high schools in Gwangju Metropolitan City with their contactless education. In 
addition, we provided a non-face-to-face performance platform to 100 indie band teams as part of our support 
for the vulnerable during an era of pandemics.Target Agency
 Carecall
Agency staff 
in chargeHealthcare 
workers’ 
websiteMonitoring of 
counseling historyDeliver results and  
relevant informationEstablishment of 
counseling plan
Voice 
guidance (TTS)Voice answer
Deliver target 
informationData transmissionData trasmissionNLU
Natural language 
understanding - 
natural language 
processing in artificial 
intelligence
DM
Decision maker - 
making decisions on 
the next dialogue or 
action depending on 
the context of dialogueSTT
Speech-to-text - 
conversion from 
speech to text
TTS
Text-to-speech - 
conversion from 
text to speechNUGU Care
SKT’s IP 
multimedia 
subsystem 
(IMS)
Persons in 
self-quarantine
Formed a mutual growth fund of KRW 113 billion to  
“Overcome COVID-19, Together”
T o promote mutual growth, SK T elecom has set up a comprehensive mutual growth plan, worth of KRW 
113 billion, for its business partners, including distribution networks and network partners, suffering 
from COVID-19. This particular initiative is designed to secure win-win growth with those of our business 
partners that are struggling during this unprecedented crisis by maintaining SK T elecom’s service quality. 
We spare no efforts in offering them practical assistance they might need.
Made early payment of KRW 80 billion to partners at Chuseok
SK T elecom paid out early to its partner companies to help them improve their liquidity during the COVID-19 
crisis. In addition to the “Quick Payment Program”, which has been running since 2004 for small and 
medium-sized partners, we paid around KRW 80 billion early to some 1,000 partner companies at Chuseok 
(Korean Thanksgiving Day) in 2020.
Non-face-to-face support for win-win growth during the COVID-19 era
In 2020, SK T elecom held a “non-face-to-face job fair” for 47 partners to help them overcome their 
difficulties in recruiting talent due to the COVID-19 crisis. We also held the “non-face-to-face win-win 
growth CEO forum” with the CEOs of our partner companies to discuss the prospects for the digital 
industry in the post-COVID-19 era, among other matters. In addition, we had sincere conversation with our 
partner companies through the “Happiness Camp for Win-Win Growth” and strived to find practical ways to 
help them overcome challenges caused by COVID-19.CASE
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 056 Value to Business 057Creating Economic Value
Financial performance      SK T elecom recorded revenue of KRW 18,625 billion and operating profit of KRW 
1,349 billion in 2020 based on the consolidated financial statements of the Korean International Financial 
Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Revenue increased by 5% year-on-year, achieving the best performance ever, on 
the back of the full launch of our five business divisions – MNO, Media, S&C, Commerce and Mobility. Operating 
profit increased by 22% year-on-year, and net income rose by 74.3% year-on-year to KRW 1,501 billion. Going 
forward, SK T elecom will continue to bolster its New ICT portfolio in response to the contactless environment in 
a bid to maximize its future corporate value.In 2021, SK T elecom plans to accelerate its transformation into an “AI Company”, the key player in the next 
generation of business by forming organic connections between its business divisions, such as MNO, media, 
S&C, commerce and mobility, as well as with external partners based on its AI platform. We will also lay the 
groundwork for advanced governance system that meets global standards, while also striving to maximize 
our corporate value by introducing quarterly dividends and moving forward with IPOs of our subsidiaries. 
We will do our best to achieve sustainable growth based on stakeholder trust and ESG-based sustainable 
development on the back of our ICT capabilities.
Strategies
for 20211) Restructure to maximize corporate value
2)  Aim to achieve continuous revenue growth based on the enhanced performance of the  
New ICT portfolio
3)  Expand our roles and responsibilities as a corporate citizen through heightened ESG management 
and social value creation
4) Increase synergy and expand influence in collaboration with key global players2020 Financial 
Highlights2021 
Outlook
MNO
•Increase revenue and profits by strengthening 5G competitiveness
•Evolve into an AI-based subscription service company by expanding the base of subscription products such as music, OTT, rental, 
insurance and delivery
•Expand the subscriber base by providing products optimized for each customer
S&C
•Lead the convergent security market comprising physical security and information security
•Evolve into a “Safety & Care” operator that offers lifestyle and quarantine services to consumers
•Increase profitability and corporate value in the tech-based convergent security service market
•Increase operational efficiency and synergy by combining 5G with AI technology, information security platforms and  
security infrastructure
Commerce
•Achieve e-commerce business growth by offering differentiated customer experiences
•Highlight 11st’s customer services, such as new membership and gift giving service
•Strengthen delivery competitiveness in grocery shopping, early morning delivery, etc.
•Transcend the limited domestic competition and secure a position as a global distribution hub platform through cooperation 
with Amazon, a global leading company
Mobility
•Move forward with the Mobility-On-Demand business including a surrogate driving service
•Achieve customer value innovation through MaaS (Mobility-as-a-Service) that uses a variety of transportation means in one service
•Lead the in-vehicle-infotainment (IVI) market with a focus on EVs
•Promote service innovation by offering a taxi hailing service in cooperation with Uber, a global leader in ride-sharing services
•Offer services using such infrastructure as the T map platform and map as well as vehicle traffic analysis technologyMedia
•Evolve into a home entertainment platform that encompasses the entire media industry, including TV contents, games and music
•Grow into an addressable TV and local advertising platform
•Lead the media ecosystem by investing in contents for “wavve” and partnering with other content providersConsolidated  (Unit: KRW billion) Separate  (Unit: KRW billion)
2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020● Revenue
●  Operating
    Income
● Net Income18,625
11,747
1,349 1,0231,50175916,874
11,70617 ,741
11,421
1,202 1,308 1,108 9523,132
934 861 980
2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020● MNO
● Media
● S&C
● CommerceRevenue by Business  (Unit: KRW billion)
Revenue Operating Income
11,421.3
951.811,746.6
1,023.0
3,078.4
202.33,167.9
145.03,713.5
230.9
790.9
-85.1726.61.8814.3
11.01,016.4125.9 1,193.2153.51,338.6 140.911,705.61,307.5
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 058 Value to Business 059According to the results of the materiality assessment, SK T elecom identified 28 material issues, including 
advancement of the New ICT (media, S&C, commerce, mobility) portfolio, strengthening of 5G leadership, 
privacy protection and customer value innovation. Among them, we identified four core issues and nine 
reporting issues, and then disclosed our major achievements, goals and business cases related to the issues 
in detail in this report.Materiality Assessment
SK T elecom defines “material issues” as those with “relevance” to the company’s business and sustainability, 
as well as the actual extent of its “impact” on creating sustainable value for the company’s stakeholders. 
T o select and prioritize its material issues, SK T elecom operates a materiality assessment and response 
process based on stakeholder participation. We also comply with the international standards by following 
the recommendations outlined in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the IR Framework set by 
International Integrated Reporting Council when making decisions on materiality and the scope of the issues.
We manage our corporate issues as a pool of issues according to stakeholder engagement process. The 
pool of issues includes the UN SDGs, which deal with economic, environmental and social topics; topics 
raised by international organizations and NGOs; global political, economic, environmental and social topics; 
global regulations; mid- to long-term social changes; and externalities caused by business.
Based on the IIRC’s recommendations, SK T elecom incorporates the following five aspects into its materiality 
assessment process – 1) issues that may have a continuous impact on SK T elecom’s value creation; 2) 
issues related to the company’s strategy, governance and performance; 3) issues that have a significant 
impact on key stakeholders; 4) issues that can provide the grounds for BOD discussions; and 5) issues that 
may lead to the loss of opportunities and the generation of risks if not adequately managed.Materiality 
Assessment 
ResultsEach year, SK telecom reviews material economic, social and environmental issues related value 
creation and sustainability, and discloses its responses and achievements in each area.
1)  Cost - Assessment of the 
impact on the company’s 
capital cost, such as direct, 
indirect and potential costs; 
Revenue - Assessment of 
opportunities for revenue 
creation and potential 
competitive advantages; 
and Risk - Assessment 
of business risks such 
as internal and external 
expectations, reputation 
and regulatory responseMateriality 
Assessment 
ProcessSTEP 1.
Identify issues and  
form a pool
Forming a pool of 28 issues 
that reflects the industry’s 
characteristics
•7 issues on management/
economy, 4 issues on 
customers, 3 issues on society, 
8 issues on employees,  
2 issues on supply chains,  
3 issues on environment  
and 1 general issueSTEP 2.
Analyze internal and 
external environment
Reported topics of same/
similar companies in the 
industry
•17 global leading 
companies
Research and analysis of 
media 
•4,051 articles in total 
(excluding articles related 
to personnel, stock, etc.)
Survey on stakeholder issues
•ESG awareness survey of 
investors, ESG experts, 
customers, etc.
Review of internal documents
•Company magazine, New 
Year’s messages, etc.
Analysis of international 
standards
•8 global initiatives 
including GRI Standards, 
SDGs, SASB, and TCFDSTEP 3.
Conduct materiality 
assessment 
•Business relevance 
assessment
•Stakeholder impact 
assessment
•Business (financial) 
impact assessmentSTEP 4.
Select material issues  
to be reported
•Final prioritization of 
material issues.
•Review by the BOD  
(ESG Committee)
•Performance management 
and reporting of material 
issues
Stakeholder Interest8.00
7.00
6.00
5.00
4.00
3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00
8.00 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00Potential Issue13
2
4
56
7
8 101112
13141517
181920
2122
2324
25
262728169
Reporting IssueCore Issue
Business Impact
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 060 Value to Business 061●	High			◐	Mid			○	Low
No. TopicsStakeholders Financial Materiality1)
Page
1Advancement of the New ICT (media, S&C, 
commerce, mobility) portfolio● ●●●● p. 76-79
2Strengthening of 5G leadership ● ●●●● p. 72-75
3Privacy protection ● ◐◐● p. 131-132
4Customer value innovation ● ●●●● p. 135
5Management of GHG emissions
(carbon neutralization)●●● ◐○● p. 142
6Ethical management and fair trade ● ○○◐ p. 112-120
7Establishment of environmental 
management strategies and systems●●● ◐○● p. 139
8Securing of sound governance ●◐◐● p. 83
9Social value creation ●●●●●●●●● p. 164-168
10Conservation of resources and 
improvement of energy efficiency●● ● ◐○◐ p. 145-147
11Advancement of the risk management 
system● ●● ●◐●● p. 102-111
12 Corporate citizenship ●●●●●●●●● p. 169-173
13 Human capital development ● ●●● p. 149Employees
CostCustomers
RevenuePartners
RiskGovernment
Local 
Communities
ShareholdersManagement 
of Material 
IssuesTOPIC CONTEXT OUR APPROACH ACTIVITIES RECENT PROGRESS LONG TERM TARGET
Advancement 
of the New ICT 
(media, S&C, 
commerce, mobility)  
portfolio•	ICT is creating new innovations in society 
and industry as a whole, particularly with 
the expansion of the 5G infrastructure.  
ICT is also enhancing the potential and 
efficiency of industry, and improving 
human life, affairs and business. Intelligent 
information and communication 
technologies have been accelerating the 
development and growth of contemporary 
society, while the “New ICT” industry is 
positioning itself as an icon of innovation 
with global competitiveness.•	SK Telecom has been leading the ICT 
ecosystem by expanding the range of its 
business to include mobile communication 
(MNO), media, S&C, commerce, 
and mobility based on its 5G and AI 
infrastructure. We will develop new growth 
engines and create social values through 
active collaboration with the SK ICT Family 
and our business partners.•		Expanding 5G content business
	 －		Expanding	the	scope	to	include	sports	contents	in	addition	to	  
media contents
•		Providing a new security service that combines physical security and 
information security through the merger of ADT Caps and SK infosec
•	Launched T map Mobility Co. in December 2020
	 －		Planning	to	move	forward	with	the	T	map-based	platform	  
business, in-vehicle infotainment system, in-vehicle payment 
system, on-demand mobility system, subscription-type 
transportation service, etc.
	
	New value creation through a business structure change p. 76-79•		Establishing an independent  
ICT investment company (by 2021)
Strengthening of 
5G leadership•	5G, which stands for 5th-generation 
mobile communication, is a cutting-edge 
technology that will lead innovation in 
the telecommunication industry, which 
is characterized by hyper-speed, hyper-
massive connections, and hyper-low 
latency. We are currently pursuing changes 
in the business structure by going wireless 
in both the mobile and offline areas and 
leading the advancement of 5G and AI-
based ICT technologies.•	SK Telecom has been making progress 
by achieving the first place in the 5G 
quality evaluation conducted in 2020, 
the first anniversary of commercial 5G. 
We will achieve continuous growth by 
stabilizing our network quality as well as 
developing innovative business models 
that incorporate 5G technology.•		Providing a wide range of services including the AI consulting service 
“NUGU Infocall” at customer centers, using the AI platform NUGU 
service, and the communication service “NUGU Opal” for the elderly
•	 Securing unrivaled 5G technology
	 －		Successfully	completed	the	Korea’s	first	5G	SA-SCP	equipment	
interworking 
	 －		Exported	5G	in-building	technology	to	Europe
 Strengthening the ICT infrastructure p. 72-75•  Maintaining the largest share in 
the 5G market
•  Developing a new 5G-based 
business model and increasing 
revenue of the mobile business
Privacy protection •	Due to the nature of the mobile 
communication industry, stakeholders’ 
interest in privacy protection and cyber 
security is increasing, requiring continuous 
management so that we can prepare 
policies and guidelines for privacy 
protection and respond swiftly to privacy 
protection and cyber security issues.•	SK Telecom has been developing quantum 
cryptography communication technology 
and making other efforts to upgrade its 
security business. We are also improving 
our core information protection capabilities 
through an information security platform 
and security infrastructure that combines 
our unique 5G and AI technologies. We 
operate a security system designed to 
protect personal information, monitor the 
status of customer information protection, 
and conduct privacy protection education 
for employees.•		Customer information leakages in 2020: Zero 
•		Maintained a 100% inspection rate for our distribution network 
privacy protection status and completed improvement measures 
for the findings of the information security management status 
diagnosis conducted in 2020
•		Collecting customers’ personal information after obtaining their prior 
consent upon subscription and notifying them of the items to be 
collected, the purpose of collection, and the retention period
  Cyber security - Privacy protection p. 131-132 •   Achieving zero customer 
information leakages by 
upgrading distribution network 
information security diagnosis
•   Maintaining a 100% inspection 
rate of customer information 
protection in the distribution 
network
Customer value 
innovation•	Customers are the most important 
foundation for corporate growth. Mobile 
communications businesses is a mature 
market, and this it is required for companies 
to seek ways of enhancing customer 
benefits in order to attract new customers 
and retain existing ones. This means that 
we must pursue customer value innovation 
across all our growth business areas in 
media, S&C, commerce and mobility, as a 
way to secure sustainable growth.•	SK Telecom provides a variety of customer 
value innovation programs such as a 5G 
specialized service, a segment service, 
artificial intelligence COVID-19 symptom 
care, and a non-face-to-face meeting 
service. We are also working to enhance 
our customers’ convenience by expanding 
the range of T membership benefits and 
improving our network quality.•		Providing various customer experiences based on 5G
	 －		Launched	V	Coloring,	a	visible	coloring	service
	 －		Cloud	game	service
•		Offering personalized benefits
	 －		Expanded	promotions	linked	to	ZEM,	a	brand	for	children	  
under 12 years old
	 －		Military	rate	plan	“0(young)	Hero”,	etc.
•		Supporting the combat against the COVID pandemic  
with ICT technology
	 －		Monitoring	symptoms	of	COVID-19	with	the	AI	Call	Agent
	 －		Launched	a	group	video	call	service
•		Ranked first in the mobile communication category in Korea’s top 
three customer satisfaction surveys (NCSI, KCSI, KS-SQI)
 Customer - Accessibility to service p. 135•  Maintaining the 1st place in 
Customer Satisfaction Indices (CSI) 
for the longest period of time in 
the mobile communication service 
category
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 062 Value to Business 063TOPIC CONTEXT OUR APPROACH ACTIVITIES RECENT PROGRESS LONG TERM TARGET
Management of 
GHG emissions 
(carbon 
neutralization)•	As global warming has accelerated since 
the Industrial Revolution, countries across 
the globe have been making efforts to 
reduce GHG emissions, the main cause of 
global warming. We must make efforts to 
establish a company-wide strategy for the 
implementation of “2050 carbon neutrality” 
and take active part in responding to 
climate change.•	SK Telecom manages GHG emissions 
at its major business sites based on 
the guidelines on the creation and 
management of the GHG emission trading 
system. We are striving to respond to 
climate change in the long term and fulfill 
our eco-friendly management obligations 
by leveraging our capabilities, including 
our ICT infrastructure and networks.•		Conducted self-reduction activities such as energy-efficient repeaters 
and integrated management of base stations to reduce GHG emissions
•		Joined the SBTi Initiative to participate in achieving the 2050 Net-Zero
•		Joined the RE100 and implemented the adoption of renewable 
energy
	 －		Signed	a	green	premium	contract	to	use	renewable	energy
 Environmental management - Responding to climate change p. 142•  2050 Net-Zero
Ethical 
management and 
fair trade•	Ethical management and fair trade are 
important factors in building a sound 
business culture. Unfair or unethical 
behavior can pose risks to corporate 
management, it is therefore required to 
manage at the corporate level.•		SK Telecom has laid the foundations for 
ethical management by enacting a code 
of conduct framework. We are running 
Ethical Management Training courses and 
the Ethics Counseling Center as part of 
our efforts to raise employee awareness 
of corporate ethics. In addition, we are 
focusing on establishing a fair trade order 
based on a leading compliance system.•		Strengthening the alignment with core ethical values across the 
company through the revision of the Code of Ethics in 2017 and the 
Guidelines on Ethical Management in 2018
 Ethical management p. 112-120
Establishment of 
environmental 
management 
strategies and 
systems•	As interest in environmental protection 
has been increasing, the importance of 
establishing environmental management 
strategies and systems is also increasing 
for corporate sustainable management. 
It is necessary to implement eco-friendly 
management through the establishment 
of mid- to long-term environmental 
management goals and systematic 
management at the company level.•	SK Telecom has set the goal of “2050 
Net-Zero” in a bid to realize a resource 
circulation economy through eco-friendly 
management. We are striving to fulfill 
our social responsibilities by carrying out 
various activities required by specific tasks 
stipulated to meet our goals.•		Discussing environmental management policies and establishing 
implementation strategies with the ESG Innovation Group, an 
organization that promotes environmental management, taking a 
central role
•		For any major environmental management-related issues, reporting 
them to the ESG Committee, the highest decision-making body 
for sustainable management, and supporting the BOD’s decision-
making on such issues
   Environmental management - Environmental management strategy 
system p. 139 
Securing of sound 
governance•	The soundness of corporate governance 
can have a significant impact on the 
corporate value of business operations, 
so corporate governance and operating 
methods must be transparently disclosed. 
This increases a business’s credibility and 
enables it to carry out risk management 
effectively.•	SK Telecom makes decisions on issues 
aimed at raising corporate value and 
enhancing the shareholders’ interests, with 
its BOD taking a central role. In recognition 
of our responsible management system, 
we obtained grade A+ in Governance and 
A+ Overall in the corporate governance 
evaluation conducted by the Korea 
Corporate Governance Service in 2020.•		Received grade A+ in Governance and A+ Overall in the 2020 Korea 
Corporate Governance Service evaluation
	 －		Maintained	the	percentage	of	independent	directors	at	62.5%
	 －		Stipulating	the	criteria	for	judging	the	independence	and	
transparency of independent directors in the BOD regulations
	 －		Guaranteeing	the	BOD’s	independence	by	specifying	the	ratio	of	
independent directors in committees under the BOD in the  
operating guidelines
 Governance p. 83•  Maintaining the percentage of 
independent directors at more 
than 60%
Social value 
creation•	Companies are required to create 
social values through business-based 
innovations that surpass their simple social 
contribution activities. Accordingly, they 
need to establish a system to respond 
to evaluations in terms of non-financial 
factors as well as financial factors and fulfill 
their social responsibilities.•	SK Telecom pursues shared growth with 
society by contributing to economic 
development and creating social values 
based on the SKMS (SK Management 
System) - SK Group’s management 
philosophy. We measure the integrated 
social and environmental performance 
through the Double Bottom Line, which 
creates both financial and social values, 
while contributing to resolving various 
social problems including those related to 
the vulnerable by utilizing SK Telecom’s  
ICT infrastructure.•		Carrying out national digital competency education project to  
bridge the information gap of the vulnerable social classes 
	 －		Activities	designed	to	strengthen	digital	competency	of	the	
vulnerable, such as coding classes for disadvantaged children,  
ICT courses for women with career interruptions, and software 
coding education customized for each type of disability
•		Providing care service for seniors using the AI speaker “NUGU”
 
  Social Contributio - Creating social value through ICT,  
improving social impact based on open collaboration p. 164-168•  Growing into a global leader 
in creating social value, and 
generating social value at the 
same level as our financial  
status (2030)
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 064 Value to Business 065TOPIC CONTEXT OUR APPROACH ACTIVITIES RECENT PROGRESS LONG TERM TARGET
Conservation of 
resources and 
improvement of 
energy efficiency•	In response to the issue of resource 
depletion, efforts are being made 
worldwide to improve the efficiency of 
resource use. The need for sustainable 
corporate management is being 
emphasized through the use of 
alternative energy sources, such as  
new and renewable energy, in all 
business activities.•	SK Telecom promotes efficient resource 
management at all its facilities and 
communication services to customers. 
We are also striving to raise employee 
awareness of the importance of reducing 
plastic usage and conserving resources.•		e-billing system to reduce resource losses due to paper billing
	 －	New	e-billing	subscription	rate	in	2020:	90.4%
•		Promoting programs through which customer exchange their used 
device and equipment with new ones, such as T Safe Reimbursement 
and Club Device Exchange programs
•		Adjusted the drainage volume of the cooling tower at SK Telecom’s 
Seongsu Building, installed water-saving valves in toilets and 
showers, etc.
•		Launched the happy habit project aimed at reducing the use of 
single-use plastics and raising awareness of the use of tumblers
		Environmental management - Reduction in resource consumption  
p. 145-147•	Converging to e-billing system
•		Eliminating plastic membership 
cards
Advancement 
of the risk 
management 
system•	A company’s ability to identify and 
manage potential risk factors in advance 
throughout its business activities is 
important. Amid a global crisis such as 
COVID-19, a systematic and advanced 
risk management process can minimize 
corporate risks.•	SK Telecom has established an integrated 
risk management system to identify 
risks in advance and respond to them 
effectively. We have subdivided risk areas 
and elements and managed to respond 
systematically to risks by internalizing the 
risk management culture among all our 
employees.•		Segmentizing risk management areas by business area, employees, 
customer value, business partners and governance, in order to 
systematize the responses to each risk
•		Strengthening risk management by establishing a company-wide 
risk management response system
 Risk management p. 102-111
Corporate 
citizenship•	The concept of corporate roles and 
responsibilities in society, where 
companies actively participate in social 
issues and create sustainable values, 
is becoming increasingly important. 
Companies are required to engage in 
strategic activities aimed at building a 
better society in solidarity with all the 
members of society.•	SK Telecom is striving to build a social 
safety net and exert a good influence on 
society through its social contribution 
activities. We are expanding our social 
impact through our social contribution 
campaigns and our employees’ 
professional volunteering services.•		Raising funds through various donation platforms
	 －		Using	them	for	the	AI	care	project	for	elderly	people	living	alone,	
the coding school project for youth with disabilities, etc.
•		Supporting the vulnerable through digital inclusion
   Social contributions - Building a sharing society, Digital inclusion  
p. 169-173 
Human capital 
development•	Human capital is an important asset for 
the growth of a company, serving as the 
key player in organizational innovation 
and performance creation. Therefore, 
activities to develop employees’ 
capabilities are essential for a company’s 
long-term growth and competitiveness.•	Securing professional talents is the core 
driving force of SK Telecom. We offer 
quality education to our employees based 
on a self-directed learning platform as 
part of our efforts to cultivate professional 
talents through the development of 
employees' competencies while nurturing 
them through internal and external 
cooperation.•		NEW ICT Academy, an in-house job training brand designed to  
foster professional talents
	 －		Approximately	200	in-house	training	courses	every	year
•		Start@ Program, an in-house venture program designed to 
strengthen employees’ capabilities in commercialization
•		Invested KRW 3.1 million per person in employee training in 2020, 
and the number of accumulated participants reached 129,657 ,  
the highest figure ever
 Employees - Human resources development p. 149
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 066 Value to Business 067Stakeholder Engagement
We amended our Articles of Incorporation to include SKMS in March 2017, which was followed by the 
inclusion into our Corporate Governance Charter in February 2018. We classified our stakeholders into 
six groups – customers, business partners, employees, local communities/NGOs, shareholders, and the 
government – and included content emphasizing the pursuit of stakeholders’ happiness in the Articles of 
Incorporation in 2020.
We encourage our stakeholders’ engagement as a way to gain their trust and support and to enhance our 
management transparency and efficiency. We have therefore established our stakeholder engagement 
policies and announced our commitment to stakeholder engagement both internally and externally. 
Our stakeholder engagement policy stipulates company-wide guidelines for communication with our 
stakeholders, including the conditions for the participation of both internal and external stakeholders in our 
management activities and our issue resolution process.
We disclose our management direction and achievements through various management disclosures, 
business reports, BOD meetings, shareholder meetings and the company website, in our efforts to practice 
transparent management. As part of our stakeholder engagement policy, we operate various communication 
channels to collect our stakeholders’ opinions. For each channel, we appoint a staff from each stakeholder 
department for responsible operations.
In particular, we are running a comprehensive online channel on our company website to collect our 
stakeholders’ ESG grievances in the areas of labor, human rights, ethics and the environment. We intend to 
ensure that all our stakeholders can freely share their opinions about our business practices and cases of 
inflicted damages, as well as violations of social responsibility, as a way to address them most effectively. 
After checking the veracity of the issues raised through the ESG grievance channel, we do our utmost 
to resolve them by ensuring that the relevant departments perform the necessary monitoring and due 
diligence. We then report the contents, handling process, and results of all the matters assessed and 
handled as ESG-related material issues to the ESG Committee under the BOD, and reflect the outcomes in 
our business performance to prevent similar grievances from arising in the future.
Going forward, we will upgrade our existing communication channels by 2023 and increase the frequency of 
communication with potential and major stakeholders according to the “Double Bottom Line” management 
policy, which takes not only economic value, but also social value created through corporate operation as 
one of the pillars of our business performance. Starting in 2025, we will establish and apply a methodology 
that reflects the social value needs of potential and major stakeholders at the planning stage of all our new 
products and services.In accordance with SKMS, SK Group’s business management system updated in 2016, 
SK Telecom aims to contribute to the country’s economic development, satisfy its stakeholders, 
create social value, and promote the well-being of humankind.
Stakeholder 
Engagement on 
Material Issues 
& Communication 
Channels
Process Upon 
the Occurrence 
of an Issue
1)  If the responsible department that first encounters the issue deems that it is unable to derive a solution in terms of the issue’s 
urgency, significance, impact, and solution methods, it asks for engagement of the central department.
2)  If it is deemed possible to resolve the issue through the additional involvement of R&C and delegation of rights, the department 
in charge is empowered for issue resolution. If it is judged that a company-wide response is required, the company’s central 
department in charge solves the issue.Analyzing issues
S/H CommunicationSeeking for solutions by collaborating departments1)
Feedback & Report
Deriving solutions by 
collaborating departmentsEngagement by the company-wide 
division in charge2)
Empowerment of 
solutions to departments 
in charge
Identification of 
solutions on a central 
department level•T world (online customer center),  
customer centers
•Blogs, Facebook, and other  
social media channels
•Hosting annual conferences and  
events
•Hosting biannual meetings with 
NGOs•Labor union (website for labor unions)
•Letter to HR (in-house intranet)
•My Counselor (in-house intranet)•Corporate Day
•Annual general meeting (AGM)
•Quarterly earnings results and NDR
•Hosting the Win-Win Council
•Conducting BP satisfaction  
surveys
•Holding regular meetings and 
discussionsInquiries on products and services, 
suggestions, and other comments
Consumer complaints, 
communication tariff policies, 
environmental protection issues 
etc. HR-related issues such as changes 
in management environment, 
salary negotiations, etc.Issues on stock price changes and 
dividend fluctuations, changes in 
the management environment and 
management performance,  
general meetings of shareholders
Mutual cooperation-related 
issues such as fair contract,
unfair trading, etc.
Telecommunication policies,  
business opportunities and risksESG 
Grievances/
Complaints 
ChannelShareholders Employees
NGO & Local 
CommunitiesGovernmentBusiness 
PartnersCustomers
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 068 Value to Business 069Mid-to Long-term Strategy
• Build a complete 5G infrastructure to lead 5G technologies and services
•  Consolidate a base for transformation by bolstering AI & data-related 
application technologies
•  Take the lead in application technologies in order to strengthen such base 
technologies as cloud, quantum, and AI accelerator chipsStrengthening ICT Infrastructure
“Develop the best technology and  
infrastructure to lead the industry”
•  Evolve into an AI-based subscription service company by going beyond  
a traditional mobile network operator
•  Accelerate the growth in enterprise business
•  Discover new ICT-based business models
•  Restructure the business to expand the value of the New ICT businessCreating New Value through Business Restructuring
“Transform our identity into an AI Company”
•  Generate more synergy by sharing competency and infrastructure among  
SK ICT Family companies
•  Innovate business models by integrating competencies with those of  
domestic and foreign business partners
•  Align social responsibilities with business models based on cooperation with 
stakeholdersPursuing Sustainable Growth through  
Openness and Collaboration
“Create new value through collaboration with various players”
As we are ushering into the Fourth Industrial Revolution, 
convergence between industries and core technologies 
is gaining importance all around the world. Solutions that 
use AI and big data, in particular, are already affecting our 
daily lives in significant ways. The company is therefore 
required to secure core technologies and strengthen its 
competitiveness while seizing every opportunity to be reborn 
as a global ICT company.Materiality
With the introduction of a dual OS system, SK T elecom 
has reorganized its business structure into MNO (mobile 
communication) and New Biz (media, S&C, commerce, and 
mobility), based on which we are promoting multi-faceted 
businesses. Each of our business division is focusing on 
building competency so as to guarantee effective growth 
through sector-specific business management.
In addition, to enhance our shareholder value and accelerate 
corporate growth, we are planning to restructure SK T elecom 
into two entities – a fixed and wireless telecommunication 
company, which includes SK Broadband; and a holding 
company with semiconductors and new ICT assets such as 
SK hynix, ADT Caps, 11st, and T map Mobility Co. The existing 
entity will consolidate its wired and wireless communication 
infrastructure to grow into an AI-based infrastructure 
company with AI-based subscription services and data 
centers as its growth drivers, while the spin-off new entity will 
grow into a holding company specializing in ICT through bold 
investment and value-up with a focus on the semiconductor, 
life platform, and global tech. seeding areas.Our ApproachLeading New ICT EcosystemGlobal Big Tech.
In an active response to the rapid change in the ICT market, SK Telecom is 
emerging as a globally competitive ICT conglomerate, reaching beyond its status 
as a leading mobile network operator. Through hyper-collaboration between 
companies and across industries, we will strengthen our capabilities and create 
new economic outcomes in our core sectors. Furthermore, we will take the lead 
in innovating the ICT ecosystem by expanding our lines of business to include 
comprehensive media, ICT convergent security, commerce, and more.
Performance and Management
Media
•		Growing into a No. 1 AI and data-based  
media platform operator in all fields, 
ranging from sales to number of subscribers,  
by 2023 by upgrading media platform and 
expanding customer-based services and 
business model
S&C
•		Achieving a successful IPO by maximizing 
corporate value through technology-
based business model innovation, 
expansion of new business areas such 
as convergent security and parking, and 
global advancement
Commerce
•		Laying the foundation for continuous 
growth and a successful IPO by 
strengthening customer influx and 
activity, improving the growth potential 
of existing business models, and actively 
promoting external partnerships
Mobility
•		Aiming to achieve corporate value of 
KRW 4.5 trillion by 2025 by building 
a foundation for a leap forward as 
a comprehensive mobility operator, 
increasing the social value of mobility, 
and leading future mobility based on 
data technology
5G
•		Increasing the number of subscribers, 
average revenue per user (ARPU) and 
sales, and expanding the proportion 
of new business within 3 years through 
marketing innovation and new business 
models based on the company’s network 
competency
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 070 Value to Business 071Strengthening ICT Infrastructure
Succeeded in 5G SA-SCP equipment interworking for the first time in Korea      SK T elecom has succeeded 
in 5G standalone (SA) data communication which features two times faster communication access times and 
three times higher data processing efficiency because it does not require interworking with the LTE network. 
The new technology offers 5G services that are four to five times faster than the non-standalone (NSA) method 
that uses both 5G and LTE. In particular, being equipped with the network slicing technology, it can provide the 
customized traffic quality required by customers, greatly contributing to vitalizing next-generation services, 
including AR, VR, autonomous driving and smart factories, in the 5G era. SK T elecom will strive to provide the 
best 5G networks and services so that its customers can enjoy stable, high-quality 5G services.
Adopted 5G wireless fronthaul equipment     SK T elecom has been active in upgrading the fronthaul, an 
optical cable-based wired section that transmits data signals collected from the antennae of a base station to 
the distribution device, and, as a result, has built the nation’s first 5G wireless fronthaul equipment. With the 5G 
wireless fronthaul equipment, 5G services can be provided in areas where it used to be difficult to bury optical 
cables in the ground, such as old town centers or mountainous areas where the installation is restricted. We 
will build a more sophisticated 5G network by expanding the installation of the 5G wireless fronthaul equipment 
to islands without bridges to the mainland and remote areas in mountainous regions. SK T elecom will continue 
to provide differentiated technology and the highest level of mobile communication quality by continuously 
expanding its 5G coverage and network.
Exported 5G in-building technology to Europe      SK T elecom has exported its 5G in-building technology 
to Europe, where the network environment has a room for improvement. We joined forces with and transferred 
the technology to Deutsche T elekom, the largest telecommunication company in Europe, in order to develop a 
“5G RF repeater”, a key device that receives 5G radio waves from outdoor base stations, amplifies and spreads 
them indoors where radio waves are hard to reach, such as buildings, tunnels, and underground spaces, in a 
bid to significantly expand the 5G communication coverage. In Korea, we began to install 5G RF repeaters in 
major buildings in 2019, and in collaboration with Deutsche T elekom, we have upgraded the system to fit the 
European environment. In recognition of our technological excellence, SK T elecom won an award at the “Small 
Cell Awards 2020”, in the “Commercial Small Cell Design and T echnology” category hosted by the Small Cell 
Forum (SCF).5G mobile edge computing      SK T elecom has been globally recognized for its 5G-based mobile edge 
computing (MEC) technology, a next-generation 5G core technology that reduces data transmission intervals 
through a small-scale data center located close to a user. The technology enhances the performance of 
ultra-low latency services, such as cloud games, smart factories, autonomous driving, and vehicle control, 
as well as realizing high-speed networking, thus enabling us to promote business cooperation with Microsoft 
and Amazon Web Services (AWS). Going forward, we will offer dedicated MEC services to those of our 
corporate customers that aim to introduce 5G-based B2B services, such as smart factories and smart 
offices, while striving to build an MEC ecosystem for both B2B and B2C customers based on our network 
competitiveness and excellent cloud services through hyper-cooperation.
Changdeok Arirang ServiceLeading 
Global ICTSK Telecom is strengthening its ICT infrastructure by constantly developing new technologies using 
5G networks. To prepare for the next-generation technologies and accelerate their implementation, 
we are building core infrastructure for AI, VR, autonomous driving, and IoT.
AR guide 
by Haechi
AR selfie with 
a king and/
or queenAR Chun-aeng-moo  
- a royal court 
danceAR kite flying AR archery 
with a princeInternet data center
Internet
5G base station in the Palace
360° VR view 
of pavilions
 5G MobileMEC Wireless 
carrier
AR attractions that allow users to 
experience the culture of the 
Joseon dynasty
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 072 Value to Business 073
Won the “Best 5G International Commercial Launch” at the 5G World Awards
At the 5G World Awards 2020 held online on September 2, 2020, SK T elecom won an award in the 
“Best 5G International Commercial Launch” category for its leadership in 5G technology, including the 
launch of VR and AR services using 5G technology, as well as the world’s first commercialization of 5G. 
It was the fourth consecutive year that we earned recognition at the 5G World Awards. We will further 
sharpen our competitive edge based on our 5G technology through hyper-cooperation and a shared 
infrastructure.CASE
Leading the international standards for quantum cryptography communication     The security of 
information exchanged between devices is gaining importance as more and more devices are connected 
to the network to make everyday life more convenient in the 5G era. Computer performance and hacking 
technology are developing continuously, but the leakage of cryptographic keys using existing digital 
technologies has become much easier as well, thus requiring a higher level of security technology. SK 
T elecom has invested in quantum cryptography communication technology utilizing quantum characteristics 
since 2011 to generate cryptographic keys that cannot be hacked by a third party for the sender and receiver.
In March 2020, the “Security consideration for quantum key distribution network” was finally approved 
as an international standard at an ITU-T (International T elecommunication Union’s T elecommunication 
Standardization Division) conference. In September, two cases were preliminarily approved as international 
standards – “key combination and confidential key supply for quantum key distribution networks” and “security 
framework for quantum key distribution networks”. The European T elecommunication Standards Institute 
(ETSI) has adopted the “proposal for standardization of integrated management of quantum key distribution 
networks” as a standardization task. SK T elecom, as a leader in the creation of international standards in 
quantum cryptography communication, will continue to make investments so that we can take the lead in the 
overall development of quantum cryptography communication technology, including the commercialization of 
networks and terminals. 
Leading the Standard for Quantum Cryptography Communication
Commercialization of 5GX Supernova      SK T elecom has commercialized the “5GX Supernova”, an AI 
image quality improvement technology, for the broadcast and media industry. This technology improves the 
quality of video and sound sources to the original level through a “De-oldify” technology that remasters old 
videos into newest ones based on AI deep learning. In November 2020, SK T elecom signed a technology 
licensing agreement with MBC to upscale the SD images of old contents into full HD images through the 
5GX Supernova, enabling the television network to complete the high-definition conversion almost in real 
time, as opposed to the several months that it used to take to manually upscale a series. The first target 
of AI remastering was the Korean TV drama series “Dae Jang Geum”. On November 14, 2020, the HD-
version of “Dae Jang Geum” was broadcast on MBC Dramanet and MBC ON while also being provided by 
Btv as a VOD. SK T elecom expects not only to be able to provide high-definition version of old contents to 
domestic viewers but also to greatly contribute to the export of K-Wave contents overseas through the 5GX 
Supernova.Expansion of the AI platform “NUGU” service areas      Using its AI platform “NUGU”, SK T elecom has 
launched a series of new services, including “T Phone × NUGU”, an intelligent service which combines the “T 
Phone” communication platform; “NUGU infocall”, where an AI consultant performs customer center tasks; 
and “NUGU opal”, a service customized for the elderly. As the first step in our pursuit of AI personalization, 
“T Phone × NUGU” makes smartphone functions accessible through voice as a result of the realization 
of a command and response system close to human-to-human dialogue. It provides news and weather 
information based on usage patterns and location/time as well as personalized contents such as music 
and food recommendations. “NUGU Infocall” informs users of non-payment details and due payment dates 
through AI, allowing customer center staff to focus on responding to complex consultation requests while 
simple repetitive tasks are handled by AI agents. “NUGU opal” helps prevent dementia and provides useful 
health information with its medication and daily schedule alarm functions, brain gymnastics, health doctor, 
and karaoke service. It is also equipped with a safety feature that notifies guardians when it has not been 
used for days on end, and enables users to send out an SOS with a simple command “Aria, Save me”.
NUGU infocall ServiceFacilitating 
Quantum 
Cryptography 
Communication 
Ecosystem
Hyper 
Innovation 
by Adding AI
to 5GR&D Investment
Unit 2018 2019 2020
R&D 
expenses1) KRW billion 635.5 582.5 597.2
R&D 
manpowerPersons 1,594 1,538 1,572
1)  Sum of pure R&D expenses (network infrastructure, marketing 
infrastructure, new growth business), R&D investment (AI 
business/device, etc., equity investment), growth business 
investment (CAPEX, OPEX), and related organizations’ costsCAPEX
Unit 2018 2019 2020
CAPEX Total KRW trillion 2.1 2.9 2.2
Network 
CAPEXKRW trillion 1.7 2.5 1.9
Non-Network 
CAPEXKRW trillion 0.4 0.4 0.3Customers with
unpaid invoicesCounselor
SKT’s IP 
multimedia 
subsystem (IMS)
SKT customer 
management 
system
Check consultation 
historySend call history
Transmit target 
informationData transmission
Data transmission
Establish a 
consultation plan
Voice answerVoice guidance 
(TTS)
NLU
Natural Language 
Understanding - natural 
language processing in 
artificial intelligence
DM
Decision Maker - making 
decisions on the next 
dialogue or action 
depending on the context 
of dialogueSTT
Speech to Text - 
conversion from 
speech to text
TTS
Text to Speech - 
conversion from 
text to speechNUGU infocall
 
Transforming Korea into an AI powerhouse by developing the nation’s first AI semiconductor
SK T elecom is taking the lead in the development of AI semiconductors based on the neural processing unit (NPU), the core of AI technology. In 
April 2020, we succeeded in developing Aldebaran (AB9), an ultra-low-power AI semiconductor for servers, in partnership with the Electronics and 
T elecommunications Research Institute (ETRI). The semiconductor, which is as small as a coin, boasts 40 TFLOPS1) of operation speed and consumes 
as little as 15-20 watts of power, making it faster than conventional semiconductors (31.4 TFLOPS, 300 watts) while improving power efficiency by 
more than ten times. On the back of this achievement, we have secured government subsidies of KRW 70.8 billion for the development of a next-
generation 1000 TFLOPS-class ultra-low-power AI semiconductor, through developing a 200TFLOPS-class one, over eight years, in partnership with 
14 institutions including Furiosa AI, OpenEdge, Seoul National University, and SK hynix. Meanwhile, in November 2020, we unveiled SAPEON X220, 
an AI semiconductor for data centers developed in-house, at the “Korean New Deal Meets Korean Artificial Intelligence” held at KINTEX, Ilsan. The 
AI semiconductor handles 1.5 times more data than conventional GPU-based devices, yet consumes 60W per 1000TFLOPS which was as little as 
80% of power compared to existing semiconductors, and sells at half the price. As the global leader in the sector, SK T elecom is leading the way in 
developing semiconductors in Korea while significantly influencing the formation of government policies for the industry.CASE
1)  TFLOPS (teraflops): 1 TFLOPS means one trillion floating-point operations per second
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 074 Value to Business 075Standardization 
of integrated 
managementSDN Orchestrator
SDN Optical communication network 1
SDN Optical communication network 2
SDN Optical communication network N
SDN Quantum cryptography communication network 1
SDN Quantum cryptography communication network 2
SDN Quantum cryptography communication network NCreating New Value through 
Business Restructuring
Strengthening media services by converging them with AR and VR      Amid the proliferation of non-face-
to-face services due to the COVID-19 pandemic, SK T elecom is expanding its augmented reality (AR) and 
virtual reality (VR) businesses. In October 2020, we expanded and moved Jump Studio1), an AR/VR/mixed 
reality (MR) content production studio, to our head office at T T ower in a bid to promote our 5G content 
business in earnest. In particular, we will focus on the content production business, which customizes 
super-realistic contents, using AR, VR, and MR technologies, for companies in the fields of entertainment, 
advertising, sports, and education, as well as the distribution business so as to enable users around the world 
to enjoy diverse contents using AR/VR apps.
In 2020, SK T elecom launched a business that customizes ultra-realistic contents to meet the needs of 
diverse companies, especially in the entertainment sector. Among those that have well received by global 
audiences include the “Volumetric Human” performance by Lia Kim, an iconic K-pop choreographer; content 
showing SK Wyverns players pitching balls or swinging their bats using superpowers; and a 12-meter-high 
virtual video of celebrity Si Won Choi at the online-only paid concert “Beyond Live” of SM Entertainment. In 
addition, we are actively promoting the global expansion of JUMP AR/VR services in partnership with leading 
ICT companies of countries across the globe such as PCCW Group, a Hong Kong-based ICT company. 
Going forward, SK T elecom will expand AR/VR contents ecosystem by advancing MR contents and 
enhancing contents creating platform.
Expanding original contents of wavve      The cultural content industry in Korea is changing rapidly under 
the impulsion of the IT industry and over-the-top (OTT) services. Since launching “wavve” in collaboration 
with such three broadcasting companies as KBS, MBC, and SBS, we have secured competitiveness by 
focusing on strengthening our premium content capabilities, including the expansion of our original contents. 
1)  Jump Studio has adopted Microsoft’s 3D Volumetric Video Capture technology for the first time in Asia, and is equipped with a 
facility that can create high-definition 3D holograms that move naturally and realistically, using 106 cameras that can shoot 
60 frames per second.5G-based 
Media 
Innovation
A scene from the “Volumetric Human” performance 
by Lia Kim, an iconic K-pop choreographerExpanding 
Convergent 
Security ServicesAI-based 
Subscription 
Services
A scene from the online concert 
“Beyond Live”
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 076 Value to Business 077Following the release of “The T ale of Nokdu” in September 2019 as its first original content, wavve invested 
KRW 60 billion in 2020 and produced a variety of dramas such as “SF8”, “Lies of Lies”, “Alice”, and “Zombie 
Detective”. In 2021, we aim to invest KRW 80 billion to release at least five original works in the first half of 
the year. In cooperation with Kakao M in the content field, wavve has also released some of Kakao’s original 
shows, such as “Love Revolution”, “Amanja”, “Daughter-in-law”, and “Not Y et 30” on its platform. We will 
continue to invest in wavve so that it can grow into a platform that contributes to the development of the 
media content industry. We will intensify our cooperation with global operators such as NBC Universal, while 
bolstering our content competitiveness so that we can expand worldwide through content export by wavve.
Transforming into an “AI-based subscription service company”     SK T elecom is in the process of 
transforming itself into an “AI-based subscription service company” as a new business model and growth 
engine. We have been expanding our partnership since the launch of subscription services in areas closely 
related to daily life, such as children’s education with Woongjin Thinkbig, the rental of household appliances 
with SK magic, and bakery subscription with Paris Baguette. Going forward, we will expand customer choice 
by launching a subscription package that offers subscription choices at a reasonable price through the 
launch of more diverse subscription products. We will also make continuous efforts to communicate with 
customers using our AI Agents, through which we recommend subscription services appropriate to each 
customer’s taste, while making our AI-based recommendation services more sophisticated by using data 
generated in the process. In addition, we will develop T membership into a new marketing platform accessible 
to all 50 million citizens in Korea, and further strengthen our services with the launch of a subscription 
specialty store.
Leading the convergent security market through technical collaboration      As next-generation 
technologies, such as AI and quantum information science (QIS), are attracting widespread attention as 
future security technologies, large IT companies and mobile carriers are collaborating with other industries 
on the development of convergent security technologies that combine security technology with ICT 
technology in order to enter the market. SK T elecom is providing new security services through the 
convergence of its ICT with SK infosec’s information security platform and ADT Caps’ dispatchers. Also, 
through the “CAPS Smart Village”, which combines the smart home functions required to control multi-
dwelling housing environments with the security system of ADT Caps, we are providing apartments with 
customized security services consisting of integrated security, intelligent CCTV, vehicle management, and 
fire detection systems. Furthermore, we have launched – in partnership with Samsung Electronics – Galaxy 
A Quantum, the world’s first 5G smartphone equipped with a quantum random number generator chipset 
designed to help smartphone users to safely use specific services by generating unpredictable, pattern-free, 
purely random numbers.
We have signed a public-private cooperation memorandum of understanding (MoU) for on the development 
of a “voice phishing number blocking service” with the Financial Security Institute, which is devoted to 
security in the financial sector, and we are also helping strengthen the nation’s competitiveness in financial 
security by jointly developing a voice phishing blocking system and improving the smishing blocking system. 
We are further strengthening security for the industry by launching the T-ID app, which has applied quantum 
technology (quantum cryptography) to servers and solutions, and a “quantum OTP authentication” function 
to protect information by generating random numbers that cannot be hacked externally.Accelerated the mobility business by partnering with global leaders in autonomous driving      SK 
T elecom is partnering with global companies aimed at accelerating the expansion of its mobility business. 
With the growing interest in “spending time in the car” ahead of the era of autonomous vehicles, the in-
vehicle infotainment (IVI) system market is expanding, while we are set to install the IVI system, developed 
on our own, in Volvo cars. This collaboration is expected to change radically alter the consumer’s concept 
of the car from a conventional motor vehicle to a smart device. We have also collaborated with the global 
electronics company Pioneer Smart Sensing Innovations (PSSI) to unveil a prototype of the “next-generation 
single-photon LiDAR” at the CES 2020. LiDAR scans its surroundings with a laser and models them into a 
3D image, making it a crucial technology that will serve as the eyes of self-driving cars. The product unveiled 
at the show was the result of combining SK T elecom’s 1,550nm single-photon lidar transmission/reception 
technology with PSSI's 2D MEMS mirror scanning technology; it is the world's first case in which both 
resolution and recognition have been improved significantly compared to existing technologies, boasting 
the highest level of performance. The prototype is scheduled for commercialization within 2021, and we will 
maintain our partnership with PSSI to further upgrade the next-generation single-photon lidar sensor.
Taking the Lead 
in the Next-
generation 
Mobility MarketCooperation with Amazon in the field of e-commerce      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, contact 
between people has been minimized and non-face-to-face transactions have become usual, with online/
mobile shopping serving as the major means of commerce in the contactless era. SK T elecom is actively 
promoting its commerce business through 11st and SK stoa. We are continuously expanding our commerce 
business through 11st, which was incorporated as a subsidiary of SK T elecom in 2018, while SK stoa has 
grown into the No. 1 t-commerce company in the industry expanding its channels and store brands. In 2020, 
the commerce business recorded revenue of KRW 714.2 billion, an increase of 12.1% Y oY , and an operating 
income of KRW 11 billion, turning a profit for the second consecutive year. At the end of 2020, we promoted 
cooperation with Amazon, the world’s largest e-commerce company, through an agreement that has further 
strengthened our commerce competitiveness by allowing 11st’s customers to place Amazon orders on 
its platform. We will offer better services to our customers and strengthen our product competitiveness to 
empower 11st’s growth into a “global distribution hub” platform.
Accelerated investment in “ T map”  through spin-off of mobility business      In order to better respond to 
the changing mobility industry, SK T elecom has spun off the T map division and established T map Mobility 
Co. which is striving to preoccupy the market, based on its strong independent management, quickly by 
developing next-generation services, increasing its collaboration with domestic and foreign companies, and 
attracting more investment, among other initiatives. The company’s four core mobility businesses include 
platform business, including T map-based parking/advertising/insurance services; in-vehicle infotainment 
systems (IVI) and in-vehicle payment services; on-demand mobility services, including taxi hailing and 
surrogate driving; and an all-in-one Maas (Mobility as a Service) that bundles a variety of transportation 
means into a subscription package. Based on T map, which accounts for 70% of the domestic mobile 
navigation market, T map Mobility Co. is demonstrating great growth potential, and is expected to increase 
its corporate value to KRW 4.5 trillion by 2025, far surpassing the KRW 1 trillion estimated upon its launch.
Established a mobility JV between T map and Uber     We have established a joint venture (JV) with Uber 
to strengthen the competitiveness of T map T axi, our taxi-hailing service. We will offer an innovative taxi-
hailing service that enhances consumer convenience significantly by combining SK T elecom’s map and 
vehicle traffic analysis technology with Uber’s global operating experience and platform technology.Growing 
into a Global 
Distribution 
Hub Platform
SK Telecom
Discover global  
mobility partners
Invest in mobility  
startupsT map Taxi +  
Uber JV
Taxi-hailing businessT map Mobility Co.
T map platform,  
T map AUTO,  
On-Demand service,  
subscription mobility business, 
future mobility,  
etc.Spin-off of the 
mobility business
Uber
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 078 Value to Business 079Macrogen, a precision medicine biotechnology company, joined hands with SK T elecom and Invites 
Healthcare, to launch “care8 DNA”, a subscription healthcare service based on genetic testing, first of its kind 
in Korea. Optimized for the contact-free era, it is a new concept of subscription-based healthcare service that 
allows any SK T elecom subscriber over the age of 19 to receive personalized healthcare contents based on 
their genetic information. We will continue striving to enhance public convenience in various fields through 
advanced ICT, including 5G, AI, and big data.
Consortiums with public institutions and industry-academia partnerships      SK T elecom is expanding 
its consortiums with public institutions and industry-academia partnerships to incorporate innovative 
technologies such as 5G, AI and the IoT into ICT and spearhead the development of industries of the future, 
such as intelligent ports, innovative water management, smart factories, and AI healthcare. T o develop a 
“test bed for a 5G-based intelligent port”, we have formed a partnership with five organizations, including 
the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, Busan Port T erminal, and the Pusan National University IPTL Project 
Promotion T eam, and built a collaboration system to develop and foster a port logistics industrial ecosystem. 
In addition, we have signed an MOU with the Korea Water Resources Corporation to lead the development 
of smart water supply technologies, while helping the country realize water welfare for the vulnerable as part 
of the social safety net. We have also made great strides in the field of AI healthcare by developing a voice-
based dementia screening program using AI, together with Seoul National University School of Medicine, in 
a bid to create a broad-based testing environment in the area. We now plan to provide customized training 
necessary for the introduction and implementation of smart factory solutions through an MoU with Korea 
Polytechnic University to support the “Development of Smart Factories by Outstanding SMEs at the Sihwa 
Industrial Complex”. SK T elecom will continue to secure new growth engines by applying its own innovative 
technologies to various industries of the future.
Cooperation with local governments     SK T elecom has joined forces with local governments to offer 
various services such as ICT-based smart guard solutions, 5G-based road management, and Y outh Mall 
support. Selected as a winner for the MEC-based 5G public sector project with Gwangju Metropolitan City, 
we have laid the groundwork for its development into an AI-centric city equipped with MEC technology that 
can realize the potential of ultra-low latency, ultra-high-speed 5G communication networks. We have signed 
an MOU with the Seoul Metropolitan Government to offer IoT technology and location-based safety services 
for the socially disadvantaged, and thus developed the “Smart Guard” that helps quickly find missing persons 
from vulnerable groups, such as elderly people with dementia and persons with developmental disabilities, 
and supplied it to the municipal government and the Dementia Relief Center. We have also signed an MOU 
with the Jeonju City to promote various support programs aimed at reinvigorating the Y outh Mall hit by the 
COVID-19 crisis. Through this partnership, we have launched various promotional programs and events 
to help it secure new customers and increase sales, while offering discounts and gifts to T membership 
customers who visit the Mall, in an effort to help young merchants overcome the difficulties caused by 
COVID-19. As a responsible corporate citizen, we will continue to work with local governments to help 
resolve their social problems, including elderly people with dementia, and supporting young merchants and 
small business owners who are struggling to stand on their own two feet.Pursuing Sustainable Growth through 
Openness and Collaboration
SK T elecom strives to create new value by establishing an internal and external cooperation system that will 
lead the development of future-oriented industries based on its ICT capabilities. SK ICT Family companies are 
creating new business opportunities by sharing internal infrastructure. Of late, they are sharing infrastructure 
for mobile communication, media, S&C, and commerce, aimed for convergence with various industries such 
as autonomous driving and healthcare, thereby boosting their collective competitiveness. Externally, we 
are building new business models through hyper-collaboration with domestic and foreign companies and 
institutions. We will continue to develop and promote new collaboration plans in order to generate synergy 
while playing a central role as a hyper connector. SK T elecom will create social values in various business-
related areas while fulfilling social responsibilities as a responsible corporate citizen.
Collaboration with global key players      Based on its ICT technological prowess, SK T elecom is 
cooperating with ICT companies at home and abroad to discover future growth engines in games and 
e-sports sectors among others. In April 2020, through a strategic alliance with Nexon, a leading company in 
the game industry, we agreed to jointly conduct marketing activities for content and product services, and 
new games while launching VR games using Nexon IP . The collaboration was further solidified with the joint 
marketing of “KartRider Rush+”, a game that was ready to be released. Going forward, we expect to create 
synergy in areas such as IP , e-sports, VR and cloud games by combining Nexon’s game contents with SK 
T elecom’s competitiveness in communication and service areas.
In addition, we developed a 5G-based cloud game in collaboration with Microsoft while converting “5GX 
Cloud Game”, which had been in beta service for a year, into an official commercial service in 2020. The 5GX 
Cloud Game includes a variety of genres from blockbuster games verified on the Xbox, a console game, 
to indie games. It was simultaneously released in 22 countries including the U.S., Germany, France, and 
Canada. We have also joined hands with Amazon to commercialize “SKT 5GX Edge”, Korea’s first 5G edge 
cloud service, along with Amazon Web Services (AWS). The SKT 5GX Edge enables the quick connection 
to “Wavelength Zones” at SKT’s communication office, when apps access from the cloud, which reduces 
network latency and maximizes the benefits of 5G networks. SK T elecom will accelerate the spread of 5G 
services by providing specialized services and contents for the 5G environment, such as cloud games, 
e-sports, and cloud services.
Convergence and collaboration with other industries     As convergence is actively being promoted 
between ICT technology and other industries, we are strengthening collaboration in various fields such as 
tourism, finance, and healthcare. In May 2020, we signed an MoU with the Financial Security Institute, the 
operator of the Financial Data Exchange (FinDX), for the integration of communication-finance convergence 
data. Data integration is expected to spur the development of more diverse convergence data products 
and revitalize the financial data market. We also signed an MoU with Shinhan Card and the Korea Culture 
& T ourism Research Institute to promote the development of the tourism industry; and, using mobile and 
payment big data, we analyzed main tourist destinations, tourists’ order of visits, preferred destinations 
according to gender and age, and nearby commercial areas visited. Based on the results of the analysis, we 
produced differentiated strategies and implemented tailored advertising to boost tourism.Sharing 
Competency and 
Infrastructure 
of 5 Businesses 
Divisions and 
Building a Hyper-
Collaboration 
System
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 080 Value to Business 081Value to GovernanceSECTION 3.
•Corporate Governance
•Risk Management
•Ethical Management
•Compliance
•Supply Chain Management
•Cyber Security
•CustomersCorporate Governance
SK Telecom has established sound corporate governance and is taking the lead in 
transparent and responsible management. In February 2018, we enacted the Corporate 
Governance Charter to pursue the interests of our stakeholders, including shareholders, 
and to realize sustainable growth and development. 
At the 37th annual general meeting (AGM) in March 2021, we disclosed our commitment to, and action 
plan for, the establishment of transparent and sound governance through an amendment to the articles of 
incorporation in which we affirmed the importance of the Corporate Governance Charter. We will continue 
doing our best to protect the rights and interests of all our shareholders while bolstering our corporate value 
by establishing a more balanced governance structure. Our Charter, which can be found easily at our website, 
complies with the best practice standards set by the Korea Corporate Governance Service (KCGS).
Governance Structure
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 082 Value to Governance 083External AuditorAGM
BOD
CEO
Executives and the Management
Business Operation
Making decisions on major 
management agendaReporting activities of 
Audit Committee
Review of audit procedure 
and resultsReporting activities of the BOD•Approving financial statements
•	Appointing directors and auditors,  
and setting remuneration limits
•	Appointing the CEO, and overseeing 
the management
Audit
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Compensation 
Committee
Future Strategy 
Committee
Independent 
Director 
Recommendation 
Committee
Independent 
Director 
Recommendation 
Committee
CAPEX Review 
Committee 
HR/Compensation 
Committee
Corporate 
Citizenship 
Committee
ESG Committee
* As of current* Until May 26, 2021ShareholdersIn accordance with the national laws and our articles of incorporation, we protect the exercise of 
shareholders’ rights and guarantee the equitable treatment of all shareholders, including minority and foreign 
shareholders.
Function of management oversight       At the 37th AGM held on March 25, 2021, we appointed Y oung 
Sang Ryu as an executive director and Y oung Min Y oon as both an independent director and a member 
of the Audit Committee. The Meeting implemented its management oversight function by approving the 
remuneration limit for directors as well as the stock options for executives.
Shareholder-friendly management      We have adopted a concentrated voting system as a way to 
encourage general shareholders without a controlling share to voice their opinions. In addition to the 
introduction of the electronic voting system, we hold our AGM on days other than the last Friday of March, 
when many other AGMs are held, aimed at enhancing shareholders’ engagement. Since 2019, we have 
significantly improved shareholders’ convenience by providing them with detailed written information on 
SK T elecom’s major business performance, business vision, and financial status in advance, along with the 
notice of convocation of the meeting. At the start of the meeting, we demonstrate our latest advances in ICT 
and 5G services, among other developments, in order to deepen their understanding of the progress being 
made by the company. The 2020 meeting began with presentations by CEO Jung Ho Park and the heads 
of the four major business divisions – MNO, media, S&C, and commerce – of their business performance, 
management plans and visions, followed by a Q&A session involving direct communication between 
management and shareholders.
In order to minimize concerns about COVID-19 infection and further expand communication with 
shareholders, we held the 36th AGM in 2020 online for the first time in Korea, thereby allowing our 
shareholders to participate in the meeting through PCs and mobiles in real time. We also held the 37th AGM 
as an online event in March 2021. We used the disclosure of the Korea Exchange and our company website 
to notify our shareholders of the online general meeting, and encouraged their participation by setting a pre-
registration period, too. We will continue to take the lead in shareholder-friendly management through active 
communication with them.Annual 
General 
MeetingSK T elecom does not operate a differential voting stock system by which multiple voting rights are granted 
to specific shares according to the principle of one-share, one-vote. In fact, the treasury stock of 9,418,558 
shares is prevented from voting under the Commercial Act of Korea. As of 31 December 2020, 71,327,153 
shares (88.336% of total issued shares) have been granted voting rights.
Type of Shares and Voting Rights
Classification Number of shares issued Ratio (%) Note
Preferred shares – –
Common shares - with voting rights 71,327 ,153 88.336
Treasury shares 9,418,558 11.664
Total 80,745,711 100.0
SK T elecom encourages its CEO and executives to own stocks and pursues responsible management 
activities based on mid- to long-term performance while granting them stock options with a view to 
aligning the management’s interests with those of the shareholders. As of the end of December 2020, 
the government of the Republic of Korea did not hold a stake in SK T elecom. In terms of the founder and 
founding family ownership, 100 shares of SK T elecom are directly owned by T ae Won Chey, the company’s 
largest shareholder and the CEO of SK Holdings. T ae Won Chey holds an 18.44% stake in SK Holdings, and 
SK Holdings holds a 26.78% stake in SK T elecom.
Ownership by Executives1) and Special Interest Groups
Name Shares Stock optionsTotal 
(No. of shares)
CEO Jung Ho Park 2,500 177 ,610 180,110
President of MNO Young Sang Ryu 500 5,445 5,945
Executive of affiliated company Tae Won Chey 100 – 100
Executive of affiliated company Dong Hyun Jang 251 – 251
* As of December 31, 2020
1) Only the equity of registered executives is indicated.
Dividend policy and shareholder return     In accordance with the articles of incorporation, SK T elecom’s 
dividend is determined after considering its business performance, investment plans, financial status, and 
outlook. Dividends can be paid to shareholders in the form of cash or stocks. In the case of the latter, the 
types of new shares to be distributed can be determined through a resolution at the general shareholders' 
meeting when the company has issued several types of shares. At the end of each financial year, dividends 
are paid to shareholders or registered pledgees in the register of shareholders; and interim dividends are paid 
only once during the business year following a resolution of the BOD as of June 30. Since 2015, we have 
paid KRW 10,000, including an interim dividend of KRW 1,000, as the total annual dividend. The dividend yield 
at the end of 2020 stood at 4.1%. The change of the interim dividend to a quarterly dividend was approved at 
the 2021 AGM, and we will apply this change. Meanwhile, we canceled 8,685,568 treasury stocks (10.8% of 
issued shares) to enhance shareholder value in May 2021.Shares and 
Ownership 
Structure
1 SK Holdings 26.78%
2  National Pension  
Service 10.97%
3  Institutional investors  
and minority  
shareholders 49.02%
4 Kakao Corp. 1.57%
5 Treasury shares 11.66%
Major 
Shareholders1
2
354
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 084 Value to Governance 085Director nomination process
Composition and operation      The BOD, as the company’s highest decision-making body, serves to 
mediate various interests with the stakeholders and perform management supervisory functions. The BOD 
fulfills its roles and responsibilities as delegated by the shareholders based on the relevant laws and the 
articles of incorporation in making final decisions on corporate management. The BOD pursues growth 
strategies through strategic decision-making and realizes shareholder return through stable management 
and the generation of profits. Accordingly, the BOD deals with issues related to conflicts of interest, such as 
the company’s investment plans and insider trading, while reviewing all potential risks within the company, 
including deliberation and approval of compensation requests. The BOD and its committees strive to deepen 
their operational expertise through expert briefings on the company’s management status, among others, 
and subsequent Q&A sessions. In 2020, a total of 13 board meetings were held with a participation rate of 
96.67%.Composition of BOD Board of 
Directors
1. Business Strategy, Business Development,  
 M&A 37.5%
2. Communication, Media 12.5%
3. Finance, Macro Economics, Accounting 12.5%
4. ICT Convergence, Growth Business 37.5%1. Research, Scholar 37.5%
2. Government 12.5%
3. Corporate 50.0%Specialties Career 
Highlights
1
2 34
3
21
1. 0-1 year 37.5%
2. 2-4 years 62.5%
3. 5-7 years 0%1. 41-50 25.0%
2. 51-60 50.0%
3. 60+ 25.0%Tenure Age
1 3
2
1
2
1. Male 87.5%
2. Female 12.5%Gender
12
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 086 Value to Governance 087Majority of shares 
represent-ed at General 
Meeting of Shareholders 
& more than one fourth 
of total number of 
sharesExpertise
Independence
Industry Experience 
& Tenure
Consideration of diversity 
including gender, race/
ethnicity, country of 
origin and nationality, 
and prevention of 
discrimination on that 
basisIndependent 
Director 
Recommendation 
CommitteeResolution 
on the 
Appointment
at the AGM
Those who do not fall 
under independence 
disqualification criteria 
and conflict of interest 
(Article 32 (3) of SK 
Telecom’s Articles of 
Incorporation)Pool of 
Experts for 
Independent 
DirectorsBOD characteristics
Independence•Have increased the proportion of independent directors to ensure independence
•Proportion of independent directors: 62.5% (Korean conglomerates: 50.9%1) on average)
•Provide the judgement criteria for independent directors’ independence and transparency  
in the BOD regulations in keeping with the Commercial Act, Monopoly Regulation and  
Fair Trade Act, and other relevant laws
•Appoint the BOD chair among independent directors
Expertise• Have established the procedure for appointment of directors aimed at securing directors 
with professional competence in mobile communication2)
• Form the BOD composed of directors with in-depth knowledge and experience in 
communication, media, security, AI, and cloud
• Recommend and appoint experts who can fill the existing BOD’s skills gap as new directors
• Maintain the percentage of directors with experience in mobile communication at  
a certain level
• No. of ICT experts among the 8 industry experts in the BOD: 5
Efficiency• Set the limit for the number of concurrent positions held by independent directors and 
auditors to a maximum of two
• Have established and operate various committees to perform the BOD’s responsibilities  
and roles efficiently and professionally
Diversity• Pursue diversity without discrimination in terms of gender, race/ethnicity, country/national 
origin, religion, disability, etc.
1)  Announcement by the Korea Fair Trade Commission of the status of corporate governance of group companies as of December 
2020
2) Telecommunication Services (GICS Tier-1)
Education for independent directors in 2020
Date Organizer Participants Content
Jan. 16Office of the 
Board of 
DirectorsJae Hoon Lee, 
Seok Dong Kim, 
Jung Ho Ahn, 
Young Min YoonTrends at CES 2020
Measures to operate “mySUNI”
Apr. 07Office of the 
Board of 
DirectorsYong Hak Kim, 
Jun Mo KimOrientation for new independent directors 
- SKT management strategies and status
Apr. 23Office of the 
Board of 
DirectorsYong Hak Kim, 
Seok Dong Kim, 
Jung Ho Ahn, 
Young Min Yoon, 
Jun Mo KimDirections and demonstration of
“NUGU Mobile Agent”
Jun. 25Office of the 
Board of 
DirectorsYong Hak Kim, 
Seok Dong Kim,
 Jung Ho Ahn, 
Young Min Yoon, 
Jun Mo KimPost-COVID work life and cultural innovationIndependence and conflicts of interest statement
Independence
Reasons for 
disqualification in the 
BOD regulations 
(based on Commercial 
Act, Monopoly Regulation
and Fair Trade Act, etc.)1.  Current executives, executive officers, and employees involved in the business 
affairs of the company; or former executives, executive officers and employees who 
have been involved in the business affairs of the company in the past two years;
2.   The largest shareholder of the company, and his/her spouse and lineal 
descendants and ascendants;
3.  If the largest shareholder is a corporate body, its directors, auditors, executive 
officers and employees;
4.  Spouses and lineal descendants and ascendants of the directors, auditors and 
executive officers of the company;
5.  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of the parent 
company or subsidiaries;
6.  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of corporate bodies 
who are major stakeholders; and
7.  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of other companies at 
which a director, executive officer or employee of the company is serving as a 
director or executive officer.
Transparency
Conflicts of interest1.  A person who controls a company having a competitive relationship with the 
Company, or anyone related to that person, under the Monopoly Regulation and 
Fair Trade Act; 
2.  A person who is, or who has been - within the last two years - an officer or an 
employee of a company having a competitive relationship with the Company,  
or a company which belongs to the same enterprise group as such competitor 
under the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act; and
3.  A person who is an executive/employee of a company that is the largest or 
second largest shareholder of a company in competition with the Company 
or a company belonging to the same corporate group under the Monopoly 
Regulation and Fair Trade Act, or who has been an executive/employee of such 
company within the last two years.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 088 Value to Governance 089Board of Directors  * Until May 26, 2021
Yong Hak Kim
Independent Director, Chairman of the Board
March 2020-March 2023
•Bachelors in Social Sciences, Yonsei University
•Master’s and Ph. D in Social Sciences,  
University of Chicago
•Current Professor Emeritus, Yonsei University
•Former President of Yonsei University
•Former Member of BK Planning Committee,  
Ministry of Education 
•Former Member of the Presidential Commission on  
Policy Planning
Social value creation, risk management
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, 
CAPEX Review CommitteeYoung Min Yoon
Independent Director
March 2018-March 2024
•Bachelor’s Degree in English, Korea University
•Master’s Degree in Advertising, Syracuse University
•Ph. D in Mass Communication, Syracuse University
•Current Professor, School of Media & Communication,  
Korea University 
•Former Dean, Media & Communication and Graduate School 
of Journalism & Mass Communication
•Former Vice-Chairwoman, Korean Academic Society for 
Public Relations 
•Former Advisor, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport
Media industry policy and strategy, communications,
risk management
Audit Committee, CAPEX Review Committee, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Seok Dong Kim
Independent Director
March 2019-March 2022
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration,  
Seoul National University
• Passed the 23rd Public Administration Examination
• Current Chairman, Jipyong Institute of Humanities & Society 
• Former Chairman, Financial Services Commission
• Former Vice Minister, Ministry of Finance & Economy 
• Former Vice Chairman, Financial Supervisory Commission
Financial policy, finance, accounting, risk management
Audit Committee, Independent Director Recommendation 
Committee, Compensation Committee, 
CAPEX Review CommitteeDae Sik Cho
Non-executive Director
March 2017-March 2023
• Bachelor’s Degree in Sociology, Korea University
• Master’s Degree in Business Administration, Clark University 
• Current Chairman of SK SUPEX Promotion Committee
• Former President & CEO, SK Holdings
• Former CFO, SK Holdings
• Former Head of Risk Management & Corporate Auditing 
Office, SK Holdings
Financial policy, finance, accounting, 
risk managementTerm of office
Career in brief
Expertise
Committee
Term of office
Career in brief
Expertise
CommitteeJung Ho Park
Executive Director
March 2017-March 2023
•Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration,  
Korea University
•Master’s Degree in Business Management,  
George Washington University
•Current President & CEO, SK Telecom and SK hynix
•Former President & CEO, SK Broadband
•Former President & CEO, SK Holdings
•Former EVP , Corporate Development Division at SK C&C 
ICT, M&A/business development, 
investment and risk management
Independent Director Recommendation CommitteeJun Mo Kim
Independent Director
March 2020-March 2023
•Bachelor’s Degree in Electrical Engineering,  
Seoul National University
•Master’s and Ph. D, MIT EECS
•Current Associate Professor, Electrical & Electronic Engineering,  
KAIST
•Former Assistant Professor, Electrical & Electronic Engineering,  
KAIST
•Former Professional Research Fellow, Samsung Advanced 
Institute of Technology
    
AI, data, growth strategy, telecommunication
Compensation Committee, CAPEX Review Committee, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee
Jung Ho Ahn
Independent Director
March 2017-March 2023
• Bachelor’s Degree in Electrical Engineering,  
Seoul National University
•Master’s & Ph. D in Electrical Engineering, Stanford University  
•Current Professor, Graduate School of Convergence Science 
and Technology, Seoul National University
•Former Visiting Scholar, Google Inc.
•Former Senior Research Scientist, Exascale Computing Lab, 
HP Labs
Convergence science, growth strategy, telecommunication
Audit Committee, Independent Director Recommendation 
Committee, CAPEX Review Committee, Corporate Citizenship 
CommitteeYoung Sang Ryu
Executive Director
March 2018-March 2024
• Bachelor’s & Master’s Degrees in Industrial Engineering, 
Seoul National University
•Master of Business Administration (MBA),  
University of Washington 
•Current President of MNO, SK Telecom
•Former Head of Corporate Center, SK Telecom
•Former EVP of Business Development Group, SK C&C
•Former SVP of Business Development Office, SK Telecom 
•Former SVP of Project Promotion Center, SK Telecom
M&A/business development, finance, investment, 
management of company-wide information security
CAPEX Review Committee
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 090 Value to Governance 091BOD Activities in 2020
No. Date Key agenda itemsAttendance 
rate
431 Jan. 16 •2020 business plan 87.5%
432 Feb. 06•The 36th financial statements
•Delegation of long-term borrowing
•The 36th business report
•Participation in capital increase for invested companies, SK SEA Investment
•Contribution to the Korea Fencing Association in 2020
•Donations for social value creation
•Evaluation of internal accounting control system
•Follow-up reports from Q4 2019100%
433 Feb. 20•Convocation of the 36th AGM
•Results of the evaluation of the internal accounting control system100%
434 Mar. 26•Appointment of the BOD Chairperson
•Appointment of the CEO 
•Appointment of the committee members
•Trade with SK Holdings in Q2 2020100%
435 Apr. 23•	Payment of operating expenses to the SUPEX Promotion Committee  
in 2020
•	Follow-up reports from Q1 202087.5%
436 May 28•	Investment in SK Telecom TMT Investment Corp., an overseas affiliate,  
to invest in NANO-X IMAGING Ltd.
•	Investment in overseas affiliate ID Quantique SA87.5%
437 Jun. 25 •Trade with SK Holdings in Q3 2020 100%
438 Jul. 21•Interim dividends
•Settlement of accounts for the 1st half of 2020
•Follow-up reports from Q2 2020100%
439 Aug. 27 •Conclusion of trust contract to acquire treasury stock 100%
440 Sep. 25•Trade with SK Holdings in Q4 2020
•Donations to Center for Social value Enhancement Studies (CSES) in 2020
•Sale of SK Academy in Yongin to SK hynix
•Compensation linked to corporate value100%
441 Oct. 15•Approval of company spin-off plan
•Convocation of the 1st extraordinary general meeting (EGM) in 2020
•Designation of the record date 
•Follow-up reports from Q3 2020100%No. Date Key agenda itemsAttendance 
rate
442 Nov. 26•Lease agreement on the SUPEX Center at Indeung Mountain for 2021
•	Conclusion of landscape and facility management services deal with  
SK Forestry for 2021
•Sharing of SK Academy operation costs in 2021
•Conclusion of joint agreement on management of business aircraft in 2021
•	Conclusion of resale agreement for wired products with SK Broadband  
in 2021
•Results of compliance assessment and validity100%
443 Dec. 29•2021 business plan
•Trade with SK Holdings in Q1 2021
•	Change in operating expenses paid to the SUPEX Promotion Committee  
in 2020
•	Change in transaction amounts between affiliates in 2020 related to 
business aircraft
•	Extension of the SK brand licensing contract
•	Approval of limits on the issuance of short-term electronic corporate bonds
•	Purchase of PS&M customer terminal credits in 2021
•	Report on completion of spin-off
•	Subcontracting of the operation of customer contact channels, 2021
•	Construction of wired and wireless infrastructure in 2021
•	Subcontracting of base station maintenance services in 2021
•	Contents and impact of amended laws related to corporate governance 100%
SK T elecom has formed five committees under the BOD to ensure transparent and efficient operation of the 
BOD in fulfilling their roles and responsibilities. The committees comply with their regulations and guarantee 
independence by specifying the proportion of their independent directors in their operational guidelines. 
In particular, to maximize fairness and transparency, the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and 
Corporate Citizenship Committee are entirely composed of independent directors.
(Until May 26, 2021)
Committee Chairperson Members
Audit Committee Seok Dong KimSeok Dong Kim, Yong Hak Kim, Jung Ho Ahn, 
Young Min Yoon
Independent Director Recommendation 
CommitteeSeok Dong Kim Seok Dong Kim, Jung Ho Ahn, Jung Ho Park
Compensation Committee Yong Hak Kim Yong Hak Kim, Seok Dong Kim, Jun Mo Kim
CAPEX Review Committee Jung Ho AhnJung Ho Ahn, Yong Hak Kim, Seok Dong Kim, 
Young Min Yoon, Jun Mo Kim, Young Sang Ryu
Corporate Citizenship Committee Young Min Yoon Young Min Yoon, Jung Ho Ahn, Jun Mo KimCommittees of 
the BOD
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 092 Value to Governance 093Audit Committee      The Audit Committee conducts accounting and business audits with the focus on 
financial statements and supplementary schedules, the procedures and results of the audits performed by 
independent auditors, deliberation on the company’s major issues, and reports from the internal accounting 
manager and the external auditor on the operating status of the company’s internal accounting system. In 
accordance with the Commercial Act, the committee also evaluates and approves specific transactions, 
such as private contracts with affiliated companies of a certain scale or larger. The committee reserves the 
right to inspect and audit directors’ execution of duties and their financial and property conditions, inspect 
the BOD’s activities, call for the cessation of any illegal actions, and convene extraordinary meetings of 
shareholders. The Audit Committee is bound to report the results of its evaluation and other major activities 
to the general meeting of shareholders and to disclose them through the Business Report.
Audit Committee Operations in 2020
Date Agenda Attendance rate
Feb. 05•Operation of the internal accounting control system
•Results of the management diagnosis/audit in 2019 and plans for 2020
•Auditor’s written opinion on the internal monitoring system100%
Feb. 19•Results of the FY 2019 audit 
•Results of the FY 2019 internal accounting control system audit
•Evaluation of the internal accounting control system’s operations
•Conclusion of contract on the payment of gifts to wireline customers in 2020100%
Feb. 20•Confirmation of opinions on agenda and document investigation for the 36th AGM 
•The 36th audit report100%
Mar. 25•Optical cable maintenance service in 2020
•Transmission equipment maintenance service in 202075%
Apr. 22•Appointment of chairperson
•Approval of the external audit service in 2020
•Audit plan for 2020 100%
May 27•Enactment of external auditor appointment regulations
•Results of the evaluation of the external auditor service for FY 2019 100%
Jul. 20 •Results of the external auditor’s semi-annual review of FY 2020 100%
Oct. 14•Confirmation of opinions on the agenda and document investigation for  
the 1st EGM in 2020100%
Nov. 25 •Appointment of an external auditor for 2021-2023 100%
Dec. 28•Consulting about unpaid bills and entrustment of the collection of accounts 
receivable in 2021
•Purchase of communication/general products from HappyNarae in 2021 
•Conclusion of contract for the exchange equipment operation service in 2021
•Telecommunications equipment lease in 2021
•Trade of services with SK Wyverns in 2021
•Trade of products/services with SK planet
•Partnership contract with ONE store in 2021
•Trade of products/services with Dreamus in 2021
•Trade of products/services with Content wavve in 2021
•Trade with SK infosec in 2021
•Trade of products/services with ADT Caps in 2021
•Advisory services for research on new business association models 
•Audit fees for external auditors in 2021
•Progress of the internal control test for 2020 financial reporting and year-end audit plan100%Independent Director Recommendations Committee      In order to ensure fair recommendation of 
candidates for independent directors, the BOD operates the Independent Director Recommendation 
Committee, which has established a transparent independent director appointment process and manages 
the nomination and election process in a responsible manner. The Committee stipulates that the majority of 
its members should be independent directors in order for the organization to recommend candidates with 
independence and expertise.
Independent Director Recommendations Committee Operations in 2020
Date Agenda Attendance rate
Feb. 20•Recommendation of candidates for the position of independent 
director at the 36th AGM (Yong Hak Kim, Jun Mo Kim, Jung Ho Ahn)100%
Apr. 22 •Appointment of chairperson (Seok Dong Kim) 100%
Compensation Committee      The Compensation Committee reviews the CEO’s salary and incentive plan 
(stock options, etc.). The Committee is entirely composed of independent directors. The CEO or a person 
nominated by the CEO may state his/her opinion on the compensation considerations.
Compensation Committee Operations in 2020
Date Agenda Attendance rate
Apr. 22 •Appointment of chairperson (Yong Hak Kim) 100%
CAPEX Review Committee      The CAPEX Review Committee deliberates the investment plans for the next 
year and reviews the investment plans and risk factors when major changes are made to the business plans. 
The committee also checks changes in the investment plans exceeding 10% of CAPEX and reviews the 
company’s quarterly and semi-annual investment performance.
CAPEX Review Committee Operations in 2020
Date Agenda Attendance rate
Jan. 15 •2020 investment plan 100%
Apr. 22 •Appointment of chairperson (Jung Ho Ahn) 100%
Dec. 28 •2021 investment plan 100%
Corporate Citizenship Committee      As the highest decision-making body for sustainable management of 
SK T elecom, the Corporate Citizenship Committee was established to ensure that the company practices 
socially responsible management by making informed decisions about the company’s long-term corporate 
value, sustainability, and corporate social responsibility (CSR). In particular, the Committee sets the direction 
of its promotional strategies and deliberates on its performance in the five key areas of sustainable 
management – customer-centered management, mutual growth, social value innovation, transparent ethical 
management, and environmental management. T o comprehensively review the company’s mid- to long-
term risks and opportunities, the Committee continuously communicates with its stakeholders and identifies 
major issues. SK T elecom reports material issues identified during materiality assessments to the Committee 
every year to support the BOD’s in-depth understanding and proper decision-making. Since 2013, SK 
T elecom has published an integrated annual report in order to disclose to its investors and stakeholders the 
overall value of its financial and non-financial performance as well as its CSR performance and plans. The 
Committee reviews the materiality assessment process and the material issues in the annual report.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 094 Value to Governance 095Corporate Citizenship Committee Operations in 2020
Date Agenda Attendance rate
Apr. 22 •Appointment of chairperson (Young Min Yoon) 100%
Jun. 24 •Main contents of the FY 2019 Annual Report 100%
Oct. 14•SKT SV promotional directions and major programs 
•Major achievements of win-win growth in 2020 and strategic directions for 2021
•Current status of customer value innovation in 2020100%
Restructuring of the committees under the BOD (2021)      At the 37th AGM held in March 2021, we 
announced a plan to restructure the committees within the BOD as part of our effort to improve our 
governance structure to the level of the global standard. At the BOD meeting held on May 27, 2021, 
we reorganized the existing five committees into the Future Strategy Committee, HR/Compensation 
Committee, Independent Director Recommendation Committee, ESG Committee, and Audit Committee. 
We are planning to expand the authorities and functions of each committee in line with the global standard 
recommending that businesses pursue independent management centered on the BOD. In response to 
the growing importance of ESG worldwide, the ESG Committee will significantly expand the functions of the 
Corporate Citizenship Committee and continue to broaden discussions about various ESG issues. The HR/
Compensation Committee is entrusted with the authority to select executives, including recommending CEO 
candidates and reappointing the CEO.
Committee
nameIndependent 
directorsExecutive 
directorKey roles
Future Strategy 
Committee5 1•Discuss the mid- to long-term strategic directions
•Review the management and investment plans
•Review and evaluate KPIs
HR/Compensation 
Committee3 1•Recommend CEO candidates
•Deliberate on the CEO’s reappointment
•Review the appropriateness of the amount of remuneration for the CEO
•Review the appropriateness of the amount of remuneration for 
executive directors (excluding the CEO)
Independent 
Director 
Recommendation 
Committee2 1•Establish the criteria for the selection of independent director 
candidates
•Recommend the final candidates for independent directors
ESG Committee 3 -•Deliberate on the direction and performance of major ESG efforts 
such as environment, society, customers, and information security
•Deliberate on mandatory ESG disclosure matters
•Deliberate on ESG-related stakeholder communication
Audit Committee 4 -•Decide issues related to the audit report and the  
internal accounting management system
•Decide internal transactions as delegated by the BOD
•Decide other matters as required by the Commercial Act
•Deliberate on management diagnosis/audit plans and results
•Audit plans and results, etc.An independent external auditing firm audits SK T elecom’s financial statements and supplementary schedules 
to secure fairness and transparency. Following the external audit, the Audit Committee reviews the adequacy 
of the audit procedures and results. KPMG Samjong Accounting Corporation served as the external auditor 
from 2017 to 2020. The audit opinion for the 37th fiscal year was “unqualified” with no other issues.
External Auditor Selection Process
Auditor’s Opinion
Business year Auditor Auditor’s opinion Explanatory paragraph
37th year 
(2020)KPMG Samjong 
Accounting Corp.Unqualified 
opinionRetroactive application of changes in the accounting policy 
due to alteration of the lease term calculation method
36th year 
(2019)KPMG Samjong 
Accounting Corp.Unqualified 
opinionNone
35th year 
(2018)KPMG Samjong 
Accounting Corp.Unqualified 
opinionNone
34th year 
(2017)KPMG Samjong 
Accounting Corp.Unqualified 
opinionNone
Auditing Contract
Business year Auditor Contents Fee Hours of service
37th year 
(2020)KPMG Samjong 
Accounting Corp.Quarterly, semi-annual audits 
Audits of separate financial statements
Audits of consolidated financial statements
Reviews of financial statements in English 
and other audit works 
Audits on the internal accounting control 
systemKRW 2,360 
million23,600 
hoursExternal 
Auditor
Evaluation and 
selection by the 
Audit CommitteeConclusion/
approval of 
audit contractReport to 
AGM
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 096 Value to Governance 097Performance evaluation of the management      The evaluation of management performance, including 
that of the CEO, is undertaken in a comprehensive manner in consideration of both financial and non-
financial performance. Beginning in 2019, we expanded the measured amount of social value to 50% of the 
CEO’s KPI. The Corporate Citizenship Committee (currently the ESG Committee) reviews and approves the 
social value created and the strategic performances achieved by the CEO on an annual basis and reflects 
the results in his/her performance evaluation. We also reflect social value KPIs in the evaluation of the entire 
management to strengthen their sense of responsibility for creating social value, so that we can pursue 
the long-term enhancement of corporate value by pursuing business model innovation based on social 
value, beyond simply creating non-financial performance in terms of social contribution or corporate risk 
prevention. We base the annual evaluation of the directors’ performances on their attendance rate of the BOD 
and committee meetings, their expertise in the company’s business and technologies, their contributions, 
and their active board activities. The results of the evaluation are reflected in the re-appointment process 
after the expiration of their terms of office or when the Independent Director Recommendations Committee 
makes recommendations. As the impact of ESG management on corporate sustainability has intensified, 
we plan to include ESG management items in our management's KPIs from 2021 and to continue expanding 
ESG evaluation items.
Remuneration of executives      The remuneration of our management, including the CEO, is calculated 
within the limits approved by the AGM based on their business performance and the value of the job they 
perform. Each director’s salary and severance pay are approved by a resolution at an AGM. Performance 
remuneration consists of target incentives and profit sharing; in calculating the performance remuneration, 
we consider measurable indicators, including revenue, operating profit, and economic value added (EVA), 
as well as non-measurable indicators, including leadership, strategic task achievement, expertise and 
other company management performances. Meanwhile, we provide stock options to ensure that the 
interests of management and shareholders are aligned and to pay compensation in a responsible manner in 
consideration of their mid- to long-term performance. We have set the vesting period for stock options at a 
maximum of four years in a bid to pursue the creation of long-term values. Since 2014, we have disclosed the 
details of individual director’s and auditor’s remuneration exceeding KRW 500 million per year in our business 
reports in order to improve our transparency in terms of payment to executives including the CEO.
Remuneration Payment for Directors in 2020
Total number of peopleTotal payment
(KRW million)Average remuneration
(KRW million)
Registered director1)3 9,609 3,203
Independent director2)1 84 84
Audit Committee member or auditor 4 336 84
1)  Registered directors include the executive director and other non-standing directors, but exclude independent directors and 
Audit Committee members
2) Excluding Audit Committee members
CEO-Employee Remuneration Ratio in 2020
Total CEO remuneration (KRW million) Average employee remuneration (KRW million) Ratio1)
7 ,380 121 60.99
1) Calculated by dividing the total CEO remuneration by the average employee remunerationStock Options for Executives
Date NameBase exercise 
price1) SharesCancelled 
optionsRemaining 
sharesExercise period
2017 Mar. 24Jung Ho ParkKRW 246,750 22,168 0 22,168 Mar. 25, 2019-Mar. 24, 2022
KRW 266,490 22,168 0 22,168 Mar. 25, 2020-Mar. 24, 2023
KRW 287 ,810 22,168 0 22,168 Mar. 25, 2021-Mar. 24, 2024
Sub-total 66,504 0 66,504
2018 Feb. 20Young Sang Ryu KRW 254,120 1,358 0 1,358 Feb. 21, 2020-Feb. 20, 2023
Sub-total 1,358 0 1,358
2019Feb. 22Sung Ho Ha
KRW 265,2601,369 0 1,369
Feb. 23, 2021-Feb. 22, 2024 Hyoung Il Ha 1,564 0 1,564
Poong Young Yoon 1,244 0 1,244
Sub-total 4,177 0 4,177
Mar. 26Young Sang Ryu KRW 254,310 1,734 0 1,734 Mar. 27 , 2021-Mar. 26, 2024
Sub-total 1,734 0 1,734
2020 Mar. 26Jung Ho Park
KRW 192,260111,106 0 111,106
Mar. 27 , 2023-Mar. 26, 2027Young Sang Ryu 2,353 0 2,353
Hyoung Il Ha 1,961 0 1,961
Yoon Kim 1,874 0 1,874
Seok Joon Huh 1,852 0 1,852
Poong Young Yoon 1,743 0 1,743
Sung Ho Ha 1,656 0 1,656
Dong Hwan Cho 1,525 0 1,525
HyunA Lee 1,525 0 1,525
Sub-total 125,595 0 125,595
Total 199,368 199,368
* As of December 31, 2020
** Includes stock options of unregistered executives, executives currently in office
1)  The base exercise price was calculated based on an actual amount (the arithmetic average price of a trading volume-weighted 
average closing price for two months, one month, and one week before granting stock options) based on a stock option grant 
date.Fair 
Performance 
Evaluation and 
Compensation
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 098 Value to Governance 099Remuneration Payment for Directors/Executives
NameTotal amount 
(KRW million)Category Amount
(KRW million)Results
Jung Ho 
Park7 ,380Salary 1,700Calculation Criteria and Method
•	The base salary of KRW 1,700 million per year (KRW 141.6 million paid monthly) is calculated 
by reflecting the role, position, leadership, expertise, contributions, management performance, 
etc., within the 2020 limit for directors’ remuneration, according to the company's director 
remuneration payment criteria.
Role/Position
•Leading SK ICT Family’s growth as the CEO of SK Telecom
•	Discovering and leading global business opportunities for SK Telecom and investment companies 
as chairman of the Global Growth Committee of the SUPEX Council
•	Leading the growth of corporate value of SK Telecom’s 49 subsidiaries (subject to consolidation), 
including a 25.9% increase in corporate value compared to the beginning of the year, as the 
Chairman of SK hynix’s BOD
Bonus 5,679Calculation Criteria and Basis
•	Comprehensive consideration of the degree of achievement of goals in terms of measurable 
indicators, including sales and operating profit, and non-measurable indicators including 
leadership for strategic task execution and management performance based on the executive’s 
role/position/leadership and the company’s remuneration standards
•	Achieved the highest revenue of SK Telecom, and the total operating income of all investment 
companies turned to profits in 2019 (SKT’s 2019 revenue rose by 5.2% YoY to KRW 17 ,743.7 billion 
(on a consolidated basis); Successfully commercialized 5G for the first time in the world and 
attracted 2.08 million subscribers; Pioneered new 5G markets including ultra-low latency mobile 
edge computing (MEC) and cloud games; Ranked first in the three major customer satisfaction 
surveys for the longest period (22 years for KCSI and NCSI, 20 years for KS-SQI, as of 2019) across 
all industries in 2019 through data-based customer experience innovation; Achieved revenue 
growth of more than KRW 1 trillion compared to 2018 based on the innovative technologies in 
major growth businesses such as media, security and commerce; Total operating income of all 
subsidiaries turned to profits; Recorded revenue of KRW 1.2 trillion, up 17.4% YoY in security by 
ADT Caps and SK infosec in 2019, with the former securing the No. 1 market share; Launched 
new products such as unmanned parking and home security combined with ICT technology; 
11st turned to profits with an operating income of KRW 1.4 billion in 2019; SK stoa emerged as 
the top 2 in the industry with 68% revenue growth and turning to profit in its operating income; 
SK Broadband recorded 10 million paying tv subscribers through the acquisition of t-broad 
and the successful launch of wavve; Established SK Telecom CS T1, an eSports JV between SKT 
and Comcast; Launched a JV with Sinclair to enter the next-generation broadcasting solution 
market of the U.S.; Strengthened strategic partnerships with Deutsche Telekom; and Discovered 
and expanded global business opportunities through alliances with top global players such as 
Microsoft, Apple, and Amazon
•	Laid the foundations for strengthening SK hynix’s competitiveness and its mid- to long-term 
value-up (Build the foundation based on which SK hynix can make a quantum leap in its NAND 
competitiveness through large-scale global M&A promotion; Achieved value-up of the memory 
business through cooperation with global device/cloud service providers; Led the structural 
consolidation of the NAND business through the acquisition of Intel’s NAND division; Expanded 
the semiconductor ecosystem by joining forces with Apple, Microsoft, and Amazon; and Promoted 
collaboration on the high-end memory business)
•	Achieved an outstanding return of 183% in one year through the establishment of a cooperative 
relationship with Kakao and the execution of strategic investments, leading to a one-time bonus 
of KRW 2,109 million (Paid one-time bonus in the form of Kakao stocks through SK Telecom’s BOD 
resolution about his efforts to reach an investment deal and create synergy with the investment 
target company based on the investment contract with Kakao)
•	Comprehensive evaluation of and payment for measurable indicators of financial performance, 
including revenue, operating income, EVA, and total shareholder return (TSR), as well as non-
measurable indicators consisting of leadership, strategic task achievement, expertise, and 
company performance results
Others 1 •	Executive welfare, etc.NameTotal amount 
(KRW million)Category Amount
(KRW million)Results
Young 
Sang Ryu 2,229Salary 540Calculation Criteria and Method
•	The base salary of KRW 540 million a year (KRW 45 million paid monthly) is calculated by 
reflecting the role, position, leadership, expertise, contributions, management performance, 
etc., within the 2020 limit for directors’ remuneration, according to the company’s director 
remuneration payment criteria.
Role/Position
•	Leading the overall growth of the MNO business as the president of MNO and an SK Telecom’s 
executive director
Bonus 1,668Calculation Criteria and Basis
•	Comprehensive consideration of the degree of achievement of the goals in terms of measurable 
indicators, including sales and operating profit, and non-measurable indicators, including 
leadership for strategic task execution and management performance based on the executive’s 
role/position/leadership and the company’s remuneration standards
•	Pioneered the 5G market and solidified the company’s leadership in the MNO sector in 2019 
(securing 2.08 million subscribers for the first time in the world through preemptive 5G investment, 
recording a 44.6% 5G M/S at the end of 2019); Increased the ARPU from increased data usage; 
Turned to the upward trend in revenue growth from 2Q 2019; Laid the foundation for business 
models of the future, including 3 major streaming services such as cloud games, AR/VR, and 
e-sports, as well as ultra-low latency mobile edge computing (MEC), cloud games, etc. through 
collaboration with global companies such as Microsoft and Apple; and Achieved the highest 
ranking in the country’s top 3 customer satisfaction surveys (KCSI, NCSI, KS-SQI) for the longest 
time in a row by transforming the customer experience through AI technology and data-based 
scientific marketing 
•	Achieved an outstanding return of 183% in one year through the establishment of a cooperative 
relationship with Kakao and the execution of strategic investments, leading to a one-time bonus 
of KRW 1,055 million (Paid one-time bonus in the form of Kakao stocks through SK Telecom’s BOD 
resolution for his leadership in the post-deal Synergy Council with Kakao as a key executive in the 
investment deal)
Others 21 •	Executive welfare, etc.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 100 Value to Governance 101Risk Management
Our risk management process encompasses both the financial and non-financial factors, and comprises 
a system designed to evaluate annual risks in advance. If a risk is detected, we run a company-wide risk 
management response system as well as a crisis response system led by the Change Management Office. 
We have also strengthened our risk management system by establishing an autonomous risk response 
system for each business division and center. As such, we have been internalizing a risk management culture 
while expanding our company-wide risk management system to the SK ICT Family to further enhance risk 
management.
Risk Management StructureSK Telecom has set an integrated risk management system in place to preemptively identify and 
respond to risks. Based on the company-wide system, we strive to minimize the impact of risks 
by defining and managing risks by sector.
Integrated Risk 
Management 
SystemRange of Risk 
Management
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 102 Value to Governance 103Risk Areas
Risk management 
processRisk
detectionFollow-up 
measures
Identification of risk at 
the company levelInternalization of 
risk management 
culture
System support 
for the SK ICT 
FamilyCompany-wide 
response to risk
Advancement of 
system by business 
divisions and centersPlanning of the 
evaluation
Evaluation
Handling
Collection/reportingSK T elecom manages a wide range of risks that may arise during its financial and non-financial operations, 
ranging from strategic risks to financial risks (market, interest rates, taxation, foreign exchange rates), 
regulatory risks, business operation risks (serious customer complaints, customer information leakages, 
network failures) and reputational/social responsibility risks (unfair trade, bribery, illegal gifts). Having 
subdivided our risk management areas into business, employees, customer value, business partners, 
governance, and climate change, we are now expanding our strategic response system to reflect key factors 
in each area and changes in the internal/external environment.
Risk Management Areas and Factors
Business•	Strategic: Prediction of customer needs and demands, business decision-making, changes in 
technology and industry environment, etc. 
•	Regulatory: Changes in regulations and policies in the ICT industry related to telecom, media 
and platforms
•	Financial: Exchange rates, changes in interest rates, liquidity, credit, assets, debt management
•	Operational: Appropriateness of organizational design, performing incorrect processes
Employees•	Corruption at the individual level: Leaks of company information, financial dealings with 
employees and stakeholders, illicit profits/usage, embezzlement, violation of the prohibition 
on the holding of concurrent positions/outside work, etc.
•	Sexual ethics: Sexual harassment, gender discrimination, etc.
•	Employee conflicts: Conflicts between employees, leaders or companies
•	Employee incidents/accidents: Death/serious injuries from negligence, accidents, job-related 
accidents, public criticism including assault
•	Company losses due to job-related negligence: Loss of sales opportunities, neglectful asset 
management
•	Other forms of misconduct by employees
Customer  
Value•	Customers’ (collective) actions
•	Customer information leaks: Leaks of subscribers’ personal data, leaks of device information 
and call records
•	Serious customer complaints: Service failures, computational errors, etc.
•	Spread of negative public opinions via media coverage and/or through social media
Business 
Partners•	Giving/receiving money, valuables or entertainment
•	Business partners’ illegal actions: Customer fraud at authorized dealers and retail stores
•	Business partners’ data privacy violations: External leakages of confidential business 
information, unfair usage of business information, etc.
•	Unfair trade: Transactions with relatives/borrowed-name companies, illicit transactions, 
special favors for companies including overlooking their defects, etc.
•	Conflicts with partner companies: Violence, sexual harassment, legal disputes due to changes 
in the business environment, etc.
Governance •	Violation of fair trade practices: Illegal subsidies, violations of the Protection of the 
Communications Act, collusion, etc.
•	Accounting fraud: Creation of slush funds, fraudulent accounting, disclosure violations, etc.
•	Inappropriate entertainment: Offering of bribes and other forms of special treatment, etc. 
•	Search/Investigation by state institutions: Search/investigations of violations of laws and the 
company’s business policies
Climate 
Change•	Regulatory risks: Changes in regulations and policies due to the reinforcement of climate 
change policies
•	Technology and market: Changes in technologies and markets due to climate change, 
increasing demand for eco-friendly products
•	Reputation: Impact of the ESG response on investment institutions
•	Physical environment: Effects of extreme weather caused by climate changeSK T elecom has built a risk management process, by reflecting its major internal and external issues and 
stakeholders’ requirements, which consists of establishment of risk evaluation plan, risk evaluation, and risk 
handling and reporting. Our risk management is carried out through close collaboration between the risk 
management officer, who is in charge of annual risk/opportunity assessment and overall progress monitoring, 
and each process owner, who takes charge of the overall management of risks and opportunities according 
to the approved annual risk evaluation plan and reports the management reviews.
Proactive management      The Change Management Office takes the lead in selecting risk management 
officers for each business division/center and running the Risk Management (RM) Working Group. The RM 
Working Group is run on a regular basis and is responsible for preventing risks in each field, controlling risks 
in the early stage if they arise to minimize damages, and identifying additional risk areas to be managed in line 
with changes in the business environment.
Risk evaluation
1. Risk identification      It refers to the process of seeking, identifying and describing factors that cause 
risks. We reflect all internal and external issues related to our organization’s purposes and strategic directions 
as well as stakeholders’ requirements. When necessary, this process can also embrace a wide range of risks 
and opportunities that affect the achievement of our business goals, and we manage the number of risks/
opportunities identified as a core achievement.
2. Risk analysis      It is the process through which the characteristics of identified risks are fully compre-
hended and evaluated. We classify the impact and likelihood of risk/opportunity as high, medium and low.
3. Determination of risk levels      This process involves an analysis of the risk criteria and a comparison of 
the results to determine the acceptability and level of risk, leading to determination of the need to deal with 
risks and priorities based on their potential impacts and the likelihood of occurrence.
Risk Management Process
Follow-up management      When risk is identified, we set appropriate risk management handling measures 
and action plans based on our risk management processes. Risks that have undergone a risk evaluation and 
the risk management process are collected, reported and used in the development of management review 
reports. The information is stored on the Twiki System, a data-sharing DB, for five years, and is used as an 
effective asset for our future risk management strategies.Risk 
Management 
ProcessCompany-wide  
Risk Management 
Response 
SystemSK T elecom has set a company-wide risk monitoring and response system in place to preemptively respond to 
risks and enhance the follow-up management of risks. We appoint more than one person-in-charge for each 
function to quickly manage and share risks through our online channel operations. The Change Management 
Office, which is directly under the CEO, reports emergency risks to the CEO and has the authority to convene 
a crisis response meeting supervised by the Heads of Corporate Center 1 and 2. The Office also defines the 
management of the risk profile, the mapping of departments responsible for major risks, and countermeasures 
for each risk, while overseeing monitoring, risk recognition and dissemination, and response according to the 
defined risk criteria. The Heads of Corporate Center 1 and 2 may convene a company-wide risk response 
meeting to respond promptly to risks that may have significant effects on the internal organization and business 
operations, while the RM Working Group operates on/offline channels whenever signs of risks are identified. The 
BOD makes the final decision on exposure tolerance for all risks that the company faces, including strategic, 
financial, investment, information security (including privacy protection), operational (including environmental and 
social aspects), taxation and reputational risks, as well as response strategies. It also has final responsibility for risk 
management decisions, including the determination of companywide risk profiles and risk-specific limit definitions.
•	External/internal issues
•	Stakeholder requirementsOperation and Charge
Process owner of related areas
•	Risks
•	OpportunitiesOUTPUT •	Results of risk analysis
•	Results of opportunity analysis•	Level of need of risk to  
be managed
•	PrioritizeINPUTRisk
Indentification1
Risk
Analysis2
Risk
Evaluation3Risk Management Diffusion System
Real-time recognition and reporting
(applies to RM W/G members only)Convene a Company-wide Response Center
Led by RM W/G
(100 VOCs, 
nationwide failures, etc.)
Convene a Company-wide 
Response Center
(1,000 VOCs, judgment by 
Change Management Office)
Establish Methods of 
Compensation
(CEO’s final approval)
Compensation & 
Post-management
* Through the RM W/G member comm. channel 
*  CEO reports shared with the Group’s SHE CoE 
(Confirmed by the Change Management Office) 
Spread 
of 
situation①	Situation	perceived[RM W/G]
•	The Companywide Risk Response Center is 
led by the Heads of Corp Center 1 & 2③	1st	report	(when	necessary)
④		Detailed	
report 
②	ReportingCEOBOD
Relevant committees 
(SHE CoE/Comm. Committee)
Disseminate to 
other committees
Follow-up inspections 
& establishment/
implementation of 
countermeasures
External communication 
about compensation 
plans and analysis 
of customer/media/
government responses
•	Establishment of 
compensation measures
•	Legal review of 
compensation measures
•	Financial impact analysis•	Compensation 
implementation/
customer contact point 
commumication
•	Response to litigation 
•	Establishment of  
follow-up response  
strategies •	Help write media response 
messages  
(fact delivery, message review)
• Media message  
preparation 
• Media response
•	Government agency 
response
• Customer contact point/
social media response 
• Customer trend 
monitoring Message 
dissemination Heads of Corp Center 1 & 2
 (in charge of the Company-wide 
Risk Response Center)Head of the  
relevant 
department/
center 
•Response to climate change
ESG Innovation 
Group•	Help write response messages
CO/Group/Office Risk Management Responsibility
•		Write response messages 
(w/PR, Customer Value 
Innovation Office)
Biz Division/Center 
Selected Groups
• Media response
• Online monitoring 
Communication 
Center
•	Government agency 
response
CR Center
• Customer contact point/
social media response 
• Customer trend 
monitoring 
Customer Value 
Innovation Office
(Chief Privacy Officer)
Corporate Center 
(Legal/Financial Group)
•	Distribution network/
company response 
Biz Division/CO [RM W/G]
-  Composed of personnel from the major  
RM-related departments
-  Serving as an info/comm. window for the departments
Failures/VOCs 
(Infra Control Team)
Media/Internet issues
(PR Office/Customer Value 
Innovation Office)
Early signs of issues 
(Responsible staff  
and RM W/G)[Cognitive System] •	RM W/G operations 
(regular)
Change 
Management Office
•	Distribution network/
company response 
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 104 Value to Governance 105Improving systems by business divisions and centers      SK T elecom has established an autonomous 
risk management system for each business division and center, which has developed an advanced pre-
inspection system for potential risks through a risk response system optimized for the characteristics of 
each division and its operations. In particular, we check the level of our compliance with the corporate 
security policies on a regular basis, in order to preemptively respond to information security incident risks, 
while conducting activities for the assessment and elimination of physical and technical vulnerabilities.
Internalization of risk management culture      SK T elecom has been making continuous efforts to 
internalize a risk management culture across the entire organization from staff to executives and the BOD. We 
are also building an environment conducive to the faster reporting of risks so that they promote transparency 
and responsibility for risks on their own. T o raise employee’s risk awareness, we select risks that have an 
increasing mid- to long-term impact and conduct regular training and mock drills. We also share risk analysis 
data, collected through the risk management process, on our system as part of our efforts to improve risk 
management practices. Furthermore, based on the principle of prioritizing risk prevention, we run a response 
system that includes unpredictable risks that can have significant long-term effects, such as climate change 
and natural disasters.
Report to the CEO
Risk type CEO reporting criteria
Service failure•Issue with over 1,000 VOCs about the Telco service (voice/data) and B tv service
•Over 100 roaming VOCs
•Total failure of core services1) for more than 3 hours
•Total failure of SWING and in-house work system more than 1 hour
•Online issues
 - Top 10 trending topics
 - Online news coverage and spread on social media
Corporate reputation 
including privacy, BR,
 GR, etc.•News coverage by terrestrial TV stations, in daily newspapers, and on portal sites
 - Terrestrial TV stations: KBS, MBC, SBS
 - Major daily newspapers: Chosun, Dong-A, Joongang, Maekyung
 - 3 major portal sites: NAVER, Daum, nate
•Top 10 real-time search topics on major portal sites and hot topics on social media
Issues related to  
the SK ICT Family•Follow SK Telecom’s CEO reporting criteria about major media reports and social 
media issues on top of each family company’s CEO reporting criteria
 - Nation-wide major service failures or surging customer grievances
 - Customer information leakages and other media issues
1)  Core services whose risk management cannot be handled through the VOC standards (T world, T world direct, T membership, 
MoVIOS, ZEM, T ID, T phone, NUGU, T map, T map Taxi, T map Parking, T map Public Transportation, T View, PASS, Jump AR, Jump 
VR, RCS, Bill Letter, B tv, FLO, 11st, wavve, ONE store, xCloud Game, V Coloring)Supporting 
the Risk 
Management 
System of the 
SK ICT Family1)SK T elecom has set a company-wide Risk Management Working Group in which the SK ICT Family 
participates. The Group ensures that when an emergency occurs, information is shared and decisions are 
made promptly according to the standards for disseminating emergency information to the entire SK ICT 
Family by risk type. In addition, we make concerted efforts to keep ahead of risks by regularly holding risk 
management meetings of the SK ICT Family. We will further strengthen the close collaboration system in a 
bid to consolidate our business stability by taking short-, mid-, and long-term risk management and process 
improvement actions.
1) ICT affiliates of SK Group, including SK Telecom and its subsidiaries
Risk Management Diffusion System of the SK ICT Family
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 106 Value to Governance 107*  Including SKB, SKP , SK telink, ADT Caps, 11st, SK ons, SERVICE ACE, SERVICE TOP , F&U, PS&M, FSK L&S, SK communications, 
ONE store, Dreamus, SK m&service, SK stoa, T map Mobility Co. (including subsidiaries)Company-wide 
Crisis Response 
Center CO/Group/Office
SK ICT Family
①		Situation	
detection②		Crisis	
response③	Reporting
④		Sharing	of	
situation
⑤		Collaborative	  
response⑥		Decision	on	
emergency 
meetings ⑦			Situation  
report
*  Led by Heads of Corp 
Center 1 & 2
Relevant 
Departments•	Situation report: Executives of SKT and  
family companies 
•	Follow-up report: Change Management Office 
and the Chief Risk Officer if family companiesReport to CEOBOD
CEODivision heads
CO/Group/Office Heads 
CEOs of the SK ICT Family
Detection & 
occurrence of riskRisk Management Responsibility
Change
 Management 
OfficeRisk & 
OpportunitiesSK T elecoms preemptively identifies and analyzes all potential risk factors that could have a significant 
impact on its business environment, thereby strategically responding to risks. Going forward, we will 
overcome any crisis shape a new future based on thorough risk management from the short-, mid-, and 
long-term perspectives.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 108 Value to Governance 109Risks & Opportunities Context Status Potential Impact on SKT SKT’s Response
Ethical Risks of AI •Growing controversy over the ethical risks of AI and related 
social issues caused by the development of AI technology
	 －		Consumers	have	negative	perceptions	of	AI	service	
development companies and developers due to the 
alleged use of de-identified personal information for the 
development of the AI Chatbot “IRUDA” service, etc. 
•Restrictions on the development of AI services in cases of 
non-compliance, including the enhancement of AI ethical 
standards in Korea and overseas, ethical principles, etc. in 
line with the growing interest in and importance of  
AI ethics
	 －		Establishment of an Ethics Charter by major domestic 
corporations for the first time, as well as the government’s 
announcement of ethical standards
	 －		Establishment and implementation of AI ethical principles 
and systems by tech companies in the U.S; discussions 
on AI ethics by academia/international organizations in 
EuropeEmerging•Secure professional, such as internal experts and departments,  
in charge of reviewing and managing AI ethical issues
•Preemptively respond to negative public perceptions and related 
regulations about AI ethical risks amid the growing social impacts 
of AI
•Need to secure reliability in line with the development of AI-based 
service
	 －		Concerns	over	side	effects	of	algorithm-based	learning	data	  
and results•Applying AI ethics to management systems: Value pursued by AI
 -  Strive to lead the development of AI technologies and related ecosystems based on 
the principle of “Human-Centered AI” to prevent the misuse of AI technology
   E.g. Holding an ai.x event under the theme of “Human. Machine. Experience Together” 
since 2018
 -  Create cases in which AI is used for social value creation
  E.g. Launching an AI care service in 2019 and release the KVQA1) dataset
 -  Set and stipulate ethical principles for AI planners and developers
•Operating the company-wide AI Ethics Task Force (TF)
 -  Establish plans to define the AI values promoted by AI Ethics TF under the AT Platform 
TF, and to enhance company-wide AI ethical systems 
 -  Establish company-wide AI ethics systems (plan to operate internal system, customer 
communication channels, and external expert advisory group; apply AI ethics 
monitoring to the company-wide PLM2) process in a phased manner; and apply AI 
ethical risk response activities to the company-wide risk management awareness/
dissemination system in a phased manner)
Stagnant market growth 
due to population 
decline/aging population•The number of Korean households is expected to decrease  
to 22,303,000, with an average household of 2.03 members 
by 2047
	 －		Korea	faces	a	population	dead	cross3) due to its low birth 
rate and rapidly aging population
•Possibility of a weakened consumer base due to population 
decline
Emerging•Business model risks following aging demographics
	 －		The	saturated	telecom	market	with	the	high	number	of	mobile	
communication subscribers (70 million) compared to the total 
population (51.68 million)
	 －		Need	to	continuously	discover	new	businesses	other	than	
telecommunications due to market stagnation, resulting 
in decrease in profits and revenues (intensification of the 
competition to seek new business beyond telecommunications: 
genetics, healthcare, finance, etc.)•Transforming SK Telecom’s identity
 -  AI company that is both internally and externally recognized
 -  A provider of AI-based subscription services
•Providing services using IoT, ICT, 5G communication, and big data
•Strengthening the ICT infrastructure-based business portfolio
 -  Develop AI technology-based genome analysis algorithm and new drug candidates, 
improve AI platform NUGU service, etc.
•Restructuring business in order to create new values
 - Boosting 5G-based media services
 - Expanding convergent security services
 - Accelerating the development of mobility business
Decrease in number of 
3G subscribers•Demand for 3G is declining while network operating costs for 
3G remain still
 -  Lower 3G rates than 5G/LTE, leading to falling profitability 
and a lower average revenue per user (ARPU)
 -  Aging 3G network, leading to maintenance costs for base 
stations and equipment nation-wide
•The telecommunication industries of other countries are 
planning a gradual suspension of 3G services because 
conversion of the 3G frequency band to LTE enables the 
facilitation of the 5G ecosystem and improves the efficiency 
of limited frequencies
•Discussions are ongoing about the need to develop the 5G 
industry and increase consumer convenience by terminating 
3G servicesEmerging•Catering to the needs of 3G subscribers is expected to incur  
3G network maintenance costs over the next 10 years or more•Improving power efficiency through 3G modernization
•Reviewing the way to share the 3G network with a competitor
•Strategy to move subscribers in a phased manner by expanding the special-purpose 
device business, etc. 
1) Korean Visual Question Answering
2)  PLM (Product Lifecycle Management): A company-wide quality management method by which overall process control is 
made possible throughout the entire product life cycle3) Dead Cross: A phenomenon in which a country’s population decreases as the number of deaths exceeds the number of birthsSK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 110 Value to Governance 111Risks & Opportunities Context Status Potential Impact on SKT SKT’s Response
Rapid increase of network 
traffic due to unspecified 
variables•Traffic usage would increase due to changes in customer 
usage patterns caused by unpredictable environmental 
changes such as the COVID-19 pandemic
 -  5G subscribers: Changes in the 5G market due to 
COVID-19, lowering SK Telecom’s target for 2020  
(LTE market share and per capita usage increased)
 -  5G per capita usage increased due to tightened social 
distancing amid the spread of COVID-19 (up 6% and  
16% in March and August, respectively before COVID-19)
 -  5G HD playback rate rose by 18.7% compared to  
LTE due to technological advances in terminals and  
high-definition contentsEmerging•Fall in investment accuracy due to increasing uncertainty  
regarding mid- to long-term traffic demand
•Constant increases (600 times) in heavy 5G user traffic and  
market share compared to average users
•Concerns over continuous increases in per capita usage due to 
the high level of data usage among domestic customers driven 
by Korea’s high absolute value of data usage compared to other 
countries
•Increase in capacity investment as traffic increases, and in 
the need to move LTE traffic to 5G traffic due to a lack of new 
investment
•Increase in the demand forecast error rate due to environmental 
changes
	 －		Service	QoS	declines	when	actual	traffic	exceeds	demand;	
and overinvestment results in financial losses when demand is 
insufficient• Improving demand prediction accuracy by constantly fine-tuning the mid- to  
long-term demand forecasts
•Modifying demand forecasts and optimizing investment based on an analysis of 
variable factors
Additional market regulations 
and regulatory policies for 
paying TV business•Government regulations on cable TV and IPTV operators
 -  A bill was submitted to the National Assembly to 
abolish the market share regulations for cable TV 
and IPTV operators due to the controversy about the 
“Aggregate Paying TV Business Regulation” mandating 
equal market share restrictions for cable TV, satellite 
broadcasting, and IPTV businesses
 -  Regulatory review to create a fair broadcasting 
environment and expand the foundations of the 
broadcasting ecosystem following the expiration of the 
aggregate paying TV regulations Emerging•Negative impact of changes in the government policy on 
businesses is inevitable as the mobile communication industry is 
subject to extensive government supervision and regulation
 -  Adverse effects on finances, operational results, cash flow, and 
other business performance are anticipated once the government 
resumes its regulation of paying tv operators
 -  Potential impact on return on investment (ROI) in R&D and 
manpower made to develop technologies needed for continuous 
improvement of wired communication services, etc. 
 -  Increased burden on strategic business directions, including 
securing additional paying TV subscribers and responding to 
global operators•Preemptively forecasting and setting responsive measures to deal with changes in 
new services to strengthen competitiveness, consumer preferences, the economic 
environment, and competitors’ discount pricing strategies, which could change the 
competitive landscape of the industry
•Strengthening content competitiveness and planning to grow into a top-level channel 
operator by entering the MPP business (April 2021)
•Responding to the media market with a home entertainment platform that provides 
diverse contents and services
• Promoting the commercialization of the addressable TV advertising4) and  
local advertising platform business
Reinforced climate change 
regulations and carbon 
neutrality •Emergence of rising risks associated with emissions 
trading and energy costs due to stricter climate change 
policies and regulations
•The government’s declaration of carbon neutrality by 
2050, the inauguration of the 2050 Carbon Neutrality 
Committee under the direct control of the president, and 
the 2030 national GHG reduction target which is expected 
to be strengthened in line with major countries’ net-zero 
emissions declarations
•Participation in the Global Mobile Telecommunications 
Operators Association (GSMA) and global ICT companies’ 
preemptive GHG reduction initiatives (SBTi, RE100) to 
comply with the Paris Agreement
•Increasing importance of TCFD disclosure in relation to 
the impact of climate change on corporate financial 
performance from the investor’s point of view
•Changes in the needs of SK Telecom’s major customer 
base, the MZ generation5)
 -  Increasing interest and participation in environmental 
issuesEmerging•Increased need to manage energy efficiency and GHG emissions 
across national networks (base stations/repeaters/central stations, 
etc.)
•Possibility of environmental debt due to the government's low 
emission allowances compared to SK Telecom's GHG emission 
forecast (BAU), in addition to long-term uncertainty in the 
emissions trading market
•Need to disclose specific information based on TCFD 
recommendations in line with the growing importance of 
companies’ disclosure of information concerning their responses to 
climate change
-  Growing need to transparently reflect and disclose financial 
impacts caused by climate change in financial statements. 
•SK Telecom’s electricity consumption in 2020 amounted to 21,259 
TJ, with the achievement of RE100 by 2050 expected to incur an 
investment of some KRW trillion
•Growing demand to discover external reduction projects and 
establish RE100 response strategies due to the limited potential for 
internal reduction•ESG Committee under the BOD discusses emissions trading and price risk mitigation 
through the distributed purchase of emissions trading, in order to actively respond to 
the emissions trading system and company-wide GHG reduction activities
•Setting measures to achieve net-zero and RE100 and to alleviate the burden of the 
emissions trading system through stable mid- to long-term procurement of renewable 
energy, given the country’s electricity system and the characteristics of the company’s 
internal electricity usage
•ICT-based smart/green solutions: Promoting the 5G-based environmental efficiency 
improvement business, such as building energy management system, factory energy 
management system, and future-oriented smart grid demonstration projects
•Reflecting climate change risks and opportunities in business strategies in addition to 
annual CDP and TCFD reports, and establishing a systematic management plan based 
on a financial impact analysis
•Dismantling old and obsolete 2G communication equipment and modernizing 
3G communication equipment in order to reduce the power consumption of the 
communication infrastructure, in addition to the AI-based monitoring of power 
consumption to optimize power consumption, leading to an anticipated reduction of 
230,000 tons of carbon emissions in 2021
•SK Telecom has secured carbon reduction and GHG emission rights through the 
Myanmar Cookstove business, with an expected economic value of about KRW 
45 billion generated from the accumulated reduction of 1.5 million tons of carbon 
emissions by 2026, including 110,000 tons in 2021
4)  Customized advertising for each household’s unique characteristics and interests based on an analysis of the data collected 
from its set-top box5)  MZ generation: A collective term used to denote members of the so-called Millennium (M) Generation born between the early 1980s and the early 2000s and 
members of Generation Z born between the mid-1990s and the early 2000sEthical Management
As the foundation of SK T elecom’s fair trade and ethical management, our Code of Conduct proclaims 
responsibilities in our business activities and presents the ethical policies, regulations, attitudes, and 
directions that all of our employees must observe. In the case of violations, we strictly respond to them in 
accordance with the principle of “zero tolerance”, and we use the Code of Ethics and the Practice Guidelines 
for the Code of Ethics as the criteria for our decision-making and behavior. Following an amendment to the 
Code of Ethics in November 2017, we revised the Practice Guidelines for the Code of Ethics in January 2018 
with an eye on strengthening the connection with the core values of the company and segmenting ethical 
practices into “Customers, Business Partners, the Company, Employees, and Me”.
SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct FrameworkSK T elecom runs a three-step ethical management process – Prevention, Detection, and Response – by 
harnessing its Code of Ethics and the support system of the management organization. In 2020, we further 
strengthened our virtuous cycle of ethical management by enhancing prevention and education for a 
preemptive response to the external environment, providing ethical counseling, revitalizing the Reporting 
Center, and launching systematic follow-up measures.
 
SK Telecom’s Ethical Management ProcessTransparent 
Ethical 
ManagementEthical 
Management 
ProcessSK Telecom is striving to fulfill its economic and legal responsibilities in its corporate activities, 
placing top priority on ethical management. To raise awareness of corporate ethics among all 
our employees, we conduct regular training on ethical management and voluntary compliance.We will work tirelessly to establish a healthy corporate culture by building a relationship 
of trust with all groups of stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders, suppliers, 
and local communities.
Infrastructure (Management Organization)
•ESG Committee, Ethics Management Office, Ethical Management Agent, etc.
•Main activities
 -  Monitoring of ethical risks in unit organizations
 -  Once ethics issues are detected in unit, proceeds primary consultation/counseling
 -  Verification of facts of consultation
 -  Communication channel of the company’s ethical management policies and future action plans
 -  Collect opinions/feedbacks of unit organizations related to establishment of ethical management infrastructure
 -   Return of received monetary goods and sending of official letters of cooperation to stakeholders involved in donations 
(sent directly if needed)
 -  Collaboration with local community volunteer groups within the company
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 112 Value to Governance 113All EmployeesBusiness 
Partners
Code of 
EthicsHR
 PolicyCustomer 
Information 
Protection PolicyCP 
GuidelinesFair Trade 
Agreement
Code of Ethics and 
Practice Guidelines
Practice Guidelines  
for the Code  
of Ethics 
Practice pledgeEmployment, 
evaluation, and 
compensation 
regulations
Detailed  
regulations on  
anti-discriminationPrevention of money 
laundering and 
insider trading
Anti-monopoly and 
anti-competition 
behavior preventionDetailed pledge for 
customer information 
protection and 
practice guidelines
Personal information 
protection policyAnti-bribery and 
customer information 
protection
Compliance with 
SK Telecom’s 
standard for social 
and environmental 
responsibility
COMMITMENT
•Universal Declaration of Human Rights (2004)
•UNGC 10 Principles (2008)
•Ruggie Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (2012)Code of 
Ethics
Prevention Detection
Feedback
Education/Preventive 
MaintenanceSurvey
Individual Organization
Diagnosis and 
audit
Regular 
monitoringReporting 
channelResponse
Disciplinary action
Follow-up
• Information dissemination
• System improvement
• Follow-up educationOperation of the Ethics Counseling Center in 2020
SK T elecom carries out inspections to prevent business, management, and ethical risks at its operation 
units sequentially according to 27 internal control audit support scenarios based on the “SK Group Ethical 
Management Policy (2015)”. We also regularly analyze and audit our leaders’ performance in ethical 
management. In 2020, we focused on practical support to enhance the value of our ICT family companies, 
such as 11st, ONE store, HappyNarae, and SK ons, while striving to boost management efficiency to 
reinforce AI voice business and management infrastructure of the AI Project Unit.
Response     We categorize violations of the Code of Ethics and take action against them. We determine 
their factuality through further investigations when necessary and take measures based on our in-house 
rules. When partner companies are found to have violated our ethics regulations, we sanction them by either 
reducing our transactions with them or terminating their contracts, and keep records of these activities for 
further reviewal and improvement of our ethical management practices.
Actions Taken Against Code of Ethics Violations in 2020
Type No. of cases Actions taken
Negligence of duties - -
Violations of regulations 2 1 Dismissal, 1 Salary reduction
Sexual harassment and workplace conduct 1 1 Suspension
Total 3
As stated in its own Human Rights Statement, SK T elecom condemns any type of workplace discrimination 
and harassment based on gender, race, religion, disability, or national origin among other factors, and 
applies a zero-tolerance policy to such violations. Our Guidelines on Compliance with the Code of Ethics 
forbid our employees from disrupting the formation of healthy relationships in the workplace by engaging in 
inappropriate financial transactions, making or accepting requests for personal favors, or subjecting other 
employees to any form of harassment. We strictly abide by the code of conduct framework and the ethical 
management process. In particular, to ensure fairness, we provide all whistleblowers with access to our 
in-house legal advisory services. We also offer ethics training to all of our employees, thereby improving 
employee awareness of workplace discrimination and harassment.1) The center investigates ethics counseling/reporting cases; other cases are transferred to the relevant departments
2) Investigations not conducted due to incomplete reported information/withdrawal of reports
Corrective actions against 
discrimination and/or 
workplace harassment / 
No. of cases of workplace 
harassment
(Zero from 2018 to 2020)Zero
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 114 Value to Governance 115Prevention     SK T elecom conducts annual surveys on ethical management practices in a bid to identify 
potential risks and take corrective measures preemptively. In 2020, we selected improvement tasks based 
on the results and feedback derived from our annual survey and encouraged all employees to practice 
business ethics. In particular, we empowered executives to take the lead in putting ethical management 
into practice at each of their respective units by giving them feedback on gaps in the awareness of the 
members of their units by segment and the members’ opinions. We require all our employees to pledge to 
follow the established ethical practices and undergo ethics education on a regular basis, and have each of 
our organizations hold ethical management practice workshops to establish their own guidelines in an effort 
to spread ethical awareness companywide. We have gradually established a culture of ethical management 
in all our business activities by expanding the target and scope of our ethical management education to our 
business partners, distribution networks, and investment companies. We issue an “ethical practice letter” 
every month, previously issued every other month, to provide specific guidelines on ethical practices. In 
2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we conducted non-face-to-face training companywide.
Status of Employee Ethical Management Education
Detection      We operate on/offline channels including a website, face-to-face counseling, and correspondence 
so that all of our stakeholders can report ethical violations and receive consultation at all times through the 
Ethics Counseling Center. Among the various channels serving as our windows for reporting cases of fraud and 
corruption and offering an ethical issue consultation service to our stakeholders are “My Counselor”, “Letter to 
HR”, sexual harassment counseling by female counselors, an Intranet channel, and an anonymous bulletin board. 
Based on The Act on the Protection of Public Interest Reporters, we do our utmost to protect whistleblowers 
against any unfair practices and fraudulent activities that violate our Code of Ethics. We also operate a 
counseling and witness protection program to protect whistleblowers’ identities and maintain the confidentiality 
of the contents of their reporting/counseling, lest anyone involved in their actions suffer any disadvantages, 
while ensuring that whistleblowers can request “confidentiality”, “personal protection”, “personnel measures”, 
“protective measures”, and “prohibition of disadvantageous actions” in accordance with the relevant laws.Online practice pledge (%)
2018 2019 202099.3 99.3 99.7
Online education on sexual harassment prevention (%)
2018 2019 202097.7 99.1 99.6Online education on ethical management (%)
2018 2019 202098.4 99.1 99.6
On-site education on ethical management (Cases)
2018 2019 2020On-site 
education
not offered66
23
*  2-hours long online (non-face-to-face) education on ethical management is offered 2 times a year, and in 2020 more than 
98% of all employees completed the course. 
Total 
430Customer complaints
195Determination as non-issue2)
4
Issues related to subsidiaries
121Simple workplace issues
103Ethics counseling/reporting1)
7SK T elecom’s compliance consists of the SKT Family CP (Compliance Program) Promotion System, which 
encompasses 23 SK ICT Family member companies from an integrated perspective; the advanced and 
digitized CP Process & System, and enhanced company-wide CP Capability. Based on these internal 
systems, we predict and analyze possible risks from markets, legislation and systems, and endeavor to 
maximize our corporate value through stable business performance based on win-win cooperation, a friendly 
business environment, and strict compliance management.
SKT Compliance Vision & Policy
In 2020, we actively responded to the paradigm shift engendered by the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as 
societal demands and regulators’ policies, in a bid to overcome the crisis. We worked hard to establish an in-
house culture of fair trade. Through promoting compliance across the entire SK ICT Family, we also made 
various efforts to strengthen our competitiveness in the ICT market through preemptive responses to issues, 
while laying solid foundations for continuous value creation from our new growth businesses. Moreover, by 
conducting more advanced risk analysis and forecasting approaches using digital technology, we further 
consolidated our leadership position in compliance management.In 2020, we set specific targets in the four categories shown below and implemented the core tasks for each 
of them. First, we created a CP promotion system to be applied uniformly across the SK ICT Family, with each 
of them preparing to select tasks, produce action plans for improved capabilities, and start implementing 
them in 2021.
In terms of the preliminary review system and process, we aimed to conduct all our business with the goal 
of “zero risk” from the compliance management perspective; to review various transactions and marketing 
activities, in advance, with relevant business organizations and suggest alternatives when necessary; and to 
apply RPA (robotic process automation) which encompass digital technologies and data management within 
the system. In addition, we conducted annual training for all our staff and executives, and launched practical 
programs designed to strengthen the compliance and risk management capabilities of all our members and 
business organizations in a bid to respond to the rapidly changing business environment.
Target & MilestonePolicy Target &  
Road-map   
Create an ESG-friendly 
business environment 
in the new eraMarket/regulatory 
demands and risks
SKT Family CP 
Promotion System
CP Process
& SystemCP
CapabilityConduct risk analysis/
evaluationDevelop alternative 
ways to maximize valueIntroducing an integrated SKT Family CP system
• Develop an integrated CP system for the  
SK ICT Family (4Q)
• Apply the system to all 23 family companies by 
reflecting each company’s evaluation system 
(2021-)Establishing a fair trade culture with business partners
•	Develop measures to minimize risks for 
major growth businesses
•	Maintain the top ranking in the shared 
growth index evaluation
Upgrading the preliminary review system
•	Maintain zero-regulatory risks  
(introduction of 100% prior review)
•	Introduce AI-based RPA in the review system (1Q),  
enhance search features (2Q)
•	Connect the purchasing system and the tech. 
document system (2Q)Enhancing programs for CP competency building
•	Annual regular education (3Q)
 -    For all executives and full-time employees
 -    Expand to include the Board members and 
contract workers (2022-) 
•	Offer customized guidance according to business 
characteristics and risks (all year round)
 -    Checklist, guide for each business/CP area, 
targeted training, etc.Compliance
Since the introduction of its compliance system in 2013, SK Telecom has continued to expand and 
upgrade it in a bid to preemptively respond to the changing business environment. The expectations 
of society and the regulatory authorities are rapidly increasing in line with the spread of ESG amid 
the expansion and complexity of business in the nascent digital era. Accordingly, SK Telecom’s compliance system now places more importance on operating a 
full-fledged preventive system while creating a business environment conducive to the maximization 
of shareholder value as well as reviewing legality of cases and responding to risks.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 116 Value to Governance 117Developing and adopting an integrated CP system for the SK ICT Family      We have developed a 
compliance implementation framework reflecting the capabilities and business characteristics of each of 
our 23 subsidiaries while enhancing the efficiency of our integrated response to the changing business 
environment. For the four stages of CP promotion, we devised six promotional dimensions and 63 detailed 
implementation tasks, based on which we conducted evaluation on each subsidiary’s capabilities, and 
then made each one chose its own annual tasks and build individual mid-term CP promotion roadmap. We 
expect to build more effective compliance implementation capabilities at the SK ICT Family level through the 
continuous promotion of CP based on this framework.Upgrading the preliminary review system      SK T elecom conducts pre-compliance reviews of all its 
business activities, including business transactions, business cooperation, and marketing activities, and 
converts the results into data resources. We completed the linkage with our various internal systems, 
including purchasing, technical data management, and project management, so as to establish and run 
a more accurate and three-dimensional review system that will enable us to consistently achieve zero 
regulatory risk and guarantee solid growth potential in our existing businesses and new growth engines.
We have also developed a system that can constantly collect information and analyze regulatory/market 
trends in an increasingly more sophisticated business environment by using AI/data-based digital technology. 
In 2020, we established a more effective risk management system, including an automatic monitoring 
system, for changes in regulatory situations and related issues, through the automation/intelligent regulatory 
trend sensing based on RPA.
Establishing a fair trade culture with business partners      In our continuous efforts to achieve win-win 
growth with our business partners, we have been conducting compliance pre-reviews, improving systems, 
and focusing on win-win cooperation support for them. Through these, we have created a virtuous cycle 
ecosystem with our business partners and contributed to building a fair trade culture. In particular, as a 
leading ICT company, we strived to help overcome the national crisis in 2020 by supporting those of our 
business partners who were experiencing difficulties due to the COVID-19 pandemic through our win-win 
cooperation programs.
Enhancing programs for CP competency building      SK T elecom runs a compliance education program 
(Monopoly Regulation and Fair T rade Act, Improper Solicitation and Graft Act) for all its executives, leaders, 
and employees, aimed at responding to the changing business environment and the associated risks 
more effectively. In 2020, 83.8% of people eligible to the trainings completed the course from August 
to September. In addition to the regular training, we provided training/guidance customized to specific 
business units and compliance issues on an annual basis, with the goal of boosting the effectiveness of our 
compliance management by empowering our employees to put their learning into practice in their daily work 
performance. Examples include the MNO Compliance Guide (March), the Labeling and Advertising Guidelines 
(April), the introduction of and training on the Subcontract Execution System (May), a revised version of the 
B2B Casebook (July), and the e-Commerce Service Checklist and Self-inspection (August). By disseminating 
information on new regulatory trends and recommending responses at work customized for each business 
unit and occupational group, we sought not only to raise awareness among our members but also to 
eliminate risk factors at the source. Going forward, we will make continuous efforts to expand our support 
areas and improve programs.
As a result of implementing the integrated compliance system, SK T elecom won the highest ranking as an 
“Excellent Business of Honor” in the 2020 mutual growth index evaluation, conducted by the Shared Growth 
Commission/Fair T rade Commission, for the eighth consecutive year, an outstanding achievement that only 
three Korean companies have accomplished out of 200 companies subject to the evaluation. As we are fully 
aware that a company’s compliance competitiveness determines its sustainable growth and shareholder 
value, we will never allow ourselves to become complacent about these achievements, and will firmly 
established ourselves as a global leader in compliance. CP Operation DynamicsCP Implementation Framework
•Establish a unified execution system 
for SKT and its 23 subsidiaries 
while autonomously selecting and 
implementing tasks that reflect 
each company’s characteristics and 
circumstances
 - Present 63 level-specific tasks
 -  Promote a roadmap for CP 
competency enhancementOperation Guidelines CP Dimensions (6)
CP introduction and operation plan
Management’s recognition
Education/training programs
Compliance operating system
Sanction and incentive systems
CP evaluation and improvement 
(dedicated organization)CP establishment
Dissemination and 
expansion
Evaluation and 
improvementCP operationSub-Dimensions (17)
Establishment of CP operation procedures/standards
Implementation guide by CP field
Internal and external communication (publication/disclosure)
Preliminary consultation system
Risk assessment and minimization activities
Follow-up system
Whistleblower system/direct reporting systemDeclaration of top management’s commitment 
Appointment of compliance officers
Support for budget/organization/human resources
Evaluation of CP’s operational effectiveness
Continuous improvement of program and reflection 
in management
CP collaboration between related companiesRegular CP education
Intensive education on each CP issue
Personnel discipline system
Incentive system
Action
Status diagnosis 
(self-evaluation)
MAIN GUIDELINES
•Providing consultation on customized 
end target according to each company’s 
size/level of risk
•Reaching a consensus on each 
company’s major risk management issues•Establishing the 
integrated CP systemCOLLABORATION AND SUPPORT
•Minimizing risk at the entire 
family level
•Responding to each company’s 
requests for supportTask selection
Eliminating risks in existing business
Step-by-step task implementation 
centered on weak competency areasFamily company’s 
autonomous 
implementation
SKT
Co-workResults of each company’s 
in-house diagnosis
Survey resultsTask implementationYear N Review Year N+1 PlanningOperation of the Integrated ICT Family CP System
CP competency 
enhancement tasksBusiness essential tasks
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 118 Value to Governance 119Supply Chain Management
Supply Chain 
StatusSK Telecom has established supply chain management policies and procedures for sustainable supply 
chain management. In particular, we are collaborating with our business partners across our business 
operations, such as network device development and distribution, network infrastructure construction 
and operation, and platform content development and provision. We provide our stakeholders with 
information about the responsibilities and guarantees for products and services, and continuously 
monitor risks within the value chain to boost our ability to mitigate risk factors and discover 
opportunities. We will strengthen our competitiveness through responsible value chain management.Antitrust compliance     The SK Group enacted the SK Compliance System Guidelines in 2008 based 
on expanding importance of ethical management and fair trade responsibility. We are strengthening our 
fair trade system in depth based on guidelines. As a result, SK T elecom was not involved in any anti-trust 
investigations, nor did it pay any fines for breaching fair trade practices in 2020. SK T elecom will lead 
the establishment of a compliance system for the entire ICT industry and go forward as a company of 
sustainable competitiveness by spreading a fair trade culture and creating an environment for self-regulating 
fair competition.
We comply with the Political Funds Act and do not provide any political or election funds or lobbying funds to 
any political parties or groups so as to prevent corrupt acts related to political funds. However, for institutions 
whose political neutrality is guaranteed and which promote constructive causes in the public interest, we 
provide them with regular support, and disclose all the details of such support transparently on an annual 
basis. In February 2017, we arranged for donations of KRW 1 billion or more to be approved by the BOD in 
advance in a bid to guarantee the fairness of our donation commitment. As a responsible corporate citizen, 
we strive to prevent any acts of corruption related to political funds so as not to have a detrimental effect 
on formulation of the relevant policy. We comply with all anti-corruption and ethical management matters; 
fulfill our social responsibilities including the creation of jobs and the realization of social values; and strive to 
contribute to the sound development of society as a whole.
Expenditures Related to Policy  (Unit: KRW million)
2018 2019 2020
Political donations 0 0 0
Lobbying funds 0 0 0
Dues for related associations 575 579 574
Others 0 0 0
Top 5 Expenditures to Associations in 2020  (Unit: KRW million)
Name of Association Position Amount
Korea Telecommunications Operators Association (KTOA) Vice-Chair 205
Korea Association for ICT Promotion (KAIT) Chair 200
Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Seoul Member 102
ITU Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) Member 39
Korea Radio Promotion Association (RAPA) Vice-Chair 28Transparent 
Participation 
in Public Policy 
and Payment 
of Association 
Dues
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 120 Value to Governance 121SK T elecom designates its critical suppliers by considering the following: 1) relevance to the company’s core 
businesses and reliability, 2) high transaction volume, and 3) business impact and transaction dependence, 
such as the irreplaceability of proprietary technologies. In 2020, out of 1,179 registered suppliers, we 
classified 177 as tier 1 core suppliers and 44 as non-tier 1 core suppliers.
Responsible Supply Chain Management Procedures
Supply Chain Purchase Analysis in 2020
Partner category Number of partners Proportion of purchase (%)
Tier 1Total number of registered suppliers 1,179 100
Equipment (network and infrastructure) 152 31
Services (software and solution development) 776 44
Goods 106 5
Construction 145 20
Critical 
suppliersTier 1 177 87
Non-Tier 1 44 3Corrective measures Contract termination
Action
Guidance &
Monitoring
AwarenessMonitoringPolicySCM Risk Profile
•Monthly procurement review meeting•	UNGC Principle
•	OECD MNE Guidelines
•	UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights
•	RBA, ISO 14001, RE100, TCFDGlobal Guideline/
StandardsStakeholder
Engagement Channels
•	Annual stakeholder survey
•	Business partner meeting  
(1-on-1 meetings, voice of 
partners)
•	Business partner surveyInternal Risk 
Management Processes
• Gap analysis of Win-win 
Index Assessment
•	Risk Management Working 
Group
•	Supplier ESG Code of Conduct
•	Registration requirements •	Contract provisions •	Evaluation •	Audit•	Procurement GuidelinesSupplier ESG Code of Conduct      SK T elecom defines the CSR compliance requirements for its partner 
companies through the Supplier ESG Code of Conduct. We pursue sustainable supply chain management 
based on ten supply chain policies1) encompassing anti-corruption, fair competition and compliance, 
information protection, financial soundness, public policy, customer value, eco-friendliness, health and 
safety, community contribution, and human rights. We provide the Business Partner ESG Code of Conduct 
to our business partners and recommend that all our business partners and their suppliers comply with the 
Code. As a representative UNGC LEAD company, we have included the UNGC principles in our supply chain 
guidelines; we refer to the recommendations of the GeSI Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) Guidelines, the Global 
e-Sustainability Initiative. We ask our potential partner companies to comply with the principles in the process 
of contract execution, and prevent business risks related to our business partners through regular monitoring.
Supply chain anti-corruption policy and audit     T o prevent corruptive behavior in the supply chain, we not 
only apply the Business Partner ESG Code of Conduct but also ensure our partner companies’ commitment 
to fair trade practices annually through the “Fair T rade/T ransparent T ransactions and CSR Practice Agreement” 
and the “Business Partner Agreement on Ethical Practice”. With the aim of promoting active cooperation in 
the practice of CSR, including ethical management, and establishing a fair and transparent transaction culture, 
their pledges include prohibition of the offering of money, entertainment, and conveniences; the obligation to 
report to the Ethics Counseling Center upon receiving a request for money, entertainment, or convenience 
from our employees; and prohibition of the use or leakage of management information, as well as any 
involvement in unfair trade practices. In the event of cases of corruption, we impose sanctions pursuant to 
investigation/review by the Purchasing Deliberation Committee. No such incidents were reported in 2020.
Prescreening of supply chain     SK T elecom screens 100% of its newly registered partners based in the 
“Fair T rade/T ransparent T ransactions and CSR Practice Agreement” as specified in the electronic contract 
system (OPEN2U). We require our partner companies to comply with our supply chain policies stipulated 
in the Agreement, which is considered an official request for partner companies to comply with our ESG 
policies, and each business contract between SK T elecom and our partners. We also request that all our tier-
2 suppliers comply with the Code of Conduct throughout their contract execution and business practices. 
Those that fail to meet the criteria in the screening process cannot be registered as new partners, resulting in 
the termination of their business relations with us. 
We implement prescreening in registering new partner companies based on such ESG factors as human 
rights, environment, ethics, and society, and are steadily increasing the ratio of supply chain ESG diagnostics. 
We had all our newly registered suppliers undergo the prescreening in 2020. T o maintain the prescreening rate 
at 100% upon signing contracts with our new partners, we have upgraded our financial and non-financial risk 
review items and processes to be able to meet international ESG standards, while striving to further reduce 
supplier ESG risks by running a pool of supplier candidates that meet the relevant criteria.
Supply Chain ESG Assessment (Prescreening)
Partner Category 2018 2019 2020 Goal for 2023 Notes
Total number of newly registered suppliers 505 568 336 –
Service, construction, 
equipment, goods suppliersNumber of screening in the areas of human 
rights, environment, ethics, and society505 568 336 –
Rate of pre-assessment (%) 100 100 100 100
1) For further details, please visit our website at www.sktelecom.com/supplychainIdentification and analysis of key supply chain risks      SK T elecom strives to proactively manage major 
risks in its supply chain. T o this end, we conduct the survey on business partners, hold meetings with 
business partners, listen to the voice of partners, and run the Risk Management Working Group, in addition 
to win-win growth satisfaction surveys conducted at least twice a year. We reflect identified risk factors 
in the Risk Gap Analysis and Risk Mapping by supplier group to review them at the monthly purchasing 
performance improvement meetings. SK T elecom defines major risks from a supply chain perspective as 
follows, and reflects them in managing the supply chain sustainability process. Identified risk factors are 
reflected in the “Code of Conduct for Business Partners in ESG” and “Fair T rade/T ransparent T ransactions 
and CSR Practice Agreement” which we apply 100% to our business partner evaluations. In 2020, we 
conducted risk identifications and analyses of 1,179 tier 1 partners and 44 non-tier 1 partners. For those 
deemed to be exposed to “high risks”, we required them to eliminate their risks by undergoing supply chain 
network audits, including on-site inspections and third-party audits.
Supply Chain Risk Identification & Analysis Results in 2020
Main Risk FactorsAssessed Sourcing Group High Risk Rate1)
Risk Level Assessed GroupRate
(No. of companies)Rate
(No. of companies)
Tier 1Overall Overall Risks – – 100% (1,179) 0.5% (6)
Economic 
RisksEthical and anti-corruption 
principle violation in 
the contract processHigh All suppliers 100% (1,179) 0% (0)
Collusion and other unfair 
trade practicesHigh All suppliers 100% (1,179) 0% (0)
Delayed payment to 
subcontractorsHigh All suppliers 100% (1,179) 0% (0)
Unsound financial structure 
(low credit rating)High All suppliers 100% (1,179) 0.5% (6)
Social 
RisksViolation of ILO standards  
and reasonable labor 
practices (compliance with 
work hours, wage payment, 
and other labor rights)ModerateService, 
construction 
suppliers78% (921) 0% (0)
Conflict minerals LowEquipment 
suppliers13% (152) 0% (0)
Environmental
RisksViolations of environmental 
regulationsModerateEquipment 
suppliers13% (152) 0% (0)
High GHG emissions ModerateEquipment 
suppliers13% (152) 0% (0)
Failure to adopt 
an environmental 
management systemLowConstruction, 
equipment 
suppliers25% (297) 0% (0)
Non-Tier 1 Overall risks –Subcontract 
suppliers2) 100% (44) 0% (0)
1) Rate of suppliers determined to have a high risk level according to the risk analysis results.
2)  Calculation limited to cases when an interim contract instead of a direct contract is made with the small and medium-sized 
suppliers for construction on network facilities or the supply of general goods (SK TNS, HappyNarae).Selection and 
Evaluation of 
Sustainable 
Supply Chain
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 122 Value to Governance 123Evaluation of supply chain ESG      SK T elecom considers the percentage of written surveys and on-site 
surveys on registered suppliers as a key indicator in the ESG evaluation of its supply chain. In 2020, we 
conducted written survey evaluation on 1,133 tier 1 suppliers – out of 1,179 tier 1 suppliers or 96% of all 
registered suppliers. For the 187 companies that have signed a mutual growth agreement with us, we had 
their shared growth indexes evaluated in 2020 based on the criteria of the Korean Commission for Corporate 
Partnerships. We are applying these policies and achievement indicators to all our suppliers at home and 
abroad. Our overseas purchases account for KRW 12.7 billion (0.3%) of total purchases (KRW 3,829.5 billion), 
while the regional performance indicators focus on Korea.
Supply Chain ESG Assessment (By Tier)
2018 2019 2020 Goal for 2023
Tier 1Total number of registered suppliers1)1,357 1,074 1,179 -
Number of suppliers evaluated 1,342 1,072 1,133 -
Number of suppliers surveyed in writing
(audit)1,085 1,072 1,133 -
Assessment rate of suppliers (%) 98 99 96 100
Non-Tier 1Total number of core suppliers2)49 36 44 -
Number of core suppliers evaluated3)40 31 39 -
Ratio of core suppliers evaluated (%) 82 86 89 90
1) Includes all suppliers including those which did not have any transactions with SK Telecom in the preceding three years
2)  Calculation limited to cases in which an interim contract instead of a direct contract is made with small- and medium-sized 
suppliers for the construction of network facilities or the supply of general goods (SK TNS, HappyNarae).
3)  The construction of SK TNS’s network facilities began in 2015, while an interim contract with HappyNarae was executed starting 
in 2016.
Supply Chain ESG Risk Assessment in 2020 (By Type)1)
CategoryNo. of 
CompaniesNo. of 
Companies 
AssessedRate (%) Note
Core suppliers 221 216 98
Suppliers with a high level of risk 6 6 100
1)  SK Telecom’s supply chain ESG risk assessment is conducted on an annual basis, and the above assessment rate has been 
calculated according to the suppliers that were assessed annually.Corrective measures and incentives      Based on the supply chain risk diagnosis and evaluation results, we 
require those partners in need of improvement to establish a corrective action plan and improve their ESG 
performance according to the plan. For partners requiring improvement, we help them take the necessary 
actions swiftly by reviewing the feasibility of their improvement plans, supporting essential resources for the 
corrective actions, and arranging external professional consulting if necessary. We classify and analyze the 
results of their improvement efforts by area, and reflect them in the prescreening, ESG risk diagnoses, and 
support policies for our supply chain. None of our partner companies was sanctioned in 2020 according to 
the results of their diagnosis and assessment.
Meanwhile, we provide incentives such as competency enhancement programs and risk reduction training 
support to partner companies that achieve excellent diagnosis and evaluation results. The competency 
enhancement programs include technical support and protection activities, such as technology transfer and 
open collaboration, as well as the SK Win-win Growth Academy, CEO seminars, and MBA courses. The risk 
reduction training includes win-win growth agreement and education programs on purchasing policy and 
policy compliance for partner companies. Also included in the detailed curricula are adjustment of the delivery 
unit price, financial support, technical and educational support, and welfare.
Risk-related Corrective Measures for Partner Companies
Category 2018 2019 2020 Goal for 2023 Notes
Rate of high risk level suppliers with 
established plans for improvement (%)100 100 100 100
Rate of suppliers with improved ESG 
Performance within 12 months of 
establishing plans for improvement (%)90 90 90 90
Number of partner companies that 
received corrective suspension2 0 0Reviewed by the 
Procurement Review 
Committee
Banned temporarily 0 0 0 One year suspension
Banned permanently 2 2 0 Permanent suspension
Purchasing strategy and supply chain sustainability      The order of priority in SK T elecom’s five 
purchasing strategies is as follows: 1) securing fundamental purchasing competitiveness by improving 
its purchasing structure from a total cost ownership (TCO) perspective; 2) boosting cost efficiency by 
reviewing the zero-base view of the cost structure; 3) optimizing and improving business-friendly purchasing 
processes; 4) creating a pre-purchase risk management and compliance environment; and 5) expanding 
joint development and supporting overseas exports, and creating a fair trade environment with the goal of 
managing the sustainability of supply chains. We have also formed a “Purchasing Synergy Council” with SK 
Group’s subsidiaries and with the information and communication divisions of companies invested in by SK 
T elecom to promote strategic integrated purchasing.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 124 Value to Governance 125 SK T elecom pursues shared growth with its business partners to create a healthy ICT industry ecosystem 
and create sustainable value. T o this end, in 2003 we established a department dedicated to win-win 
growth and win-win cooperation for the first time in the industry, demonstrating our commitment to actively 
promoting win-win management. Our consistent efforts to foster a culture of fair trade with our partner 
companies and our notable progress in that area were once again recognized with the highest ranking in the 
shared growth index for an eighth consecutive year in 2020.
SK T elecom concludes fair trade agreements with approximately 200 domestic and foreign partners every 
year. T o strengthen our suppliers’ competitiveness, we implement win-win growth programs not only with 
our tier 1 suppliers but also with our tier 2 suppliers. Furthermore, we offer our support programs to start-up 
companies that do not have business relations with us in a bid to revitalize the startup ecosystem. Among 
the areas covered by the programs are new technology development, commercialization, competitiveness 
improvement, and market development.Mutual Growth 
with Business 
PartnersBased on a culture of trust and fair trade, SK T elecom’s shared growth is aimed at expanding collaboration with 
its partner companies, coping jointly with various environmental changes in the post-pandemic era, building 
the future together, and practicing sustainable win-win cooperation. Moving forward, the Initiative will focus on 
the following three activities with the goal of practicing shared growth at the highest level in Korea:
SK T elecom’s plans for and achievements in shared growth are reported to the ESG Committee, which reviews 
material issues. The company’s highest decision-making body for sustainability management, the Committee 
was established to practice the global standard of social responsibility management. In addition, we hold the 
company-wide Procurement Review Committee meeting once per month to systematically practice shared 
growth and to regularly check the win-win status with our partner companies. Key executives participate in 
the meetings to deliberate on major issues related to fair trade and shared growth and check the progress of 
specific activities. In addition, the Compliance T eam of the Legal Group manages partner companies’ fair trade 
risks and supports their major issues.
We are also operating a variety of systems to listen to the voices of our partner companies in fields related to 
shared growth
•Supplier Happiness Survey: Conduct anonymous opinion surveys of our partner companies on material 
issues such as business relations and decision-making in the process of transactions and collaborations 
with SK Telecom and reflect the results in the shared growth policies and feedback to our business 
departments
•In-depth meeting: Collect opinions and reflect them in our policies through one-on-one informal 
meetings to discuss contract execution and shared growth with our partner companies•Establish a fair and transparent business environment with partner companies: Continued 
implementation of major recommendations of the Korea Fair Trade Commission (contract signing, 
supplier selection and operation, internal deliberation committee, document custody and issuance, etc.) 
and reinforcement of internal anti-corruption activities
•Support partner companies for win-win cooperation: Expansion of scope of quantitative and qualitative 
support to tier-2 suppliers for shared growth programs at the same level as that provided to tier-1 
suppliers
•Support to strengthen partner companies’ competitiveness and lead the market by expanding 
collaboration tasks: Joint development of new technologies such as 5G and AI, and discovery of 
collaboration tasks for future responses such as spreading ESG principles, etc.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 126 Value to Governance 127Major Accomplishments for Win-win Growth in 2020
Category Major Program Contents
Training and 
employmentWin-Win Growth
 Academy•Free customized training to strengthen the capabilities of business partners’ employees
•Some 70 on/offline courses in ICT, leadership, and management innovation
•Attended by over 20,000 people including employees of tier 2 suppliers in 2020
Recruitment support 
for business partners•Support for recruitment portals and promotion events to help with their recruitment efforts each year 
since 2018; participated by 47 suppliers and 122 people hired in 2020
Financial 
supportMutual Growth 
Fund• Low-interest loans of up to KRW 3 billion to stabilize the business of business partners
• Including tier-2 partner companies recommended by tier-1 partners
• Launched in 2010, KRW 159.5 billion of fund was formed as of 2020
Improved payment 
terms •3-day payment program, introduced in 2004, to support SMEs’ liquidity regardless of the amount of money
•100% Cash payment system, introduced in 2005, for small and medium-sized business partners
Technical 
support and 
protectionPatent support•Free transfer/grant of some 1,500 SK Telecom patents to strengthen SMEs’ technological competitiveness
•Annual guidance and patent consultation including tier-2 partner companies
Technical support 
infrastructure• Infrastructure support free of charge, including test beds and APIs/SDKs, available for small and  
medium-sized business partners and individual developers in order to support new tech development 
and communication network interworking
Technical protection 
support• Financial support in using the technology data escrow program of the Korea Foundation for Cooperation 
of Large & Small Business, Rural Affairs and the trade secret original certification system of the Korean 
Intellectual Property Office
The Ministry of SMEs and 
Startups’ Conditional 
Purchase Project for New 
Product Development •Support for small and medium-sized partner companies to facilitate technology development and 
expand their sales channels
•24 cases supported since 2010 with 3 new development cases in 2020
Business 
management 
supportWelfare support for 
partner companies•Welfare points support for partner companies’ employees (personal development, child tuition fees, etc.).
Consulting for productivity 
improvement•Participated in the Industrial Innovation Movement organized by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and 
Energy since 2013
•Free productivity improvement consulting for accumulated 202 companies until 2020
Support for expanding 
sales channels•Support for partner companies with participation and installation of exhibition booth at trade shows 
such as the World IT Show in Korea and the Mobile World Congress overseas
•Support for 7 accumulated joint overseas advance projects promoted by the Ministry of SMEs and 
StartupsCyber Security
In 2020, we strived to spread a culture of customer information protection and enhance our execution 
capability in the area by upgrading all the internal regulations related to customer information and revising 
the self-assessment checklist for handling customer information for our subsidiaries and the companies 
that are contracted to handle our customer information. In particular, we acquired certifications for the 
Korea-Information Security Management System-Personal (ISMS-P) and the Korea-Information Security 
Management System (ISMS) from government agencies, confirming that our company-wide personal 
information protection and information protection management system has been further strengthened. 
We are also committed to practicing continuous ESG management from the perspective of customer 
information protection, starting with efforts to improve all the related systems and processes with the aim of 
enhancing the transparency of our customer information management.
Organization in charge of information security and personal information protection      We have 
appointed the head of the Customer Value Innovation Office to serve as the Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) 
under the supervision of the BOD, while the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) leads a working-level 
organization as the executive in charge of companywide customer information protection. In accordance with 
the 2019 amendment to the relevant laws, the CISO is prohibited from holding another position concurrently; 
and we have appointed a dedicated executive and announced the appointment in-house. The CISO has also 
been developing a strong governance model of information protection and personal information protection.
Information Protection OrganizationInformation 
Protection 
OrganizationAs concerns over cyber security are increasing, SK Telecom fully recognizes the importance of
information security and strives to respond to them. Viewing the protection of personal information 
as one of our key management issues, we are making concerted efforts to identify and eliminate 
potential risk factors in advance, to strengthen our information protection system, and to bolster 
our fact-finding investigations into our distribution networks and subsidiaries.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 128 Value to Governance 129 CASE
Strategic collaboration with business partners
Recycling plastic originating from old antennae was difficult as it was specially treated to prevent interference with radio waves and protect the critical 
components. SK T elecom however has succeeded in recycling most of the plastic that used to be incinerated for use in new communication equipment. 
With the goal of reducing plastic waste and creating a circular economy by recycling obsolete or worn-out communication equipment, we have been 
researching plastic recycling schemes with small and medium-sized partners including High Gain Antenna since 2019. After about two years of 
improvement work and on-site performance inspections, we succeeded in recycling the plastic (radome) used in communication antennae for the first time 
in Korea and obtained the GR (Good Recycled Product) certification for mobile communication equipment from the Korean Agency for T echnology and 
Standards. By establishing the industry’s first plastic recycling system for communication equipment with small and medium-sized business partners, we 
expect to reduce the amount of plastic wastes by about 30 tons, which is equivalent to the reduction of about 1 million 1.5-liter PET bottles (weighing about 
30 grams each). Going forward, we will continue to contribute to promoting sustainable management among our partner companies by helping those 
partner companies that conduct research on recycling technologies to acquire the GR certification and generate new revenue stream for themselves.
Use of recycled plastic in 
new equipmentSeparation of materials such as 
plastic and scrap metal
Recycling System
2003-2007
Laying the foundations for 
shared growth
Spreading the fair trade 
culture
Establishing a culture of shared
growth through cooperation
Making a new leap forward for 
shared growth to lead the 
new ICT ecosystem
2008-2011
2012-2016
2017-2020
•2003  Established a dedicated  
win-win organization
•2004  Introduced the 3-day payment 
program in support of SME 
partner’s liquidity
•2005  Launched 100% cash payment 
for SME partners
•2006  Opened the SK Win-Win 
Academy (sponsored by SKT)
•2007  Ranked 1st in the Internet 
communication training 
institution evaluation 
conducted by the Ministry of 
Employment and Labor
•2008   Built a procurement 
management system (Open2U) 
for fair trade
 -  SK Group launched the  
Win-Win Growth Committee
•2009  Launched social contribution 
programs based on the new 
concept of “pro bono”
•2010  Established the Mutual Growth 
Fund worth KRW 150 billion
 -  Adopted the technology data 
escrow system to protect 
SME’s technologies (Ministry 
of SMEs and Startups)
•2011  Signed a fair trade agreement 
(Korea Fair Trade Commission)
 -  Adapted win-win welfare 
programs for the first time in 
the industry
•2012  Ranked 1st in the Win-win 
Growth Index for the first time 
in the industry 
 -  Launched the T open lab to 
support the development 
environment
•2013  Announced the “Happy 
Companion” action plans and 
launched the SME/Venture 
Investment Fund
•2014  Opened the Daejeon Creative 
Economy Innovation Center
•2015  Opened the Sejong Creative 
Economy Innovation Center
•2016  Supported industrial innovation 
consulting
 -  Reorganized the free technical 
support infrastructure  
(IT developers, IoT Portal, etc.)
•2017  Selected as an excellent 
implementation case 
(establishment of an open 
ecosystem for IoT)
•2018  Launched the True Innovation 
Portal to promote collaboration 
in the new ICT ecosystem
  Opened the Shared Growth 
Center
 •2020  Ranked the highest in the  
Win-win Growth Index for the 
8th consecutive year, for the 
first time in the industry
Open communication in the contactless era
SK T elecom is pursuing desirable shared growth in the contactless era through various partner support programs. In 2020, we held a “non-face-to-face 
job fair” with our partner companies to help alleviate the manpower shortage of partners that are experiencing difficulties in recruiting talent due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. T o help our partner companies’ business management, we held a “non-face-to-face shared growth CEO forum” and discussed the 
prospects for the digital industry in the post-corona era, among other things, with the CEOs of our partner companies. In addition, we hosted a virtual 
“Shared Growth Happiness Camp” to talk about the difficulties that our partners were facing due to COVID-19 and to find practical ways of boosting our 
mutual cooperation. We will continue promoting win-win cooperation with our partner companies through open communication with them on a non-face-
to-face basis even in the prolonged COVID-19 situation.
SK Telecom’s Shared Growth Milestones
CEO BOD CPO CISO
Customer 
Value 
Innovation 
OfficeChief 
Information 
Security 
Officer• Establish policies for information protection and 
customer information protection
• Establish a management system for information 
protection and customer information protection, and 
inspect the operation status
• Respond to breaches/leakages of customer information
• Engage in customer information protection training 
and change management
• Establish diagnosis policies for company-wide and 
invested companies’ information protection and 
customer information protectionInformation Protection and 
Customer Information Protection
• Establish IT security policies
• Establish and operate the IT security system
• Operate the Integrated Security Control Center
• Respond to significant damage caused by hacking, etc.
• Engage in IT security training and change managementIT SecurityPrevention of customer data breaches      In our efforts to counter cyber-security threats, SK T elecom 
implements a variety of security control measures to prevent system and data breaches.
Number of Data Breaches and DDoS Attacks  (Unit: Case)
2018 2019 2020
Customer data breaches 0 0 0
System hacking 0 0 0
DDoS attacks 0 0 0
Personal information protection management process     SK T elecom collects personal information 
only to the extent agreed upon by the customers in order to be able to provide them with services, and also 
use it to expand and improve our services. We keep their personal information safe by applying technical 
and administrative safeguards beyond the level specified by the relevant laws. We immediately destroy 
customer information upon achieving the purpose of its collection and use. The consignment of personal 
data processing or the provision of data to a third party is dependent on the customers’ consent agree to, 
although it may also be permitted where separate laws call for it. We take the protection of our customers’ 
personal information very seriously and always do our best to protect it. SK T elecom complies with all relevant 
personal information laws, including the Personal Information Protection Act, and discloses “Privacy Policy” in 
accordance with the law at our website so that our customers can consult them easily at any time.
Consent to Receive Information/Advertisements1)
Certification of information security system      SK T elecom provides infrastructure and services that 
customers can use with confidence by acquiring certificates such as ISMS and ISMS-P for its public 
information security systems.
Annual renewal of ISMS certification 
(corporate information security certification 
awarded by the Ministry of Science and ICT)
Annual renewal of ISMS-P certification
 (corporate personal information protection certification 
awarded by the Personal Information Protection Commission)
Activities to 
Raise Security 
AwarenessEducation on personal information protection and cyber security      SK T elecom conducts company-
wide education on personal information protection to raise employee awareness on the information security 
and privacy protection and to improve our execution capabilities in information protection. 
Education on Personal Information Protection and Cyber Security
Course SKT 2020 Personal Information Protection Training
Period October 23 to December 31, 2020 
Method Non-face-to-face online education using in-house online education platform
Result 4,682 out of 4,927 employees completed the course (95% completion rate)1) 
1)  All employees completed the training course, except in cases of retirement, leave of absence, overseas dispatch, or long-
term leave.Personal 
Information 
Protection
* As of the end of 2020
1) Based on currently available/suspended services and wireless/mobile phone services
SK Telecom notifies customers of the following personal information protection issues:
•	Characteristics of collected information
•	Use of collected information
•			Areas where customers decide how their personal data is collected, 
used, stored and processed:
- The opt-out option available
- The opt-in consent required
- Requests for access to data held by the company
- Requests to send data to another service provider
- Requests to edit data
- Requests for deletion•	 Period of information retention 
in company files
•	 Ways in which personal 
information is protected
•	 Third-party disclosure policy 
(private/public enterprises)
Consent
17 ,274,999
Disagree
9,762,858
Total
27 ,037 ,857
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 130 Value to Governance 131Information security management process     SK T elecom operates the latest and best security systems 
and processes that exceed the requirements set by the laws in the areas of network infrastructure, data, and 
services.Information 
Security 
Management 
System
Network Infrastructure
Security
•		Annual inspection of national ICT 
infrastructure including mobile 
operating systems, etc.
•		Annual ISMS certification 
(Corporate information security 
certification of the Ministry of 
Science and ICT)
•		Checks for technical/operational 
vulnerabilities in major servers and 
network equipmentData  
Security
•		ISMS-P certification (corporate personal 
information protection certification 
system awarded by the Personal 
Information Protection Commission)
•		Unauthorized access to sensitive data 
blocked completely through encryption
•		Server/DB access controlled and logged 
by an access control solution available 
only to authorized people
•		Application of the latest vaccine/security 
patches and network separationService  
Security
•		Maintaining a safe service 
environment for new/modified 
services based on security 
vulnerability checks, simulation 
hacking, drills, etc.
•		Installation and operation of 
access control devices such 
as intrusion prevention and 
intrusion detection systemsSK T elecom is committed to expanding access to mobile communication services by securing and retaining 
subscribers and expanding mobile devices. Improving access to its services has a positive effect on creating 
subscriber-based revenues, including greater customer satisfaction and fewer churn, and can also contribute 
to improving the customers’ quality of life.
Number of subscribers      The rate of LTE and 5G subscribers and the number of subscribers are key 
indicators for confirming mobile-based service accessibility. Since the world’s first commercialization of the 
5G service in April 2019, on the back of 5G ecosystem improvements in addition to various products and 
services, the number of our 5G subscribers has been sharply increasing to reach 5.48 million as of 2020 year-
end, making us No.1 among domestic carriers. At the end of 2020, SK T elecom’s combined subscriber rate for 
LTE and 5G was 95.0%, a year-on-year increase of 2.5%p.
LTE and 5G Services Penetration Rate  (Unit: 1,000 persons)
Customer value innovation      SK T elecom is increasing customer loyalty with operation of preemptive 
customer experience management (CEM). We have been maintaining the top position in the customer 
satisfaction, ranking first in the telecommunication industry at the major customer satisfaction surveys in Korea 
(NCSI, KCSI, and KS-SQI) in 2020. In particular, we have been ranked No.1 in the NCSI survey for 23 consecutive 
years. In 2020, we also received an “excellent” rating in the T elecommunications User Protection Evaluation by 
the Korea Communications Commission in recognition of our excellent handling of customer grievances and 
prevention of consumer damages. As a result of the regular biannual CSI evaluation conducted by SK T elecom, 
our customer satisfaction rate stood at 80 points, up 1.4 points year-on-year, in 2020.Customers
Service 
AccessibilityAs a global new ICT company that is leading the 5G ecosystem, SK Telecom implements 
customer-centered management by providing the best products and differentiated services 
with a strong commitment to building long-term trusting relationships with its customers 
based on continuous customer value innovation.Personal information collection      SK T elecom collects its customers’ personal information according to 
the opt-in method after obtaining the subscriber's prior consent. We notify all our subscribers of the items 
of personal information to be collected, the purpose of collection, the retention period, etc. in accordance 
with the laws related to personal information protection, and the collected personal information is used solely 
within the scope of the stated purpose. We make every effort to protect personal information under the strict 
principle of only providing the customer’s personal information to a third party after obtaining the customer’s 
prior consent.
Response to requests for data from government agencies    SK T elecom provides the related data 
in accordance with the statutory provision standards and methods when requested to supply data by 
government agencies pursuant to the T elecommunications Business Act (Article 83, Paragraph 6) and the 
Protection of Communications Secrets Act (Article 13), and reports its provision of such data to the relevant 
agency (Ministry of Science and ICT) twice per year. While carrying out such cooperation and reporting in 
accordance with the procedures and restrictions stipulated by the laws, we additionally review any risk of 
violation of the users’ rights and conduct internal due diligence to minimize human rights risks.
Response to Governmental Institution’s Data Requests (Unit: Case)
2018 2019 2020
No. of “communications data”1) requests 308,335 313,220 298,818
No. of “communications verification data”2) requests 55,892 55,343 49,776
1)  User’s name, resident registration number, address, phone number, ID, subscription start and end dates. The courts, prosecutors, 
and investigative agencies may request such data when investigating a crime, executing sentences or conducting trials 
according to the Telecommunications Business Act.
2)  Other party’s subscription number, log records (date, time) and IP address are classified as communications verification data 
according to the Protection of Communications Secrets Act. Investigative agencies make a request by submitting a warrant 
received from a court, their reasons for the request, the connection to the subscriber in question, as well as the scope of the data 
needed.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 132 Value to Governance 1332018 2019 2020
24,79627 ,38224,41028,64829,089 
22,182 5,476 
2,08490.6%92.5%95.0%● LTE/5G subscriber rate
●  Number of LTE subscribers
●  Number of 5G subscribers
●  Total number of subscribersCustomer value innovation programs      SK T elecom holds a monthly “Customer Value Innovation Meeting” 
in which the CEO and key employees participate with the aim of innovating customer value. We promote 
collaboration between the execution division and related departments to diagnose and evaluate customers’ 
experiences with our products and services and to solve any problems identified in the process. We also 
run the Internal Evaluation Division and the “Junior Board” system in which employees in their 20s and 30s 
participate so that we can reinforce our product and service verification from the customer’s point of view 
and identify and resolve any inconveniences before and after the launch of new services. We apply advanced 
ICT to our Customer Service Centers so that they can operate in a customer-oriented way based on big 
data analysis. We provide a customized list of consultation topics by predicting the purposes of customer 
requests. We also run special consultancy systems for senior citizens and children under the age of 13. In 
addition, we introduced the “visible ARS” service, for the first time in the industry, which shows the ARS menu 
on a smartphone, and thus improved the convenience of seniors and hearing-impaired customers who 
have difficulty using traditional ARS services. We followed this up with the launch of the customer center 
consultation service through text message (*1535) and a verbal AI consultation VoiceBot service in October 
2020 in a bid to create a 24-hour consultation environment without time constraints, as part of our efforts to 
introduce a wider range of customer consultation solutions.Grievance Handling Channels and Methods
Grievance Channels Filing Methods 
Face-to-face channel
(sales agencies, branches)Customer complaints can be filed by visiting SK Telecom’s officially 
certified agencies and branches
Non-face-to-face channel 
(Customer Center)Customer complaints can be filed with a customer center by dialing 114 
or 080-011-6000, free of charge
Website (Online/Mobile)Complaints	can	be	filed	with	Customer	Center	→	Customer	Feedback	
Channel on SK Telecom’s service website (http://www.tworld.co.kr).
Mobile AppCustomer complaints can be filed through the exclusive app of the
SK Telecom website (Mobile T World)
MailComplaints can be submitted by mail (addressee: SK Telecom 
headquarters) -   registered mail or certification of contents
Social MediaCustomer complaints can be filed through SK Telecom’s official social 
media accounts - Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Google+, Kakao Story
FaxIf it is necessary to submit documentary proof following initial contact 
with the customer center, it can be faxed to the relevant customer center
Customer Satisfaction Index1)
2018 2019 2020
NCSI
(Korea Productivity Center)77 77 79No. 1 for 23 
consecutive surveys
KCSI
(Korea Management Association)79.1 80.1 83.9No. 1 for 23 
consecutive surveys
KS-SQI
(Korea Standards Association)74.5 74.8 75.4No. 1 for 21 
consecutive surveys
Telecommunications
User Protection Evaluation
(Korea Communications Commission)Excellent Excellent Excellent Highest ranking
SK Telecom Internal
CSI Index Result2) 78 78 80No. 1 for 24 
consecutive surveys
1) Based on a 100-point scale
2) The average of the internal CSI analysis survey results conducted twice a year (first & second half)
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 134 Value to Governance 135Specialized 5G services
• Launched various services that enable customers to enjoy diverse 5G-based experiences
• Launched V Coloring, a visible coloring service, attracting 120 million content inquiries
• Launched a cloud game service, providing some 100 high-end games
• Produced some 300 AR contents, such as celebrity volumetric contents and music awards AR 
performances, and offered an expanded virtual world experience with the launch of a virtual meetup 
service, etc.Diverse 5G-based 
Customer Experiences
Segmented services
•Offered segmented services to meet diverse customer needs
•Expanded promotions linked to ZEM, an exclusive brand for children aged 12 years and under, and 
developed an app designed to form proper smartphone usage habits, attracting 860,000 parents  
and 490,000 children as subscribers
•Implemented collaboration marketing of “0” , an exclusive brand for subscribers in their 10s and 20s, 
and Kakao character, and expanded media subscription benefits for college students, attracting  
1.3 million subscribers of the exclusive “0 PLAN/0-TEEN 5G Plan”
•Reorganized benefits according to the military service cycle, attracting 139,000 subscribers to the  
“0 Hero” service plan for soldiers
•Launched MIRI, a payment system for foreign customers, and launched T World mobile English 
functionsCustomer-tailored 
Benefits
AI-based COVID-19 symptom care
• Introduced a system for monitoring COVID-19 symptoms using the AI Call Agent adopted by 33 local 
governments in Korea, reducing the related workload by around 85%
Non-face-to-face meeting service
• Launched the group video call service “MeetUs” to support non-face-to-face collaboration, including 
video conferencing, virtual recruiting, and online classesICT-based Support to 
Respond to the
COVID-19 Pandemic5G service speed      SK T elecom performed far better than any of its competitors in the 5G quality evaluation 
by the Ministry of Science and ICT during the second half of 2020, particularly in terms of download speed 
and latency, the most important indicators of 5G network quality. It is continuous technology research and 
investment that enables SK T elecom to maintain its network quality edge over all of its competitors. In 2016, 
we secured technologies such as 5 Band CA (Carrier Aggregation) and 4T4R (4 antenna technology), and 
became the first in Korea to commercialize LTE-A pro services at a speed of 500Mbps. In 2017, we provided 
LTE at a speed of 900Mbps.
In 2018, we launched LTE Cat.M1, and subscribers to our own low-power-wide-area (LPWA) network 
surpassed 1 million in 2019 for the first time in Korea. In January 2020, we succeeded in 5G SA communi-
cation based on the 5G base station in operation, leading to the creation of an ultra-high speed, ultra-low 
delay communication environment. In December, we succeeded in developing the world's first network slice 
application technology for each application/service and then demonstrated it in 5G commercial networks. We 
have established mobile edge computing (MEC) system in 12 major 5G base regions nationwide, sharpening 
our competitive edge in the number of edge cloud bases, and taking the lead in global MEC standardization in 
cooperation with global telecom companies.
5G Service Speed (Unit: Mbps)
Electromagnetic fields      With the customer safety at the center, SK T elecom has been faithfully 
complying with the obligation on measuring electromagnetic wave since the mandatory measurement of 
electromagnetic wave entered into effect in June 2007. According to the electromagnetic wave rating system 
put into effect in August 2014, over 99.9% of our radio stations are evaluated as Level 1, ensuring customer 
safety. In 2020, we conducted 41,517 measurements of electromagnetic fields at our wireless stations, the 
results of which indicate that the actual intensity of electromagnetic waves emitted by our wireless stations 
is less than one tenth of the standard level for human safety. Since September 2019, SK T elecom has been 
supporting a 5-year study on the effects of electromagnetic waves on the human body currently being carried 
out by the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science, paying 50% of the total budget of 
KRW 1.5 billion. As of June 2021, the study is in its second year.
Measurement of Electromagnetic Field Intensity at Base StationsMobile phone payment VOC rate      The mobile phone payment VOC rate is a major customer safety 
indicator as it indicates the number of mobile phone payment complaints compared to the number of mobile 
phone payments per year. Having fallen continuously over the years, the rate increased slightly in 2020 to 
record 0.0082%.
Mobile Phone Payment VOC Rate (Unit: %)
SK T elecom’s competitiveness lies in its excellent network quality and coverage. We are therefore striving 
to continue to invest in networks and upgrade the technology required to maintain and strengthen our 
competitiveness. Aiming to achieve zero large scale network failure, we set KPIs to ensure stable operation of 
our network, such as preemptive risk reduction. In 2020, our annual wireless communication capacity totaled 
40.50 million accounts, which tallies to 129% of the total number of subscribers (31.4 million) including MVNO. 
In addition, the annual processed data traffic continued to surge, recording a year-on-year increase of 33%.
Data traffic processing       SK T elecom responds flexibly to data traffic based on its demand forecasting and 
monitoring reflecting the results of its annual data analysis. In particular, we succeeded in achieving pure 5G 
communications by linking “5G SA” packet exchanges with core equipment in 2019, laying the foundation 
for handling large-scale data traffic. In 2020, for the first time in Korea, we succeeded in linking 5G SA-SCP 
(5G independent standard) equipment, verifying the relevant technology and developing the next-generation 
cloud core network based on SCP technology, thereby enabling us to conduct traffic management in faster 
and more stable ways at an application level.
Wireless Network Capacity and Annual Data Traffic Processing
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Wireless network capacity
(No. of wireless lines)      1,000 40,910 43,310 40,500
Annual data traffic processing TB 1,862,177 2,552,071 3,391,192
Network failures      SK T elecom has established an emergency recovery system to minimize the service 
impact caused by network failures. We proactively manage such failures through the infrastructure monitoring 
system, and conduct failure prevention activities such as regular inspections, and continue to reinforce our 
response to emergencies caused by failures. At peak times when network data traffic is highly concentrated, 
such as during national holidays and year-end and New Y ear’s holidays, we take “special communication 
measures” to provide stable communication services.
Network Failures
2018 2019 2020
Number of large-scale network failures1)1 0 0
1)  Failures subject to user notification or those of a similar scale according to the Enforcement Decree of the Telecommunications 
Business Act amended in 2019Network 
Quality and 
Reliability0.0083 2018
0.0076 2019
2020 0.0082
● Domestic Provider Average
● SK Telecom
5G Download Service Speed 5G Upload Service Speed
690.47795.5763.3269.96
33,964 2018 99.9%
35,267 2019 99.9%
2020 41,517 99.9%●  Number of intensity 
measurements taken at 
wireless stations
●  Proportion of wireless 
stations at Level 1 of the 
electromagnetic field 
rating system
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 136 Value to Governance 137Value to EnvironmentSECTION 4.
•Environmental ManagementEnvironmental Management
SK Telecom takes active part in fulfilling its social responsibilities by establishing sustainable 
environmental management strategies and systems, and by promoting eco-friendly management 
through continuous efforts and investment optimized to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
and conserve resources.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 138 Value to Environment 139SK T elecom is reinforcing our company-wide endeavors to achieve the green transition based on the 
environmental management goal of “2050 Net-Zero”. We are also actively responding to environmental 
regulations aimed at realizing a circular economy through our eco-friendly management. In addition, we 
are fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities towards the environment through environmental energy 
system certification, the development of eco-friendly products and services, and a variety of environmental 
management activities.
Environmental management organization       At SK T elecom, the ESG Committee under the BOD makes 
the final decisions related to the company-wide implementation of environmental management. In addition, 
the CFO manages overall issues that affect the company’s environmental management, and reports major 
issues directly to the CEO, who makes decisions on them, but has critical issues reported to the ESG 
Committee, which in turn reaches the final decision on such matters.Environmental 
Management 
Strategy System
• Reinforce responses to the 
Emissions Trading system
• Transform into an eco-friendly 
ICT infrastructure
• Build a plan and execute to 
achieve the RE100 
• Apply and implement the 
global Initiative• Build an IT-driven 
environmental management 
system
• Adopt KPIs for environmental 
management
• Strengthen eco-friendly 
purchasing system
• Foster professional talent 
and carry out training• Strengthen eco-impact of  
ICT business
• Pursue eco-friendly social 
value activities
• Reinforce environment-
focused employee training
• Disclose environmental 
information transparentlyVision
Goal
Tasks
Preemptively respond to 
climate changeEnhance environmental 
management systemEstablish an eco-friendly 
Green Culture2050 Net-ZeroAn ICT-based 
sustainable futureAnalyzing climate change scenarios      SK T elecom has analyzed various climate change scenarios based 
on the representative concentration pathway (RCP) scenario1) and an IPCC Special Report on Global Warming 
of 1.5° C2). We considered four aspects, such as RCP 2.6, RCP 4.4, RCP 6, and RCP 8.5, in our analysis of 
the impact of changes in the physical environment caused by RCP on our products and services. We also 
looked into the requirements of the Paris Agreement3) and the IPCC Special Report for our scenario analysis 
of the GHG reduction target based on the IEA 1.5DS4) and the NDC5). The analysis shows that RCP 2.6 linked 
to IEA 1.5DS requires a strong reduction target to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In participating in the 
drive for carbon neutrality, we decided to set our goal according to a method whose reliability has been 
proven internationally. Accordingly, we joined the SBTi6) in 2020 and set our reduction targets based on the 
methodology and guidelines recommended by the SBTi.
1)   RCP scenario: Climate change scenarios predicting the total concentration of all GHG
2)		IPCC	Special	Report	on	Global	Warming	 of	1.5℃:	A	report	on	GHG	emission	 pathways	 analyzed	 to	limit	the	increase	 in	global	
average	temperature	to	1.5℃	compared	to	the	pre-industrial	level	by	2100
3)  Paris Agreement: An agreement signed in Paris, France on December 12, 2015, for the world to reduce GHG emissions with the goal 
of maintaining the global average temperature rise at 1.5°C compared to the pre-industrial period
4)  IEA 1.5DS: Climate scenario analysis data by the International Energy Agency to limit the increase in global average temperature to 
1.5℃	compared	to	the	pre-industrial	level	by	2100
5)  NDC (Nationally Determined Contribution): A nation’s GHG reduction target
6)  SBTi (Science Based Target initiative): A joint initiative promoted by the WWF, CDP , and UNGC to scientifically establish a plan 
to	achieve	 the	1.5℃	reduction	 target	and	publicly	 declare	 the	action	plan.	A	participating	 enterprise	 must	submit	a	letter	of	
commitment followed by a plan of action to achieve its specific reduction goal within 24 months for approval. 
*  TCFD recommendation (strategy): TCFD presents flexibility in management strategies by considering various climate change-related 
scenarios	such	as	scenarios	below	2℃.Identifying and assessing climate change risks/opportunities      SK T elecom regularly monitors risks and 
opportunities for climate change and reviews them from multiple perspectives by considering the following 
five factors: regulatory, technical, market, reputation, and physical environment factors. We analyze the 
identified climate change risks and opportunities in view of the business impact and financial impact based on 
the short-, medium- and long-term1) impacts. We classified business impact to four major aspects – products 
and services, supply chain and value chain, R&D investment, and workplace – while analyzing financial impact 
by considering the income statement and balance sheet. We pay attention to income and expenses on the 
income statement while focusing on assets and liabilities, capital, and capital raising on the balance sheet. 
We manage the analyzed results through the risk management process2) while determining the level of risk 
according to the materiality assessment process3).
1)  Short-, medium-, and long-term: Define the short-term as 0 to 1 year, medium term as 1 to 10 years, and the long term as more 
than 10 years
2) Risk management process: Please refer to the “Risk Management” section of this annual report
3) Materiality assessment process: Please refer to the “Materiality Assessment” section of this annual report
*  TCFD recommendation (Risk Management): Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks
**  TCFD recommendation (Strategy): Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over 
the short, medium, and long term; and Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning
***  TCFD recommendation (Metrics and Targets): Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process
Make decisions on climate change risks/opportunities      At SK T elecom, climate change risks and 
opportunities are reported to the CFO as soon as they arise, with decisions made in consideration of their 
impact on the company and the results of its materiality assessment. While non-material issues are decided 
by the CFO, material issues are reported to the CEO, who then makes decisions on material issues, and 
reports key issues to the BOD and the ESG Committee immediately for decision-making.
*  TCFD recommendation (Governance): Describe the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities; 
and Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunitiesResponse to 
Climate ChangeClimate Change Response Processes
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 140 Value to Environment 141CEO ManagementMake decisions on critical climate-related risks/opportunities
-  Make decisions to respond to climate-related risks and opportunities
-   Report to the ESG Committee on key issues that have a serious impact on 
business and financeFrequently
Frequently
Frequently   
Working-level 
groupIdentify and assess climate-related risks/opportunities 
- Conduct monitoring on climate-related risks/opportunities 
-  Analyze the impact of identified climate-related risks/opportunities on  
SK Telecom (materiality assessment) ESG Innovation GroupCFOReview and make decisions on climate-related risks/opportunities
-  Report to the CEO on climate-related risks/opportunities that can 
seriously affect SK Telecom
-  Make decisions on response directions for climate-related risks/
opportunities without significant impactsManagementESG Committee BODMake decisions on climate-related risks/opportunities of key issues
-  Make decisions on climate-related risks/opportunities that seriously 
affect SK TelecomIdentify climate change related risks and opportunities,
and the result of assessment
(Management) Review climate change issues and the related decisions
(BOD) Make decisions on key climate change issuesAnalyze climate change scenarios
Identify risk/opportunity factors 
for climate change
Impacts on 
businessImpacts on 
finances 
Respond 
to climate 
change risks/
opportunitiesMake decisions 
on climate 
change risks/
opportunitiesIdentify and 
assess climate 
change risks/
opportunitiesAnalyze short-,
medium- and long-term impacts
Respond to climate change risks and opportunitiesEstablish strategies for responding to 
climate change risks and opportunitiesSet directions for the response to 
climate change risks and opportunitiesIndirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)      Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) include all other indirect emissions 
originating from a company’s value chain outside the organization, and exclude those covered in direct 
emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) generated from purchased or acquired electricity, 
steam, heat, or cooling consumed. Examples of Scope 3 emissions are emissions by suppliers and those 
generated in the disposal and transportation processes. Therefore, the measurement of a company’s Scope 
3 emissions involves its management of GHG emissions from business activities not only within its business 
sites but also throughout its entire value chain. Social pressure is growing for businesses to prove their 
genuine response to climate change, leading external evaluation agencies (DJSI, MSCI, etc.) to increase their 
demand for reports on indirect emissions by businesses. In response, SK T elecom has measured its Scope 3 
indirect emissions since 2019 as part of its commitment to reducing GHG emissions.
We base our measurement of Scope 3 emissions on the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) global standard 
(Greenhouse Gas Protocol); and, after checking all 15 categories of eight upstream activities and seven 
downstream activities, suggested in the standard, we submit reports on nine categories related to our value 
chain that we can measure at the moment, as shown below.
SK T elecom’s Scope 3 indirect emissions in 2020 amounted to 9,486,821 tons, down 13% year-on-year, 
mainly attributable a decrease in the purchase of capital goods and a fall in the emissions by invested 
companies. In terms of impact by category, investment (Category 15) contributed 58.6% to the company’s 
total Scope 3 indirect emissions, with emissions originating from investment in SK hynix and SK Broadband, 
large-scale emitters, taking the lion’s share.
In measuring our Scope 3 indirect emissions, we are striving to improve our MRV (measurement, reporting and 
verification) system for GHG emissions and secure reasonable and transparent results as a way to establish a 
more accurate basis for the measurement.Response to climate-related risks/opportunities      When we make company-wide decisions on identified 
climate-related risks and opportunities, the ESG Innovation Group and related departments set the response 
directions. Once the directions have been determined, we establish response strategies in consideration of 
the short-, medium-, and long-term aspects of the related issues, while the budgets are secured through our 
annual financial plans. When cooperation is required with our supply chain, we constantly communicate with 
the relevant parties to ensure that proper improvement measures are taken. We regularly check the progress 
of our climate change response in the area through our supply chain management efforts, as well.
* TCFD recommendation (Risk Management): Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
GHG emissions      SK T elecom strives to fulfill its social obligations as a responsible business through eco-
friendly management, and calculates GHG emissions from its 39 major business sites based on the guidelines 
for preparing and managing statements for the Emissions T rading Scheme (ETS). The measurement scope 
includes all emissions from our nation-wide network, while excluding GHG emissions from subsidiaries and 
supply chains. In 2020, our GHG emissions amounted to 1,039,979 tCO2e, a year-on-year increase of 3.4%. 
We calculate GHG intensity by dividing total emissions by revenues on a stand-alone basis.
Reduction of GHG emissions      SK T elecom makes concerted efforts to reduce its GHG emissions and 
energy consumption, such as integrating network equipment, developing high-efficiency communication 
equipment, replacing old air conditioners, and controlling heating and cooling in office buildings. Although 
we are actively participating in GHG reduction initiatives, and have earned the recognition of the government 
for developing GHG reduction technology in the telecommunication sector for the first time in Korea, our 
GHG emissions are rising largely due to the characteristics of the industry. Therefore, to reduce the use of 
electricity, which accounts for about 99% of our energy consumption, we are increasing investment in various 
reduction technologies such as improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy sources. In 
line with international trends, we have also joined the RE100 (corporations committed to 100% renewable 
electricity)1) for the first time in Korea; our implementation status will be checked by the CDP every year while 
we strive to convert to renewable energy 100% by 2050.
1)  RE100: Renewable Energy 100%. A global initiative bringing together the world’s most influential businesses committed to 100% 
renewable electricity by 2050
*  TCFD recommendation (Metrics and Targets): Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance against targets(Unit: tCO2e) 2019 2020
Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 10,924,765 9,486,821
●	1. Purchased goods and services 2,875,881 2,645,868 
●	2. Capital goods 1,878,075 1,183,439 
●	3.	Fuel	and	energy	consumed 828 739 
●	5. Wastes 641 600 
●	6. Business trips 1,756 768 
●	7. Commuting 17,485 9,369 
●	8. Rental property 12,939 13,480 
●	14. Merchants 70,384 74,271 
●	15. Investment 6,066,775 5,558,286 2020
2019
2,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 8,000,000 10,000,0009,486,821
10,924,765 
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 142 Value to Environment 143Energy conservation      SK T elecom is reducing its energy consumption by expanding its renewable energy 
facilities and extending the scope of its activities in a bid to strengthen the ongoing effort to build a future 
energy industry ecosystem. In the measurement of energy consumption, we consider our 39 major business 
sites, excluding our subsidiaries and supply chains. Managed in compliance with the guidelines on preparing 
and managing statements for the Emissions T rading Scheme (ETS), the numerical figures are aggregated by 
billing invoices received from energy suppliers. The intensity of energy consumption is calculated by dividing 
total energy consumption by SK T elecom’s stand-alone revenues. In calculating energy reductions from the 
use of natural air-conditioning and the generation of renewable energy, estimates were calculated using past 
data (2012-2013) and applied equally up to 2019.
In our efforts to reduce energy consumption, we have cut down on our cooling energy consumption by 
lowering the heat emitted by equipment, integrating network equipment such as base stations and repeaters, 
and replacing outdated cooling equipment. Due to the characteristics of our industry, our indirect energy 
consumption due to power use accounts for 99.3% of the total. Accordingly, we are steadily striving to improve 
our energy efficiency through the smart management of office buildings and the use of new and renewable 
energy facilities for power generation, by innovating our network structures and making our networks leaner, 
among other initiatives.
However, the telecommunications industry is both a key industry that serves as the backbone of economic 
development and an industry that is controlled directly or indirectly by the government; as such, it is 
increasing the amount of network equipment continuously in order to create a more stable communication 
environment, but its services cannot be terminated arbitrarily, leading to continuous structural increases in 
energy consumption. In addition, energy consumption has further increased due to the rapid expansion of 
5G network equipment, and as a result of these factors, in 2020 despite our earnest efforts to reduce energy 
consumption, it increased by 3.4% year-on-year. Water consumption      We calculate our water consumption based on the water bills of our 28 major 
business sites (excluding our subsidiaries and supply chains), and calculate our water intensity by dividing 
our total water consumption by our revenues based on stand-alone financial statements (data coverage). In 
2020, despite the addition of two new business sites, our water consumption was reduced by about 8% as a 
result of various efforts to save water according to specific conservation goals, including the improvement of 
discharge from cooling tower drains and the installation of water conservation valves in toilets and showers. 
Our annual water consumption in 2020 recorded 662,034m3.
Waste management and recycling      We calculate our total waste discharge volume based on data from 
our 28 major business sites (excluding figures from our subsidiaries and supply chains), and calculate the 
intensity of waste discharge by dividing our total waste discharge by our revenues based on stand-alone 
financial statements (data coverage). Our waste discharge has been showing downward trend on the back 
of improvement in internal operational efficiency, and there was also an impact of the fall in the number 
of employees coming to work due to COVID-19. We had an external verification of our waste generation 
conducted for the first time in 2020 with the aim of identifying issues and making improvements to them 
constantly. In 2020, our waste discharge declined by around 9% year-on-year to 1,553 tons, with a recycling 
rate of 27%.
Resource consumption      SK T elecom strives to prevent the waste of resources by providing eco-friendly 
products and services. In particular, electronic billing not only enables reduce loss of resources but also to 
prevent personal information leakage due to the loss of paper bills. SK T elecom’s electronic bill users totaled 
25.68 million as of the end of 2020, showing the steady increase since the introduction of the app bill in 2010, 
The subscription rate for new electronic bills increased by 0.7%p year-on-year to 91.1%.
We have completely replaced our T membership cards with mobile eco cards, saving about 24 tons of plastics 
and reducing carbon emissions by about 55 tons per year. This means that each mobile T membership card 
user saves about 4.88 g of plastics and reduces carbon emissions by about 12g per year, equivalent to four 
A4 sheets of paper or the respiration of 40 pine trees annually. In 2020, the proportion of our customers 
with mobile T membership eco cards grew 2%p year-on-year to 70%, showing a continuous growth trend. In 
particular, the issuance rate of mobile T membership for new customers recorded 99% in 2020, indicating a 
continuous carbon emission reduction effect.
As a way to solve the problem that only 3% of a USIM plate, which is as big as a credit card, was actually used 
as an IC chip, we launched a half-sized USIM, resulting in weight reduction of 1.1g per card, based on annual 
issuance of 5 million USIM cards, thereby reducing 5.5 tons of plastic waste in 2020. We also launched the 
“sales branch planner” which is used upon subscribing to SK T elecom products and services to reduce waste 
(paper) from our sales branches, while cutting down resource waste by collecting device. The device retrieval 
rate, which declined slightly to 3.23% in 2020 from the previous year, is calculated by dividing the number of 
devices collected by the total number of devices sold annually.Reducing 
Resource 
Consumption
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 144 Value to Environment 145CASE
Signed a “Green Premium” contract
SK T elecom has signed a “Green Premium” contract with Korea Electric Power Corporation 
and agreed to receive 44.6 GWh of renewable energy per year, equivalent to the annual power 
consumption of about 16,000 households. The program is intended to certify local businesses’ 
use of renewable energy and prove their implementation of RE100, as eco-friendly trends are 
gaining traction worldwide. Related profit will be donated to the Korea Energy Agency which 
then plows them into various schemes aimed at spreading the use of renewable energy. 
Through the “Green Premium” program, we will accelerate our implementation of RE100 and 
ESG management.
Certified for using 
renewable energy (RE100)Purchasing electricity through 
the Green Premium programCASE
happy habit Project
In an effort to help solve the environmental problems caused by the use of disposable plastic cups, SK T elecom has formed the “Ha:bit Eco Alliance”, 
a large-scale public-private commitment joined by various organizations, to create a sustainable environmental ecosystem by mobilizing their 
resources and capabilities to establish good habits and reduce plastic use. In November 2020, SK T elecom held the “Ha:bit Eco Alliance” launching 
ceremony at the SK-T T ower in Euljiro, Seoul with representatives from twenty-three organizations and companies in attendance, including the Ministry 
of Environment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Seoul Metropolitan Government, JDC (Jeju Free International City Development Center), and T aekwang 
Group. Upon its inauguration, the alliance launched the “happy habit” project which advocates the use of tumblers and personal mugs. Through the 
“happy habit” app, an environmental platform designed to manage participants’ performance and provide them with benefits, we enable them to 
check their performance in real time and feel proud of their contribution.
In 2021, we will encourage more citizens take part in the movement to reduce plastics consumption by increasing the number of participating 
businesses and agencies and expanding participant benefits. In addition, we joined hands with Starbucks and Happy Connect (a social enterprise) for 
the “Eco Jeju Project” which calls for the use of reusable cups instead of disposable cups in their stores in Jeju. Through this project, customers return 
their used cups to return machines, whereupon they are thoroughly sterilized and disinfected at a specialized washing station, repackaged, and then 
reused. From the second half of 2021, Starbucks plans to offer beverages in such multi-use cups at all of its stores in Jeju island. Moreover, starting 
in 2022, we will expand the project and build an ecosystem aimed at reducing single-use cups nationwide. T o this end, we will build a faster, more 
accurate system by incorporating our innovative technologies, such as AI technology, while contributing to job creation by hiring cleaning personnel 
from among the socially vulnerable in local communities. SK T elecom will continue to take active part in solving environmental problems through the 
“Ha:bit Eco Alliance” and the “Eco Jeju Project” based on the belief that “T ogether, we can do it.”
Electronic Billing Service Subscription
Device Retrieval Rate
Unit 2018 2019 2020
No. of device sold 10,000 units 811 789 713
No. of device collected 10,000 units 18 26 23
Device retrieval rate % 2.22 3.30 3.23
Mobile T membership
Unit 2017 2018 2019 2020
Rate of mobile T membership card 
issuance for new members% 99 99 99 99
No. of mobile T membership cards issued 
(new for the year)Case 2,014,292 1,932,624 1,874,621 1,499,922
No. of plastic T membership cards issued 
(new for the year)Case 15,990 11,495 3,502 1,248
Cumulative rate of mobile T membership 
card issuance% 60 64 68 70
No. of mobile T membership cards issued 
(cumulative for the year)Case 7 ,555,355 8,469,377 9,573,654 10,063,031
No. of plastic T membership cards issued 
(cumulative for the year)Case 4,964,415 4,740,145 4,453,423 4,247 ,897
Environmental expenditure and investment      SK T elecom spares no efforts in expanding its expenditure 
and investment in environmental protection through green procurement and GHG emission reduction 
programs. The calculation of our environmental expenditure and investment is based on the stand-alone 
financial statements. We categorize our environmental expenditure into the following costs – energy 
conservation and climate change response costs, waste and recycling costs, training costs, off-site 
conservation costs, and taxes and charges. This expenditure does not include green procurement costs, but 
it includes related costs of getting certification such as energy consumption efficiency grades, high-efficiency 
energy equipment certification, Good Recycled Product certification, Eco-Label certification, Environmental 
Product Declaration certification, Carbon Footprint Labeling, and low-carbon product certification. SK 
T elecom’s total environmental costs amounted to KRW 947 million in 2020.●		Rate of new subscriptions 
(%)
●		Total electronic bill 
subscribers (1,000 cases)23,451 2018
25,143 2019
2020 25,68188.1
90.4
91.1
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 146 Value to Environment 147
Value to SocietySECTION 5.Employees
Recognizing the importance of securing professional talent for long-term growth, SK Telecom 
helps its employees unlock their full potential. Based on the systems and platforms required to 
support their continuous efforts to learn and build on their competences, we run a variety of 
programs designed to foster their professional talent.
•Employees
•Human Rights Management
•Occupational Safety and Health
•Social Contributions
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 148 Value to Society 149Human 
Resources 
Development
Status of Employee Training
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Training expense per person KRW million 2.1 1.7 3.1
Average annual training hours per person Hours 70 51 79
No. of training courses for the year Courses 250 289 2,240
Number of training course participants for the year Persons 21,575 13,962 129,657T o support the growth of our employees and secure 
prominent talent, we place top priority on reinforcing 
our new ICT leadership, establishing a self-directed 
learning platform, and developing human resources 
through internal and external cooperation.
Strengthening new ICT leadership      SK T elecom 
strives to strengthen the leadership required in the 
new era, focusing on nurturing our employees into 
experts in their respective fields, and to create a 
culture in which members strive for self-education 
and personal development. Our major educational 
programs consist of internally developed training 
courses and degree acquisition support programs 
linked with leading external universities. For internal 
training, the New ICT Academy, the company’s 
flagship training institution, has developed curricula 
on AI, cloud, big data, 5G, and security that are closely 
related to the tasks of our business departments, and 
which are designed to meet the needs of employees 
with different levels of business and technological 
competence. As regards the AI course (Good-Bye! 
My Routine), 267 employees have completed the 
basic course and 63 employees took the advanced 
course, each of which is aimed at helping strengthen 
new ICT companies’ competitiveness; and out of 
177 RPA proposals, 14 have been developed and 
applied for automation. As for the cloud course, 
115 participants in the business track course and 
128 in the technology track have acquired the 
AWS and Azure Global Certifications. In addition, 
we held the SK ICT T ech Summit, in which twenty-
four SK affiliates participated, in order to converge 
technological capabilities and create synergistic effects within the group and build tech ecosystems 
internally and externally. Following our university-
industry collaboration to develop our AI curricula, we 
shared them with 18 universities across the country.
In addition, we provided a wider range of learning 
contents to our employees by combining TLP 
(T Learning Portal), our own dedicated learning 
platform, with mySUNI, SK Group’s learning platform. 
We also strived to create a culture of anytime, 
anywhere learning through the introduction of 
online (hybrid) versions of all our training programs 
amid the contactless environment, and offered 
2,240 on/offline courses to a cumulative total of 
129,657 employees. 
We have categorized our external trainings (on-
the-job degree) into the ICT T rack and the Business 
T rack, and helped our employees acquire degrees 
from eight global universities in six majors including 
computer science, data science, and MBA. Since 
2019, 14 employees have been studying to obtain 
degrees as of 2020 year-end, while working at 
the same time, and going forward, we will further 
increase the number of universities and majors 
available to our employees.
Strengthening commercialization capabilities      
SK T elecom runs Start@, an in-house venture 
program, which is designed to allow its members 
to propose and commercialize new ideas. Since 
its launch in December 2017, the members have 
presented some 850 ideas, of which 50 have been 
realized and six fully commercialized.  SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 150 Value to Society 151SK T elecom offers its employees a variety of 
institutional support and health programs aimed at 
creating a work environment that puts the safety 
of its employees first. As part of these efforts, 
we maintain the proper levels of temperature, 
humidity, and lighting, as well as noise control, 
while operating a variety of programs designed to 
improve the physical strength and mental health of 
our members. We have designated the third Friday 
of every month as “Happy Friday”, thereby offering 
a four-day work week once per month. We help our 
employees achieve a healthy balance between their 
work life and family life, and with regard to childbirth 
and parenting, we offer shortened working hours 
during pregnancy, and childcare leave of absence 
for the parents of first graders.
In particular, we were the first major domestic 
company in Korea to implement remote working 
to better respond to COVID-19. We also built such 
infrastructure as automated body temperature 
screening system in order to minimize the spread 
of the disease. In addition, we are improving work 
efficiency and striving to strike the right balance 
between work and life of our employees by 
innovating our way of work through ICT. Our ICT-
based innovation in the workplace includes “Work 
from Anywhere” through which employees work 
from anywhere anytime; “Design Y our Work & Time”, 
a flextime that allows employees to alter workday 
start and finish times; and digital working tools such 
as “My Desk” (Cloud PC), “MeetUs” (group video 
call service), and “T eams” (in-house collaboration 
program).Health, Safety, 
Wellbeing
CASE
We conduct performance evaluations based on fair 
procedures and processes to assess the level of 
our employees’ performance and competencies. 
The rate of performance evaluation means the 
number of employees among the total number of 
employees that have been evaluated according to 
the pre-defined performance evaluation system, 
and the rate of performance for 2020 was 99%. 
We have also introduced a non-rating performance 
evaluation based on an absolute evaluation to avoid 
unnecessary internal competition; and we promote 
substantial performance improvement activities 
through the individualized annual performance 
management of each task. We have set the 
principles and criteria for compensation, promotion 
and selection of key talents, which are managed 
autonomously through human resource review 
sessions in each unit.Employee shareholder engagement program      
SK T elecom is running a program in which its 
employees, the main players of the company’s 
financial story, can voluntarily contribute to 
enhancing its corporate value by choosing to 
receive treasury shares as incentives from the 
company. Launched in early 2021, the system allows 
employees to receive the company’s shares within 
their incentive pay scale. So far, almost 40% of our 
employees have participated in the arrangement, 
and they are expected to share the fruits of our 
company’s long-term growth as both employees 
and shareholders of the organization.
Rate of Performance Evaluation
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Rate of employees’ 
performance evaluations% 99 99 99Fair 
Performance 
Evaluation
We conduct an annual employee engagement 
survey at the end of September to measure our 
employees’ sense of belonging, pursuit of happiness 
at work, and overall response to COVID-19, and 
derived results based on our analysis of the positive 
response rate. In 2020, we preemptively promoted 
fundamental innovations in our business and 
corporate culture to meet the diverse challenges Employee 
Engagementposed by COVID-19, including the establishment of 
a “work-from-anywhere environment”. The results 
showed that employee engagement was improved 
from the previous year even in the contactless 
environment. The 2020 survey was conducted 
company-wide to which 4,063 employees  
responded, and the employee engagement level 
recorded 85%.
Employee Engagement
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Employee engagement analysis results % 85 80 85
Selected as a model company for work-life balance  
by the Ministry of Employment and Labor
SK T elecom is well known for its family-friendly management, positioning itself as a great workplace. We won the 
Presidential Citation for “Excellent Family-friendly Management” in 2018; were designated as an Outstanding Company 
at the “Work-Life Balance Conference”1) in 2019; and were selected as a “Model Company for Work-Life Balance” by the 
Ministry of Employment and Labor in 2020. We are also being considered as one of the candidates for “Korea’s Best 
Job Creator”2).
1) Hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor
2) Final selection is currently in progressMaternity and parental leave     SK T elecom has 
been active in implementing policies designed to 
alleviate its employees’ childbirth and childcare 
responsibilities. In October 2020, of particular 
note, we extended the period of parental leave to 
two years for both male and female employees, 
reinforcing the institutional foundation for 
achieving a sound work-family life balance. We also 
provide a wide range of support including nursing 
rooms, congratulatory allowances for childbirth, 
scholarships for children, in-house daycare centers, 
a flexible working hour system, and camps for 
employees’ children.
Care system for employees and their family    We 
have set an employee care system in place as a way 
to enable our employees and their family members 
to take care of themselves in the event of illness or 
accident without career disruption. We also operate 
a system designed to promote employees’ self-
development and plan their retirement, including a 
startup support program customized for retirees, 
which is backed up by an external professional 
coaching/consulting service and next-career leave 
of absence benefit programs.
Long-term refresher leave system    We grant our 
employees 10-45 days of long-term refresher leave, 
every five years, to allow them sufficient time to 
recharge themselves.
Respect for diversity    SK T elecom has been active 
in recruiting female talents to expand women’s social 
participation. In 2020, the percentage of our female 
employees stood at 19.3%, a year-on-year rise of 
0.6%p, while the percentage of our female managers 
increased by 0.5%p to record 7.9%. In terms of 
new hires, the percentage of female employees is 
considerably high at 49.6%. Moreover, we spare 
no effort to foster female leaders by increasing 
the number of female role models and providing 
leadership training. In addition, to broaden job 
opportunities for the disabled, we established Happy 
Hanool, a subsidiary-type standard workplace for 
people with disabilities, in 2019 as part of our efforts 
to develop into a company that proactively creates 
social values beyond respect for diversity.SK T elecom aims to create a happy workplace 
by setting the happiness of its members as its 
highest value and focusing on workplace innovation. 
In addition, we have stipulated the “happiness 
management” that pursues the happiness of all 
our s takeholders as a key tenet of our Articles of 
Incorporation.
Communication & engagement, horizontal rela-
tionships, sharing & collaboration      SK T elecom has 
promoted systematic change with three organizational 
orientations – communication & engagement, 
horizontal relationships, and sharing & collaboration. 
In a bid to change vertical one-way communication to 
two-way communication, we hold live-broadcast “New 
Normal Shift” meetings that are attended by the entire 
management for all our employees; and encourage 
all our employees to engage in the discussions 
through real-time opinion polls, among others. We also 
disclose the contents of meetings with our potential 
global partners. Since 2018, we have encouraged 
our employees, including executives, to call one another by name only, omitting all titles, and we have 
also unified our executives’ titles into a single title to 
promote a more flexible organizational culture. We 
have established a 4-week selective working system 
(160 hours in 4 weeks) on top of the existing 2-week 
selective working system (80 hours in 2 weeks) so that 
each team can select its working hours each quarter 
by considering the characteristics of their duties and 
the needs of their team members.
Furthermore, we are implementing the internal 
recruitment system (CDC: Career Development 
Challenge) to help our employees challenge 
themselves and work on what they want according 
to their expertise, competency, and career vision. 
We have also created an infrastructure that allows 
joint document drafting and sharing, as well as video 
conferencing, to promote sharing and collaboration 
between our employees, while using the 5G Smart 
Office, a workspace that is accessible anytime 
anywhere.Happy 
Organizational 
Culture
Evolved Management 
Philosophy
•Define “employees’  
continued happiness” as  
our management goal
• Focus on “stakeholders’ 
happiness” as well as 
“employees’ happiness”
•Clarify stakeholders’  
happiness as a “social value”
• Focus on the roles and 
responsibilities of  
“employees” as  
implementers of the 
management philosophy
Redefining SUPEX Company
Expanding goals of the SUPEX Company and our work 
as management directions change towards the happiness of employees
Creating social value Creating our happiness Creating economic value3 Duties of SUPEX CompanyIm Happy and emotional management programs
SK T elecom is running the “Im Happy” program to 
better understand and improve the happiness of its 
employees, one of its key management goals, by 
encouraging them to record their level of happiness 
every day. Using data from the Im Happy app, we 
ascertain which factors make our employees feel 
happy and try to determine their level of happiness. 
We reflect the results in our efforts to create a 
happier and more pleasant workplace.Employee 
HappinessHappy Friday     SK T elecom runs a “Happy Friday” 
program for its employees once per month to 
allow them to refresh themselves or spend time 
with their family. We designate the third Friday of 
every month as “Happy Friday”, and our employees 
are encouraged to set their work schedules 
accordingly so that they can spend the day the 
way they prefer. A survey shows that the level of 
our employees’ happiness increases by 68.1% 
on Happy Friday compared to other weekdays., 
demonstrating that the program is highly 
appreciated by our employees for its contributions 
to boosting their happiness and vitality.
Work From Anywhere     SK T elecom has set 
the “Work from Anywhere (WFA)” system which 
allows its employees to choose their place of work 
from among traditional offices, work-from-home, 
or commuter hubs. T o facilitate the development 
of the WFA system, we have built a cloud work 
system1), strengthened non-face-to-face work 
tools, and published a WFA guidebook.
The WFA system has enabled our employees to 
choose the most suitable work location for their 
personal circumstances and duties, and to achieve 1)  myDesk: Enables employees armed with a PC/smart device, 
including a smart phone, to work as efficiently as they would 
on an office PCboth work efficiency and a sound work-life balance. 
On the back of this system, we were able to 
preemptively transition to telecommuting for all our 
employees, even in the COVID-19 situation, and 
to protect the health and safety of our employees 
and their family members while our employees 
proceeded with their work as efficiently as possible. 
(As of the first half of 2021, a daily average of 45% 
of our employees are working from home).
Design Your Work & Time     In 2018, we adopted 
the “Design Y our Work & Time (DYWT)” as a 
flextime system that allows employees to alter 
workday start and finish times. Using the DYWT, 
our employees set the contractual hours of work 
for a period of two or four weeks at a time, and 
plan daily work schedule that works best for them 
given their diverse circumstances. This has made 
them feel empowered and enabled them to take 
up more responsibility, leading to such positive 
outcomes as greater employee satisfaction and 
work engagement, and reduced working hours. Work Systems We also operate the “Thanks Letter” to allow 
employees to exchange messages of mutual 
respect and compliments; “Heart+”, an emotional 
management program; and the “Forest of Hearts” 
program, in which employees experiencing 
difficulties in their various interpersonal relationships 
can receive professional counseling for their 
psychological stress.
Survey Results on DYWT
Do you think that the DYWT system is 
helpful in promoting voluntary work 
engagement and reducing working hours?
What do you think are the positive effects 
of the DYWT system?
Has the DYWT system reduced your 
working hours?
93.5 %Positive response
Strongly agree
64.3%Agree 
29.2%
72.3 %Positive response
Strongly agree
31.8%Agree 
40.5%
2. 
Self-directed work 
performance
55.1%
4. 
Can leave work on time
27.2% 1.
Better work-life balance
56.8%
3. 
Greater work 
engagement
29.8%
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 152 Value to Society 153Human Rights Management
Scope of survey      SK T elecom introduced a 
corporate-level human rights policy in 2012 and 
has continued to manage its major human rights 
issues since then. We support the principles of 
“Protect, Respect, and Remedy” based on the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
(Ruggie Framework), which provide businesses 
and stakeholders with a clear framework for the 
promotion of human rights. SK T elecom views its 
major human rights risks from four perspectives – 1) 
human rights of employees and business partners 
within the workplace; 2) protection of personal 
information and privacy; 3) right of access and freedom of expression; and 4) prevention of misuse 
of technology, services and data – in order to uphold 
its commitment to respect human rights, prevent 
violations of rights, and manage negative issues. We 
also take concrete actions to identify and manage 
risks throughout our entire value chain, including SK 
T elecom, its subsidiaries and business partners.
Risk identification      SK T elecom has re-prioritized 
its major human rights issues by conducting a 
comparative analysis of the gap between the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
and its own human rights policies.Risk mitigation process     SK T elecom identified 
its major human rights issues in 2020 as 1) conflict 
mineral issue at the stage of collecting raw materials 
for network and device equipment; 2) workers’ safety 
and working hours in the construction and operation 
of our networks; 3) humanitarian treatment and 
protection of customer service consultants; and 4) personal information protection in the sales and 
distribution processes. We ascertained the exact 
status of these issues by conducting fact-finding 
surveys, designating a dedicated organization, 
and ensuring that mitigation measures could be 
implemented continuously.SK Telecom has established a human rights policy to respect and guarantee the basic human 
rights. We respect human rights in accordance with the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and 
support the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and we focus on fulfilling our 
social responsibilities and complying with social norms in order to prevent human rights violations 
throughout all our business operations.
Human Rights 
Risks
Human Rights Risk Identification and Mitigation Measures Establishment ProcessHuman Rights 
Due DiligenceConflict minerals      Conflict minerals refer to tin, 
tantalum, tungsten, and gold mined in ten African 
countries embroiled in conflict, including the Republic 
of Congo (DRC). The use of conflict minerals, which 
causes human rights issues such as the spread of 
conflict and labor exploitation, has also become a 
major human rights issue in the telecommunication 
and electronics industries. SK T elecom has been 
monitoring the materials, parts and equipment 
supplied in order to determine whether they contain 
any conflict minerals. We also conduct origin 
tracking and due diligence based on the Conflict Minerals Reporting T emplate (CMRT) provided by the 
Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) (formerly the 
EICC) and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). 
The results of the due diligence of our supply chain 
in 2020 did not show any direct purchase of conflict 
minerals or any direct contractual relationship 
with any refineries in the disputed areas. We have 
confirmed that we do not use any minerals produced 
in conflict areas subject to additional supply chain 
inspections. We will continue our monitoring to 
ensure that we permanently maintain our goal of 
using zero conflict minerals.
Use of Conflict Minerals
2018 2019 2020
SK Telecom’s use of conflict minerals- 0 0 0
Measures for resolutionContinuous monitoring of whether conflict minerals are 
used in domestic business sites
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 154 Value to Society 155Network operators’ safety and working hours      
We pay keen attention to the safety and human 
rights of all workers involved in the construction and 
operation of our networks, including computerized 
network maintenance and repair as well as hardware 
repair. T o prevent any human rights risks, including 
the occurrence of occupational accidents and 
working hours, SKons, a subsidiary of SK T elecom, 
has built a company-wide occupational health and safety system with the aim of achieving zero 
industrial accidents and strengthening on-site 
execution capabilities. We have the Occupational 
Health & Safety Committee in place and conduct on-
site audits and monitoring, while making company-
wide efforts to track the status of occupational 
accidents, inspect the installation and utilization of 
safety gear (helmets, seatbelts, safety boots), and 
launch road safety campaigns.External
Global  
Guidelines
•  General guidelines including 
the UNGC Human Rights 
Principles
•  Industry guidelines including 
the Global e-sustainability 
Initiatives (GeSI)
•  Separate issue guidelines 
including the OECD Due 
Diligence Guidance for 
Responsible Supply Chains of 
Minerals of Conflict-Affected 
and High-Risk AreasThird-party  
Assessment
•  Business & Human Right 
Resource Center Action 
Platform
•  Third-party human rights 
assessment results (Human 
ight Risk Indices, etc.)Internal
Stakeholder Engagement 
Channels
•  Annual stakeholder survey
•  Stakeholder channels 
including discussions with 
stakeholder participationGrievance Handling  
Channel
•  Stakeholder grievance/
complaint channel (Report 
material issues to ESG 
Committee under the BOD)Risk 
Identification
Process for 
Establishing 
Mitigation 
Measures
Monitoring and 
reportingIdentify human 
rights risksDesignate the 
responsible organizationReview the 
mitigation measuresWe also strive to prevent human rights violations 
caused by overwork through compliance with 
our plan to reduce employees’ working hours. By 
introducing innovations to work practices, SKons 
succeeded in reducing the number of working 
hours per person to 44.5 hours per week in 2020. T o 
manage working hours and overtime effectively, we 
require that prior permission be obtained from team 
leaders for work undertaken during holidays and at 
Protection of service consultants      Service 
consultants are constantly exposed to the risks 
of emotional labor in the counseling process. SK 
T elecom has established a service consultant 
protection system in cooperation with a subsidiary that 
specializes in customer service, in order to protect the 
interests of service consultants and to better manage 
them. Through the program, we have institutionalized 
the process of warning, counseling termination and 
connection with superiors when the employees are 
faced with verbal abuse or unreasonable requests. 
We also run the “Mind Care” program to help our 
employees recover their psychological stability. 
We check their job stress levels twice per year, and 
provide high-risk groups with intensive psychological 
care so that they can eliminate their stress by 100% 
in accordance with our pursuit of the SUPEX level 
in that area. Since 2014, we have allowed them to 
choose from a 4-hour or 6-hour working week. In April 2018, we decided to stop all our consultation services 
during the lunchbreak (1 hour), except in emergency 
cases such as loss/acquisition and thus provide the 
consultants with sufficient rest time.
In 2020, group counseling under the Mind Care 
program decreased compared to the previous 
year due to changes in the business environment, 
such as the prohibition of social gatherings and the 
proliferation of telecommuting amid the COVID-19 
pandemic. In response, we have revitalized video-
based mental health diagnosis and consultation since 
October 2020. As a result, our service consultants 
were able to offer an excellent service, which in turn 
led to outstanding achievements of our call centers, 
including the selection as the “Korea’s Outstanding 
Call Center” by the Korean Service Quality Index-Call 
(KSQI-Call) in 2021 for 17 times total and nine years in 
a row.2018 2019 2020
Network operators’ working hours 
per person (hours/week)50.8 46.6 44.5
Measures for resolutionRequired mandatory registration of work hour status through system and 
management/exercise of work hours following approval from team leader in 
advance, in case of work during off-duty or night shiftsPersonal information protection      In order to   
protect our customers’ personal information 
and privacy and prevent any information leakage 
accidents, SK T elecom accurately diagnoses the 
risks of its business partners. Our efforts include 
reinforcement of the regular distribution network 
diagnosis, enhancement of the target diagnosis 
through data analysis, improvement of the customer 
information handling system, and the provision of 
training aimed at raising awareness of the importance 
of customer information protection. For all our 
business partners, including those in our distribution 
network, we conduct sampling diagnoses and in-
depth diagnoses of their customer information 
protection so as to identify any risks that we may 
have failed to notice and then take the necessary 
corrective measures. Since 2015, we have had 
an external agency conduct audits on personal 
information protection of some 3,800 stores in our 
distribution network and inspect about 20,000 PCs 
through remote diagnostics each year. In 2020, we 
had the 3rd party agency perform audits on customer 
information protection offered by all the businesses 
in our distribution network while taking corrective 
measures on 108 risks identified through a sampling 
diagnosis.
Sampling Diagnosis of Customer Information Protection Level in the Distribution Channel (2020)
TypeNumber of 
diagnosis (cases)Improvement and 
mitigation casesNotes
Diagnosis of the customer information 
management status in the distribution 
channel1)2,304 108Identify risks in distribution channel 
blind spots and implement 
improvement measures
1) Regular diagnosis by sampling shops in each region after listing all the offline distributors
Detailed Diagnosis of Customer Information Protection Level in the Distribution Channel
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Rate of inspection among all stores within distribution network % 1001)1002)1002)
Discovered cases requiring improved security Cases 137 196 108
Corrective measures - Rate of completed measures % 100 100 100
Short-term measures taken Cases 137 1963)1084)
Long-term measures taken Cases 0 0 0
1)  Introduced the Customer Privacy Scoring System (CPSS) diagnosis system to all distribution channels, conducted diagnosis on high-risk 
stores such as new stores and stores that are in need of risk management
2)  Assessed all distribution channels using the CPSS, and conducted diagnosis on customers’ information management to support self-
improvement activities
3)  Improvements have been completed for 9.5% of 2,064 stores that were diagnosed by CPSS
4) Improvements have been completed for 4.7% of the 2,304 stores subject to the distribution chain rating system and sampling diagnosisnight, and that employees’ work status be registered 
with the company’s attendance management 
system. In addition, we are continuously improving 
work efficiency by accelerating the adoption of AI 
and data-based workplace innovations, including 
the upgrading of repetitive/structured work through 
the introduction of RPA, and a reduction of working 
hours by three hours per day through improvements 
to preparation processes and waiting times.SK T elecom carries out the following activities with 
the goal of achieving zero information leakage: 
•		Continue to strengthen information protection 
governance and control, including the integrated security 
control and the enhancement of response to new security 
threats; security drills and security level diagnosis; and the 
strengthening of security council operations
•		Make continuous improvement and advancement of 
the information protection and personal information 
protection management systems through constant 
certification/examination and security check of major 
information and communication infrastructures by 
internal and external stakeholders, including ISMS/ISMS-P , 
SOX, and cross-checking 
•		Continue to strengthen information security change 
management and training for key staff, including leaders’ 
management of changes in security environments; 
increased security education for developers/operators, 
and information protection courses customized for 
subsidiaries’ information security personnel  
•		Identify information protection issues and take corrective 
actions in advance through the enhanced remote 
diagnosis, considering the contactless environment
•		Create the personal information protection environment in 
line with the enactment of three major personal data laws 
stipulating the operation of a pseudonymous/anonymous 
information management system and the safety of 
pseudonymous information
•		Establish platforms, aimed at guaranteeing data subjects’ 
rights and enhancing the transparency of personal 
information processing, and expand the posting of related 
contents 
•		Make continuous improvement to security solutions, with 
the goal of preemptively responding to the increasingly 
sophisticated security threats, and expand investment in 
and operations of AI and public cloud, with the goal of 
preemptively responding to new security issues
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 156 Value to Society 157Diagnoses and Consultation Status of Mind Care Program
Unit 2018 2019 2020
SERVICE ACE
Number of participants in diagnoses Persons 3,159 (94.7%) 2,708 (61.6%) 2,255 (75.8%)
Measures for resolution – Personal consultation Persons 123 129 130
Measures for resolution – Group consultation Persons 423 571 9
SERVICE TOP
Number of participants in diagnoses Persons 3,839 (100%) 3,638 (100%) 2,963 (82%)
Measures for resolution – Personal consultation Persons 677 724 784
Measures for resolution – Group consultation Persons 792 1,450 312Residents’ rights to land, etc.      Most of SK T elecom’s  
business is run in Korea, which means the risk of 
infringing the rights of indigenous peoples is low. 
However, we are conducting a review to prevent 
potential violations of the rights of indigenous peoples 
that may occur during the construction of our base 
stations and network infrastructure. We collect 
local residents’ complaints about their safety due to 
electromagnetic waves at our domestic business 
sites, base stations, and network infrastructure 
through our customer centers, as well as their claims 
about violations of their rights in any other respect, to 
which we always apply corrective measures immediately.Potential 
Human Rights 
Issues
Key Human Rights Issues Vulnerable GroupsSubjects for 
ReviewNature of Issues2020 Due Diligence Results
Risk LevelSurvey 
ScopeIssues 
identified1)Measures 
Taken
A.  Conflict  
mineralsIndigenous 
peoples, 
childrenRaw material 
suppliersUse of tin, tungsten, and tantalum produced 
in the DRC or neighboring countries in 
manufacturing electronic devices that may 
lead to continued conflict in the areas and  
child laborSubject to due 
diligence100% 0% 100%
B.  Working hours / 
safetyInstallers & 
operatorsSubsidiary 
(SKons)Compliance with working hours in the network 
operation process and resolution of safety 
issues that can result in physical harmSubject to due 
diligence100% 0% 100%
C.  Humane  
treatmentConsultantsSubsidiaries 
(SERVICE TOP , 
SERVICE ACE)Protection of consultants exposed to 
customers’ irrational words and/or behavior 
(profanity, verbal abuse, threats, insults, sexual 
harassment, etc.) or unreasonable demandsSubject to due 
diligence79% 18.7% 100%
D.  Personal 
information 
protectionGeneral public Subsidiaries, 
partnersProtection of personal information and privacy 
that are considered as important human rights 
in the information ageSubject to due 
diligence100% 4.7% 100%
E.  Working hours Employees SK TelecomIssues related to forced labor, child labor and 
other human rights violationsPrecautions 
required 100% 0% 100%
F.  Indigenous  
rightsIndigenous 
peoplesLocal 
communitiesDirect violations of indigenous peoples’ rights, 
such as the use of land and property for 
business expansionPrecautions 
required 
G.  Information 
accessibilityChildren, 
general public SK TelecomProtecting the accessibility to the universal 
information and taking content responsibility 
toward childrenPrecautions 
required 
1) For A, B and C above, the average for issues identified is 6.2%, with corrective measures taken 100% about the issues.PLATFORMSK T elecom has set its safety and health management 
goals to provide quality services to its customers and 
protect its employees. We have therefore designated 
a dedicated organization for achieving each of the 
goals according to specific action plans. In particular, 
the Corporate Culture Center is in charge of safety 
and health management and the provision of support 
throughout the company, including efforts to spread 
and establish a companywide safety and health 
culture.SK Telecom has set its industrial safety goals and directions to promote the safety and health of 
its employees. To prevent occupational accidents caused by products and services, we are making 
utmost efforts to create a safe working environment by encouraging our business partners to 
strengthen their safety management practices. We will further strengthen our safety capabilities 
by implementing regular education on safety and health and health activities.Occupational Safety and Health
In accordance with the Occupational Health and 
Safety Act, each of SK T elecom’s business sites 
operates a separate health and safety management 
system that reflects its organizational size and work 
characteristics. The system at each business site 
is run by a health and safety officer assisted by a 
safety manager and a health manager. Each site also 
appoints the head of each department as a health 
and safety supervisor in charge of on-site safety 
management within their respective departments.Safety and 
Health 
Management 
System
Certification of the Safety and Health Management System 
Acquisition of the ISO 45001 Certification for Occupational Safety and Health in 2019
CEO
(Employees’ health and safety)Corporate Culture Center
(Customer services)ICT Infrastructure Center
Health 
and Safety 
Officer 
Safety Manager Health Manager
Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 158 Value to Society 159Fair information accessibility      SK T elecom is 
making various efforts to bridge the digital gap that 
could affect civil rights and political participation in 
the information society. T o this end, we offer reduced 
fee services to the vulnerable; provide education 
to increase information accessibility; and expand 
network for universal information access. We also 
strive to build a healthy online environment by 
preventing children from being exposed to harmful 
(adult/illegal) contents and providing applications 
designed to prevent excessive digital immersion.
Key Human Rights Issues in SK Telecom’s Value Chain and Due Diligence Results
Network Equipment manufacturing  
Customer serviceOperate
Content
Device manufacturingProduction Product/Service
DeviceRaw Materials Manufacturing Sales/Distribution Operation
Collection of raw materials
Collection of raw materialsBuild
SalesSafety management goals and policies      SK 
T elecom has specified its SHE1) policies, the 
company’s management principles for employee 
safety and health, in its SHE Management Regulations. 
The SHE policies stipulate that the main goal of our 
safety management is to protect both our employees 
and the members of our business partners. Our 
2021 safety and health management goals are to ①
continue to achieve zero serious accidents at work for our employees and those of our in-house business 
partners; ② minimize COVID-19 infections among 
employees and prevent its spread in-house; and 
③ preemptively respond to the Serious Accidents 
Punishment Act. We are doing our best to achieve 
these goals with the specific actions plans.
Based on SK’s basic management principles, we earn trust and support from society by 
providing uninterrupted services to customers and making continuous efforts to protect 
our employees. 
(ellipsis)
We must take safeguards to protect not only our employees but also employees of 
our business partners, and we must build a positive corporate image regarding SHE 
management, in society as well as in the industry, by complying with the relevant laws 
and transparently disclosing the results.SHE Policies
Safety and Health Goals and Tasks for 2021
Detailed Tasks
•  Promote activities for the 
improvements of harmful risk 
factors
•  Strengthen compliance with 
the safety and health-related 
regulations
•  Expand support for safety and 
health management of in-house 
business partners•  Run the constant COVID-19 
response system
•  Operate the contactless health 
care program•  Set the roles of an organization 
dedicated to safety and health
•  Improve the efficiency of safety 
and health education operation 
and management01. Safety management 02. Health management 03. Organization and educationGoals
Continue to achieve zero 
serious accidents at work for 
our employees and those of 
our in-house business partnersPreemptively respond to 
the Serious Accidents 
Punishment ActMinimize COVID-19 infections 
among employees and prevent 
its spread in-houseInspection of the safety environment
Regular safety inspection of facilities and equip-
ment    SK T elecom regularly conducts safety inspections 
of its office buildings, architectural structures, power 
facilities, firefighting facilities, heating/ventilation/
air conditioning (HVAC) systems, air monitoring 
equipment, and sanitary facilities.
Workplace risk assessment      SK T elecom preempti-
vely identifies harmful risk factors across all its business 
sites in accordance with Article 36 (Conducting Risk 
Assessment) of the Occupational Safety and Health 
Act. We estimate and determine the likelihood and 
severity of injuries or diseases according to hazardous 
risk factors at each workplace and establish risk 
reduction measures for each site. Through the annual 
workplace risk assessment, we aim to create a safe 
and pleasant workplace while reducing the occurrence 
of occupational accidents. In particular, we entrusted 
a risk assessment of our major office buildings to a 
specialized agency in 2020, and preemptively adopted 
measures for preventing a significant number of risk 
factors inherent to each of them.Safety 
Management
* Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIR) in 2020: 0
2018
Total 2
Death 1
Accident 1Total 1
Accident 1Zero accident2019 2020
Risk Assessment System and Activities
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 160 Value to Society 1611)  SHE: Management activities designed to prevent Safety-, 
Health-, and Environment-related accidents/disruptions 
and minimize their damageOccupational Safety and Health Committee      In 
accordance with Article 24 (Occupational Safety 
and Health Committee) of the Occupational Safety 
and Health Act, SK T elecom has established and 
is operating the Occupational Safety and Health 
Committee, which is composed of representatives 
from labor and management, to deliberate on and 
determine important matters concerning safety and 
health at the place of business. The Committee holds 
quarterly meetings at our workplaces with 100 or 
more employees to review and decide on matters 
necessary to maintain and promote the health and 
safety of our employees.
Industrial Accident
Risk Assessment System  SKT
CHM
③		Implement	reduction	measures	and	keep	
record of result documents/certificates②	Budget	executionPriorities for Risk Reduction Measures
Measures to eliminate/change hazardous 
work and to replace hazardous materials; 
or measures to eliminate/reduce risks at the 
design/planning stage 
Engineering measures such as the installation 
of interlocking/ventilation systems
Administrative measures including improvement 
of work procedures at workplaces
Use of personal protective equipment①		Share	risk	assessment	results	and	  
request budget to make improvements
PreparationsRisk 
identificationRisk 
estimationRisk 
determinationEstablish-
ment of risk 
reduction 
measures
•   Finalize evaluation 
targets
•   Collect data•   Identify harmful, 
hazardous 
elements 
using various 
methods•   Estimate the 
risk level of the 
identified harmful, 
hazardous 
elements•   Estimate risks 
and decide 
if they are 
acceptable •   If not, establish 
and implement 
reduction 
measures  #Forest of Heart (professional personal counseling)
•		Consigned operation via an external consulting agency
•		2,040 counselors at 284 centers nationwide for a 24/7 
service 
•	Performance (past 3 years)
Category 2018 2019 2020
No. of people received counseling 121 139 133
No. of counseling services offerred 538 720 672#Heart+ Class (lecture by topic)  
•		Offered meditation-based lectures on mindfulness and courses on popular themes for 
each season in the second half of 2020 (8 sessions, 563 participants)
•		Offered online or during lunchtime to promote employee participation
•		Heart+ Class Participants/Satisfaction Level
[Theme] Lecture/Course Participants Satisfaction
[Meditation] The surest way to control your mind 53 94% (4.37)
[Dialog skills] Mindfulness about family relations ahead 
of holidays94 94% (4.47)
[Meditation] Mindfulness in Silicon Valley 69 91% (4.40)
[Art therapy] Paintings that heal our lives and minds 67 94% (4.51)
[Communication at work] Why am I having a hard time with 
your words?102 100% (4.81)
[Communication at work] A wise working life without 
psychological pain 90 92% (4.51)
[Meditation in Motion] How to take care of your mind by 
moving your body (Alexander Technique)53 94% (4.50)
[Meditation] Ending the year with parents and children together 35 90% (4.57)Employee Health Management Program
#Health on  (employees’ voluntary healthcare program)
•		Offer healthcare support including expert coaching  
for a healthcare program based on employees’ 
voluntary participation
•		Run programs to provide advice on metabolic 
syndrome, diet, and fitness, and help employees 
improve their bad posture and eating habits  
(offered online due to COVID-19 in 2020)
Category No. of participants No. of app subscribers 
Participatory 762 2,936 Health promotion activities
Active response to COVID-19     SK T elecom has 
actively implemented preventive/quarantine measures 
to put the health of its employees first amid the 
spread of COVID-19. We have established COVID-19 
response guidelines as part of our efforts to launch 
a regular response system and run an emergency 
response system 24/7. We have also published a 
manual concerning the monitoring of our employees’ 
health trends and a step-by-step response to changes. 
In addition, as preemptive measures designed to 
ensure our employees’ health, we have implemented 
regular quarantine and disinfection, along with double 
temperature checks upon entry and exit, limited the 
number of passengers in elevators, established a 
three-part catering service, installed partitions, and 
conducted regular pre-checks for shift workers. Since 
February 2020, we have created a digital work culture 
through preemptively implemented telecommuting. 
We have also secured and distributed quarantine 
equipment (masks, protective clothing, goggles, 
disinfectants, etc.) ahead of others. As a result, we 
achieved zero spread of COVID-19 at our workplaces 
in 2020.Strengthening safety management standards    
SK T elecom has strengthened the SGR (Safety 
Golden Rules)1) and included them in all its subcontracts. 
We have established SGR with the aim of improving 
our service quality and safety record, including 
the prevention of various accidents. The SGR has 
stipulated what was implicit/sketchy. We have 
promoted our safety management with the focus 
on enhancing our execution capability and SHE 
management in the supply chain through constant 
on-site inspections and monitoring.Employee 
HealthcareSupply 
Chain Safety 
Management
1)  SGR (Safety Golden Rules): A supply chain safety management system designed to enhance our service quality and improve 
our safety record by having the SGR included in our contracts with partner companies as the “golden rules” that they must 
abide by in the execution of their construction and service contracts, so as to upgrade our overall safety management 
performance.
2)  TBM (Toolbox Meeting): A meeting at which to share work plans and produce risk assessment tables before starting work at a 
worksite - an occasion where all risk factors are predicted and verified in advance, PPEs are checked, and warm-up exercises 
are conducted.We apply the SGR to all our construction and service 
contracts. The rules set forth procedures on how to 
report and disseminate information on accidents. 
Our contracts contain a clause which stipulates that 
all the provisions of the SKT SGR must be followed.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 162 Value to Society 163Health checkup and vaccination     Every year, SK 
T elecom supports all its employees and their families 
– including executives, full-time employees, contract 
employees, and employees on maternity leave – 
with general/special checkups and health promotion 
measures. We have also offered free influenza and 
hepatitis B shots to some 2,300 employees.
Employee physical and emotional health manage-
ment     SK T elecom operates various programs to 
promote its employees’ physical and emotional health. 
Our comprehensive supports include “Health-On”, a 
voluntary health management program for employees; 
“Forest of Heart”, a personal counseling service for 
employees’ emotional health; and “Heart+ Class”, an 
educational course. In 2020, we upgraded the Actium 
(fitness center) by replacing old facilities at six company 
buildings, and launched a golf clinic and other fitness 
classes in a bid to create a more pleasant working 
environment.HIGHLIGHTS OF THE SGR 
01. Install and wear safety gear for all types of work
02.  Take measures to prevent electric shocks while doing electrical work or working around  
high-voltage lines
03.  Install traffic safety facilities and deploy traffic control personnel while working across or  
around roads
04.  Measure the concentration of oxygen/noxious gases and ventilate periodically when working  
in confined spaces
05. Be sure to conduct a TBM (Toolbox Meeting)2) before starting work
06.  Strictly adhere to the working hours and keep things organized when working on subways/tunnels
07. Be sure to use only KC-certified safety products, tools and mechanical equipment
08. Use only tools and machinery that have passed regular inspections
09. Check and follow the worker health protection protocols in advance
10. Refrain from alcohol consumption or smoking while working
11. Refrain from making unnecessary fires and always have a fire extinguisher handy
12. Clean up your surroundings before and after work and use only safe passages
STANDARDS FOR REPORTING AND NOTIFICATION OF ACCIDENTS 
01. When an accident happens, it must be reported immediately
02.  When work is re-subcontracted, an accident reporting/notification system must be established 
followed by the provision of proper trainingHow to use
Forest of Heart
Social Contributions
SK Telecom has been making innovative attempts to solve social problems and  
create social values by using its own ICT technologies and distribution infrastructure. We are therefore striving to not only maximize our economic performance but also 
create social value by leveraging our ICT capabilities to care for the underprivileged of 
society and provide good-quality education.
Elderly care service through AI speaker “NUGU”      
SK T elecom strives to reduce the difficulties faced 
by the socially vulnerable, including seniors living 
alone, by helping to expand the country’s social 
safety net, leveraging its AI technology and ICT 
expertise. In April 2019, we launched the “AI Care 
Service” for seniors who live alone in cooperation 
with local governments and a social enterprise 
(Happy Connect)1). As of the end of 2020, we are 
offering the service to 9,409 households in 45 
local communities across the country. The service 
monitors data collected through the AI “NUGU” 
speaker network run by the ICT Care Center, which 
offers psychological counseling, personal visits, and 
immediate connection to emergency services upon 
detecting an abnormality.Creating
Social Value 
Through ICTExpanding support for the disabled based on ICT 
solutions     SK T elecom strives to create social value 
through mobility service innovation by improving the 
commuting environment for the severely disabled 
and increasing the employment rate of the hearing 
impaired. In October 2020, we launched the “Good 
Shuttle Mobility” pilot project in partnership with four 
companies and agencies, including Seongnam City, 
to help workers with severe disabilities suffering 
from a poor commuting environment. We started 
operating nine routes using nine minibuses with 
boarding/disembarking assistants and a hotline with 
guardians and workplaces to quickly respond to 
emergencies. In 2021, we plan to expand the public-
private partnership (PPP) project to the country’s 
major local governments of Gyeonggi-do, Seoul, 
Daejeon, and Seongnam, and to offer the shuttle 
service to standard workplaces for the disabled of 
major companies including SK Hynix.Use of the AI Care Service
Every day
73.6%3-4 times per week
21.9%Others
4.5%
How often 
use the
 AI speaker
1)  Happiness: 7% increase when setting the previous 
level at 100% (12.57 points →  13.48 points)
2)  Loneliness: a 4% decrease when setting the 
previous level at 100% (2.53 points →  2.41 points)
4% Loneliness2)7% Happiness 1)
Listen to 
music95.1%
Search for 
information83.9%
Have a 
dialogue64.4%
Listen to 
radio43.9%Benefits of using the service Key functions for use“Quiet M” Equipped with SKT’s ICT
T Care Smart Watch
•  Vibrating alerts of ADAS signals
•  Instant connection to 112 in the event 
of an emergency
ADAS Main Body 
•  Advanced driver assistance system
•  Advance warning of lane departure, 
forward collision, pedestrian collision, etc.
ADAS Display
•  Visual display of ADAS signals
2
1
1 Seniors and care managers
2  “Good Shuttle Mobility” , a service for the 
mobility vulnerableRecognized as an ICT-based social safety net 
during the contactless era, the AI Care Service was 
included as a policy task for care for the elderly in 
the country’s “Digital New Deal Policy & Non-face-
to-face Industry to be Fostered” in the second half 
of 2020. We plan to add around 2,300 seniors living 
alone to the list of beneficiaries in 2021, and we 
will further expand the list in 2022. (The Ministry of 
Health and Welfare plans to provide AI care services 
to more than 120,000 people by 2022.) We are 
preparing to advance the AI service in collaboration 
with various partners and to provide more senior 
citizens in vulnerable groups with customized senior 
care services in the 5G era.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 164 Value to Society 1651)  Established by SK Group, Happy Connect is a social enterprise, 
working together with SK Telecom, that operates supporting 
programs to helps the underprivileged by using IT equipment In addition, since 2018 we have been supporting 
the “Quiet T axi” service offered by Coactus, a social 
enterprise, to help the hearing impaired work as a 
taxi driver. In 2020, we improved their driving safety 
by installing advanced driver assistance systems 
(ADAS) in all Quiet T axis, while also adding blinker 
notification function, dispatch notification pop-up, 
and a messaging function to the T map taxi app 
for the hearing impaired, thereby increasing the 
convenience of both drivers and passengers. As of 
March 2021, there are 86 hearing impaired drivers 
whose driving services have surpassed 170,000 
cases. In recognition of these achievements, SK 
T elecom received the Grand Prize in the category 
of the Best Mobile Innovation for Accessibility & 
Inclusion at the MWC GLOMO Awards in February 
2020.Fostering 5G-specialized innovative startups    
SK T elecom is operating the “5GX T rue Innovation 
Accelerator” program designed to discover and 
nurture startups specializing in 5G. We launched the 
program to develop the related technologies and 
services along with the commercialization of 5G in 
2019. In 2020, we expanded the business to include 
all 5G-specialized services, such as AI, augmented 
reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), media, security, 
commerce, and mobility. As of the end of 2020, we 
have offered acceleration support to 24 innovative 
startups, enabled seven teams to attract some KRW 
13.4 billion in investment, and linked six innovative 
startups to SK T elecom’s businesses.
SK T elecom is also running the “IMPACTUPs” 
program with startups to join forces with them 
in exploiting the latest ICT technologies, such as 
5G and AI, in order to solve some of the urgent 
problems facing our society. The program assists 
innovative startups in creating value through ESG 
and in achieving business growth by utilizing the 
latest ICT capability. Following the 11 companies 
chosen in 2019, we selected 10 startups as the 
beneficiaries of the program in 2020. Each selected 
business sets its own social value creation goals 
in connection with the UN SDGs, figure outs the 
relevant items, and works on them. SK T elecom 
also assists the startups with joint participation in 
domestic and overseas exhibitions and events, the 
creation of opportunities for investment attraction, 
the production of promotional videos, and ESG 
consulting. In particular, we promote direct business 
collaboration with them whenever we identify tasks 
where we can cooperate with them. We will continue 
to create more social value through 5G technologies 
by promoting teamwork with various partners such 
as innovative startups.Improving 
Social Impact 
based 
On Open 
CollaborationNurturing talent      Recognizing the need to nurture 
AI experts in the 5G era, SK T elecom focuses 
on nurturing young talents in cooperation with 
leading universities in Korea. In 2019, we applied 
online-based AI curricula to Y onsei University, 
Sogang University, Hanyang University, and 
Kwangwoon University, while in 2020 we supplied 
improved curricula to more schools. For instance, 
we have signed an MOU on Nurturing T alent in AI 
T echnologies with the Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of 
Science and T echnology (DGIST) to utilize our online 
contents so as to provide students with substantial 
AI education combined with practical skills. We have 
also joined hands with the Innovation Academy, a 
public innovation education institution, to nurture 
software experts and facilitate the developer 
ecosystem by using “Initial”1) a decentralized 
identifier (DID) service. In addition, we provided the 
“Minecraft” coding education online, which had 
been offered at our designated stores, thereby 
helping students develop their coding skills. We 
are planning to help software talents acquire in-
depth knowledge about blockchain technology and 
artificial intelligence and to receive practical hands-
on experience of advanced business aspects based 
on our 5G and AI infrastructure, so that they can 
become key players in the years to come.
Smart Farm1)  mobile e-authentication service that can verify forgery/
falsification or authenticity by using block chain and DID 
technology to receive and store various certificates directly in 
the user’s terminal in one stop and submit them to agencies 
when necessaryIn July 2020, we signed a memorandum of under-
standing (MoU) with the Korea Employment Agency 
for the Disabled to establish an ICT-based job 
platform for the disabled and to train disabled 
persons as ICT experts as a part of our efforts to 
bolster the country’s employment safety net. In 
addition, to spur the training of disabled persons as 
ICT experts at the national level, we are participating 
in the reform of the ICT vocational training curricula 
and operations. Furthermore, to improve the 
performance of assistive technology devices for 
persons with disabilities in their professional lives, 
we have held ICT assistive technology device 
development contests jointly with the agency 
and supported the winners’ business startup, 
contributing to strengthening the employment 
safety net for disabled people in the country.ICT education to bridge the information gap for 
youth with disabilities      SK T elecom is running 
various programs such as Smart Farm to strengthen 
the ICT competence of disabled youth and bridge 
the information gap. Smart Farm is a play-based 
program that helps disabled youths to access the 
latest ICT technologies in a fun and easy way while 
creating their own farm that combines the IoT and 
data. In September 2020, we offered an online 
course about Smart Farm to teachers from nine 
special schools, who then taught a total of 170 
young people with disabilities over four months.
Thanks to the program, the trainees became familiar 
with the digital environment using various IoT 
sensors and apps while expanding their learning to 
the study of mathematics and science. In December 
2020, the Myunghyeon School was selected as the 
best school among schools that have implemented 
the program, and was awarded the prize of the 
Minister of Health and Welfare. Going forward, 
SK T elecom will continue to seek out new and 
innovative ways of providing opportunities to young 
people with disabilities through its ICT assets.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 166 Value to Society 167
21
1 “5GX True Innovation Accelerator” session
2  Online launch ceremony for the 2nd class 
participants of IMPACTUPsSupporting SMEs      SK T elecom is implementing 
various support projects, leveraging its ICT expertise, 
as a way to support small-to medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs) across the country experiencing 
difficulties due to the COVID-19 crisis. T o this end, 
we are using a big data-based text marketing service, 
“T-Deal”, to support their marketing activities, and 
providing a management support service to self-
employed people and small business owners 
through our “Safe Management Pack for CEOs”, a 
store management solution package. Moreover, 
we help social enterprises with their marketing and 
sales by linking their businesses to those of SK 
T elecom and the SK ICT Family. “T-Deal” service 
sends out text messages to customers who appear 
highly likely to purchase products, inviting them 
to a dedicated T-Deal website offering the entire 
service from search to payment. Notably, selected 
SMEs are allowed to use the marketing service 
free of charge. “Safe Management Pack for CEOs” 
service offers a variety of functions necessary for 
self-employed people and small business owners 
to run their businesses, including card sales inquiry, 
store location promotion, and part-timer hiring and 
management, without any charges for one year.
Moreover, w e have joined forces with financial 
institutions such as Shinhan Bank to offer various 
support programs integrating ICT and financial 
services. Through Bizit, SK’s online platform for small 
business owners, we provide SMEs with a one-stop 
service comprising various kinds of information, an 
administrative service, and financial benefits, enabling 
them to consult useful information on startup and 
business management, including taxation, commercial 
district analysis, policy funds, and sales management, 
while handling financial transactions such as loans, 
deposits, and installment savings. Also, SK T elecom 
has expanded its management consulting and 
education programs for SMEs, while providing new 
services such as T map Parking in collaboration with 
bank branches and ADT Caps patrol vehicle services 
in order to resolve parking problems and alleviate 
security concerns in alleyways. So far, we have 
promoted a total of 404 products supplied by SMEs 
in partnership with the Small Business Distribution 
Center and social media influencers.
Safe Management Pack 
for CEOsT o help create a more prosperous society, SK 
T elecom consistently increases its support for social 
enterprises and the disadvantaged members of our 
society. We will use our technology to heighten our 
empathy and increase communication with them in 
our efforts to promote a more prosperous society.
Developing donation platforms     SK T elecom 
conducts its social contribution projects using a 
variety of donation platforms such as Happy Credit, 
AI Give U, and V Coloring. Happy Credit is a program 
in which SK T elecom customers accumulate donor 
points for their sustainable consumption. In 2020, 
some 760,000 customers raised funds worth of 
KRW 580 million by purchasing goods from social 
enterprises and SMEs at 11st, SK stoa, and T 
membership, and by paying by the T map T axi app, 
and donations were used to offer AI care to seniors 
living alone, and to carry out the coding school project 
for youth with disabilities. AI Give U is a donation 
program in which users express their intention to 
donate to UNICEF through the AI speaker NUGU, and 
make donations easily from home upon receiving the 
relevant IP address via a text message.Creating a 
Prosperous 
Society 
TogetherV Coloring is a video coloring service that screens 
the video selected by users until the call is connected 
to the other party’s mobile phone. According to the 
number of times they search and set contents related 
to worthy causes such as children, tuberculosis, 
and Christmas, donations are delivered to the 
Korean Committee for UNICEF, the Korean National 
T uberculosis Association, and the Community Chest 
of Korea (Fruits of Love).
Building a social safety net      In partnership with the 
Korea Meteorological Administration and Kyungpook 
National University, SK T elecom is building an 
“earthquake observation network” that can be linked 
to the earthquake detection and warning system on 
the Korean Peninsula. The administration operates 
338 seismic observatories nationwide, and has 
installed earthquake monitoring sensors in over 8,000 
locations nationwide, ranging from our base stations 
and stores to police precincts and elementary 
schools, to provide observations to the KMA for more 
precise seismic analysis. Once the integrated analysis 
system becomes fully operational, it will be possible 
to secure a “golden window” in which to respond to 
earthquakes and provide customized alerts according 
to the distance from the epicenter, which is expected 
to enable facilities vulnerable to earthquakes, such as 
power plants, railways, and semiconductor factories, 
as well as critical national agencies, to protect 
themselves against quakes more effectively.Payment and Donation Process of Happy Credit
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 168 Value to Society 1691)  Practical course featuring 
49 educational videos of 
lectures by 15 doctoral level 
specialists in various areas of 
AI, such as voice recognition 
and image recognition, and 
a recommendation system 
including NUGU, a voice 
recognition AI platformSupporting social enterprises     For social enterprises 
aiming to create social value, SK T elecom and the 
SK ICT Family provide marketing and sales support. 
Having supported 20 companies in 2020, we are now 
planning to help 40 social enterprises in 2021 and 100 
companies every year after 2025. The key directions 
of this program are – (1) we support social enterprises 
in connection with the business of the SK ICT Family, 
rather than through donations or product purchases; 
and (2) we enhance the impact by holding a contest to 
select social enterprises and provide highl y intensive 
support to the selected companies. In the area of online 
sales support, SK T elecom offers open membership 
within T membership; 11st holds special events for social 
enterprises; SK stoa uses its home shopping channel, SK 
Planet, to offer a good shopping service in OK Cashbag; 
and SK m&service has extended the Benepia service 
to social enterprises. As for marketing support, SK 
T elecom provides influencer marketing support, while 
SK Broadband offers IPTV ad support; Incross provides 
digital video ad support; and SK communications helps 
social enterprises through banner ads on the Nate portal. 
In 2020, we helped 25 social enterprises, resulting in 5.7 
million online views and online sales worth KRW 574 
million. We will continue providing small businesses with 
new benefits and services by matching capabilities and 
technologies between industries in order to help them 
overcome the increasingly difficult situation amid the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
Providing the AI curriculum to universities     SK 
T elecom supports the nurturing of AI specialists by 
sharing its AI technology capabilities and IT assets with 
universities. In 2020, we provided the AI Curriculum1), 
which comprises theory of technology and practical 
business cases, based on our AI experts’ field 
experiences, to 17 universities including Kyungpook 
National University, Kyunghee University, Korea 
University, Kwangwoon University, Sogang University, 
and Seoul National University. We also have provided 
them with 113 educational contents related to 
Industry 4.0, such as big data and cloud. We are also 
operating the “AI Curriculum Live” to enable students 
to communicate directly with our experts. We will 
continue to collaborate with universities as a leading 
ICT company in the field of AI and 5G in particular, in 
order to create social value by nurturing AI talents in the 
era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.V Coloring donation campaign (Dec. 2020)
Happy 
Credit
Customers
1% of
payment amount50% of
payment amount100 points per 
case
* 11st and SK stoa: Purchase of goods at Happy Credit special sales
 T map Taxi: In-app payments for taxi servicesSocial contribution campaigns      SK T elecom 
carries out various social contribution campaigns 
for unattended elementary school students after 
school, blood donation, and flower farms, among 
others. Through the “with” campaign, we had college 
students provide 50 unattended children with various 
after-school childcare services, including study 
and play, for two hours a week throughout 2020, in 
addition to some outdoor activities such as going on 
picnics and watching the SK Knights basketball team 
play at the stadium. In addition, to help mitigate the 
severe shortage of blood supplies due to COVID-19, 
employees of some 40 SK Group affiliates, including 
the SK ICT Family, joined hands to launch a large-scale 
blood donation campaign in which 2,688 employees 
gave their blood to help the country overcome the 
national blood supply crisis.The Korean government is actively pursuing a digital 
inclusion policy while launching the “Korean Digital 
New Deal” strategy to reinvigorate the stagnation of 
the economy caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. SK 
T elecom has been offering a variety of educational 
programs and reduced fee for mobile service to 
the underprivileged based on its digital inclusion 
policy. In addition, we have expanded the range of 
our telecommunications to ensure effective service 
support for the vulnerable, while also building a 
trust in our relationship with them through active 
communication.
Programs to bridge the digital divide      SK T elecom 
is running various ICT education programs to bridge 
the information divide for the vulnerable. T o this end, 
we joined forces with the Korea Productivity Center 
in 2020 to launch the National Digital Competency 
Reinforcement Education Project, which was 
promoted as part of the Korean version of the New 
Participation in Education to Resolve the ICT Digital Divide
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Digital literacy 362 24,483 36,548
Smartphone education for senior citizens Persons 2,273 830 -1)
ICT Make-a-thon Persons 122 112 -
Happy Coding School Persons - 450 142
1) Smartphone education for senior citizens and digital literacy education were offered at the same time.Digital 
InclusionDeal project to bridge the digital divide and create 
jobs for the underprivileged in the era of COVID-19 
between September 2020 and February 2021. 
Through the six-month project, we helped improve 
the digital capabilities of the underprivileged by 
offering coding classes for children from disadvan-
taged households, reemployment courses for 
career-interrupted female as ICT instructors, digital 
device education for the elderly, and software coding 
education tailored for different types of disability.
Job creation support for the middle-aged    In 
cooperation with the National Pension Service of 
Korea, SK T elecom is supporting the creation of ICT-
related jobs suitable for jobseekers in their 40s and 
50s during Industry 4.0 and the contactless era. The 
first project is the “e-Commerce Course to Foster 
e-Sellers” through which we help people start a new 
business and we plan to increase ICT-related startup 
support courses for the middle-aged.
21
1 “with” campaign
2 “Red Connect” , a blood donation app Coding School
 Resolving the ICT digital divide
Meanwhile, we participated in a relay campaign 
designed to help flower farmers suffering from the 
cancellation of graduation ceremonies, among other 
difficulties, due to the spread of COVID-19. By placing 
orders to deliver bouquets to new employees, we 
were able to make them feel welcome while lending a 
helping hand to flower farmers.
Rate of Specialized Volunteering by Employees1)
(Unit: %)
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 170 Value to Society 171Expenditure for Volunteer Activities by Contribution Type (Unit: KRW million)
1) In-kind donations: Cash equivalents of products/services, projects/products 
2)  Indirect costs: Costs spent on managing programs other than costs spent on social 
contribution programs
*  Refrain from making contributions to political candidates and political parties based 
on anti-corruption policy of SK Telecom15,140Cash donations
148Cost calculated based on employee’s volunteer 
hours during work hours
10,473In-kind donations1)
1,847Indirect costs2)1)  No. of hours of voluntary work performed by ICT volunteers 
and pro bono volunteer groups / Total number of volunteer 
hours
2)  The participation of ICT service volunteers declined as the 
blood donation campaign was launched.2018 2019 202082
39
282)Expanding services in vulnerable areas      SK  
T elecom is continuously expanding its communi-
cation service coverage to the communities in 
mountainous regions, islands, and other remote 
areas where it is difficult to access the existing 
telecommunications network. The results of the 
2020 Communication Service Coverage Inspection 
and Quality Evaluation conducted by the Ministry 
of Science and ICT and the National Information 
Society Agency showed that SK T elecom was the least inconvenient company in terms of 5G service 
interruptions leading to switch to LTE. As such, the 
number of areas that have difficulty accessing our 
service network is shrinking, while the number of 
new installations in such areas is decreasing. SK 
T elecom will continue striving to improve its service 
quality everywhere across the country so that 
no one will be left behind in this era of advanced 
telecommunications services.
Service Installation in Underserved Areas (Unit: Sites)
2018 2019 2020
Remote mountainous areas 2,705 1,015 741
Hiking trails 330 136 192
Island areas 120 89 56Tariff discounts for the vulnerable      In our efforts 
to ease the burden of telecommunication costs of 
the vulnerable and thus to increase their information 
accessibility, we offer them with tariff discounts. In 
2020, the total amount of the discounts for persons 
with disabilities, low-income households, and 
recipients of basic pension amounted to KRW 420.2 
Tariff Discounts1) (Unit: KRW million)
2018 2019 2020
Total bill reduction for the underprivileged 267 ,720 360,129 420,152
Disabled 129,213 130,036 135,999
Low-income 105,711 121,172 136,691
Veterans 11,002 11,387 12,298
Basic pension recipients 21,794 97 ,534 135,164
Others 77 72 67
1)  Change in classification standards in 2018: Due to revision announced in a related notice in 2018, tariff discounts to basic 
pension recipients (the bottom 70% of senior citizens aged 65 and over in terms of income and assets) were implemented on 
13 July 2018. The amount of tariff discounts to basic pension recipients is classified under a different category.billion, a year-on-year increase of 16.7%. Among a 
variety of win-win measures launched to minimize 
the digital divide suffered by the underprivileged were 
the “5G Rate Plan for the Disabled”, which doubled 
the number of free monthly video call hours, and the 
provision of additional data to small business owners 
and self-employed people hit by COVID-19.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 172 Value to Society 173CASE
Education aimed at improving digital literacy of seniors
SK T elecom has offered senior citizens a variety of useful smartphone application education 
programs such as “Generational Empathy! Happy Mobile World” and “Easy Smartphone Classes” 
along with “Spring, Again” where outstanding students from previous classes give lectures to his/
her peers from their perspectives which was well received by seniors, thereby helping them improve 
their digital literacy. Moreover, we run the training program to nurture Y ouTube creators as a way to 
encourage seniors to develop smartphone-based digital and filming skills, among other things.
 CASE
Improving ICT accessibility for the disabled
SK T elecom runs various programs such as the “ICT Make-A-Thon” and “Happy Coding School” to 
help young people with disabilities develop their ICT skills. In 2020, we published software education 
materials customized to each type of disability as part of the nationwide digital competency-
building education project. Some 142 students with disabilities received coding education, including 
unplugged activities, block and text coding, and physical computing for 20 hours over a period of 10 
weeks, after which they found jobs or chose to continue their studies in related fields in a college or 
school. Meanwhile, we delivered the AI speaker NUGU to the “Library that reads happiness”, an audio 
book service for the visually impaired, and provided a free AI speaker rental service to some visually 
impaired people at home or any other designated location, thereby making a significant contribution 
to improving information access for people with disabilities.
Appendix
•Financial Statement
•Non-financial Statement
•Index 
  GRI Standards Index / SASB /  
TCFD / UNGC / UN SDGs
•About This ReportFINANCIAL STATEMENT
Consolidated Financial Statement
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Assets    
Current Assets 8,775,086 8,088,507 7 ,958,839
Cash and cash equivalents 1,369,653 1,270,824 1,506,699
Short-term financial instruments 1,426,952 830,647 1,045,676
Short-term investment securities 150,392 166,666 195,080
Accounts receivable 2,188,893 2,230,979 2,008,640
Short-term loans, net 97 ,464 66,123 59,094
Account receivable 979,044 903,509 937 ,837
Contract assets 100,606 127 ,499 90,072
Accrued revenue 3,252 3,811 6,066
Advance payment 33,858 34,556 32,368
Prepaid expenses 2,128,349 2,018,690 1,768,343
Current tax assets 1,984 63,748 1,216
Derivative financial assets 8,704 26,253 13
Inventory, net 171,443 162,882 288,053
Other current assets 114,492 182,320 19,682
Non-current assets 39,131,871 37 ,113,861 34,410,272
Long-term financial instruments 893 990 1,221
Long-term investment securities 1,648,837 857 ,215 664,726
Investments in associates and joint ventures 14,354,113 13,385,264 12,811,771
Property and equipment, net 13,377 ,077 12,933,460 10,718,354
Goodwill 3,357 ,524 2,949,530 2,938,563
Intangible assets, net 4,436,194 4,866,092 5,513,510
Long-term contract assets 47 ,675 64,359 43,821
Long-term loans, net 40,233 33,760 29,034
Long-term accounts receivable 332,803 351,663 274,053
Long-term prepaid expenses 1,063,711 1,239,865 895,272
Long-term guarantee deposits 172,474 164,652 313,140
Long-term derivative financial assets 155,991 124,707 55,444
Deferred tax assets 105,088 109,057 92,465
Defined benefit assets 3,557 1,125 31,926
Other non-current assets 35,701 32,122 26,972
Total Assets 47 ,906,957 45,202,368 42,369,111
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 174 Appendix 175Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Liabilities and Equity    
Current Liabilities 8,177 ,967 7 ,851,673 6,847 ,557
Account payables 372,909 438,297 381,302
Non-trade payables 2,484,466 2,521,474 1,913,813
Withholdings 1,410,239 1,350,244 1,353,663
Contract liabilities 229,892 191,225 140,711
Accrued expenses 1,554,889 1,424,833 1,299,217
Current tax liabilities 219,766 5,450 182,343
Derivative financial liabilities 77 0 0
Current liabilities 69,363 86,320 87 ,993
Short-term borrowings 109,998 20,603 80,000
Current bonds and long-term borrowings Lease liabilities 939,237 1,017 ,327 984,272
Current portion of long-term account payables 424,600 423,839 424,243
Current lease liabilities 359,936 371,742 0
Other current liabilities 2,595 319 0
Non-current liabilities 15,332,747 14,533,761 13,172,304
Debentures 7 ,690,169 7 ,253,894 6,572,211
Long-term borrowings 1,979,261 1,972,149 2,015,365
Long-term account payables 1,142,354 1,550,167 1,968,784
Long-term accrued expense 6,379 8,995 0
Long-term lease liabilities 1,076,841 919,265 0
Long-term contract liabilities 30,704 32,231 43,102
Defined benefit liabilities 154,944 172,258 141,529
Derivative financial liabilities 375,083 1,043 4,184
Non-current liabilities 81,514 78,841 99,215
Deferred tax liabilities 2,709,075 2,463,861 2,269,792
Other non-current liabilities 86,423 81,057 58,122
Total Liabilities 23,510,714 22,385,434 20,019,861
Equity    
Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 23,743,894 22,950,227 22,470,822
Share capital 44,639 44,639 44,639
Capital surplus and others 677 ,203 1,006,481 655,084
Retained earnings 22,981,913 22,228,683 22,144,541
Reserves 40,139 (329,576) (373,442)
Non-controlling interests 652,349 (133,293) (121,572)
Total Shareholders’ Equity 24,396,243 22,816,934 22,349,250
Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 47 ,906,957 45,202,368 42,369,111Consolidated Statement of Income (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Operating revenue 18,624,651 17 ,740,716 16,873,960
Revenue 18,624,651 17 ,740,716 16,873,960
Operating expense 17 ,275,327 16,632,539 15,672,200
Labor cost 3,006,172 2,822,673 2,288,655
Commissions paid 5,347 ,086 5,002,066 5,002,598
Depreciation and amortization 3,991,083 3,856,662 3,126,118
Network interconnection 770,712 752,334 808,403
Leased line 294,722 263,367 309,773
Advertising 431,679 434,561 468,509
Rent 173,294 154,843 529,453
Cost of products that have been resold 1,608,470 1,833,362 1,796,146
Other operating expenses 1,652,109 1,512,671 1,342,545
Operating income (loss) 1,349,324 1,108,177 1,201,760
Finance income 241,196 142,155 256,435
Finance cost 497 ,193 437 ,955 385,232
Other non-operating income 99,051 102,731 71,253
Other non-operating expense 343,741 203,650 439,162
Profit(loss) related to investments in associates and 
joint ventures, net1,028,403 449,543 3,270,912
Profit before income tax 1,877 ,040 1,161,001 3,975,966
Income tax expense Income tax expense from 
continuing operations376,502 300,268 843,978
Profit(loss) for the year Profit from continuing operations 1,500,538 860,733 3,131,988
Attributable to    
Controlling interest 1,504,352 888,698 3,127 ,887
Non-controlling interest (3,814) (27 ,965) 4,101
Earnings per share    
Basic earnings per share (in Korean won) 20,463 12,127 44,066
Diluted earnings per share (in Korean won) 20,459 12,127 44,066
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 176 Appendix 177Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Annual profit(loss) 1,500,538 860,733 3,131,988
Other comprehensive income (loss) 461,822 1,009 (141,584)
Items not reclassified as profit or loss during the follow-up periods 577 ,312 (109,817) (187 ,855)
Remeasurement of defined benefit liabilities (2,637) (72,605) (41,490)
Changes in other comprehensive profit and loss of associates 271 (19,269) (16,330)
Valuation loss on financial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income579,678 (17 ,943) (130,035)
Items reclassified as profit or loss during the follow-up periods (115,490) 110,826 46,271
Changes in other comprehensive profit and loss of associates (114,478) 75,763 1,753
Net change in unrealized fair value or derivatives 19,138 40,681 32,227
Foreign currency translation differences for overseas operations (20,150) (5,618) 12,291
Total inclusive gains and losses for the term 1,962,360 861,742 2,990,404
Total comprehensive income attributable to    
Owners of the parent company 1,869,075 891,051 3,000,503
Non-controlling interests 93,285 (29,309) (10,099)Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  (Unit: KRW million)
Equity
Controlling Interest of Parent Company Non-
controlling
InterestTotal 
EquityShare
CapitalOther Paid-up 
CapitalRetained
EarningReserves Total
Increase (Decrease) due to 
changes in accounting policies0 0 1,960,075 (68,804) 1,891,271 0 1,891,271
January 1, 2018 
(Basic capital)44,639 196,281 19,796,021 (303,531) 19,733,410 187 ,056 19,920,466
Annual profit (loss) 0 0 3,127 ,887 0 3,127 ,887 4,101 3,131,988
Other comprehensive income 0 0 (57 ,473) (69,911) (127 ,384) (14,200) (141,584)
Dividends paid 0 0 (706,091) 0 (706,091) 0 (706,091)
Stock compensation expense 0 593 0 0 593 196 789
Interest on hybrid bonds 0 0 (15,803) 0 (15,803) 0 (15,803)
Repayments of hybrid bonds 0 (400,000) 0 0 (400,000) 0 (400,000)
Issuance of hybrid bonds 0 398,759 0 0 398,759 0 398,759
Repurchase of treasury stock 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Comprehensive stock 
exchanges0 129,595 0 0 129,595 0 129,595
Changes in equity of 
subsidiaries0 329,856 0 0 329,856 (298,725) 31,131
December 31, 2018 
(End of term capital)44,639 655,084 22,144,541 (373,442) 22,470,822 (121,572) 22,349,250
Increase (Decrease) due to 
changes in accounting policies0 0 (29,579) 0 (29,579) (503) (30,082)
January 1, 2019
(Basic capital)44,639 655,084 22,114,962 (373,442) 22,441,243 (122,075) 22,319,168
Annual profit (loss) 0 0 888,698 0 888,698 (27 ,965) 860,733
Other comprehensive income 0 0 (41,513) 43,866 2,353 (1,344) 1,009
Dividends paid 0 0 (718,698) 0 (718,698) (29,800) (748,498)
Stock compensation expense 0 295 0 0 295 764 1,059
Interest on hybrid bonds 0 0 (14,766) 0 (14,766) 0 (14,766)
Repayments of hybrid bonds 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Issuance of hybrid bonds 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Repurchase of treasury stock 0 300,000 0 0 300,000 0 300,000
Comprehensive stock 
exchanges0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in equity of 
subsidiaries0 51,102 0 0 51,102 47 ,127 98,229
December 31, 2019 
(End of term capital)44,639 1,006,481 22,228,683 (329,576) 22,950,227 (133,293) 22,816,934
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 178 Appendix 179Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  (Unit: KRW million)
Equity
Controlling Interest of Parent Company Non-
controlling
InterestTotal 
EquityShare
CapitalOther Paid-up 
CapitalRetained
EarningReserves Total
Increase (Decrease) due to 
changes in accounting policies0 0 0 0 0 0 0
January 1, 2020 
(Basic capital)44,639 1,006,481 22,228,683 (329,576) 22,950,227 (133,293) 22,816,934
Annual profit (loss) 0 0 1,504,352 0 1,504,352 (3,814) 1,500,538
Other comprehensive income 0 0 (4,992) 369,715 364,723 97 ,099 461,822
Dividends paid 0 0 (731,364) 0 (731,364) (5,771) (737 ,135)
Stock compensation expense 0 179  0 179 1,256 1,435
Interest on hybrid bonds 0 0 (14,766) 0 (14,766) 0 (14,766)
Repayments of hybrid bonds 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Issuance of hybrid bonds 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Repurchase of treasury stock 0 (426,664) 0 0 (426,664) 0 (426,664)
Comprehensive stock 
exchanges0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Changes in equity of 
subsidiaries0 97 ,207 0 0 97 ,207 696,872 794,079
December 31, 2020
(End of term capital)44,639 677 ,203 22,981,913 40,139 23,743,894 652,349 24,396,243
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 180 Appendix 181Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Cash flows from operating activities 5,821,876 4,034,984 4,332,580
Cash generated from operating activities 6,059,650 4,439,642 4,726,856
Net income of continued operation 1,500,538 860,733 3,131,988
Adjustment for income and expenses 4,256,654 4,435,039 1,568,919
Changes in assets and liabilities related to 
operating activities302,458 (856,130) 25,949
Interest received 41,832 56,392 59,065
Dividends received 166,019 241,117 195,671
Interest paid (397 ,351) (360,439) (255,189)
Income tax paid (48,274) (341,728) (393,823)
Cash flows from investing activities (4,250,402) (3,581,584) (4,047 ,725)
Cash inflows from investing activities 428,948 755,162 686,094
Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net 0 253,971 0
Decrease in short-term investment assets 17 ,684 29,503 0
Collection of short-term loans 77 ,114 113,345 117 ,610
Decrease in long-term financial instruments 99 231 5
Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities 46,065 234,683 371,816
Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates 
and joint ventures2,715 220 74,880
Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 102,526 18,478 58,256
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 39,654 7 ,327 5,851
Collection of long-term loans 4,608 4,435 10,075
Decrease in deposits 16,244 9,180 7 ,490
Collection of lease bonds 0 27 ,712 0
Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets 0 0 1,186
Cash inflows from derivative transactions 845 601 0
Proceeds from disposals of subsidiaries 165 4,802 0
Cash inflow from business combinations 115,834 5,016 38,925
Cash inflows from transfer of businesses, net 5,395 45,658 0Cash outflows for financing activities (4,957 ,221) (2,733,942) (4,890,000)
Net decrease in short-term borrowings 0 59,860 87 ,701
Repayment of long-term account payables 428,100 428,153 305,644
Repayment of debentures 975,500 940,000 1,487 ,970
Repayment of long-term borrowings 1,950,874 89,882 1,780,708
Cash outflow due to transaction of derivative products 0 0 29,278
Payment of dividends 742,136 718,698 706,091
Interest on hybrid bonds 14,766 14,766 15,803
Repayment of hybrid bonds 0 0 400,000
Repayment of lease liabilities 412,666 443,238 0
Repurchase of treasury stock 426,664 0 0
Transactions with non-controlling shareholders 6,515 39,345 76,805
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 113,895 (233,274) 46,542
Cash and cash equivalent at beginning of the year 1,270,824 1,506,699 1,457 ,735
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (15,066) (2,601) 2,422
Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 1,369,653 1,270,824 1,506,699Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Cash outflows for investing activities (4,679,350) (4,336,746) (4,733,819)
Increase in short-term financial instruments, net 596,025 0 373,450
Increase in short-term investment securities, net 0 0 49,791
Increase in short-term loans 103,604 116,320 112,319
Increase in long-term loans 11,044 11,541 6,057
Increase in long-term financial instruments 2 0 2
Acquisition of long-term investment securities 95,474 383,976 19,114
Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures 170,292 264,015 206,340
Acquisition of property and equipment 3,557 ,800 3,375,883 2,792,390
Acquisition of intangible assets 129,976 141,010 503,229
Increase in deposits 12,175 6,164 8,591
Increase in other non-current assets 0 0 5,927
Cash outflow for business combinations 2,958 36,910 654,685
Cash outflow for disposal of subsidiaries 0 927 1,924
Cash flows from financing activities (1,457 ,579) (686,674) (238,313)
Cash inflows from financing activities 3,499,642 2,047 ,268 4,651,687
Net increase in short-term borrowings 76,375 0 0
Issuance of debentures 1,420,962 1,633,444 1,809,641
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 1,947 ,848 0 1,920,114
Insurance of hybrid bonds 0 0 398,759
Cash inflows due to transaction of derivative products 36,691 12,426 23,247
Disposal of treasury stocks 0 300,000 0
Cash received from transfer of interests in subsidiaries 
to non-controlling interests17 ,766 101,398 499,926Creation and 
Distribution 
of Economic 
ValueSK T elecom generated a total KRW 21,249.2 billion 
in economic value including KRW 18,624.7 billion 
of operating income, financial investment income, 
asset sales income, and other profits in 2020 on a 
consolidated basis. Out of those values generated, 
the company distributed a total of KRW 19,669.9 billion to the stakeholders considering the future 
value and investment efficiency of the company, 
and added the total economic value of KRW 1,579.3 
billion, which was reserved after all the distributions, 
to the total amount of capital.
Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW billion) Retained Economic Value 
(change in total capital)
KRW 1,579.3 billion
19,670TotalBusiness Partners 
(Purchase, etc.)
9,420Local Communities
17
Investment, Operation,  
Cost of Capital
5,332Employees
3,006Shareholders & Investors
1,184Government
712
•		Distribution to Business Partners and Investment, Operation, Cost of Capital: Economic value distributions 
to business partners such as the cost of goods sold, commissions paid to suppliers, and R&D and network 
investment; and other operating expenses for service provision
•	Distribution to Employees: Wages, benefits and welfare, and the reserve for retirement allowances
•	Distribution to Shareholders & Investors: Dividends and interest payments
•	Distribution to the Government: Payment of corporate taxes and other taxes, and frequency usage fees 
•		Distribution to the Local Communities: Pure donations to local communities, not including indirect impact 
resulting from business investments and infrastructure support
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 182 Appendix 183Tax and Tax Rates Unit 2019 2020Average of 2019
and 2020
Earnings before tax KRW million 1,161,001 1,877 ,040
Nominal taxes1)KRW million 308,913 505,824
Nominal tax rate % 26.61% 26.95% 26.78%
Effective taxes2)KRW million 300,268 376,502
Effective tax rate % 25.86% 20.05% 22.96%
1) Nominal taxes: Income tax expense calculated by applicable tax rate
2) Effective taxes paid: Income tax expense recognized in profit or loss
Reason for the Difference Unit 2019 2020
Tax exempt income KRW million (92,666) (41,084)
Non-deductible expenses KRW million 14,630 31,882
Tax deductions and exemptions KRW million (32,877) (48,774)
Changes in deferred corporate tax 
that cannot be madeKRW million 83,940 (69,776)
Effects of changes in tax rates KRW million 4,050 24,537
Refund of corporate tax in past, etc. KRW million 14,278 (26,107)Effective Tax Rate      SK T elecom strictly complies 
with domestic and overseas tax laws and regulations 
in all transactions which aim at creating economic 
and social value in order to faithfully carry out its 
liability to taxation. The company accurately reports 
and pays the tax amount required in accordance 
with tax laws and regulations. In addition, the 
company discloses related information to  
stakeholders to ensure transparency in tax payment. 
In order to ensure the appropriateness of the 
application of the tax laws, the company is reporting 
tax amounts to the taxation items prescribed by 
laws and regulations through an accounting firm.Management’s Discussion & Analysis
The Management’s Discussion & Analysis (‘MD&A’) 
is provided to enable readers to assess the results 
of operations and financial condition for the fiscal 
year ending December 31, 2020, compared to the 
preceding year. The MD&A section should be read in 
conjunction with our audited consolidated financial 
statements included in this annual report. Unless 
otherwise specified, all amounts are presented on 
a consolidated basis and are based on our audited 
consolidated financial statements prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards, as adopted by Korea. All amounts are 
in Korean won (KRW). All references to ‘we,’ ‘us’ or 
‘our’ shall mean SK T elecom Co., Ltd. and, unless 
the context otherwise requires, its consolidated 
subsidiaries. References to “SK T elecom” shall 
mean SK T elecom Co., Ltd., but shall not include its 
consolidated subsidiaries. 
This MD&A section contains ‘forward-looking 
statements,’ as defined in the U.S. Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are based 
In the wireless telecommunication business that 
has transitioned to the current 5G network, we 
have launched innovative products and services 
that meet the changing preferences and needs 
of the customers, thus enabling us to emerge 
as a leader in the new ICT era. While maintaining 
our leading position in the domestic wireless 
telecommunication services market, we will 
continue to develop our next-generation growth 
business through other innovative products offered 
through platform services including media, security, 
commerce, mobility, IoT and AI solutions. We plan 
to use our Big Data analytics technology to develop 
products and services that meet the changing 
needs of our customers and plan to provide a large 
number of products and services integrated with AI 
technology. In addition, we will continue to develop 
state-of-the-art 5G technology and utilize 5G infrastructure and capabilities in the major sectors 
of media, security, commerce, mobility, and others 
to explore unique product and service creation 
measures tailored to evolving customer needs. Our 
operations are reported in five segments: (1) cellular 
services, (2) fixed-line telecommunication services, 
(3) security services, (4) commerce services and (5) 
other businesses.
Cellular Services      We offer wireless voice and 
data transmission services, sell wireless devices 
and provide IoT solutions and innovative platform 
services through our cellular services segment. 
Our wireless voice and data transmission services 
are offered through our backbone networks that 
collectively can be accessed by approximately 99% 
of the Korean population. 1. 
2020 
OVERVIEW on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates 
and projections about us and our industry. The 
forward-looking statements are subject to various 
risks and uncertainties. We caution that reliance on 
any forward-looking statement involves risks and 
uncertainties, and that although we believe that 
the assumptions on which our forward-looking 
statements are based are reasonable, any of those 
assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, as 
a result, the forward-looking statements based on 
those assumptions could be incorrect. Risks and 
uncertainties associated with our business are more 
fully described in our latest annual report on Form 
20-F and other filings with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission. In light of these and other 
uncertainties, it should not be concluded that we 
will necessarily achieve any plans and objectives or 
projected financial results referred to in any of the 
forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to 
release the results of any revisions of these forward-
looking statements to reflect future events or 
circumstances.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 184 Appendix 185In 2020, SK T elecom’s earnings before tax were 
KRW 1,877.0 billion, and nominal taxes amounted 
to KRW 505.8 billion at a nominal tax rate of 
26.95%. Meanwhile, the company’s effective taxes 
amounted to KRW 376.5 billion at an effective 
tax rate of 20.05%. For the past two years, the 
company’s average nominal tax rate stood at 
26.78% and the effective tax rate was 22.96%. The 
effective tax rate in 2020 was 6.9%p lower than the 
nominal tax rate, the main reasons for which include 
the effects stemming from tax-exempt income, 
non-deductible expenses, and tax deductions 
and exemptions. This result is also attributable 
to changes in deferred income taxes that are not 
feasible, refunded income taxes from past periods, 
and the effect of tax rate fluctuations. telecommunication services segment. Our fixed-
line telecommunication services are provided by 
our subsidiaries, SK Broadband and SK telink. As 
of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 3.8 
million fixed-line telephone subscribers (including 
subscribers to VoIP services of SK Broadband and 
SK telink), approximately 6.5 million broadband 
Internet access subscribers and approximately 
8.6 million pay TV subscribers, with market shares 
of 15.8%, 29.0% and 24.4% (of the overall pay TV 
market including IPTV, cable TV and satellite TV), 
respectively, based on the number of subscribers. 
In April 2020, we completed the merger of Tbroad 
Co., Ltd., a leading cable television and other fixed-
line telecommunication services provider in Korea, 
and two of its subsidiaries (collectively, “Tbroad”), 
with and into SK Broadband, as a result of which we 
own approximately 74.3% of SK Broadband’s total 
outstanding shares as of December 31, 2020. In the 
same month, SK T elecom acquired a 55.0% equity 
interest in Broadband Nowon Co., Ltd. (formerly 
known as Tbroad Nowon Broadcasting Co., Ltd.), 
another subsidiary of Tbroad Co., Ltd., for a purchase 
price of Won 10.4 billion in cash. As a result of such 
transactions (the “Tbroad merger”), we have become 
the third-largest pay TV provider in Korea in terms of 
number of subscribers as of December 31, 2020.
As part of our initiative to be the leading next-
generation platform provider, we provide an 
advanced media platform with various media content 
and service offerings. We currently offer IPTV 
services under the brand name ‘Btv’ with access 
to 267 live high definition channels depending on 
the subscription service as of December 31, 2020, 
as well as video-on-demand service providing a 
wide range of media content, including recent box 
office movie releases, popular U.S. and other foreign 
TV shows and various children’s TV programs. We 
also offer ‘B tv UHD,’ an ultra-high definition IPTV 
service whose resolution is four times as high as the 
standard high definition broadcasting service in the 
IPTV industry. Following the Tbroad merger, we also 
offer cable TV services under the “B tv Cable” brand 
with access to as many as 213 channels. In 2020, 
our fixed-line telecommunications services segment 
revenue was KRW 3.41 trillion, representing 18.3% of 
our consolidated operating revenue.annual gross merchandise volume, which represents 
the total annual monetary value of customer 
purchases of goods and services, net of estimated 
refunds, in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Through 
pre-recorded television programs, SK stoa offers 
a variety of products and services. Products and 
services promoted through SK stoa’s T-commerce 
programs can be purchased through phone orders, 
SK stoa’s mobile applications, online markets, and 
virtual applications that appear on television screens 
using the viewer’s remote controllers. In 2020, our 
commerce services segment revenue was KRW 
0.79 trillion, representing 4.3% of our consolidated 
operating revenue.
Other Businesses      We continuously strive to 
diversify our products and services and develop new 
growth engines that we believe are complementary to 
our existing products and services, which we include 
in our others business segment. We provide mobility 
services through T map Mobility Co., Ltd. (“T map 
Mobility Co.”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK T elecom 
created as a result of a spin-off of SK T elecom’s 
mobility business into a newly incorporated entity in 
December 2020. We offer a portal service under the 
‘Nate’ brand name through SK communications that 
can be accessed through its website, www.nate.com, 
or through its mobile application. In addition, we provide 
marketing platform services through SK Planet and 
the brand for high-end audio devices “Astell & Kern,” 
which is manufactured by our subsidiary, Dreamus. 
We also operate a music platform “FLO” that analyzes 
individual user preferences using AI technology to 
provide customized music recommendations and 
user interfaces. We also operate a mobile application 
marketplace, ‘ONE store’ in collaboration with KT, LG U+ 
and NAVER Corporation. In 2020, our others business 
segment revenue was KRW 0.8 trillion, representing 
4.7% of our consolidated operating revenue.We maintained our leadership position in the wireless 
sector in 2020 with 31.4 million subscribers (including 
subscribers of mobile virtual network operators 
(‘MVNOs’) that lease our networks) as of December 
31, 2020, of which approximately 5.5 million 
subscribed to our 5G service, 22.8 million subscribed 
to our LTE service and 23.9 million used smartphones. 
Our share of the Korean wireless market based on 
the number of subscribers (including subscribers of 
MVNOs) was approximately 45.1% as of December 
31, 2020 compared to 46.4% as of December 31, 
2019. The Korean wireless telecommunication 
industry is considered to have reached its maturation 
stage with more than a 100% penetration rate. 
However, with continued advancements in network 
related technology, there are further opportunities to 
expand market size and revenue of cellular services 
through increasing the quality of cellular services 
we provide to our subscribers. By continuing to be 
innovative in developing core competencies, we have 
firmly established our position as the market leader in 
wireless telecommunications. 
Through innovative 5G services that provide 
subscribers differentiated experiences, we will 
maintain our business leadership in the wireless 
service market. We also plan to speed up the 
expansion of 5G services by offering services and 
content specialized for the 5G environment such as 
Cloud gaming, practical experiencing services and 
e-Sports. Furthermore, we will utilize AI technology to 
continuously analyze the needs of our customers and 
provide products and services that fulfill these needs. 
In addition, with a variety of products that integrate 
wireless services to products and services in the 
media, security, commerce and mobility sectors, we 
are continuously striving to reinforce bonds with our 
customers.
In 2020, our cellular services segment revenue 
was KRW 12.30 trillion, representing 66.0% of our 
consolidated operating revenue.
Fixed-line Telecommunication Services      We 
offer fixed-line telephone, broadband Internet 
and advanced media platform services (including 
IPTV and cable TV services) and business 
communications services through our fixed-line S&C (Security Services)      Our security business 
segment comprises physical security services 
and information security services provided by our 
subsidiary ADT Caps Co., Ltd. (“ADT Caps”). ADT Caps 
is the surviving entity resulting from the merger of our 
former subsidiary Life & Security Holdings Co., Ltd. 
(“LSH”) (which we acquired in October 2018), which 
owned 100% of former ADT Caps Co., Ltd., with and 
into SK infosec in December 2020, and the merger 
of former ADT Caps Co., Ltd. with and into SK infosec 
(which we acquired in December 2018) in March 
2021. Upon completion of such mergers, SK infosec 
changed its name to ADT Caps. ADT Caps provides a 
variety of physical security services through its major 
unmanned surveillance and dispatching services 
called the Central Monitoring Services (“CMS”). 
CMS-based services is utilized in a customized way 
depending on residential or commercial demands 
and is operated through a central system that 
provides surveillance on marginalized areas through 
cameras, sensors and emergency alarms. Through 
this system, suspicious activities are detected and 
security officers are dispatched to the location of the 
subscribers for additional on-the-scene security. ADT 
Caps also provides information security consulting 
services including managed services and cyber 
threat intelligence solutions. Our flagship information 
security product is Secudium IoT, an integrated 
security service that combines information and 
physical operational technology-based security 
services into one platform. Revenue for the security 
services segment in 2020 was KRW 1.25 trillion, 
representing 6.7% of consolidated revenue. 
Commerce Services      Our commerce services 
segment is mainly composed of 11st, an online 
marketplace that offers a wide range of products 
through an online and mobile interface that is 
operated by our subsidiary Eleven Street Co., Ltd. 
(“Eleven Street”), and SK stoa, a two-directional 
television shopping service (T-commerce) that 
is operated by SK stoa Co., Ltd. (“SK stoa”). As of 
December 31, 2020, 11st was the second-largest 
e-commerce platform in Korea in terms of the total 
number of unique visitors to its mobile and desktop 
versions, according to Nielsen Koreanclick. The 
mobile version of 11st, which has grown significantly 
in recent years, accounted for 68% and 64% of 11st’s 
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 186 Appendix 187In our cellular services segment, we earn revenue 
principally from our wireless voice and data 
transmission services through monthly plan-based 
fees, usage charges for outgoing voice calls, usage 
charges for wireless data services and value-added 
service fees paid by our wireless subscribers as 
well as interconnection fees paid to us by other 
telecommunications operators for use of our wireless 
network by their customers and subscribers. We also 
derive revenue from sales of wireless devices by our 
subsidiary, PS&Marketing. Other sources of revenue 
include that from our IoT solutions and platform 
services, including AI solutions, as well as other 
miscellaneous cellular services.
In our fixed-line telecommunication services seg-
ment,  we earn revenue principally from our fixed-
line telephone services and broadband Internet 
services and advanced media platform services 
(including IPTV and cable TV services) through 
monthly plan-based fees and usage charges as 
well as interconnection fees paid to us by other 
telecommunications operators for the use of our fixed  
-line network by their customers and subscribers. 
In the security services sector, we generate revenue 
from our physical and information security services 
businesses through our subsidiary ADT Caps. 
Revenue from our physical security services is 
generated mainly through monthly payments and 
fees for value-added services paid by subscribers. 
Revenue from our information security services 
is derived primarily through information security 
platform contracts as well as consulting services and 
solutions contracts that are paid by customers.2.
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARYSelected Financial Information (Consolidated, KRW billion)
2020 2019 Change
Statement of Income Data
Operating revenue 18,625 17 ,741 5.0%
EBITDA1)5,519 5,129 7.6%
Operating expenses 17 ,275 16,633 3.9%
Operating profit 1,349 1,108 21.8%
Profit for the year 1,501 861 74.3%
Statement of Financial Position Data
Total assets 47 ,907 45,202 6.0%
Cash & marketable securities2)2,797 2,101 33.1%
Total liabilities 23,511 22,385 5.0%
Interest-bearing financial debt3)10,718 10,264 4.4%
Total equity 24,396 22,817 6.9%
Financial Ratios (%)
EBITDA margin 29.6 28.9 0.7%p
Operating margin 7.2 6.2 1.0%p
Net margin 8.1 4.9 3.2%p
Debt-to-equity ratio4)43.9 45.0 -1.1%p
1) EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expense
2) Cash & marketable securities = Cash & cash equivalents + Marketable securities + Short-term financial instruments  
3) Interest-bearing financial debt = Short-term borrowings + Current portion of long-term debt + Debentures + Long-term borrowings  
4) Debt-to-equity ratio = Interest-bearing financial debt/Total equity
Our operating revenue increased by 5.0% from KRW 
17.74 trillion in 2019 to KRW 18.63 trillion in 2020. 
This is due to growth across all of our business 
sectors. Our operating expenses increased by 
3.9% from KRW 16.63 trillion in 2019 to KRW 17.28 
trillion in 2020. This is primarily due to the increase 
in commissions and labor costs. As the increase in 
operating revenue outpaced the increase in operating 
expenses, operating profit in 2020 amounted to KRW 
1.35 trillion, representing an increase of 21.8%, while 
the EBITDA margin was 29.6%, an increase of 0.7%p, 
and operating margin was 7.2%, an increase of 1.0%p. 
Profit for the year in 2020 was KRW 1.50 trillion, 
a 74.3% increase from KRW 0.86 trillion in 2019 
primarily due to an increase in gain from our equity 
investment in SK hynix. T otal assets increased by 6.0% to KRW 47.91 trillion 
as of December 31, 2020 from KRW 45.20 trillion 
as of December 31, 2019, primarily as a result of 
increases in the book value of our investments in 
SK hynix and Kakao as well as the addition of assets 
from the Tbroad merger. T otal liabilities increased by 
5.0% to KRW 23.51 trillion as of December 31, 2020, 
compared to KRW 22.39 trillion as of December 
31, 2019, primarily due to the Tbroad merger and 
the issuance of bonds by SK T elecom. T otal equity 
was KRW 24.40 trillion as of December 31, 2020, 
representing a 6.9% year-on-year increase. Our debt-
to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2020 was 43.9%, 
compared to 45.0% at the end of 2019.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 188 Appendix 189Sales in the commerce business sector are derived 
from our consolidated subsidiaries, Eleven Street 
and SK stoa. Eleven Street generates revenue 
principally through third-party seller fees earned 
(including commissions) for transactions in which 
it acts as a selling agent to the “minimalls” on 11st, 
as well as advertising revenue and other commerce 
solutions from 11st. SK stoa generates sales through 
third-party sales fees (including commissions) for 
transactions acting as a sales representative at SK 
stoa, a T-commerce network. 
Major sales in other business divisions come from 
the subsidiary, SK Planet’s marketing platform 
businesses, Dreamus’ music streaming services 
and audio equipment manufacturing business, the 
mobility business of T map Mobility Co. and the 
subsidiary of SK communications’ portal service, 
“Nate.” 
The following selected consolidated financial 
information has been derived from, and should be 
read in conjunction with, the audited consolidated 
financial statements included in this annual report.Our operating revenue increased by 5.0% from KRW 
17.74 trillion in 2019 to KRW 18.63 trillion in 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in 5G 
subscribers, as well as growth across all of our new 
ICT businesses (media, security and commerce).3. 
REVENUE 
Consolidated Operating Revenue (KRW billion)
17 ,741 2019
2020 18,625ARPU    SK T elecom’s average monthly revenue per 
subscriber excluding MVNO subscribers leasing 
SK T elecom’s networks (‘ARPU’) decreased by 1.0% 
to KRW 30,314 in 2020 from KRW 30,630 in 2019, 
primarily due to an increase in subscriptions for IoT 
solutions by corporate customers, from which we 
derive lower revenue per subscriber. SK T elecom’s 
Subsidiaries      The consolidated revenue of SK 
Broadband, which is mostly generated from its 
fixed-line telecommunication services, increased 
by 17.1% to KRW 3.71 trillion in 2020 up from KRW 
3.17 trillion in 2019, primarily due to the inclusion of 
revenue of the former Tbroad following the Tbroad 
merger as well as an increase in revenue from IPTV 
services attributable to growth in the number of IPTV 
subscribers and platform sales.
PS&Marketing’s revenue, which is mostly derived 
from sales of handsets, decreased by 15.3% to KRW 
1.43 trillion in 2020 from KRW 1.68 trillion in 2019, 
primarily due to a decrease in sales of handsets as 
a result of lower customer demand for new devices, 
which was partly attributable to the effects of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.average monthly revenue per subscriber including 
such MVNO subscribers (‘ARPU including MVNO’) 
increased by 1.8% to KRW 27,895 in 2020 from KRW 
27,412 in 2019, primarily attributable to the decrease 
in the proportion of MVNO subscribers, from whom 
we derive lower revenue per subscriber. 
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 190 Appendix 191Subscribers & Market Share      The total number 
of wireless subscribers in Korea was approximately 
69.5 million as of December 31, 2020 with a wireless 
telecommunications service penetration rate of 
134.2%. SK T elecom ended the year 2020 with 
approximately 31.4 million subscribers (including 
subscribers of MVNOs that lease SK T elecom’s 
networks). SK T elecom’s wireless market share based 
on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) decreased by 1.3%p to 45.1% as of 
December 31, 2020 from 46.4% as of December 
31, 2019. The number of 5G, which was launched 
in April 2019, subscribers reached 5.5 million as of 
December 31, 2020, compared to 2.1 million as of 
December 31, 2019. The number of SK T elecom’s 
LTE subscribers decreased to 22.8 million as of 
December 31, 2020, compared to 25.0 million as of 
December 31, 2019.
● Subscribers
● Market Share
31,440 2Q 45.8%31,477 1Q 46.2%
31,440 3Q 45.4%
4Q 31,384 45.1%Subscribers & Market Share in 2020 (Subs: in thousands, Market share: %)● ARPU
● ARPU including MVNOARPU in 2020 (Non-consolidated, APRU: in KRW)
20202019
27 ,89527 ,412
30,31430,630
The aggregate revenue of LSH (which merged into 
SK infosec in December 2020) and SK infosec (into 
which the former ADT Caps Co., Ltd. merged and 
which changed its name to ADT Caps in March 
2021) on a consolidated basis increased by 12.1% 
to KRW 1.33 trillion in 2020 from KRW 1.18 trillion 
in 2019, primarily due to an increase in the number 
of subscribers to our CMS products as well as the 
acquisition of the security equipment construction 
and security services business of SK hystec inc. by 
the former ADT Caps Co., Ltd. in July 2020.Statement of Income  (Consolidated, KRW billion)
2020 % of Revenue 2019 % of Revenue
Operating revenue 18,625 100.0% 17 ,741 100.0%
Operating expenses 17 ,275 92.8% 16,633 93.8%
Labor1) 3,006 16.1% 2,823 15.9%
Commissions2)5,347 28.7% 5,002 28.2%
Depreciation and amortization3)3,991 21.4% 3,857 21.7%
Network interconnection 771 4.1% 752 4.2%
Leased line 295 1.6% 263 1.5%
Advertising 432 2.3% 435 2.5%
Rent 173 0.9% 155 0.9%
Cost of goods sold 1,608 8.6% 1,833 10.3%
Others 1,652 8.9% 1,513 8.5%
Operating profit 1,349 7.2% 1,108 6.2%
Finance income 241 1.3% 142 0.8%
Finance costs -497 -2.7% -438 -2.5%
Gain relating to investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures, net1,028 5.5% 450 2.5%
Other non-operating income 99  0.5% 103 0.6%
Other non-operating expenses -344 -1.8% -204 -1.1%
Profit before income tax 1,877 10.1% 1,161 6.5%
Income tax expense 377 2.0% 300 1.7%
Profit for the year 1,501 8.1% 861 4.9%
EBITDA4)5,519 29.6% 5,129 28.9%
1) Labor cost = Salaries + Provisions for defined benefit liabilities
2) Includes marketing commissions and other commissions
3) Excludes R&D-related depreciation 
4) EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expense4. 
PROFITABILITYOperating Expense      Our operating expense for 
2020 amounted to KRW 17.28 trillion, representing 
a 3.9% increase from KRW 16.63 trillion in 2019. 
The increase results primarily from a 6.9% increase 
The increase in commissions was primarily due to 
the inclusion of commissions of the former Tbroad 
following the Tbroad merger. The increase in labor 
costs was primarily due to the additional personnel 
on payroll in connection with the Tbroad merger as 
well as the expansion of our security and commerce in commissions, a 6.5% increase in labor costs and 
a 3.5% increase in depreciation and amortization 
expenses, which was partially offset by a 12.3% 
decrease in cost of goods sold.
businesses. The increase in depreciation and 
amortization expenses was primarily related to our 
equipment and frequency usage rights for our 5G 
network. The decrease in cost of goods sold was 
primarily due to a decrease in the number of wireless 
devices sold in 2020.Operating Expenses (KRW billion)
●  2019
●  2020
Labor2,823
3,006 
Depreciation 
and 
amortization3,857
3,991
Network 
interconnection752
771 
Cost of 
goods sold1,833
1,608
Others1,513
1,652Advertising435
432Leased lines263
295
Rent155
173Commissions5,002
5,347
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 192 Appendix 193Current Assets      We had current assets of KRW 
8.78 trillion as of December 31, 2020, representing 
a 8.5% year-on-year increase from KRW 8.09 
trillion as of December 31, 2019. Our cash and 
marketable securities (including short-term financial 
instruments) increased by 33.1% to KRW 2.80 trillion 
as of December 31, 2020 from KRW 2.10 trillion as 
of December 31, 2019, primarily due to an increase 
in short-term financial instruments. Our accounts 
receivable (trade and other) increased by 1.1% to 
KRW 3.17 trillion as of December 31, 2020, compared 
to KRW 3.13 trillion as of December 31, 2019.5. 
FINANCIAL 
STRUCTURE
Non-current Assets (KRW billion)
●  2019
●  2020
Property and 
Equipment
Other Non-Current 
Assets12,933
13,377
14,243
16,004
2,122
1,9577 ,816
7 ,794Intangible Assets
Investment AssetsNon-current Assets     As of December 31, 2020, 
our non-current assets increased by 5.4% from KRW 
37.11 trillion as of December 31, 2019, to KRW 39.13 
trillion due primarily to an increase in investment 
assets. Our investment assets increased by 12.4% 
to KRW 16.00 trillion as of December 31, 2020 
from KRW 14.24 trillion as of December 31, 2019, 
primarily attributable to the increase in investments in 
associates and joint ventures.Operating Profit and EBITDA      Our operating profit 
increased by 21.8% to KRW 1.35 trillion in 2020 as 
the increase in our operating revenue outpaced the 
increase in our operating expenses in 2020. Our 
EBITDA margin grew by 0.7%p to 29.6% in 2020, 
while operating margin increased by 1.0%p to 7.2% in 
2020.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses      Our 
finance income increased by 69.7% to KRW 241 
billion in 2020 from KRW 142 billion in 2019, primarily 
due to an increase in gain on valuation of derivatives 
to Won 101 billion in 2020 from Won 3 billion in 2019, 
which primarily related to an increase in valuation of 
warrants of Nano-X Imaging Ltd. held by SK T elecom 
TMT Investment Corp., as well as an increase in gain 
relating to financial assets at fair value through profit 
or loss to KRW 36 billion in 2020 from KRW 5 billion in 
2019, primarily relating to shares of Oceanbridge Co., 
Ltd. held by Quantum Innovation Fund I. The effect 
of such increases was partially offset by a decrease 
in gain on settlement of derivatives to KRW 8 billion 
in 2020 from KRW 29 billion in 2019, which amount 
in 2019 was primarily related to the share exchange 
transaction with Kakao in October 2019. Our finance 
costs increased by 13.5% to KRW 497 billion in 2020 
from KRW 438 billion in 2019, primarily due to the 
incurrence of other financial fees of KRW 45 billion 
in 2020 relating to the disposal of certain securities 
held for trading of Knet Culture and Contents 
Venture Fund, a consolidated subsidiary, and a loss 
on valuation of derivatives of KRW 14 billion in 2020 
primarily related to certain share subscription rights 
granted to financial investors of Eleven Street under 
an equity interest agreement, compared to no such 
costs incurred in 2019. The effect of such increases 
was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense 
to KRW 399 billion in 2020 from KRW 406 billion in 
2019 as a result of a decrease in interest rates, as 
well as a loss on sale of other accounts receivable 
related to handset installment payments of KRW 6 
billion in 2019 compared to nil in 2020. Gain relating 
to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures increased by 128.8% to KRW 1,028 billion 
in 2020 from KRW 450 billion in 2019, which can be 
attributed to the increase in the profit of SK hynix, in 
which SK T elecom has a 20.1% equity interest.Other non-operating income decreased by 3.6% 
to KRW 99 billion in 2020 from KRW 103 billion in 
2019, primarily due to a decrease in gain on business 
transfer in 2020 as compared to 2019. Such gain on 
business transfer in 2020 was mainly related to the 
transfer of the digital disease management business 
of Health Connect Co., Ltd. to Invites Healthcare 
Co., Ltd., while the gain in 2019 mainly resulted from 
the transition of our mobile OTT service “oksusu” 
to “wavve” in September 2019, and the growth in 
income through the transfer of our e-Sports business 
following the establishment of SK T elecom CS T1, 
which was established in February 2019 as a joint 
venture with Comcast Spectacor. 
Our non-operating expenses increased by 68.8% 
to KRW 344 billion in 2020 from KRW 204 billion in 
2019, which mainly reflected impairment losses we 
recognized on frequency usage rights. 
Income Tax      Income tax expense increased by 
25.4% to KRW 377 billion in 2020 from KRW 300 
billion in 2019 primarily due to a 61.7% increase in 
profit before income tax. Our effective tax rate in 
2020 decreased to 20.1% from 25.9% in 2019.
Profit for the Year      Principally as a result of the 
factors discussed above, our profit for the year 
increased by 74.3% to KRW 1.50 trillion in 2020 from 
KRW 0.86 trillion in 2019. Net margin was 8.1% in 
2020 compared to 4.9% in 2019.  Current Assets (KRW billion)
●  2019
●  2020
 2,101
2,797 
66
97
163
171
2,122
2,5423,134
3,168Cash & 
Marketable 
Securities
Short-term Loans
Inventories
Other Current AssetsAccounts 
Receivable 
(trade and other)
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 194 Appendix 195Liabilities     We had KRW 23.51 trillion of total 
liabilities as of December 31, 2020, representing 
a 5.0% increase from KRW 22.39 trillion of total 
liabilities as of December 31, 2019. This increase is 
primarily due to the Tbroad merger and SK T elecom’s 
issuances of bonds. Our total interest- bearing 
Equity      Our total equity as of December 31, 2020 
amounted to KRW 24.40 trillion, which increased by 
6.9% from December 31, 2019, primarily due to an increase in non-controlling interests and retained 
earnings.financial debt increased by 4.4% to KRW 10.72 trillion 
as of December 31, 2020 from KRW 10.26 trillion as 
of December 31, 2019. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of 
December 31, 2020 was 43.9%, compared to 45.0% 
as of December 31, 2019.
SK T elecom spent approximately KRW 2.21 trillion 
on capital expenditures in 2020 compared to KRW 
2.91 trillion for capital expenditures in 2019, each on 
a separate basis. Of the total amount spent in 2020, 
SK T elecom spent approximately KRW 1.88 trillion KRW, or 85.2% on establishing and enhancing wireless 
networks (including new 5G networks), while SK 
T elecom spent KRW 326 billion on other investments, 
including development of new products and information 
technology systems and equipment upgrades.6. 
CAPITAL 
EXPENDITURES 
(SEPARATE 
BASIS)Equity (KRW billion)
●  2019
●  2020
Share Capital45
45
40Retained Earnings22,229
22,982
Reserves-330
-133 Non-controlling 
interestsCapital Surplus1,006
677
652Interest-Bearing Financial Debt (KRW billion)
●  2019
●  2020
Short-term 
Borrowings21
110
Debentures 
(excluding current 
portion)7 ,254
7 ,690
Long-term  
Borrowings  
(excluding current 
portion)1,972
1,9791,017
939Current Portion of 
Long-term DebtNon-consolidated Financial Statement
Non-consolidated Statement of Financial Position  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Assets    
Current Assets 5,047 ,115 4,998,465 4,679,378
Cash and cash equivalents 329,208 497 ,282 877 ,823
Short-term financial instruments 516,000 234,000 99,000
Short-term investment securities 31,854 31,920 47 ,849
Accounts receivable 1,503,552 1,479,971 1,354,260
Short-term loans, net 89,280 57 ,751 54,336
Account receivable 434,713 506,642 518,451
Accrued revenue 518 336 410
Contract assets 8,388 7 ,173 1,689
Advance payment 16,127 14,610 10,473
Prepaid expenses 2,052,515 1,959,122 1,688,234
Security deposit 51,069 73,345  
Current tax assets  70,528  
Derivative financial assets 8,704 26,253  
Inventories, net 5,181 11,125 22,079
Other current assets 6 28,407 4,774
Non-current assets 26,939,336 26,619,167 24,168,645
Long-term financial instruments 354 382 382
Long-term investment securities 983,688 510,633 410,672
Investments in subsidiaries and associates 11,357 ,504 10,578,158 10,188,914
Property and equipment, net 9,157 ,548 9,052,709 6,943,490
Goodwill 1,306,236 1,306,236 1,306,236
Intangible assets, net 2,665,083 3,461,152 4,010,864
Long-term loans, net 6,518 7 ,474 7 ,236
Long-term accounts receivable 348,335 335,574 274,053
Long-term contract assets 22,844 23,724 5,842
Long-term prepaid expenses 903,961 1,134,737 753,181
Long-term guarantee deposits 110,555 108,141 184,887
Long-term derivative financial assets 76,461 99,998 50,805
Defined benefit assets 0 0 31,834
Other non-current assets 249 249 249
Total Assets 31,986,451 31,617 ,632 28,848,023
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 196 Appendix 197Non-consolidated Statement of Financial Position  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Liabilities and Equity    
Current Liabilities 5,076,404 5,165,744 4,178,068
Account payables 1,955,472 2,266,958 1,622,744
Contract liabilities 83,216 88,257 46,075
Withholdings 659,181 685,822 696,790
Accrued expenses 724,992 793,252 664,286
Current tax liabilities 154,144 0 162,609
Current liabilities 43,437 47 ,786 49,303
Current bonds and long-term borrowings Lease liabilities 712,105 520,292 512,377
Lease liabilities 313,422 319,519 0
Current long-term account payables 424,600 423,839 423,884
Other current liabilities 5,835 20,019 0
Non-current liabilities 9,560,189 9,067 ,989 7 ,782,468
Debentures 6,175,576 5,900,829 5,222,865
Long-term borrowings 6,167 19,777 31,764
Long-term account payables 1,141,723 1,544,699 1,939,082
Long-term contract liabilities 8,110 11,342 8,358
Derivative financial liabilities 362,002 0 1,107
Long-term lease liabilities 999,776 856,385 0
Non-current liabilities 55,953 41,145 12,483
Deferred tax liabilities 756,873 642,601 523,732
Defined benefit liabilities 7 ,421 25,093 0
Other non-current liabilities 46,588 26,118 43,077
Total Liabilities 14,636,593 14,233,733 11,960,536
Equity    
Share capital 44,639 44,639 44,639
Other paid up capital 289,134 715,619 415,324
Retained earnings 16,684,640 16,672,947 16,467 ,789
Reserves 331,445 (49,306) (40,265)
Total Equity 17 ,349,858 17 ,383,899 16,887 ,487
Total Liabilities and Equity 31,986,451 31,617 ,632 28,848,023Non-c onsolidated Statement of Income  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Operating revenue 11,746,630 11,421,342 11,705,639
Revenue 11,746,630 11,421,342 11,705,639
Operating expense 10,723,563 10,469,539 10,398,145
Labor cost 804,982 783,124 684,777
Commissions paid 4,647 ,773 4,419,845 4,454,763
Depreciation and amortization 2,841,755 2,776,140 2,324,509
Network interconnection 555,846 565,084 606,452
Leased line 215,878 213,673 276,699
Advertising 114,794 154,124 169,003
Rent 121,032 123,517 445,122
Cost of products that have been resold 436,013 479,605 500,119
Other operating expense 985,490 954,427 936,701
Operating income (loss) 1,023,067 951,803 1,307 ,494
Finance income 377 ,947 615,571 279,059
Finance cost 256,737 280,247 255,455
Other non-operating income 82,673 76,928 41,265
Other non-operating expense 273,655 110,627 149,817
Losses related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures11,840 68,550 1,302
Profit before income tax 941,455 1,184,878 1,221,244
Corporate tax 182,663 204,987 287 ,342
Net profit (loss) for the term 758,792 979,891 933,902
Earnings per share    
Basic earnings per share (in won) 10,221 13,393 13,000
Diluted earnings per share (in won) 10,219 13,393 13,000
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 198 Appendix 199Non-consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Annual profit (loss) 758,792 979,891 933,902
Other Inclusive gains and losses 379,782 (19,688) (90,548)
Items not reclassified as a profit or loss during 
the follow-up periods364,275 (54,692) (118,808)
Remeasurement factors of defined benefit systems (2,325) (40,720) (16,354)
Valuation loss on financial assets at fair value through 
other comprehensive income366,600 (13,972) (102,454)
Items reclassified as a profit or loss during the follow-up periods 15,507 35,004 28,260
Net change in unrealized fair value or derivatives 15,507 35,004 28,260
Total inclusive gains and losses for the term 1,138,574 960,203 843,354Non-consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  (Unit: KRW million)
Equity
Share
CapitalOther Paid Up Capital
Retained
EarningsReservesTotal
EquityCapital 
Excess of 
Par ValueTreasury
StockHybrid
BondStock
OptionsOther Total
Increase 
(Decrease) 
due to changes 
in accounting 
policies0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,773,596 (58,389) 1,715,207
January 1, 2018 
(Basic capital)44,639 2,915,887 (2,260,626) 398,518 414 (682,298) 371,895 16,286,152 19,912 16,722,598
Annual profit 
(loss)0 0 0 0 0 0 0 933,902 0 933,902
Other 
comprehensive 
income (loss)0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (30,371) (60,177) (90,548)
Dividends paid 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (706,091) 0 (706,091)
Stock 
compensation 
expense0 0 0 0 593 0 593 0 0 593
Repayments of 
hybrid bonds0 0 0 (398,518) 0 (1,482) (400,000) 0 0 (400,000)
Issuance of 
hybrid bonds0 0 0 398,759 0 0 398,759 0 0 398,759
Interest on 
hybrid bonds0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (15,803) 0 (15,803)
Business 
combination 
under common 
control0 0 281,151 0 0 (237 ,074) 44,077 0 0 44,077
Repurchase 
(Disposal) of 
treasury stocks0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
December 31, 
2018 (End of 
term capital)44,639 2,915,887 (1,979,475) 398,759 1,007 (920,854) 415,324 16,467 ,789 (40,265) 16,887 ,487
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 200 Appendix 201Non-consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  (Unit: KRW million)
Equity
Share
CapitalOther Paid Up Capital
Retained
EarningsReservesTotal
EquityCapital 
Excess of 
Par ValueTreasury
StockHybrid
BondStock
OptionsOther Total
Increase 
(Decrease) 
due to changes 
in accounting 
policies0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (30,622) 0 (30,622)
January 1, 2019 
(Basic capital)44,639 2,915,887 (1,979,475) 398,759 1,007 (920,854) 415,324 16,437 ,167 (40,265) 16,856,865
Annual profit 
(loss)       979,891  979,891
Other 
comprehensive 
income (loss)       (10,647) (9,041) (19,688)
Dividends paid 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (718,698) 0 (718,698)
Stock 
compensation 
expense0 0 0 0 295 0 295 0 0 295
Repayments of 
hybrid bonds0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Issuance of 
hybrid bonds0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Interest on 
hybrid bonds0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (14,766) 0 (14,766)
Business 
combination 
under common 
control0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Repurchase 
(Disposal) of 
treasury stocks0 0 (282,478) 0 0 17 ,522 300,000 0 0 300,000
December 31, 
2019 (End of 
term capital)44,639 2,915,887 (1,696,997) 398,759 1,302 (903,332) 715,619 16,672,947 (49,306) 17 ,383,899  (Unit: KRW million)
Equity
Share
CapitalOther Paid Up Capital
Retained
EarningsReservesTotal
EquityCapital 
Excess of 
Par ValueTreasury
StockHybrid
BondStock
OptionsOther Total
Increase 
(Decrease) 
due to changes 
in accounting 
policies0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
January 1, 2020 
(Basic capital)44,639 2,915,887 (1,696,997) 398,759 1,302 (903,332) 715,619 16,672,947 (49,306) 17 ,383,899
Annual profit 
(loss)       758,792  758,792
Other 
comprehensive 
income (loss)       (969) 380,751 379,782
Dividends paid        (731,364)  (731,364)
Stock 
compensation 
expense    179  179   179
Repayments of 
hybrid bonds          
Issuance of 
hybrid bonds          
Interest on 
hybrid bonds       (14,766)  (14,766)
Business 
combination 
under common 
control          
Repurchase 
(Disposal) of 
treasury stocks  426,664    (426,664)   (426,664)
December 31, 
2020 (End of 
term capital)44,639 2,915,887 (2,123,661) 398,759 1,481 (903,332) 289,134 16,684,640 331,445  17 ,349,858
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 202 Appendix 203Non-consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Cash flows from operating activities 4,387 ,809 3,190,741 3,965,028
Cash generated from operating activities 4,289,499 3,175,640 4,307 ,913
Net Profit for the term 758,792 979,891 933,902
Adjustment for income and expenses 3,361,118 2,898,842 2,863,632
Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating activities 169,589 (703,093) 510,379
Interest received 20,283 28,388 35,456
Dividends received 285,040 525,045 177 ,490
Interest paid (212,921) (226,652) (183,023)
Income tax paid 5,908 (311,680) (372,808)
Cash flows from investing activities (3,178,152) (2,992,673) (3,109,284)
Cash inflows from investing activities 165,628 369,323 389,656
Decrease in short-term investment securities, net 0 16,217 0
Collection of short-term loans 69,754 107 ,996 110,261
Decrease in long-term financial instruments 28 0 0
Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities 790 223,619 189,083
Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and 
joint ventures659 0 78,548
Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 89,922 10,767 10,848
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 4,475 3,843 916
Collection of lease receivables 0 6,881 0
Cash outflows for investment activities (3,343,780) (3,361,996) (3,498,940)
Increase in short-term financial instruments 282,000 135,000 0
Increase in short-term investment securities, net 0 0 5,000
Increase in short-term loans 100,739 111,686 109,915
Acquisition of long-term investment securities 827 321,124 990
Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures 277 ,465 379,821 1,045,713
Acquisition of property and equipment 2,480,297 2,304,512 1,893,284
Acquisition of intangible assets 81,352 109,853 444,038
Cash outflow through exercising share ownership of its subsidiaries 121,100 0 0  (Unit: KRW million)
2020 2019 2018
Cash flows from financing activities (1,377 ,732) (578,609) (858,073)
Cash inflows from financing activities 1,099,191 1,507 ,700 1,725,221
Issuance of hybrid bonds 0 0 398,759
Issuance of debentures 1,062,500 1,195,274 1,326,346
Cash inflows due to transaction of derivative products 36,691 12,426 116
Disposal of treasury stocks  300,000 0
Cash outflows for financing activities (2,476,923) (2,086,309) (2,583,294)
Repayment of long-term borrowings 13,624 12,882 12,770
Repayments of hybrid bonds 0 0 400,000
Repayment of long-term account payables 425,349 425,349 302,867
Repayment of debentures 515,500 550,000 1,116,550
Payment of dividends 731,364 718,698 706,091
Interest on hybrid bond 14,766 14,766 15,803
Cash outflow due to transaction of derivative products 0 0 29,213
Repayment of lease liabilities 349,656 364,614 0
Repurchase of treasury stock 426,664 0 0
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (168,075) (380,541) (2,329)
Cash and cash equivalent at beginning of the year 497 ,282 877 ,823 880,583
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1 0 (431)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 329,208 497 ,282 877 ,823
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 204 Appendix 205 The primary procedures we performed to address this key audit matter included:
 -  T esting certain internal controls relating to the Group's revenue recognition process, including information technology (IT) systems 
used for the purposes of revenue recognition. Specifically, we assessed the IT system environment for data records, rating and billing 
systems, which aggregate data used for revenue recognition for voice usage, text and mobile data services, generate customer bills 
and support measurement of revenue .
 -  Comparing a sample of revenue transactions to supporting evidence, such as customer bills, rating system information, subscriber 
contracts, and cash received, where applicable.
 -  Inspecting major contracts with subscribers to assess the Group’s revenue recognition policies based on the terms and conditions 
as set out in the contracts, with reference to the requirements of K-IFRS No. 1115.
2. Evaluation of impairment analysis for goodwill in the security services cash generating unit
  As described in notes 4 (11) and 16 of the consolidated financial statements, the Group performs impairment test for goodwill at least 
annually or when there is an indication of possible impairment by comparing the recoverable amount and the carrying amount of a cash 
generating unit (“CGU”) to which goodwill is allocated. The Group’s security services-related operating segments included security 
services and information security services. The amount of goodwill that is allocated to the security services CGU is KRW 1,176,274 
million as of December 31, 2020. No goodwill is allocated to the information security services CGU.
 
  In carrying out the impairment assessment of goodwill, management determined the recoverable amount based on the value in use 
(“VIU”). Determining the VIU of the security services CGU involves significant judgments in estimating the expected future cash flows 
including the estimates of revenue growth rate, labor costs, perpetual growth rate and discount rate. In the Group’s impairment test as of 
December 31, 2019, the VIU of security services CGU approximated its carrying value. In its impairment test as of December 31, 2020, 
while the Group does not expect the total carrying amount of the CGU will exceed the VIU due to reasonably possible changes in certain 
assumptions, there is still a high degree of uncertainty on the other significant assumptions applied, which may impact the goodwill 
impairment result. As such we have identified the evaluation of goodwill impairment in the security services CGU as a key audit matter. 
 The primary procedures we performed to address this key audit matter included:
 -  Involving our internal valuation professionals to assist us in evaluating estimated revenue growth rate, labor costs and perpetual 
growth rate by comparison with industry reports as well as historical performance and evaluating the discount rate by comparing with 
the discount rate that was independently developed using publicly available market data for comparable entities.
 -  Performing sensitivity analysis for both the discount rate and the perpetual growth rate applied to the discounted cash flow forecasts 
to assess the impact of changes in these key assumptions on the conclusion reached in management’s impairment assessment.
 -  Evaluating estimated revenue growth rate and labor costs by comparison with the financial budgets approved by the Group and 
comparing the cash flow forecasts prepared in prior year with the actual results to assess the Group’s ability to accurately forecast.
3. Evaluation of fair value for intangible assets – Customer relationships
  As described in note 12 of the consolidated financial statements, as a result of the merger between SK Broadband Co., Ltd., a subsidiary 
of SK T elecom Co., Ltd., and Tbroad Co., Ltd., the Group recognized the acquired customer relationships arising from the business 
combination as an identifiable intangible asset. The fair value of customer relationships amounts to KRW 374,019 million as of April 30, 
2020, the acquisition date.OPINION
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of SK T elecom Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) which 
comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 and the consolidated statements of 
income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial 
position of the Group as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for 
the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”).
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in the 
Republic of Korea, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
EMPHASIS OF MATTER
Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the following: 
As described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group retrospectively applied changes in accounting policies 
regarding the method of determining lease term and restated the comparative financial statements as of and for the year ended December 
31, 2019.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
1. Revenue Recognition
  As described in note 4 (21) and 5 (2) of the consolidated financial statements, the Group’s revenue from cellular services is primarily 
generated from the provision of a variety of telecommunications services at various rate plans and products. Revenue from wireless 
service amounted to KRW 9,801,194 million in 2020. It is recognized based on data from complex information technology systems that 
process large volume of transactions with subscribers. Therefore, we have identified revenue recognition related to the Group’s wireless 
service as a key audit matter due to the complexity of information technology systems involved and the revenue recognition standard 
applied.To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of SK Telecom Co., Ltd.:Based on a report originally issued in KoreanIndependent Auditors’ Report
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 206 Appendix 207T el +82 (2) 2112 0100
Fax +82 (2) 2112 0101
www.kr.kpmg.com152, T eheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06236
(Y eoksam-dong, Gangnam Finance Center 27th Floor)
Republic of KoreaThis report is effective as of March 11, 2021, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit 
report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. 
Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent 
events or circumstances, if any.•		Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
•		Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management.
•		Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report 
to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
•		Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether 
the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•		Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to 
express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters 
in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is In Hye Kang.
KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp.
Seoul, Korea
March 11, 2021  The Group estimated the fair value of customer relationships using the multi-period excess earnings method (“MPEEM”). In applying 
MPEEM, the Group estimates revenue and cash flows derived from the acquired customer relationships based on estimated revenue 
per subscriber, estimated customer attrition rate and discount rate. Considering the significant degree of the judgment in measuring the 
fair value of customer relationships, we identified the evaluation of fair value for customer relationships as a key audit matter.
 The primary procedures we performed to address this key audit matter included:
 -  Involving our internal valuation professionals to assist us in:
  • 			Assessing the MPEEM model used for the fair value estimate considering the nature of the intangible assets and requirement by K-IFRS
  • 			Assessing the revenue per subscriber and customer attrition rate used in the cashflow estimate by comparing with the acquiree’s 
historical performance; and
  • 			Evaluating the discount rate by comparing with the discount rate that was independently developed using publicly available market data.
 -  For historical performance used in evaluating the reasonableness of the above assumptions, evaluating the accuracy by agreeing or 
recalculating using public or audited information, as applicable.
OTHER MATTER
The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those 
generally accepted and applied in other countries.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE FOR  
THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS, 
and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level 
of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•		Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud 
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 208 Appendix 209
Reporting Standards and Principles      The purpose of this non-financial management discussion & analysis (MD&A) is to present 
management’s analysis opinion on the company’s key management performances from non-financial aspects, such as human capital, 
social capital, and environmental capital, for the reporting period from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020. The following international 
reporting standards and principles apply to this non-financial MD&A:
1. International Integrated Reporting Council’s <IR> Framework
  The <IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) requires concise reporting on the organization’s strategy, 
governance, and how the performance and future prospects are connected to the short-, mid-, and long-term value creation of 
the organization under the economic, social, and environmental contexts. Please refer to P . 40-41 for the business model required 
to implement the integrated reporting principles of the IIRC and P . 60-61 for materiality assessment to determine important topics 
depending on the impact on value creation.
2. Global Reporting Initiatives’ Sustainability Reporting Standards – GRI Standards
  The Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) provides information on the topics and disclosures of reporting from economic, social, and 
environmental perspectives so that stakeholders can discern the organization’s performance. It demands that the topics be determined 
according to the correlation of each aspect from stakeholder impact and organization’s economic, social, and environmental 
perspectives. Please refer to P . 60-61 for the results of the materiality assessment conducted in accordance with the GRI requirements.
3. Accountability AA1000
  The AA1000 series identifies and prioritizes sustainability issues related to the organization and defines its framework and principles. 
The information in this report is verified by a third party according to the Assurance Standard (AA1000AS) V3. Please refer to P . 224-226 
for the result of the third-party assurance performed by an independent institute.References
1. UNGC COP
  UN Global Compact Communication on Progress – a guideline for reporting the status of compliance with the T en Principles of the 
UNGC by its members
2. ISO 26000
  An international standard of the responsible management system released in November 2010 by the International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO)
3. CDSB Reporting Framework
 A standard for carbon information disclosure put forth by the Climate Disclosure Standard Board (CDSB) in September 2010
4. SASB - Telecommunication Standards
  Core issues and key performance indicators in the telecommunications industry released in April 2014 by the U.S. Sustainability 
Accounting Standard Board (SASB)
5. TCFD
 T ake Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Designated group for financial information disclosure related to climate change
Scope of Data      The non-financial information presented in this non-financial MD&A is limited to the data of “SK T elecom” which 
does not include subsidiaries and supply chains unless otherwise specified. Over 99% of SK T elecom’s revenues are generated 
in Korea, and thus the data coverage included meets the criterion of 99% or more of the revenue. This coincides with the scope 
of stand-alone revenues of SK T elecom, which is the controlling company under the Korean International Financial Reporting 
Standards (K-IFRS). Environmental data such as energy, greenhouse gases (Scope 1, 2, 3), waste, and water and social data such 
as total employment, competency development, and social contribution are calculated based on 39 major business sites of SK 
T elecom (including networks such as base stations, repeaters, and central stations).NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Non-financial Management Discussion & Analysis 
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 210 Appendix 211Double Bottom Line
Based on SK Group’s “Double Bottom Line (DBL) Management”, SK T elecom has been measuring the monetary value of 
social value since 2018 and making external announcements on the results every year. The company is striving to create 
SV in many areas, including reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) and establishment of a social safety net. Moving forward, 
we will connect our ICT infrastructure and customer contact points to build a financial story that is based on environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) value.
SK Group’s SV Measurement AreasSocial Value Measurement
1. Results of SV Measurement
In 2020, SK T elecom generated KRW 1,945.7 billion in social value. This is a 4% increase from the KRW 1,870.9 billion recorded in 2019, 
maintaining growth pace for three years in a row. 
Value created through 
social contribution activities for 
local communitiesSocial performance of 
social contributions
• Social contribution activities
• Donations 
• Volunteer activitiesValue indirectly contributed 
to the economy through 
corporate activitiesIndirect economic
contribution performance
•	Employment
•	Dividend
•	Tax payment
1)  Currently researching a governance 
measurement methodSocial value generated through 
development, manufacturing, 
and sales of productsBusiness social
performance
•	Products & services
 - Environment
 -  Society  
(quality of life, consumer protection)
•	Process
 - Environment
 - Society (labor, win-win growth)
•	Governance1)
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 212 Appendix 2132018 2019 2020Tax paymentDividendEmployment
292.4217.3 201.1717.4 730.1 715.1663.0737.7742.0KRW 1,672.8  billion
KRW 20.3  billion
KRW 33.9  billionKRW 1,685. 1 billionKRW  1,658.2 billion
KRW  236.2 billion
KRW  51.3 billion+0.7%
+KRW 12.3 billion-1.6%
-KRW 26.9 billion
(YoY decrease of 1.6% or 
KRW 26.9 billion)KRW  1,658.2 billionIndirect economic
contribution performance
Environment 
(process)Society (quality of life, 
consumer protection)Products & services46.7
88.56,630257.9+627.3%
+KRW 127.2 billion+60.2%
+KRW 88.7 billion
2018 2019 2020△110.2 △104.585.0167.0
68.5
△95.0
2018 2019 2020Volunteer activitiesDonations Social contribution 
activities
0.1 0.1 0.118.4
16.415.2 15.421.836.0+12.9%
+KRW 4.4 billion+33.9%
+KRW 13.0 billion(YoY increase of 60.2% or 
KRW 88.7 billion)KRW  236.2 billionBusiness 
social performance
(YoY increase of 33.9% or 
KRW 13.0 billion)KRW  51.3 billionSocial outcomes of 
social performanceKRW 147.5  billion
KRW 38.3  billionEmployment
•  Recorded a year-on-year rise of 0.6% in employment, achievement of compulsory disabled person employment rate (in case of a private 
company with 50 or more regular employees, 3.1% of all employees)
Dividend
•  Recorded a year-on-year decrease of 2.1%, an outcome of share buyback, resulting in a reduction in the number of shares subject to 
dividend payment
Environment (Process)
•  The total of minus amount went up due to increased investment in communications network, but by applying “single RAN technology 
(3G and LTE equipment integration· upgrade)”, the company minimized electric power increase caused by the expansion of network 
construction and achieved around 53% in electric power consumption reduction effects.
•  Based on the “single RAN technology” that was applied to our base stations and repeaters in 78 cities across the nation, including Seoul 
in 2020, we became the first in the communications field in Korea to receive recognition for 1,117 tons of carbon credit as a result of 
GHG reduction.
Product & Service
•  Achieved an outstanding performance of KRW 257.9 billion, following KRW 46.7 billion in 2018 and KRW 167.0 billion in 2019 by 
continuing to identify and expand ICT-based SV creation models
•  Major performances include traffic accident prevention effects of “Safe Driving with T map” and “V2X Real-time T raffic & Safety Alerts” as 
well as contributions made to improved safety of seniors on the back of increasing number of users of the “AI Care Service”
Labor
•  Became the first major company in Korea to implement full-scale telecommuting, and innovated the work environment by establishing a 
cloud work environment that is connected with the “work from anywhere” system
•  Selected as a “Model Company for Work-Life Balance” by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in 2020 in recognition of providing safe 
work conditions to employees and actively helping them strike the right balance between work and life 
Win-win Growth
•  Contributed to expanding market participation by small-to medium-sized equipment manufacturers by engaging in joint development 
of fronthaul (fixed-line communications network between base station equipment) technology and leading the world’s first 
commercialization
•  Achieved outcomes in the area of technology cooperation, such as becoming the world’s first to commercialize the quantum random 
number generator (QRNG) chipset for mobile use that was applied to “Galaxy Quantum”
•  Contributed to business stability of business partners by taking various measures, such as establishing a win-win measure in response 
to COVID-19 that amounted to KRW 130 billion for distribution network and partner companies; supporting quarantine at 187 SMEs with 
which we signed a win-win growth agreement; providing the big data-based text marketing service (T-Deal) to SMEs; and operating the 
“Quick Payment Program” for SMEs
Social Contribution
•  T ook active part in building a social safety net in the COVID-19 era based on ICT capabilities, such as monitoring COVID-19 symptoms 
through NUGU care call; providing online lecture data to youths free of charge (EBS data zero-rating); and building a mobile roaming 
network in preparation for communications disasters2. Environmental Outcomes of Products & Services
Product/Service Name Product/Service Outline Measured Social Performance
Factory Energy Management System (FEMS) Energy management system in factory 
operationsOutperformance compared to annual 
reductions of greenhouse gas emissions 
and energy consumption in contracts
Building Energy Management System (BEMS) Energy management system in building 
operationsOutperformance compared to annual 
reductions of greenhouse gas emissions 
and energy consumption in contracts
Reduction of SIM card packages Smaller packages for SIM cards for sale 
(packaging materials, etc.) Reduction in resource consumption by 
reducing the package size
Adoption of an electronic application for 
sales outletsAn electronic application form that replaces 
the previous paper application formReduction in paper use
3. Outcome of Improving Quality of Life through Products & Services
Product/Service Name Product/Service Outline Measured Social Performance
Safe Driving with T map Discounts on auto insurance premiums 
based on T map driving habit scoresCurtailed social costs by reducing traffic 
accidents
V2X Real-time Traffic & Safety Alerts Alert service on sudden stops in front of
an expressway
LBS IoT business 
(electronic anklet, criminal location tracking)IoT-based serious criminal location tracking Reduced social costs by crime type
Happy Community AI Care Services Senior care services using AI speakers 
and IoT devicesEmergency safety services and curtailed 
social costs by alleviating depression
Spam filtering (voice) Block calls Reduced social costs by preventing voice 
phishing
Tariff discounts for the disabled Customized monthly plans for the 
hearing/language-impaired (Sonnuri) and 
visually-impaired (Sorinuri)Increased accessibility to communication 
services for the underprivileged based 
on discounts in addition to increased 
convenience
Services to increase information accessibility 
and block harmful contents for low-income 
householdsTariff discounts for the disabled Increased accessibility to communications 
services through discounts
T World Direct sales of social enterprises Supported social enterprises in expanding 
their sales network through “Happy Connect 
(former Happy Ecophone)” sales in T World Increased sales of social enterprises
Red Connect, a blood donation app Blood donation booking and blood donor 
health management servicesContributed to blood donation
Provision of non-financial data credit rating-
based financial servicesAdvanced payments to 11st sellers and 
support for operating fundsResolved financial inequality
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 214 Appendix 215SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 216 Appendix 217Social Data
Recruitment and Turnover     The number of new employees and the number of turnover employees by age and gender includes the 
number of permanent and temporary (contract-based) employees who have an employment contract directly with SK T elecom, and 
excludes employees and executives of SK T elecom’s affiliated companies and subsidiaries. The ratio of SK T elecom’s recruitment of 
technology-related employees (permanent employee basis) to total new recruitment rose more than 7%p over the previous year to 70% 
in 2020. This is an outcome of increasing recruitment of technology personnel for key R&D in new ICT areas, including AI, cloud, and AR/
VR, for the second straight year. The turnover rate in 2020 stood at 4.5%. This seems like an increase from the previous year, but is a 
temporary rise that results from a split-off of T map Mobility Co. When excluding this factor, the turnover rate was 2.4%, indicating a 0.4%p 
decrease from the previous year. SK T elecom does not discriminate employees in the process of recruitment, evaluation, compensation, 
and education, and contributes to expanding and maintaining employment by continually implementing various welfare systems, such 
as flexible working hours, support for childbirth and childcare, sabbatical leaves (Refresh) for long-service employees, as well as single-
detached house employee dormitories.
New Employees and Turnover
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Newly-
employedTotal number of new employees Persons 595 440 405
By genderMale Persons 416 328 204
Female Persons 179 112 201
By ageUnder 30 Persons 124 106 218
Over 30 - Under 50 Persons 465 324 187
Over 50 Persons 6 10
TurnoverTotal number of turnover employees Persons 183 144 226
By genderMale Persons 164 119 184
Female Persons 19 25 42
By ageUnder 30 Persons 16 7 6
Over 30 - Under 50 Persons 144 123 207
Over 50 Persons 23 14 13
Voluntary turnover Persons 84 79 77
Internal announcement rate for candidate % 31.5 45.1 57.2Total Employment The total number of employees includes permanent and temporary (contract-based) employees who have an 
employment contract with SK T elecom, and excludes employees and executives of SK T elecom’s affiliated companies and subsidiaries. 
We made continuous efforts to secure new ICT growth engines, nevertheless COVID-19 led to reduced employment, resulting in a 
reduction of around 1.38% from 2019 to record 5,262 employees. By age, employees aged 30 or more and under 50 account for the 
highest percentage, while the ratio of permanent employees is 95.8%, which is similar to and a slight decrease from the previous year’s 
level. The total number of overseas personnel, including expatriates and locally hired employees, is 56, indicating that the percentage of 
overseas personnel against the total number of employees is relatively low. 
Number of Employees 
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Total number of employees1)Persons 5,007 5,336 5,262
By employment typePermanent Persons 4,841 5,090 5,042
Temporary Persons 166 246 220
By genderMale Persons 4,170 4,338 4,246
Female Persons 837 998 1,016
By ageUnder 30 Persons 430 505 459
Over 30 - Under 50 Persons 3,944 3,990 3,681
Over 50 Persons 633 841 1,122
Overseas 
employmentExpatriates Persons 15 19 17
Locally-hired employees Persons 29 37 393)
Total number of overseas employees Persons 44 56 56
Total number of overseas managers Persons 19 22 33
Total number of local managers Persons 12 8 183)
Percentage of local managers2)% 63 36 55
* No of LGBTQI+(lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex): 0
**  No. of foreign employees (managers) among total of 5,262 employees by nationality: U.S. 16 (4) / China 6 / Canada 6 (2) / New Zealand 2 (1) / France 2 / Others 
11 (1)
1) Excluding unregistered executives
2) No. of local managers / Total No. of managers
3) All locally-hired employees and managers are AsiansLabor-Management Relations      SK T elecom actively protects employees’ freedom of association pursuant to ILO Conventions No. 
87 and No. 98 as well as labor laws in Korea. SK T elecom employees can voluntarily form a labor union based on freedom of association 
and can join a labor union according to an individual’s free will. As of the end of 2020, the rate of employees who are a labor union 
member from among employees who are eligible to join a labor union is 89.0%. SK T elecom strives to maintain and improve labor-
management relations and to establish a win-win labor-management culture and improve working conditions. SK T elecom and the labor 
union raised wages 2.0% in 2020 based on the spirit of mutual respect and cooperation, and agreed to improve various systems, such as 
strengthening support measures for regular retirement employees.
Labor Union Membership
Unit 2018 20191)2020
Number of employees eligible for labor union membership Persons 2,791 2,940 2,911
Labor union members Persons 2,513 2,612 2,591
Labor union membership rate % 90.0 88.8 89.0
Collective bargaining application rate1)% 100 100 100
1) A collective agreement signed with a majority labor union is applied to all employees eligible to join a labor union 
Programs to Enhance Employee Happiness and Well-being
Type Key Programs and Guidelines
Creating a Healthy 
Work Environment• Building an automated temperature and humidity control system and measuring them twice per day. Operation of air-conditioning and 
exhaust fan and management of internal dust/CO2 through batch ventilation before the start of working hours. Management of light 
intensity and noise standards
• Providing and planning to expand ergonomic work environment (height adjustable desks, ergonomic chairs, and open standing 
conference rooms)
Fitness• Operation of in-house physical training center, Actium, and provision of 1:1 customized exercise guidance and online-to-offline (O2O) 
solution that combines offline posture measurement and online coaching through the Health-On program
Nutrition• Supporting balanced eating habits by operating an in-house cafeteria (T-Patio)
• As part of the Health-On program, medical professionals are invited to host a concert-type event on health, diseases, and nutrition
• Identifying and managing employees’ health issues through Health-On Index check-ups
Stress Management• Operation of employee counseling service program “My Counselor” (provide counseling on stress reduction and dealing with difficulties 
in the workplace, health, personal matters, etc.)
• Operation of the Actium mental health program (mental health letter, health lectures, smiling exercise, healing yoga, etc.)
Flexible Work Hours• Operation of the flexible work hour system so that employees can decide when they come to and leave work
• Adopted the DYWT program (registering 80 working hours for a period of two weeks or 160 working hours for a period of four weeks, 
and immersive work)
Telecommuting • System for telecommuting during pregnancy (after the 29th week of pregnancy, based on consultation and application)
Childcare and 
Child Education• Providing a wide range of childcare support programs, including operation of in-house daycare centers, support for children’s 
educational expenses (kindergarten, elementary, middle, and high school, university), support for camps for employees’ children
Maternity-Parental 
Leave• Reduced work hours during pregnancy: 6-hour workday throughout pregnancy period
• Maternity leave: Offer 90 days of leave before and after childbirth and 120 days of leave in case of twins, and 5 days of paid leave when 
an employee’s spouse gives birth
• Parental Leave: Offer 1 year of paid leave for employees with a child 8 years old or younger. If a female employee uses maternity and 
parental leave consecutively, she can apply to use one additional year of parental leave (up to 2 years)
• Automatic transfer for parental leave: When a maternity leave is about to expire, an employee can automatically begin to use a 
parental leave consecutively without applying separately
• Care leave for children schooling: 90-day leave for employees with children who entered elementary school, once for the entering year
Employee/Family 
Care System• Operation of an individual/family care system that enables an employee to provide care without any career discontinuation in the event 
of a disease or accident of the employee or family member, and a system that enables an employee to engage in self-development and 
to prepare for life after retirement
• Operation of a startup support program to help employees begin a new life after retirement, for which the company provides an outside 
expert coaching -consulting program and next career leave
Refresh leave system 
for long service• Provision of a long-term vacation from 10 days to 45 days once every five years after joining the company to help employees have 
sufficient time to recharge
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 218 Appendix 219Employee Salary      SK T elecom transparently discloses the wage status of all employees through its quarterly, semi-annual, business 
reports. Differences in the total salary amount and average salary between male and female employees are based on the average 
continuous years of service of male and female employees. There is no wage discrimination based on gender in the same position.
Male-Female Salary Difference
Unit Below managers Managers Executives
Base pay % 0.87 0.95 1.01
Base pay + Other cash incentives % 0.87 0.94 0.93
* As of December 31, 2020
** Male-female salary difference ratio: Average salary of female employees / Average salary of male employees
Diversity
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Female talentRatio of female employees % 16.9 18.7 19.3
Ratio of female managers % 6.9 7.4 8.0
Ratio of female junior managers % 10.6 11.0 11.1
Ratio of female executives % 7 8 8
Ratio of female managers of 
profit-generating departments% 9 9 9
Female STEM1) ratio % 19
Special employment 
and minoritiesEmployment of the disabled Persons 59 64 62
－Happy	Hanool2)Persons - 48 53
Employment of veterans Persons 134 161 170
*  176 persons, including Happy Hanool, when the number of the severely disabled persons are reflected two-times based on the Act on the Employment Promotion 
and Vocational Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities
1) STEM: Employees using science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) knowledge for their work
2) Happy Hanool: Standard workplaces for the disabled that provides business support services, car wash, bath & massage, and other physical care services
Maternity/Paternity Leave and Parental Leave
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Number of employees on maternity leave Persons 177 156 163
Number of female employees who used maternity leave Persons 27 31 45
Number of male employees who used maternity leave Persons 150 125 118
Rate of return after childbirth % 100 98.7 100
Number of employees on parental leave Persons 39 88 74
Number of female employees who used parental leave Persons 27 55 50
Number of male employees who used parental leave Persons 12 33 24
Rate of return after parental leave % 97.4 98.9 97.3
Turnover rate within 12 months after return % 2.6 0.7 2.7List of Major Contributions in 2020
Program Organization
AI care Happy Connect
Sponsorship for the Korean Fencing Federation Korean Fencing Federation
Underprivileged scholarship program KJ Choi Foundation
Happy Coding School Software Education Innovation Center
COVID-19 disaster relief, year-end neighbor-helping donations Community Chest of Korea
Meal support program for undernourished children Happy Meal-box, a social cooperative
Library that Reads Happiness Korea Blind Union
Program on improving braille literacy of visually-impaired children Korean Braille Library
Happy Mobile World (Education on smartphone use for seniors) Korea Association of Senior Welfare Centers
Social innovation talent-fostering program Yonsei University
Top ICT talent-fostering program Pohang University of Science and Technology
Barun ICT Research Center Yonsei University
Scholarship program Korea Foundation for Advanced Studies
International academic exchange and research Chey Institute for Advanced Studies
Promotion of the social enterprise ecosystem The Happiness Foundation
Development of a social value measurement system Center for Social value Enhancement StudiesGreenhouse Gas Emissions
Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal
Total GHG emissions tCO2e 934,664 1,005,576 1,039,979 1,042,000
GHG intensity tCO2e/KRW billion 79.78 88.1 88.5 88.7
Direct GHG emissions tCO2e 7 ,603 6,604 6,133 6,600
Stationary combustion tCO2e 5,555 4,606 4,065 4,400
Mobile combustion tCO2e 2,048 1,998 2,068 2,000
Indirect GHG emissions tCO2e 927 ,062 998,989 1,033,846 1,035,400
Electricity tCO2e 936,961 998,899 1,033,575 1,035,000
Steam tCO2e 101 90 271 400
Annual social GHG reduction by using T map1)1,000tCO2e 778 977 1,084
* TCFD recommendation (Metrics and Targets): Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks
1)  Carried out a comparative verification with actual fuel consumption reduction by substituting for 25 pairs of experimental data that has similar result values as the average fuel reduction 
rate by shortest distance driving. The GHG emission factor per fuel consumption unit was applied to the calculated fuel reduction amount to determine the GHG reduction amount. The 
gasoline GHG emission factor was applied considering that most of the fuel of passenger cars that are subject to T map use is gasoline and that gasoline’s GHG emission factor is conservative 
compared to diesel.
Energy Consumption
Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal
Total energy consumption TJ 19,204 20,664 21,371.0 21,420.0
Energy intensity TJ/KRW billion 1.6 1.80 1.82 1.82
Direct energy consumption TJ 131.2 112.7 103.7 110.0
Natural gas TJ 76.4 60.5 53.0 55.0
Diesel TJ 11.5 11.0 12.1 12.0
Kerosene TJ 18.5 16.7 12.4 13.0
Jet fuel TJ 1.9 1.5 5.0 8.0
Gasoline TJ 22.5 21.6 19.8 20.0
LPG TJ 0.4 1.4 1.5 2.0
Indirect energy consumption TJ 19,072.8 20,569.6 21,267.3 21,310.0
Electricity TJ 19,070 20,567.0 21,258.9 21,300.0
Steam TJ 2.8 2.6 8.4 10.0
Total power consumption reduction MWh 45,309 46,469 47 ,029
Reduction from building management MWh 2,723 3,883 4,632
Reduction from natural air-conditioning 
systemMWh 39,857 39,587 39,587
Electricity generated from renewable 
energy facilities at the office buildings2) MWh 1 28 81
Electricity generated from renewable 
energy facilities in remote areas3) MWh 2,729 2,729 2,729
Total consumption of renewable energy MWh 2,730 2,757 2,810
*  There may be differences in the total amount of GHG emissions and energy consumption above and the sum value by direct, indirect, and detailed energy source as a result 
of application of the government’s standard on summing up after business site-level truncation.
**  Regarding the GHG emissions and energy consumption calculation standard, we complied with a methodology that is based on “Guidelines on Emissions Report and 
Certification of the GHG Emissions Trading Scheme”. Refer to the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assurance Report on P . 227.
***  TCFD recommendation (Metrics and Targets): Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against 
targets
2) Actual generated amount of new & renewable energy facilities at some office buildings
3) Amount in the specifications of new & renewable energy production facilities installed in remote areasEnvironmental Data
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 220 Appendix 221Environmental Costs
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Total environmental costs1)KRW million 1,717 4,013 947
Energy saving and climate change response cost KRW million 236 3,365 470
Waste disposal/recycling service KRW million 163 165 161
Education/training cost KRW million 34 34 34
Charges & taxes KRW million 404 449 282
Others KRW million 880 0 0
1) Excluding green procurement, GHG emission credits
Purchase of GHG Emissions Credits
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Annual cost for purchasing GHG emissions credits KRW million 0 0 0
Green Procurement Costs
Unit 2018 2019 2020
Green procurement costs KRW million 25,700 73,700 33,700
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 222 Appendix 223Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)
Category Unit 2019 2020
Total indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) tCO2e 10,924,765 9,486,821 
1. Purchased goods and services tCO2e 2,875,881 2,645,868
2. Capital goods tCO2e 1,878,075 1,183,439
3. Fuel and energy consumed tCO2e 828 739
5. Wastes tCO2e 641 600
6. Business trips tCO2e 1,756 768
7. Commuting tCO2e 17 ,485 9,369
8. Rental property tCO2e 12,939 13,480
14. Merchants tCO2e 70,384 74,271
15. Investment tCO2e 6,066,775 5,558,286
*  TCFD recommendation (Metrics and Targets): Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks
Water Consumption
Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal
Volume of water consumed m3707 ,296 719,552 662,034 670,000
Waterworks m3655,204 668,513 630,297 640,000
Groundwater m352,092 51,039 31,737 30,000
Water consumption intensity m3/KRW billion 60.37 63.03 56.4 57.0
Waste and Recycling
Unit 2018 2019 2020 Goal
Total waste discharged Tons 1,736 1,705 1,553 1,600
Domestic waste Tons 575 532 512 500
Large-sized waste Tons 136 177 219 180
Food waste Tons 396 441 360 430
Designated waste Tons 22 21 45 40
Recyclable waste Tons 607 535 417 450
Waste discharge intensity Tons/KRW billion 0.148 0.149 0.132 0.136 
Recycling rate % 35 30 27 28
Volume of waste handled Tons  1,129 1,170  1,136 1,150 Independent Assurance Report
INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES OF WORK 
BSI Group Korea (hereinafter “the Assurer”) was asked to verify SK T elecom’s ‘2020 Integrated Annual Report (hereinafter “the Report”)’. 
This assurance statement applies only to the relevant information contained in the scope of the assurance.
SK T elecom is solely responsible for all information and assertion contained in the report. The responsibility of the assurer is to provide 
independent assurance statement with expert opinions to SK T elecom’s executives by applying the verification methodology and to 
provide this information to all stakeholders of SK T elecom.
ASSURANCE STANDARDS AND LEVELS  
This assurance was based on the AA1000AS v3 (2020) Assurance Standard and confirmed that the report is prepared in accordance 
with the Comprehensive Option of GRI Standards. 
The assurance level was based on the Type 1 that confirmed compliance with the four principles of AA1000 AP (2018) in accordance 
with the AA1000 AS.
SCOPE OF ASSURANCE 
The scope of assurance applied to this report is as follows;
 - Based on the period from January 1st to December 31st, 2020 included in the report
 - Appropriateness and consistency of processes and systems for data collection, analysis and review
 -  Major assertion included in the report such as sustainability management policies, strategies, objectives, business and 
performance
 - Information related to material issues determined as a result of materiality assessment
 - The following items were not included in this assurance
  • Financial information, SASB, UNDG, SDGs, TCFD included in the report appendix
  • Other related additional information such as the website presented in the report
METHODOLOGY 
As part of its independent assurance, the assurer has used the methodology developed to collect relevant evidence to comply with the 
verification criteria and to reduce errors in the reporting, and has performed the following activities;
 - T o determine verification priorities, review of materiality issue analysis process and verification of the results;
 - System review for sustainability strategy process and implementation;
 - Review the evidence to support the material issues through interviews with senior managers with responsibility for them;
 - Verification of data generation, collection and reporting for each performance indexTo: The Stakeholders of SK Telecom Co., Ltd. ASSURANCE OPINION 
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion that
 ‒  The information and data included in ‘2020 SK T elecom Integrated Annual Report are accurate and reliable and the assurer 
cannot point out any substantial aspects of material with mistake or misstatement.
 ‒  The report was prepared according to the Comprehensive Option of the GRI Standards
The assurance opinion on the four principles presented by the AA1000 AP (2018) is as follows.
  AA1000 AP (2018)
  Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement and Opinion
   SK T elecom has a stakeholder engagement process in which key stakeholders such as executives and employees, customers, 
suppliers, government, local communities, shareholders and investors participate. It was confirmed that key stakeholders’ 
expectations and various opinions are collected and the drawn agenda is reflected in decision-making on sustainability 
management.
  Materiality: Identification and reporting of material sustainability topics
   SK T elecom conducted international standard analysis, industry issue analysis, advanced company benchmarking, media 
research, and stakeholder survey to derive economic, social, and environmental material reporting issues related to 
sustainability management, and determined priorities by measuring Potential issues and evaluating stakeholder interest, and 
reported a total of 13 material sustainability management topics.
  Responsiveness: Responding to material sustainability topics and related impacts
   SK T elecom established and implemented plans for each topic to appropriately respond to identified material topics in a way 
that reflects stakeholders’ expectations, and detailed response activities and performance on material topics were disclosed in 
the Material Issue Management in the report. 
   Impact: Impact of an organization’s activities and material sustainability topics on the organization and stakeholders
   SK T elecom implemented the process to identify and evaluate the impact on organizations and stakeholders related to material 
topics, and from a sustainability perspective, the impacts determined on material topics were disclosed in the report.
KEY AREAS FOR ONGOING DEVELOPMENT 
T o the extent that the results of the verification are not affected, the following comments were made.
 •  If the internal verification process is implemented to manage the data quality and reliability disclosed in the report, it is expected 
that the reporting process will be continuously improved.
 •  SK T elecom has selected 13 major issues according to the materiality assessment process and is making efforts to faithfully 
include them in the report. In addition, designating and operating communication channels for each issue so that information 
related to major issues can be immediately shared through SK T elecom’s various communication channels can help increase 
responsiveness.
 •  In the field of each report are expressed relative efforts trying to explain the positive aspects and further development. This will 
help to improve the balance of the report if the performance is poor relief and state the specific planning issues at the same 
time to solve it.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 224 Appendix 225Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assurance Statement
INTRODUCTION
DNV Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV”) was commissioned by SK T elecom Co., Ltd. (“SK T elecom”) to verify the SK T elecom’s 
Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2020 (“the report”) based upon a reasonable level of assurance. SK T elecom is 
responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions and Energy consumption data on the basis set out within “the guidelines on the 
operation of GHG emission trading scheme (ETS) (Notification No. 2021-10 of Ministry of Environment)”. Our responsibility in performing 
this work is to the management of SK T elecom only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV expressly 
disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement.
SCOPE OF ASSURANCE
The GHG emissions and energy consumption data covered by our examination comprise Direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions) and 
Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 emissions) from SK T elecom boundary of the report;
•  GHG emissions under verification: GHG emissions from 2020
•  Organizational boundary for reporting: SK T elecom Co., Ltd. (in Korea)
VERIFICATION APPROACH
The verification has been conducted by DNV on February to March 2021 and performed in accordance with the verification principles 
and tasks outlined in the guidelines on the operation of GHG ETS (Notification No.2021-10, Korean Ministry of Environment) and the 
verification guideline for GHG ETS (Notification No. 2018-70, Korean Ministry of Environment). We planned and performed our work to 
obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a reasonable verification 
opinion concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of 
the verification process;
• We have reviewed the GHG emissions and energy consumption report for the calendar year 2020
• We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions and energy data
CONCLUSIONS
As a result of the work described above, in our opinion nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the GHG 
emissions and energy consumption set out in SK T elecom’s report are not fairly stated. The GHG emissions and energy consumption of 
SK T elecom for the year 2020 were confirmed as below;
Greenhouse Gas Emissions of SK Telecom Co., Ltd. for Yr 2020  (Unit: ton CO2 equivalent.)
SK Telecom Direct emissions (Scope 1) Energy indirect emissions (Scope 2) Total emissions
Domestic (in Korea) 6,133 1,033,846 1,039,979
※		Total emissions might be different from the sum of direct and indirect emissions by applying the rule that emissions should be summed after truncating decimal 
places at the business site level.
April 2021
Seoul, Korea
Jang-Sub Lee 
Country Manager 
DNV Business Assurance Korea Ltd
This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (6 April 2021). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may 
impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of SK TELECOM is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English version 
and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 226 Appendix 227STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE 
The assurer is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environmental 
management with almost 120 years history in providing independent assurance services. No member of the assurance team has a 
business relationship with SK T elecom We have conducted this verification independently, and there has been no conflict of interest.
All assurers who participated in the assurance have qualifications as AA1000AS assurer, have a lot of assurance experience, and 
understand the BSI Group's assurance standard methodology. 
EVALUATION AGAINST GRI ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ CRITERIA
The assurer confirmed that this report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Comprehensive Option and the disclosures 
related to the following Universal Standards and T opic-specific Standards Indicators based on the data provided by SK T elecom.
[Universal Standards]
Organizational Profile (102-1 to 102-13)/ Strategy (102-14, 102-15)/ Ethics and Integrity (102-16, 102-17), Governance (102-18 to 102-
39)/ Stakeholder Engagement (102-40 to 102-44)/ Reporting practice (102-45 to 102- 56)/ Management Approach (103-1~3) 
[Topic-specific Standards]
•  Economic: 201-1 to 4, 202-1 & 2, 203-1 & 2, 204-1, 205-1 to 3, 206-1, 207-1 to 4
•  Environmental:  301-1 to 3, 302-1 to 5, 303-1 to 5, 307-1, 308-1 & 2
•  Social:  401-1 to 3, 402-1, 403-1 to 10, 404-1 to 3, 405-1 & 2, 406-1, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 410-1, 411-1, 412-1 T o 3, 413-1 & 2, 414-1 
& 2, 416-1 & 2, 417-1 to 3, 418-1, 419-1
01 June 2021 
K. S. Song / BSI Group Korea, Managing Director
Water Consumption and 
Waste Generation Verification StatementEnvironmental Management System Certificate
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 228 Appendix 229INTRODUCTION
DNV Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV”) was commissioned by SK T elecom Co., Ltd. (“SK T elecom”) to verify the SK T elecom’s Water 
Consumption and Waste Generation Inventory Report for the calendar year 2020 (“the report”) based upon a limited level of assurance. 
SK T elecom is responsible for the preparation of the Water Consumption and Waste Generation data. Our responsibility in performing this 
work is to the management of SK T elecom only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV expressly disclaims 
any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. The verification is 
based on the assumption that the data and information provided to DNV are complete, sufficient and true.
SCOPE OF ASSURANCE
The water consumption and waste generation data covered by our examination comprise water consumption (waterworks, groundwater) and 
waste generation (domestic waste, large-sized waste, food waste, designated waste, recyclable waste) from SK T elecom boundary of the report;
•  Organizational boundary for reporting: 28 office buildings of SK T elecom - SK T-T ower, Namsan Building, Knights Gym, Jaan Building, 
Future Management Institute, Seoul National Univ. Research Building, Bundang Building, Seongsu Building, Boramae Building, Suyu 
Building, Incheon Building, Dunsan Dunsan Building, Daejoen Busa Building, Wonju Building, Cheongju Building, Myeongnyun Building, 
Gwangju Songeong Building, Gwangju Usan Building, Jeonju Building, Jeju Building, Daegu T aepyeong Building, Daegu Bolli Building, 
Daegu Sincheon, Daegu Jungdong Building, Busan Datacenter, Busan Buam Building, Busan Allak Building, Pangyo Building
VERIFICATION APPROACH
The verification has been conducted in May 2021 at SK T elecom's headquarters and major business sites. We planned and performed 
our work to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a verification 
opinion, concerning the completeness of the water consumption and waste generation. As part of the verification process;
• We have reviewed and verified the SK T elecom’s water consumption and waste generation inventory report (Excel based)
• We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the water consumption and waste generation data
CONCLUSIONS
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the water consumption and waste generation assertion 
is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of data and information. The water consumption and waste generation of SK 
T elecom for the year 2020 were confirmed as below;
This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (4th June 2021). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may 
impact on the water consumption and waste generation is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this statement between English 
version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent.4th June 2021
Seoul, Korea
Jang-Sub Lee
Country Manager 
DNV Business Assurance Korea Ltd
Water Consumption of SK Telecom’s 28 O ffice Buildings for Yr 2020  
(Unit: m3)
SK Telecom Waterworks GroundwaterTotal Water 
Consumption
28 office buildings 630,297 31,737 662,034Waste Generation of SK Telecom’s 28 O ffice Buildings for Yr 2020  
(Unit: ton)
SK
TelecomDomestic 
wasteLarge-
sized 
wasteFood 
wasteDesignated 
wasteRecyclable 
wasteTotal Waste 
Generation
28 office 
buildings512 219 360 45 417 1,553
CEO Human Rights Statement
4) Human Rights in Technology
 • Refusal to use technologies, electronic devices and data for dual purposes
 • Prevention of misuse of technologies, such as wiretapping, signal interference, or hacking
SK T elecom always keeps the channels of stakeholder communication open to prevent any human rights violations. If you have 
witnessed or experienced incidents of such violations, please inform the company through the appropriate channel. (https://www.
sktelecom.com/en/csr/procedure_csrSend.do) 
SK T elecom is committed to fulﬁlling its social responsibilities and pursuing the happiness of stakeholders and pledges to take the lead in 
advocating and complying with the Human Rights principles.
Jung Ho Park
President and CEO, SK Telecom
June 2021
Under the SKMS principle, “For the company’s continuous development, the company creates value for customers, employees, 
and shareholders, fulﬁlls a key role in social and economic development, and makes contributions to the happiness of mankind”, SK 
T elecom aims to accomplish its business goals while fulﬁlling its social responsibilities and codes of conduct. The company’s social 
responsibilities deﬁnes its human rights duties towards customers, employees, suppliers, partners and the community.
SK T elecom, as a company that practices a high level of awareness of global citizenship, respects the basic rights of all stakeholders that 
it encounters through products, services, contracts, purchases, and other business activities.
SK T elecom declares its support for the human rights principles stated in the UN Universal Declaration Human Rights and the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie Framework and pledges to fulﬁll its human rights responsibilities. SK T elecom will make 
every effort to prevent human rights abuses in course of business and also to avoid any abet or complicity in such abuses. Furthermore, 
the company will form transparent business structure to take measures and provide communication regarding responsible organization, 
operating structure, monitoring process and incidents under UNGC Human Rights / Labor Principles. SK T elecom will exercise due 
diligence to assure compliance with the policy within the whole supply chain as well as SK T elecom and its subsidiaries.
Speciﬁcally, SK T elecom, as an ICT provider, is aware of potential human rights risks in the following aspects and will do its utmost to 
prevent any problems that may occur:
1) Human Rights in Workplace
 • Fundamental prevention of wrong labor practices, such as child and forced labor
 • Prevention of discrimination and harassment by gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, race, and LGBTQI+1)
 • Political, religious, and physical freedom, and respect for civil rights
 •  Other labor principles recommended by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and endorsed by the government: safety/health, 
working hours, etc.
  1) Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex
2) Human Rights in Privacy Policy
 • Demanding minimum personal information, recording and saving to comply with laws
 • Notiﬁcation and ﬁduciary duty prior to saving information, and ability to freely delete information
 • Optimal security system for preventing leaks, including data encryption
 • Limited and responsible use of personal information for service/marketing purposes
3) Human Rights in Access to Information & Freedom of Expression
 • Obligation to ensure equality of access to services regardless of class/disabilities
 • Efforts to bridge the digital/smart divide: education, rate plans, and systems
 • Responsibility for distributed information to protect minors, including children and adolescents
 • Fundamental support for freedom of expression
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 230 Appendix 231Supplier ESG Code of Conduct
I. Scope
SK T elecom’s Supplier ESG Code of Conduct covers all suppliers that have transactions with the company. It also requires suppliers to 
comply with SK T elecom’s Business Principles and Practices in their transactions with sub-suppliers of SK T elecom.
II. Processes for Responsible Supply Chain Management
III. Policy
The phrase “Supplier” in this Supplier Policy shall, where relevant, also include all employees, contractors, subcontractors and agents of 
the Supplier. As one of the world’s leading ICT companies, SK T elecom has adopted the Business Principles to obtain stakeholders’ trust 
and ensure that its behavior meets the highest standards of integrity. Thus, SK T elecom requires all of its suppliers to adopt SK T elecom’s 
Business Principles and Practices as their code of conduct. Under the Business Principles, suppliers shall faithfully abide by the code 
of conduct to pre-vent risks that may arise in finance, reputation and business concerning SK T elecom and the suppliers themselves, 
and shall realize a win-win partnership for mutual benefits. SK T elecom ensures that its suppliers will achieve sustainability by managing 
their economic, environmental and social performances based on the Supplier ESG Code of Conduct, and to apply such a policy to their 
subcontractors under the overarching goal of realizing the sustainable supply chain management as defined by SK T elecom.
1. Anti-Bribery      Suppliers shall act with honesty, integrity, and fairness in their dealings both internally and externally. Suppliers shall 
not tolerate any form of bribery, including improper offers of payments or gifts to or from employees. Suppliers shall avoid any contracts 
that might lead to or suggest a conflict of interest between personal activities and business. Suppliers shall neither give nor accept 
hospitality or gifts that might appear to incur an obligation. Suppliers shall pursue mutually beneficial relationships and seek to promote 
the application of SK T elecom’s Business Principles with relevant business partners and suppliers.2. Fair-Competition & Compliance      Suppliers shall actively participate in SK T elecom’s endeavors for fair trade compliance and shall 
conduct business in compliance with fair trade laws and systems to ensure fair competition. Suppliers shall com-ply with the provisions 
of all applicable domestic and international laws and appropriate standards and principles.
3. Privacy Protection     Suppliers shall protect the information they acquire in the course of their business operation related to SK 
T elecom, and shall not use such information for purposes other than for carrying out the Company’s rightful business activities, unless 
otherwise allowed under the relevant laws. Suppliers shall not acquire or use SK T elecom’s or other companies’ information or trade 
confidential information in an illegal or improper manner.
4. Financial Integrity     SK T elecom will provide the best possible return for its shareholders over the longer term. Suppliers support 
SK T elecom’s efforts to pursue corporate value based on continuous innovation and healthy financial condition through transparent and 
efficient management.
5. Public Policy     Suppliers recognize that SK T elecom maintains its political neutrality during its participation on public policies by 
avoiding contributions to any specific political parties, politicians or election campaigns.
6. Customer Value     Suppliers recognize that SK T elecom shall maintain the quality of products and services that customers expect, 
and create an environment in which customers can use the products and services safely and beneficially, thereby using its best efforts to 
increase its customer value.
7. Environment     Suppliers shall practice environment-friendly business management and abide by international standards and laws 
pertaining to environmental protection, and the internal regulations. Suppliers are also advised to establish an environment management 
system which includes an independent audit by a third party.
8. Health & Safety     Suppliers shall institute systems, and provide regular education and training that promote employees’ health and 
safety, and comply with relevant international standards, laws and internal regulations governing employee health and safety. Suppliers 
shall exert their utmost efforts to encourage their employees to present a spirit of challenge and creativity based on mutual trust and 
pride, and help employees pursue happiness together.
9. Contribution to Community     Suppliers recognize that SK T elecom will actively participate in social contribution activities including 
volunteer activities and disaster relief as a responsible corporate citizen in the community, and cooperate through voluntary participation.
10. Human Rights     Suppliers shall not engage in any form of discrimination against their stakeholders including but not limited to 
customers, employees and com-munity members in all locations where they conduct business based on race, ethnicity, religion, gender, 
disability, etc. Suppliers, in all locations where they conduct business, shall recognize and protect basic human rights through various 
activities including but not limited to underage protection and customer privacy protection. Suppliers will also make the utmost efforts 
to maintain the optimum working conditions for their employees including work-hour compliance, a guarantee of minimum wages, 
prohibition on the use of child or forced labor, etc.
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 232 Appendix 233SK Telecom’s Process for a Responsible Supply Chain
Awareness Guidance & Monitoring Action
SCM Risk
ProfilePolicy MonitoringCorrective 
measures
Contract 
terminationGlobal Guideline/Standards
• UNGC Principle
• OECD MNE Guidelines
• UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights
• ELCC. Etc.
Stakeholder Engagement 
Channels
• Annual Stakeholder Survey
• Business Partner Meeting  
(1-on-1 meeting, Voice of 
Partners)
• Business Partner Survey
Internal Risk Management 
Processes
• Win-win Index Assessment Gap 
Analysis
• Risk Management Working Group• Registration 
requirements
• Contract provisions
• Evaluation 
• Audit• Supplier ESG Code 
of Conduct
• Procurement 
Guidelines
• Procurement 
Review MeetingGRI Standards Index
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 234 Appendix 235Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Organizational
Profile102-1 Name of the organization - SK Telecom Co., Ltd. ∨
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and servicesAbout Company > Business Model
Value to Business > Creating Economic Valuep. 40-41
p. 58-59∨
102-3 Location of headquarters -SK T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, 
Seoul 04539, Korea∨
102-4 Location of operations About Company > About SK Telecom p. 29-31 ∨
102-5 Ownership and legal formAbout Company > About SK Telecom
Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Shares and Ownership Structure, Annual General Meetingp. 29-31
p. 84-85∨
102-6 Markets servedAbout Company > About SK Telecom
About Company > Business Modelp. 29-31
p. 40-41∨
102-7 Scale of the organizationAbout Company > About SK Telecom
Value to Business > Creating Economic Value
Appendix > Management’s Discussion & Analysisp. 29-31
p. 58-59
p. 185-196∨
102-8 Information on employees and other workersValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors
Appendix > Social Datap. 86-93
p. 216-220∨
102-9 Supply chain Value to Governance > Supply Chain Management p. 121-128 ∨
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Value to Business > Creating Economic Value p. 58-59 ∨
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Value to Governance > Risk Management p. 102-111 ∨
102-12 External initiativesAppendix > SASB, TCFD, UNGC, UN SDGs
Appendix > About This Reportp. 250-261
p. 262∨
102-13 Membership of associationsAppendix > SASB, TCFD, UNGC, UN SDGs
Appendix > About This Reportp. 250-261
p. 262∨
Strategy102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker About Company > CEO Message p. 32-39 ∨
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunitiesValue to Business > Materiality Assessment
Value to Governance > Risk Managementp. 60-67
p. 102-111∨
Ethics and
Integrity102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Value to Governance > Ethical Management p. 112-115 ∨
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Value to Governance > Ethical Management, Compliance p. 112-120 ∨
Governance102-18 Governance structure Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors p. 86-93 ∨
102-19 Delegating authorityValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors, 
Committees of the BOD, Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 86-96 ∨
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topicsValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors, 
Committees of the BOD, Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 86-96 ∨Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Governance102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topicsValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors, 
Committees of the BOD, Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 86-96 ∨
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committeesValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors, 
Committees of the BOD, Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 86-96 ∨
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors p. 86-93 ∨
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors p. 86-93 ∨
102-25 Conflicts of interest Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors p. 86-93 ∨
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategyValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > Board of Directors, 
Committees of the BOD, Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 86-96 ∨
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance bodyValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Committees of the BOD, Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 93-96 ∨
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performanceValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensationp. 98-101 ∨
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impactsValue to Business > Stakeholder Engagement
Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Committees of the BOD, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 68-69
p. 95-96∨
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Committees of the BOD p. 93-96 ∨
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topicsValue to Business > Materiality Assessment > Materiality Assessment Process, 
Materiality Assessment Results
Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Committees of the BOD, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 60-61
p. 95-96∨
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reportingValue to Business > Materiality Assessment > Materiality Assessment Process, 
Materiality Assessment Results
Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Committees of the BOD, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 60-61
p. 95-96∨
102-33 Communicating critical concernsValue to Business > Materiality Assessment > Materiality Assessment Process,  
Materiality Assessment Results
Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Committees of the BOD, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 60-61
p. 95-96∨
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concernsValue to Business > Stakeholder Engagement
Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Committees of the BOD, 
Corporate Citizenship Committee p. 68-69
p. 95-96∨
102-35 Remuneration policiesValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensationp. 98-101 ∨
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Committees of the BOD p. 93-96 ∨
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remunerationValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensationp. 98-101 ∨
102-38 Annual total compensation ratioValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensationp. 98-101 ∨
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratioValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensationp. 98-101 ∨
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 236 Appendix 237Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Stakeholder
Engagement102-40 List of stakeholder groups Value to Business > Stakeholder Engagement p. 68-69 ∨
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Appendix > Social Data p. 216-220 ∨
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Value to Business > Stakeholder Engagement p. 68-69 ∨
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Value to Business > Materiality Assessment> Materiality Assessment Process p. 60 ∨
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Value to Business > Materiality Assessment > Materiality Assessment Results p. 61 ∨
Reporting 
Practice102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statementsBusiness Report
I. Company Overview > 1. Company Overviewp. 3-23 of Business Report ∨
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Value to Business > Materiality Assessment > Materiality Assessment Process p. 60 ∨
102-47 List of material topics Value to Business > Materiality Assessment > Materiality Assessment Results p. 61 ∨
102-48 Restatements of information Appendix > About This Report p. 262 ∨
102-49 Changes in reporting -Any change requiring special attention 
is presented as a footnote in the report. ∨
102-50 Reporting period Appendix > About This Report p. 262 ∨
102-51 Date of most recent report Appendix > About This Report p. 262 ∨
102-52 Reporting cycle Appendix > About This Report p. 262 ∨
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Imprint p. 263 ∨
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Appendix > About This Report p. 262 ∨
102-55 GRI content index Appendix > GRI Standards Index p. 234-249 ∨
102-56 External assurance Appendix > Independent Assurance Report p. 224-226 ∨
Management 
Approach103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Value to Business > Materiality Assessment p. 60-67 ∨
103-2 The management approach and its componentsValue to Business > Materiality Assessment > Management of Material Issues
Value to Business > Mid-to Long-term Strategy
Value to Governance > Corporate Governance
Value to Society > Social Contributions
Appendix > Management’s Disccusion & Analysis
Appendix > Social Value Measurementp. 62-67
p. 71
p. 83-101
p. 164-173
p. 185-196
p. 212-215 ∨
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Value to Business > Materiality Assessment > Management of Material Issues p. 62-67 ∨
ECONOMY
Economic 
Performance201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Appendix > Financial Statement p. 175-184 ∨
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate changeValue to Governance > Risk Management > Risk & Opportunities
Value to Environment > Environmental Management > Response to Climate Change
Appendix > TCFDp. 110-111
p. 140-144
p. 252-255∨
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans -All of SK Telecom’s full-time employees 
are covered by SK Telecom’s defined 
contribution/benefit plan obligations during 
the reporting period.∨
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Value to Governance > Corporate Governance > Shares and Ownership Structure p. 84 ∨
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 238 Appendix 239Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
ECONOMY
Market Presence202-1Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 
local minimum wage-[Confidentiality Constraints] SK Telecom 
provides entry level wages that are 
higher than the local minimum wage in 
all its regional operations, and does not 
discriminate on the basis of gender at all. 
No further details can be divulged due to the 
company policy on information disclosure.∨
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Appendix > Social Data p. 216-220 ∨
Indirect Economic203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supportedValue to Society > Social Contributions
Appendix > Management’s Discussion & Analysis
Appendix > Social Value Measurementp. 164-173
p. 185-196
p. 212-215∨
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Appendix > Social Value Measurement p. 212-215 ∨
Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Value to Governance > Supply Chain Management > Supply Chain Status p. 121 ∨
Anti-corruption205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruptionValue to Governance > Ethical Management > Ethical Management Process > 
Detection, Responsep. 114-115 ∨
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and proceduresValue to Governance > Ethical Management > Ethical Management Process > 
Preventionp. 114 ∨
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions takenValue to Governance > Ethical Management > Ethical Management Process > 
Detection, Responsep. 114-115 ∨
Anti-competitive
Behavior206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practicesValue to Governance > Ethical Management > Ethical Management Process > 
Detection, Responsep. 114-115 ∨
Tax207-1Approach to tax (whether the organization has a tax strategy; the governance body or 
executive-level position within the organization that formally reviews and approves the tax strategy, 
and the frequency of this review; and how the approach to tax is linked to the business and 
sustainable development strategies of the organization)-
207-2Tax governance, control, and risk management (mechanisms for reporting concerns about 
the organization’s integrity in relation to tax, etc.)-
207-3Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax (engagement with 
tax authorities; public policy advocacy on tax; and collecting the views and concerns of stakeholders)-
207-4Country-by-country reporting (ax jurisdictions where the entities included in the organization’s 
audited consolidated financial statements; tax jurisdiction ; and time period covered by the 
information reported)-
ENVIRONMENT
Materials301-1 Materials used by weight or volume -[N/A] Due to the nature of our industry, 
the volume/weight of the raw materials 
manufactured, processed or used by 
SK Telecom is negligible.∨
301-2 Recycled input materials used - ∨
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials - ∨
Energy302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-223 ∨
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-223 ∨
302-3 Energy intensity Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-223 ∨
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-223 ∨
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 240 Appendix 241SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 242 Appendix 243Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
ENVIRONMENT
Energy 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services -[N/A] There was no requirement for additional 
energy consumption for SK Telecom’s product 
usage during the reporting period, and 
the reduction of energy consumption that 
the company’s services have indirectly 
contributed to was included in p. 221.∨
Water303-1 Water withdrawal by source -[Information Unavailable] Due to the nature 
of our business, we do not have any significant 
impact on the water supply, so we do not 
separately manage the volume of our water 
withdrawal/discharge, although we do track 
our water consumption and strive to minimize it. ∨
303-2 Water sources signi-cantly affected by withdrawal of water - ∨
303-3 Water recycled and reusedAppendix > Environmental Data
Appendix > Water Consumption and Waste Generation Verification Statementp. 221-223
p. 228∨
303-4 Water discharge -[Information Unavailable] Due to the 
nature of our business, we do not have any 
significant impact on the water supply, so we 
do not separately manage the volume of our 
water withdrawal/discharge, although we 
do track our water consumption and strive to 
minimize it.∨
303-5 Water consumptionAppendix > Environmental Data
Appendix > Water Consumption and Waste Generation Verification Statementp. 221-223
p. 228∨
Biodiversity304-1Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas-SK Telecom is unaware of any significant 
impacts on biodiversity in protected areas 
resulting directly from its activities during
the reporting period.304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity -
304-3 Habitats protected or restored -
304-4IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 
in areas affected by operations-[Information Unavailable] No significant 
impact on endangered species was 
identified due to SK Telecom’s business 
operations during the reporting period. 
We manage the environmental impact of 
our business sites through the measurement 
of SK Group’s social performance. 
Emissions305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissionsAppendix > Environmental Data
Appendix > Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assurance Statementp. 221-223
p. 227∨
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissionsAppendix > Environmental Data
Appendix > Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assurance Statementp. 221-223
p. 227∨
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissionsValue to Environment > Environmental Management > Response to Climate Change > 
Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)
Appendix > Environmental Datap. 143
p. 221-223∨
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-223 ∨
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissionsValue to Environment > Environmental Management > Response to Climate Change
Appendix > Environmental Datap. 140-144
p. 221-223∨Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
ENVIRONMENT
Emissions305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) -[N/A] Due to the nature of our industry,  
SK Telecom’s emissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS) are negligible. ∨
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions -[N/A] Due to the nature of our industry,  
SK Telecom’s emissions of nitrogen oxides 
and sulfur oxides are negligible. ∨
Effluents and Waste306-1 Water discharge by quality and destinationValue to Environment > Environmental Management > 
Reducing Resource Consumptionp. 145-146 ∨
306-2 Waste by type and disposal methodValue to Environment > Environmental Management > 
Reducing Resource Consumptionp. 145-146 ∨
306-3 Significant spillsValue to Environment > Environmental Management > 
Reducing Resource Consumption
Appendix > Environmental Data
Appendix > Water Consumption and Waste Generation Verification Statementp. 145-146
p. 221-223
p. 228∨
306-4 Transport of hazardous wasteValue to Environment > Environmental Management > 
Reducing Resource Consumption
Appendix > Environmental Data
Appendix > Water Consumption and Waste Generation Verification Statementp. 145-146
p. 221-223
p. 228∨
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoffValue to Environment > Environmental Management > 
Reducing Resource Consumption
Appendix > Environmental Datap. 145-146
p. 221-223∨
Environmental
Compliance307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations -During the reporting period, there were 
zero violations of environmental laws and 
regulations, and no fines or penalties were 
imposed on the company. ∨
Supplier 
Environmental
assessment308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Value to Governance > Supply Chain Management > Supply Chain Status p. 121 ∨
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions takenValue to Governance > Supply Chain Management > Corrective measures 
and incentivesp. 125 ∨
SOCIAL
Employment401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Appendix > Social Data > Total Employment, Recruitment and Turnover p. 216-217 ∨
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employeesAppendix > Social Data > p. 216-220 ∨
401-3 Parental leave Appendix >Social Data > Maternity/Paternity Leave and Parental Leave p. 218 ∨
Labor/Management
Relations402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes -SK Telecom discloses operational changes 
immediately through the labor union 
website (www.sktunion.com) and the 
labor-management council meetings.∨
Occupational Health
and Safety403-1Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health 
and safety committeesValue to Society > Occupational Safety and Health p. 159-163 ∨
403-2Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 
and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiesValue to Society > Occupational Safety and Health > Safety Management p. 161 ∨
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Value to Society > Occupational Safety and Health > Employee Healthcare p. 162 ∨
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Value to Society > Occupational Safety and Health p. 159-163 ∨
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Value to Society > Occupational Safety and Health p. 159-163 ∨
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 244 Appendix 245Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference /
 Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
SOCIAL
Occupational Health
and Safety403-6 Promotion of worker health Value to Society > Occupational Safety and Health > Employee Healthcare p. 162 ∨
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and impacts directly linked by 
business relationships Value to Society > Occupational Safety and Health
Appendix > Social Datap. 159-163
p. 216-220∨
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Appendix > Social Data p. 216-220 ∨
403-9 Work-related injuries Value to Society > Occupational Safety and Health > Safety Management p. 161 ∨
403-10 Work-related ill health -During the reporting period, no cases of 
work related diseases were identified in 
SK Telecom’s premises.∨
Training and 
Education404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Value to Society > Employees > Human Resources Development p. 149 ∨
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programsValue to Society > Employees > Health, Safety, Wellbeing
Appendix > Social Data > Labor-Management Relationsp. 151
p. 219∨
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Value to Society > Employees p. 149-153 ∨
Environmental
Compliance405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Appendix > Social Data p. 216-220 ∨
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Appendix > Social Data p. 216-220 ∨
Non-Discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken -There was no discrimination reported during 
the reporting period.∨
Freedom of 
Association and
Collective Bargaining407-1Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at risk-As of the end of the reporting period, 
SK Telecom’s union membership rate is 
89.0%. There are no operational sites that 
have been found to possibly violate freedom 
of association and collective bargaining 
seriously during the reporting period.∨
Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Value to Society > Human Rights Management p. 154-158 ∨
Forced or Compulsory 
Labor409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Value to Society > Human Rights Management p. 154-158 ∨
Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures -[Information Unavailable] SK Telecom 
does not currently track the percentage of 
its security personnel who have received 
human rights training. ∨
Rights of Indigenous 
Peoples411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Value to Society > Human Rights Management > Potential Human Rights Issues p. 158 ∨
Human Rights 
Assessment412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Value to Society > Human Rights Management p. 154-158 ∨
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or proceduresValue to Governance > Ethical Management > Ethical Management Process > 
Status of Employee Ethical Management Educationp. 114 ∨
412-3Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or 
that underwent human rights screening-[Information Unavailable] SK Telecom is 
currently unaware of contracts that include 
human rights clauses or that undergo a 
human rights screening process.∨
Local Communities413-1Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programsValue to Society > Social Contributions p. 164-173 ∨
413-2Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 
local communities-SK Telecom tracks any positive/negative 
impacts it has on its local communities by 
measuring social performance at the group 
level. During the reporting period, no significant 
actual or potential negative impacts on the 
company’s local communities were detected. ∨
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 246 Appendix 247Topic GRI Standards Description LocationCross Reference /
 Direct Answer / OmissionExternal 
Assurance
SOCIAL
Supplier Social 
Assessment414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteriaValue to Governance > Supply Chain Management > 
Selection and Evaluation of Sustainable Supply Chainp. 122-125 ∨
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions takenValue to Governance > Supply Chain Management > 
Selection and Evaluation of Sustainable Supply Chainp. 122-125 ∨
Public Policy 415-1 Political contributionsValue to Governance > Compliance > 
Transparent Participation in Public Policy and Payment of Association Duesp. 120 ∨
Customer Health and 
Safety416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories -[Information Unavailable] Although we do 
not conduct any assessments of the impact 
of our products and services on public health 
and safety, we manage the health and 
safety impact of our products and services 
on our customers based on the results of our 
groupwide social performance. ∨
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services -SK Telecom manages the impacts of its 
products and services on public health and 
safety based on the groupwide measurement 
of social performance. During the reporting 
period, we recorded no incidents of non-
compliance with the regulations concerning 
the impacts of our products and services on 
public health and safety.∨
Marketing and 
Labeling417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling -[Information Unavailable] SK Telecom is 
unaware of the percentage of its products and 
services that are subject to information and 
labeling requirements. However, SK Telecom 
manages the status of provision of appropriate 
information on its products and services to its 
customers through the measurement of our 
groupwide social performance. ∨
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling -During the reporting period, SK Telecom 
recorded no cases of non-compliance with 
the laws on product/service information and 
labelling. ∨
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications -During the reporting period, SK Telecom 
recorded no cases of non-compliance with 
the regulations and/or voluntary codes 
concerning marketing communications, 
promotion and sponsorship.∨
Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer dataValue to Governance > Cyber Security > Information Security Management System
Value to Society > Human Rights Management > Personal Information Protectionp. 131
p. 157∨
Socioeconomic 
Compliance419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area -SK Telecom has not paid any penalties
due to a fair trade-related violation during 
the reporting period.∨
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 248 Appendix 249SASB* SK T elecom understands the importance of corporate sustainability and impact on stakeholders, and strives to have management indexes in 
various areas satisfy international sustainability standards, including the environment, information protection, corporate ethics, circular economy, 
and risk management. In addition, to enable each stakeholder to precisely understand our sustainability-related activities, we aim to manage each 
item’s qualitative and quantitative indexes and to thoroughly disclose them according to the SASB recommendations. SASB measurement indexes 
are disclosed after reviews and deliberations by the BOD and management. Regarding indexes that do not satisfy SASB standards, we will establish 
goals and make continued improvements through additional reviews. ACTIVITY METRIC 
Accounting Metric Category Unit Code SK Telecom’s Status Cross Reference / Direct Answer
Wireless subscribers QuantitativePersons 
(No. of subscribers)TC-TL-000.A •A total of 31.4 million wireless subscribers p. 185-196
Wireline subscribers QuantitativePersons 
(No. of subscribers)TC-TL-000.B •About 3.8 million including SK Broadband and SK telink VoIP service subscribers p. 185-196
Broadband subscribers QuantitativePersons 
(No. of subscribers)TC-TL-000.C •About 6.5 million broadband Internet subscribers and 8.6 million paying TV subscribers p. 185-196
Network traffic and proportions of mobile communication networks and fixed networks Quantitative Petabytes, % TC-TL-000.D•SKT held about 129% of the annual wireless network capacity in 2020
•Annual data traffic processed in 2020: 3,391,192 (TB)p. 136
SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURE TOPICS & ACCOUNTING METRICS
Topic Accounting Metric Category Unit Code SK Telecom’s Status Cross Reference / Direct Answer
Environmental 
Footprint of Operations(1) Total consumed energy, (2) percentage of grid electricity, 
(3) percentage of renewable energyQuantitative GJ / % TC-TL-130a.1 •Total energy consumption 21,371,000GJ p. 221
Data PrivacyAds, policies and practices relating to the retention of customers’ 
personal informationDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-220a.1•4,682 people completed training on personal information protection in 2020 (a 95% completion ratio).
•Out of 2,304 sampling diagnoses of the level of customer information protection in the distribution channel,  
108 improvements and/or mitigations were proposed and completedp. 129-132
p. 157
Number of customers whose customer information is collected 
for secondary purposeQuantitativePersons 
(No. of customers)TC-TL-220a.2•A total of 27 ,037 ,857  
(Subscribers who consented to receive information/ads: 17 ,274,999; Refused consent: 9,762,858)p. 131
Amount of legal and regulatory fines associated with customer 
privacyQuantitative KRW TC-TL-220a.3 •n/aRefer to p. 474-478 of 
Business Report
(1) Number of legal punishments related to customer information 
(2) number of customers whose information was requested by 
government or law enforcement agencies percentage resulting 
in disclosure (3) percentage of disclosuresQuantitative Cases / % TC-TL-220a.4•298,818 communications data requests from government agencies
•49,776 communications verification data requests from government agenciesp. 132
Data Security(1) Number of data security breaches (2) percentage of breaches 
of personally identifiable information (PII) security (3) number of 
customers who suffered from such breachesQuantitative Cases / % TC-TL-230a.1 •n/aRefer to p. 474-478 of 
Business Report
Management approach to identifying data security risks 
including security risk related to utilization of third parties’ 
information security riskDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-230a.2• SKT’s Personal Information Handling Policy is published on the website in accordance with the Personal 
Information Protection Act. (Customers’ personal information is collected only upon obtaining the subscriber's 
prior consent (opt-in), and the information is used only within the scope of the stated purpose; personal 
information can only be supplied to any third party after obtaining the customer's consent)p. 131-132
Product End-of-Life 
Management(1) Materials recycled through take- back programs (2) percentage 
of recycled materials (3) recycling rate (4) landfill rateQuantitativeTons and percentage 
by weightTC-TL-440a.1•Recycling rate: 27%
•Device recycling rate: 3.23% (230,000 units out of 7.13 million units sold)p. 145-146
Fair CompetitionFinancial damage such as fines caused by violations of 
fair trade-related actsQuantitative KRW TC-TL-520a.1 •SKT incurred no penalties for unfair competition
(1) Contents owned by company and commercially related 
contents (2) average download speed of unrelated contentsQuantitative Mbps TC-TL-520a.2•SK Telecom does not disclose the download speed by content types (contents owned by the company, commercial 
contents, contents not commercially related). However, there is no difference in the download speed between 
diverse contents. p. 136-137
Explanations about risks and opportunities related to net 
neutrality, paid peering, and zero ratingDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-520a.3•SK Telecom complies with the Guidelines on Network Neutrality and Internet Traffic Management established by 
the Ministry of Science and ICT.
Managing Systemic 
Risks from Technology 
Disruptions(1) Telecommunication interruption frequency and average 
interruption duration per customerQuantitativeFrequency per 
customer, hours per 
customerTC-TL-550a.1•SK Telecom experienced no major communication failures in 2020 following the establishment of an emergency 
recovery system for network failures. p. 136
Technology DisruptionSystem for normal service operation/provision against service 
interruptions and other similar situationsDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a TC-TL-550a.2•SK Telecom has established a network failure and emergency recovery system to minimize network failures and 
the service impacts caused by such failures.
•SK Telecom operates an integrated risk management system in order to preemptively respond to and manages risks 
related to   business, employees, customer value, business partners, governance, and climate change. p. 136
p. 102-111
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 250 Appendix 251* SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards BoardT o systematically respond to climate change, SK T elecom complies with relevant regulations, executes activities that enhance energy efficiency, 
and sets carbon reduction goals. We also recognize that climate change risks may potentially impact financial indexes, and aim to accurately 
disclose, in accordance with TCFD recommendations, such climate change-related factors as governance, response strategies, risk management, 
goals, and execution rate, so that major stakeholders can have an accurate understanding of our climate change-related activities.T o this end, SK T elecom periodically monitors climate change risks and opportunities, with the ESG Committee performing central roles and under 
management by the ESG Innovation Group. We review climate change risks and opportunities in multiple areas, in consideration of five aspects, 
which are the ‘regulatory aspect, technological aspect, market aspect, reputation aspect, and physical environment’. The climate change risks and 
opportunities that are identified through this process and our response plan are systematically disclosed in accordance with TCFD standards after 
reviews and approval from the BOD and management. For areas that require improvement, we will set goals and make continued improvements 
through additional reviews. TCFD*
TCFD
Descriptioin Response Activities LocationCross Reference / 
Direct AnswerCDP Mapping
Category TCFD Recommendation
Governancea)  Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related  
risks and opportunitiesThe BOD’s oversight of climate-related risks and 
opportunitiesThe ESG Committee under SK Telecom's BOD is the company’s 
highest decision-making authority where the response to 
climate change is concerned, and makes decisions on key 
issues at least once per year.Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C1.1a
b)  Describe management’s role in assessing and  
managing climate-related risks and opportunitiesManagement’s role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunitiesAll identified and assessed climate change risks and 
opportunities are reviewed by the CFO, who makes decisions 
on non-material issues while reporting critical issues to  
the CEO for further decision making.Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C1.2a
Strategya)  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities  
the organization has identified over the short,  
medium, and long termClimate-related risks and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short, medium, and long termSK Telecom sets and manages the short term as 0-1 year, 
the medium term as 1 to 10 years, and the long term as 
more than 10 years. When evaluating climate change risks 
and opportunities, we analyze their business and financial 
impacts in the short, medium, and long term.Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142C2.1a, C2.2, 
C2.3a, C2.4a
b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses,  
strategy, and financial planningImpact of climate-related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses and strategyWhen evaluating climate change risks and opportunities,
SK Telecom analyzes their impact on its business in the 
following four aspects: products and services; supply chain 
and value chain; R&D investment; and business sites.Appendix > Social Value Measurement p. 212-214 C3.1d
Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C3.1d
Value to Governance > 
Supply Chain Managementp. 121-125 C3.1d
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s financial planningWhen evaluating climate change risks and opportunities, 
SK Telecom also analyzes their financial impact in terms 
of the “income statement and balance sheet” , considering 
the income and expense aspects in the former as opposed 
to “assets and liabilities” and “capital and capital raising” 
in the latter.Appendix > Social Value Measurement p. 212-214 C3.1e
Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C3.1e
Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-222 C3.1e
c)  Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, 
taking into consideration different climate-related 
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenarioFlexibility of business strategy taking into consideration 
climate-related scenariosAs a result of its analysis of the potential GHG reduction 
target scenarios based on RCP , IEA 1.5DS, and NDC, SK 
Telecom joined SBTi in 2020 and set reduction targets based 
on the methodology and guidelines provided by SBTi, 
with the aim of achieving net-zero by 2050. Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C3.1b
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 252 Appendix 253* TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial DisclosuresTCFD
Descriptioin Response Activities LocationCross Reference / 
Direct AnswerCDP Mapping
Category TCFD Recommendation
Risk 
Managementa)  Describe the organization’s processes for identifying 
and assessing climate-related risksIdentifying and assessing climate-related risksSK Telecom’s ESG Innovation Group identifies and evaluates 
climate change-related risks, based on the company’s risk 
management process, by considering the following five 
aspects: regulatory; technical; market; reputation; and 
physical environment.Value to Governance > Risk Management p. 102-106 C2.2
Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C2.2
Materiality assessment process for the identified 
climate-related risksSK Telecom determines the level of risk for each of the 
identified climate change risks through a materiality 
assessment process.Value to Business > Materiality Assessment p. 60-67 C2.2
Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C2.2
b)  Describe the organization’s processes for managing 
climate-related risksProcesses for managing climate-related risksSK Telecom regularly monitors climate change risks 
through the ESG Innovation Group which, along with the 
related departments, manages the identified risks according 
to the response strategy after obtaining the approval of the 
corporate management and the BOD. Solutions are found 
through communication when supply chain cooperation 
is needed.Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C2.2, C2.2a
c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing,  
and managing climate-related risks are integrated  
into the organization’s overall risk managementProcesses for identifying, assessing, and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s 
overall risk managementSK Telecom’s companywide risk management scheme 
covers risks related to climate change as it comprises the 
company’s plans to respond to various aspects of climate 
change. Value to Governance > Risk Management p. 102-106 C2.2
Metrics and 
Targetsa)  Disclose the metrics used by the organization to  
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in  
line with its strategy and risk management processMetrics used by the organization to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and  
risk management processIn order to evaluate its climate change-related risks and 
opportunities, SK Telecom considers both business impacts 
(products and services, supply chain and value chain, R&D 
investment, business operations) and financial impacts 
(income and expenses in the income statement; assets and 
liabilities, and capital and capital raising in the balance 
sheet). Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 140-142 C2.2
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate,  
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
related risksScope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risksScope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions can be checked every 
three years. Scope 3 GHG emissions can be checked for each 
of the 15 categories.Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 142-143 C6.5
Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-222C5.1, C6.1, 
C6.3, C6.5
c)  Describe the targets used by the organization to 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targetsGreenhouse gas reduction targetSK Telecom joined SBTi in 2020 and set its reduction targets 
based on the methodology and guidelines provided by SBTi, 
with the aim of achieving net-zero by 2050.Value to Environment > 
Environmental Managementp. 139-140 C4.1a
Greenhouse gas reduction performance
(reduction of electricity consumption)Since more than 99% of its energy comes from electricity, 
SK Telecom discloses its performance in reducing its 
consumption of electricity every year. Appendix > Environmental Data p. 221-222 C4.3a, C4.3b
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 254 Appendix 255UN Global Compact (UNGC)
The United Nations requests Corporates, by supporting the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), advocates the 10 
universal principles including those related to human rights, the environment, labor and anti-corruption, and support for a wide range of the UN’s 
development plans including the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SK T elecom joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a UN organization 
that collaborates with businesses, in 2007. As a founding member of UNGC Korea, a local association of UNGC, SK T elecom not only adheres to 
the 10 principles but also broadly supports the UN’s development plans such as the SDGs. In April 2013, SK T elecom publicly declared its support 
for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the human rights principles in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie 
Framework, and SK T elecom’s CEO affirmed that the company would fulfill its responsibility related to respecting human rights. By complying with 
and supporting the UNGC principles, SK T elecom will undertake a variety of activities to solve domestic and international social issues and to 
spread global CSR trends in the future as well.
UNGC Activities
Associations/Initiatives Joining date Purpose/Remarks
UNGC Headquarters May 2007
Involvement in the global CSR initiative activities has helped advance the internal 
CSR system and gain a better reputation for CSR both at home and abroad.UNGC Korea Sept. 2007
UNGC LEAD Jan. 2011
UNGC Advanced Criteria
LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer
Fulfillment of 
the UNGC’s Ten 
Principles in 
Strategy and 
OperationCriterion 1Commitment to integrate the UNGC 
10 principles into business function 
and unitsAppendix > About This Report p. 262
Criterion 2Practicing the UNGC 10 principles across 
the value chainValue to Governance > Ethical Management p. 112-120
Definite Human 
Rights Policy and 
ProcedureCriterion 3Human rights commitment, strategy, 
and policyValue to Society > Human Rights Management
Appendix > CEO Human Rights Statementp. 154-158
p. 230-231
Criterion 4Effective management system to 
incorporate the human rights principles 
into business and management 
proceduresValue to Society > Human Rights Management p. 154-158
Criterion 5Monitoring and evaluation mechanism 
to ensure compliance with the human 
right principles in business and 
management proceduresValue to Society > Human Rights Management p. 154-158
Definite Labor 
Policy and 
ProcedureCriterion 6 Labor commitment, strategy, and policyValue to Society > Human Rights Management
Appendix > Social Datap. 154-158
p. 219
Criterion 7Effective management system to 
incorporate the labor principles into 
business and management proceduresAppendix > Social Data p. 219
Criterion 8Monitoring and evaluation mechanism 
to ensure compliance with the labor 
principles in business and management 
proceduresValue to Business > Stakeholder Engagement p. 68-69LocationCross Reference / 
Direct Answer
Definite 
Environmental 
Policy and 
ProcedureCriterion 9Environment commitment, strategy, 
and policyValue to Environment > 
Environmental Management
Appendix > Social Value Measurement
Appendix > Environmental Datap. 139-147
p. 212-215
p. 221-223
Criterion 10Effective management system to 
incorporate the environmental principles 
into business and management 
proceduresValue to Environment > 
Environmental Management
Appendix > Social Value Measurement
Appendix > Environmental Datap. 139-147
p. 212-215
p. 221-223
Criterion 11Monitoring and evaluation mechanism 
to ensure compliance with the 
environmental principles in business and 
management proceduresValue to Environment > 
Environmental Management
Appendix > Social Value Measurement
Appendix > Environmental Datap. 139-147
p. 212-215
p. 221-223
Definite Ethics 
and Compliance 
Policy and 
ProcedureCriterion 12Anti-corruption commitment, strategy, 
and policyValue to Governance > Ethical Management p. 112-120
Criterion 13Effective management system to 
incorporate the anti-corruption principles 
into business and management 
proceduresValue to Governance > Ethical Management p. 112-120
Criterion 14Monitoring and evaluation mechanism 
to ensure compliance with the anti-
corruption principles in business and 
management proceduresValue to Governance > Ethical Management p. 112-120
Activities to 
Support Broader 
and More 
Comprehensive 
UN Objectives 
and GoalsCriterion 15Contribution through key businesses 
to help achieve the UN objectives 
and goalsValue to Business > Pursuing Sustainable Growth 
through Openness and Collaboration
Appendix > UN Sustainable Development (SDGs)p. 80-81
p. 258-261
Criterion 16Strategic community investment 
and charity work to help achieve 
the UN objectives and goalsValue to Society > Social Contributions
Appendix > Social Data
Appendix > UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)p. 164-173
p. 216-220
p. 258-261
Criterion 17Public engagement and communication 
to help achieve the UN objectives 
and goalsAppendix > UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)p. 258-261
Criterion 18Partnerships and external initiatives to 
help achieve the UN objectives and goalsAppendix > About This Report p. 262
Governance and 
Leadership for 
SustainabilityCriterion 19CEO’s sustainability commitment and 
leadershipAbout Company > CEO Message p. 32-39
Criterion 20Board of Directors’ selection and 
oversight of sustainability agenda itemsValue to Governance > Corporate Governance > 
Committees of the BOD > Corporate Citizenship 
Committeep. 95-96
Criterion 21 Stakeholder engagement Value to Business > Stakeholder Engagement p. 68-69
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 256 Appendix 257UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)In September 2015, 193 UN member nations and leaders of countries established 17 goals and 169 detailed tasks in economic, environmental, 
and social areas for the sustainable development of humankind. SK T elecom supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and set 
seven SDGs as key areas in connection with the Double Bottom Line, which is our future value creation strategy. By executing and implementing 
goals that consider financial impact as well as social impact, we will achieve sustainable value creation. 
Goal SK Telecom’s Contribution DBL (Double Bottom Line)Mid- to Long-term Goals
Goal
Social Impact Business Impact
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being 
for all at all ages
3.7   Ensure universal access to health 
services•Offered an AI service that manages and provides information to 
people self-quarantined at home due to COVID-19 (NUGU Care Call)
•Developed an AI speaker that provides medication and hospital 
alerts to seniors
•Established “Invites Healthcare” , a comprehensive health monitoring 
and management service provider for individuals, including 
the “Type 2 Diabetes Management App” , which is a diabetes 
management platform
•Provided customized, subscription-type health management 
services based on gene information (Care8 DNA)•Reduce national organization personnel and 
social costs by providing a simple medical 
examination service by interview through AI
•Improve the health blind spot by using a highly 
accessible method for seniors
•Guarantee a healthy life to members of society 
by providing individual customer-tailored health 
management services
•Enable the development of technologies using 
DNA and medical data through SK Telecom’s 
infrastructure•Expand AI care business EV, and expand and 
reproduce SV by developing Happy Connect,  
a social enterprise that runs field services
•Reflect digital medicine and enter the relevant 
market by advancing the unique dementia 
prevention service (Brain Tok Tok) of AI care•Expand a universal social safety 
net for healthy old age, such 
as reducing loneliness and 
preventing isolated deaths for 
vulnerable groups, including 
seniors living alone in the 
contactless era
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong learning 
opportunities for all
4.4   Promote ICT skills for senior citizens 
and teenagers
4.5   Provide equal education to 
marginalized groups such as 
individuals with disabilities and 
indigenous people•Strengthened the ICT competencies of youths with disabilities and 
provided relevant career exploration opportunities (Smart Farm)
•Conducted the “with” campaign, a customized student-
visiting education for elementary school students not receiving 
care·education
•Developed an interactive remote class service using “MeetUs”
•Provided the SKT AI curriculum to college students that consists of  
AI experts’ practical knowledge and know-how•Increase the information competencies of the 
digitally vulnerable group, including seniors  
and the disabled
•Improve youths’ learning rights by improving 
the education environment and contribute to 
vitalizing the video education content market
•Generate social/national value by strengthening 
AI competencies and nurturing professional 
talent through professional AI education•Expand the market by establishing an 
environment where all citizens, ranging from 
elementary school students to seniors, can 
enjoy digital education
•Expand positive experiences by providing 
experiential and education opportunities 
regarding SK products/services to customers 
(potential customers) à Contribute to revenue 
generation•Continue to increase the number 
of participants of the digital 
competency-building program for 
the vulnerable group, including 
seniors and the disabled 
-Goal for 2021: 100 thousand 
persons
-Goal for 2021-2025: cumulative 
total of 500 thousand persons
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, full and productive 
employment and decent work for all 
8.3   Promote creative and innovative 
policies for job creation and growth  
of SMEs•Provided non-face-to-face job fair support for partners’ talent-hiring 
and nurturing, as well as contactless solutions and the Win-Win 
Growth Academy’s jobs and ICT online education
•Hired hearing-impaired drivers for the “Quiet M” taxi service
•Carried out small business win-win alliance marketing through 
“Happy Credit” and “Hope Handcart Program”
•Supported outstanding ICT-related startups, including 5G and AI, 
that solve social issues using technology (IMPACTUPs)•Build a win-win growth system through partner 
infrastructure and technology support 
•Create quality jobs for the underprivileged, 
including persons with disability
•Support small businesses and contribute to 
development of the local community
•Provide an infrastructure, such as education 
and technology, to nurture social enterprise 
startups•Gain stakeholder support for SKT ICT’s 
goodhearted influence, such as Quiet M and 
Good Shuttle, and enhance brand reputation
•Discover/nurture business partners to advance 
mobility services, such as MaaS (Mobility as a 
Service)
•Enhance business competitiveness through 
projects that connect startups and SKT solutions•Goal for 2025
 -  Nurture 500 hearing-impaired 
cab drivers
 -  Annual 5,000 disabled persons 
who use Good Shuttle
 -  Support a cumulative total of 
500 startup by 2025
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive 
and sustainable industrialization and foster 
innovation
9.1   Develop quality, reliable, sustainable 
and resilient infrastructure to support 
economic development and human 
well-being, with focus on affordable 
and equitable access for all•Ranked first in the 5G communication service quality evaluation
•Developed the network slicing technology that provides a 
customized 5G network according to the application and service
•Adopted wireless Front Hall equipment to strengthen the provision 
of 5G mobile communication network services
•Reduced the information gap by applying a voice recognition 
function to folder phones that seniors are familiar with•Build quality network infrastructures by 
improving communication service and 
communication network quality
•Improve information accessibility by  
using consumer-tailored services•Create new business opportunities, such as 
autonomous driving and smart factory, based 
on key infrastructure, including 5G and AI•Secure 5G leadership
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, 
safe, resilient and sustainable
11.7   Build a safe and pleasant city,  
in particular for women, children, 
seniors, and persons with disabilities
11.A   Support positive economic, social 
and environmental links between 
urban, suburban and rural areas by 
strengthening national and regional 
development planning•Offered the AI Care Service to reduce the sense of loneliness of 
seniors living alone and enable them to be contacted to 119 for 
emergency situations
•Offered the AI system NUGU Care Call which monitors the symptoms 
of persons who are quarantining at home and persons designated 
as actively monitored persons in relation to COVID-19
•Established an earthquake observation network by installing 
earthquake sensors using telecom company base stations
•Established a smart waterworks operation management system that 
connects IT to the tap water supply process and expanded water welfare•Establish a social safety net through the  
AI-using care service
•Make efforts to enhance citizen safety and 
minimize damages by providing a natural 
disaster forecasting and detection service that 
uses infrastructure
•Contribute to green transition and vitalization of 
the national economy by establishing a water 
management system•Expand SV-based BM, ranging from B2G to 
B2C, through expansion of emergency SOS 
service-119 connection system  
(NUGU Opal care service, etc.)•Expand the universal social safety 
net for senior safety, including 
prevention of seniors dying alone
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 258 Appendix 259SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 260 Appendix 261Goal SK Telecom’s Contribution DBL (Double Bottom Line)Mid- to Long-term Goals
Goal
Social Impact Business Impact
Take urgent action to combat climate change 
and its impacts
13.2   Integrate climate change measures 
into national policies, strategies, and 
planning•Participated in the “2050 Net-Zero” project, which is aimed at 
making net GHG emissions zero 
•Applied the single RAN technology (integration and upgrade of  
3G and LTE equipment), minimizing the increase in GHG emissions
•Developed a technology that recycles communication antenna 
plastic
•Developed an electric vehicle GHG reduction business model.
•Conducted a campaign on reducing use of disposable plastic  
cups in daily life through the happy habit project of the H a:bit  
Eco Alliance•Contribute to reducing GHG emissions by taking 
part in GHG reduction programs and projects.
•Counter climate change by recycling resources 
and reducing use of resources•Expand ICT-based energy and environmental 
solution market opportunities
•Use the company’s key technologies,  
including Vision AI, as a solution for solving 
environmental issues
•Connect the points of happy habit participants 
to the sales of the SK ICT Family•2050 Net-Zero
Strengthen the means of implementation 
and revitalize the global partnership for 
sustainable development 
17.16  Strengthen global partnership with 
stakeholders by sharing knowledge, 
expertise, technology and resources[UN Global Compact]
•Chosen for the LEAD Group that is participated in by top ten ESG 
leading companies in Korea
•The CEO signed “A Statement from Business Leaders for Renewed 
Global Cooperation” on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the 
UN’s founding, and actively participated. 
•Participated in the UNGC Korea Leaders’ Summit•Secure a reputation and influence as a leading 
ESG company from among Korean companies 
in the UNGC network•Secure new sales opportunities in connection 
with global partners•Establish and implement a 
cooperation system in relevant 
areas of five SDG sectors by 
building global partnerships
[P4G Summit]
•Appointed as the only official Korean company of the P4G’s Board 
of Directors at the P4G Seoul Summit
•Established a private-government cooperation partnership 
of Korean companies, including the SK Group, and engaged 
in cooperation to counter climate change and support the 
achievement of 5 SDGs•Secure a reputation and influence as a leading 
ESG company from among Korean companies
•Give shape to the RE100 implementation plan 
for GHG reduction, and take the lead in  
ICT-based eco-friendly commercialization•Promote global advancement of ESG 
venture-nurturing platform (True Innovation, 
IMPACTSUPs) and connected technology 
cooperation companies, and secure relevant 
commercialization opportunities•Encourage domestic ESG venture 
participation in each P4G 
partnership step, and expand in 
the mid- to long-term future
[P4G Global Partnership]
•Expanded the Global ECO System of the H a:bit Eco Alliance to 
execute plastic-free international solidarity activities•Form an alliance with global partners to resolve 
the plastic-free environmental issue and 
expand worldwide campaigns•Secure possibilities for global advancement of 
the SKT ESG business based on global alliances•Contribute to achieving 2050  
Net Zero
[UN Global Compact] 
•Participated in the Target Gender Equality (TGE) program
•Participated in the gender equality-promoting program aimed at 
increasing the female executive ratio and strengthening female 
leadership•Continually grow as a company that is good to 
work at by evolving/developing into a gender 
equality and family-friendly company•Secure new business models related to  
female-friendly social value expansion and 
relevant commercialization opportunities•Set and achieve TGE goals by 
benchmarking global best 
practicesAs SK Telecom’s “Integrated Annual Report” , this report has been prepared for investors and stakeholders to provide an 
overview of SK Telecom’s annual performance. This Report comprises not only the financial performance records of SK Telecom, 
but also comprehensive information on value creation including non-financial performance, future prospects and efforts to 
improve company value (Value Creation Story). The Board of Directors granted its final approval for this Report in May 2021.
Integrated Reporting According to International Guidelines       This Report was prepared in accordance with the guiding principles and report 
content as suggested in the <IR> Framework. The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) provides the <IR> Framework, a standard 
framework for the integrated reporting of both financial and non-financial performances. This Report was also prepared in accordance with the 
comprehensive option of the “GRI Standards”, the global standard for sustainability reporting provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). SK 
T elecom joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest corporate citizenship initiative under the UN for corporate social responsibility 
and sustainability improvement in 2007 and has been providing support to implement the ten major principles in the areas of human rights, labor, 
the environment, and anti-corruption and to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Scope and Boundary of the Report     In this Report, the term “SK T elecom” refers to SK T elecom, excluding its subsidiaries that are subject to 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). The financial data is based 
on consolidated financials. The K-IFRS 16 standard has been applied since 2019. The non-financial data on the environmental performance 
and fulfillment of the corporate social responsibility is based on a non-consolidated basis. The data presented in this Report exclude those of 
SK T elecom’s overseas branches, subsidiaries and invested companies unless otherwise indicated in the general descriptions and information. 
Such data, however, were included on a separate indication basis in cases in which they are likely to have a significant impact on the stakeholders’ 
decisions, in consideration of SK T elecom’s financial and operational control and the actual business influence and effects. As for the geographical 
boundaries, this Report covers data for the company’s major places of business where over 99% of revenue is generated, which is in the Republic 
of Korea, while the temporal scope is between January 1 and December 31, 2020. This Report, however, may disclose a portion of the qualitative 
data generated until May 2021. In case of any changes in the previously reported data requiring attention, such data were recalculated based on 
the 2020 data. The reporting period of this Report is one fiscal year, and the preceding report is “SK T elecom Annual Report 2019”, which was 
published in July 2020.
Third Party Assurance and Disclaimer     Financial data in this Report have been audited by an independent audit corporation, and non-financial 
data have been assured independently by a third-party entity to secure the credibility of the Report. Greenhouse gas data have been separately 
assured as well. This Report contains predictive statements regarding SK T elecom’s and subsidiaries’ financial conditions, operating and sales 
performances, and plans and goals of management. Despite external assurances, there might be gaps between the future performance specified 
or inferred through predictive statements and the company’s actual performance due to political, economic, and circumstantial uncertainties in 
business management.
Global Initiatives and Partnerships     In 2007, SK T elecom became a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which was initiated by the 
cooperation between UN organizations and global businesses to improve social ethics and the international environment. Furthermore, SK 
T elecom complies with the management system standard for social responsibility, ISO 26000, and participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) as well as the business network program of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). In recognition of its efforts to achieve 
excellence in sustainability management, SK T elecom was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Asia Pacific Index in 2020.About This Report
SK Telecom ANNUAL REPORT 2020 262This report is available to be downloaded as a PDF format at the 
SK Telecom’s official website - www.sktelecom.com/index_en.html.
SK Telecom used FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council®)-certified 
paper, bearing the logo carried only by products made using 
materials from responsibly managed forests and other controlled 
sources in order to protect forests across the globe and save them 
for the future generation. In addition, this report was printed at an 
FSC®-certified print shop using soy oil ink which drastically reduces 
the emissions of air pollutants.
The company also participates in the Carbon Neutral Program 
run by the Korea Energy Management Corporation to offset 
greenhouse gas emissions generated from the pulp and energy 
used to print reports. Despite the company’s varying efforts to 
reduce environmental impacts, since the process of making and 
printing in paper generates pollutants, this Report is published 
both in print and as an PDF file.
SK Telecom plans on reducing resource and energy use through 
the use of PDF Files. The official website of SK Telecom contains 
a lot more information than in the print version due to a lack of 
space. We encourage our readers to access this Report as a PDF 
file instead of the print edition and visit the official website to save 
resources and protect the environment, while accessing more 
information more conveniently.
Imprint
Publication Date July 2021
Publishing SK Telecom
Publisher Jung Ho Park
Production 
ResponsibilityCorporate Center 1
Stakeholder Value 
Innovation GroupJinwon Kim
Igsoon Im
Contact dustinim@sk.com
Planning & Advisory Korea Productivity Center
Editing & Design Talantone Creative Group