SK Telecom Annual Report 
2016Global 
New ICT Leader3 1
About This Report
As an Integrated Annual Report prepared for the purpose 
of reporting the annual performance to the investors and stakeholders, this Report comprises not only the financial performance records of SK Telecom, but also comprehensive 
information on value creation including non-financial performance, 
future prospects and efforts to improve company value (Value Creation Story). The BOD gave the final approval for this Report in July of 2017.
Integrated Reporting According to International Guidelines
This Report was prepared in accordance with the guiding principles and report content suggested in the <IR> Framework. The International Integrated Reporting Council provides the International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework, a standard 
framework for the Integrated Reporting of both financial and 
non-financial performances. This Report was also prepared in accordance with the comprehensive requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines, a standards guideline for sustainability reports provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As one of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) LEAD companies, SK Telecom has been undertaking management activities conforming to 
the 10 principles of UNGC, and this Report was prepared in 
accordance with the documentation principles prescribed in the Communication on Progress (COP) of UNGC.
Scope and Boundary of the Report
In this Report, the terms, “SK Telecom” and “the company, ” refer to SK Telecom, excluding its subsidiaries that are subject to 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Korean 
International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). The financial data is based on consolidated financials, while the non-financial data on the environmental performance and fulfillment of the corporate social responsibility is based on a non-consolidated basis. The data presented in this Report exclude those for SK Telecom’s overseas branches, subsidiaries and invested 
companies unless otherwise indicated in the general descriptions 
and information section. Such data, however, were included on a separate basis in cases in which they are likely to have a significant impact on the stakeholders’ decisions, in consideration of SK Telecom’s financial and operational control and the actual influence and effects of its business. As for the geographical boundaries, this Report covers data for the company’s major 
places of business where 95% of revenue is generated, which is the Republic of Korea, while the temporal scope is between 
January 1 and December 31, 2016. This Report, however, may disclose a portion of the qualitative data generated until May 2017. In case of any changes in the previously reported data 
requiring attention, such data were re-calculated based on the 
2016 data. The reporting period of this Report is one fiscal year, and the preceding report was the <SK Telecom Annual Report 2015> issued in July 2016.
Third Party Assurance and Disclaimer
Financial data in this Report have been audited by an  independent audit corporation, and non-financial data have been assured independently by a third-party entity to secure the credibility of the Report. Greenhouse gas data have been 
separately assured as well. This Report contains predictive 
statements regarding SK Telecom’s and subsidiaries’ financial conditions, operating and sales performances, and plans and goals of management. Despite external assurances, there might be gaps between the future performance specified or inferred through predictive statements and the company’s actual performance due to political, economic, and circumstantial 
uncertainties surrounding business management.
Global Initiatives and Partnerships
In 2007, SK Telecom became a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which was created through cooperation between UN organizations and businesses to improve social ethics and the international environment. Since 2011, SK Telecom has 
participated as a GC LEAD company to develop and expand best 
practices in accordance with the UNGC Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership. Furthermore, SK Telecom complies with the management system standard for social responsibility, ISO 26000, and participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the business network program of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). In recognition of its efforts to achieve 
excellence in sustainability management, SK Telecom was listed 
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for nine consecutive years since 2008. 
 SK Telecom is equipped with the most competitive  
New ICT capabilities, ranging from media to IoT and commerce platforms, based on AI, Cloud, Big Data,  5G technologies, and strong infrastructures. Our goal is  to grow into a global New ICT company, leading  the 4
th Industrial Revolution that will change  
the world as we know it.SK Telecom: 
A Global New ICT Leader
Global New ICT Leader, 
SK Telecom
Digital Transformation
Future TechnologyInternet of Things
Media Platform2 3 2 3SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  
 Unlocking 
the potential 
of ICT Innovation
In the 4th Industrial Revolution, everything is becoming hyper-connected 
and hyper-intelligent through ICT. SK Telecom is keeping one step ahead of 
its competitors through hard work and constant innovation. These efforts, along with our mobile communication services, have allowed us to stand as a leader in 
 
this New ICT ecosystem. 
We are primed to evolve into a global New ICT leader, encompassing new 
businesses and technologies in addition to mobile network operator (MNO), media, Internet of Things (IoT), commerce, and digital transformation (DT) services and technologies, backed by differentiated competitive edges in our core assets of network infrastructures and artificial intelligence (AI). 
Our New ICT will enrich and innovate our customers’ lives, creating a more 
convenient and prosperous world. media IoT mno commerce enabler new biz / new tech
AI
Infra 
neW 
IcT 
company Leading industry 4.0
through competitive advantage 
in AI & Infra4 5SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  
5G networks: 
a revolutionary technology leading the new ICT world 
The backbone of New ICT, which will be the heart of the 4th Industrial 
Revolution, are network infrastructures including 5G technologies.  
The 5G networks, which enable ultra-high speed, ultra-low latency, and 
ultra-massive data processing, are the foundations of MNO, AI, media, IoT, and commerce business portfolios, and have been expanded into New ICT businesses such as VR, AR, AI robots, and self-driving cars. 
SK Telecom plans to focus on developing key technologies, building 
infrastructures, and strengthening global partnerships to commercialize 5G technology by 2019. At the same time, we will continue to improve our customers’ lives by providing optimized products and services for 5G networks. Based on fast and efficient 5G networks, we will accomplish seamless New ICT infrastructures. 6 7SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  
SK Telecom’s media platforms, which encompass wired and wireless platforms including IPTV 
and OTT, enable users to access and enjoy desired content on a wide range of devices anytime, anywhere without worrying about being disconnected. Our "oksusu" wired and wireless media platforms in particular are expanding their territories into new viewing experience in linkage with AR and VR, in addition to offering optimized content and services for individual preferences. 
Furthermore, IPTV will continue to evolve into an open media and home platform, and 
"oksusu" will continue to grow into a global media platform through strategic alliances. Offering personalized and differentiated content, our next-generation media platforms will always allow users to have unique and immersive experiences.  Enjoying next generation media, 
beyond the constraints of time and space8 9SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  
The Internet of Things (IoT) is a new type of platform that connects all 
digitalized devices such as speakers, TVs, and automobiles. SK Telecom is embodying true IoT with boundless and borderless connectivity in a variety of future devices, such as smart homes and connected cars, based on its network infrastructures and intelligent cloud technologies.
Notably, we are working with various global companies to develop self-
driving cars, and are expected to provide safe and efficient future travel by quickly and accurately sharing data with external equipment while driving.Our differentiated IoT platforms will allow for an unprecedented new and exciting hyper-connected society.Opening a hyper-
connected society with boundless and borderless IoT10 11SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  
Hearing your favorite music, choosing a film on TV, adjusting the temperature and humidity 
at home, or managing your schedule by a simple voice command, are all quite possible with the voice recognition-based AI assistant, NUGU. This is just the beginning, though: 
 
we are working constantly to bring even greater technological wonders to our customers.
SK Telecom will secure the nation's highest levels of AI capabilities by advancing its current 
natural user interface (NUI) and intelligence technologies. Based on this, we will continue to enhance the competitiveness of our products and services, including MNO, media, IoT and commerce, and take the initiative in the AI ecosystem. Through these efforts, we will introduce evolved AI platforms that will offer personalized search and recommendation services with the ability to converse on a human level. Smooth and convenient daily lives with AI assistants are now just in our imagination, but will soon become a reality. Providing a way to enrich life 
with personalized AI platforms12 13SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  
SK Telecom aims to develop a free and convenient global commerce 
environment, without online and offline borders and restrictions on media or devices. We will offer total life care services which have never before been available, suggesting integrated and individualized commerce for each person by linking with AI and IoT platforms in the future. 
 
This innovation will be based on our extensive commerce capabilities, ranging from the “11street” online open market and offline to online (O2O) services to settlement platforms, digital content, and digital advertising. Our commerce services, which elevate the simple act of shopping to a true life experience, will make our world easier and more convenient. Delivering an intelligent 
commerce experience that interprets underlying needs14 15SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  
The 4th Industrial Revolution era is an ICT-centered economy, making 
ICT a key competitiveness factor in all industries. The Industry 4.0, in 
which market competition rules are completely changing with a focus on ICT, presents us with a great challenge as well as a new opportunity to become a leader in this new economy.
SK Telecom will lead the Industry 4.0 by going beyond mobile 
communications and briskly advancing into New ICT-based businesses, while supporting digital transformation of other brick-and-mortar industries by demonstrating strong ICT competencies based on infrastructures and AI. We will be the first to realize the 4
th Industrial 
Revolution that is reshaping the future for all.Possibilities 
and opportunities 
in new ICT centered economySK Telecom Annual Report 2016  // ABOUT US SK Telecom Annual Report 2016  // INSIDE THIS yEAR'S REPORT16 17
ABOUT US INSIDE THIS yEAR’S REPORT
BUSINESS CASE 1. NEW  ICT C OMPAN y  046
BUSINESS CASE 2. SOCIAL  & OPEN  INNOVATION   050
BUSINESS CASE 3. SOCIAL  AND  ENVIRONMENTAL  P&L 05402 meARSuRIng ouR Imp AcTLETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS 020
BOARD  OF DIRECTORS 024
OUR  BUSINESS  MODEL 026
yEAR  2016 A CHIEVEMENTS  028
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUES 036
PROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUES 04201 comp Any oveRvIeW
GOVERNACE  REPORT 060
RISK  MANAGEMENT  REPORT 066
TRANSPARENC y REPORT 072
HUNMAN  RIGHTS  REPORT 075
SUPPL y CHAIN  REPORT 07803 AccounTAbIlIT y
FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  084
FINANCIAL  MD &A 091
NON-FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS 098
NON-FINANCIAL  MD &A 100
INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS ' REPORT  114
THIRD-PART y ASSURANCE  STATEMENT  115
GREENHOUSE  GAS  ASSURANCE  STATEMENT  11804 FInAncIAl & non-FInAncIAl STATemenTS
CEO  HUMAN  RIGHTS  STATEMENT  120
SUPPLIER  ESG  CODE  OF CONDUCT  122
GRI INDEx  124
SASB  INDEx  129
UN GLOBAL  COMPACT 130
NON-CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  132
SK TELECOM  GLOBAL  NETWORK  138
INVESTOR  INFORMATION  13905 oTheR InFoRmATIonOn its foundation as a South Korean mobile telecommunications service, SK Telecom is evolving 
into a New ICT company with core competencies such as AI, media, IoT and commerce. SK Telecom, as of December 31, 2016, had 29.6 million subscribers and is leading South Korea's ICT ecosystem through the world 'best' and 'first' technology services.
* Including MVNO, as of December 31, 2016 
1984.03.29
29.6 million(*)
4,39938Korea Stock Exchange
New york Stock Exchange
London Stock Exchange 
Date of Establishment
Number of Subscribers
Number of Executives & Employees Number of Subsidiary CompaniesStock Exchange Registration Status  
 HIGHLIGHTS  OF  SK T ELECOM
Treasury Stock  12.55%
SK Corp 25.22%
National Pension Fund 
8.87%Instituional Investors and 
Minority Shareholders 53.36%SHAREHOLDER  STATUS  
ToTAl 
100% 19
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW18SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
letter to Stakeholders
board of Directorsour business modelyear 2016 Achievements
long-term management Issuesprogress on material Issues2024262836421Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview20 21SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
Distinguished Stakeholders,
LAST y EAR , 2016, WAS A y EAR IN WHICH SK T ELECOM 
TOOK A BOLD STEP FORWARD IN THE NEW ICT SECTOR .
The arrival of the 4th Industrial Revolution has become a topic whose significance 
is touching not only the ICT industry but nearly every imaginable industry. With its 
differentiated and customer-oriented products and services, SK Telecom has innovated 
its business model to lead the 4th Industrial Revolution in mobile telecommunications, 
media, IoT and platform services. As evidence of its ability to meet the challenges of the times, SK Telecom became the first company in the world to successfully demonstrate 
a 5G-based handover and connected car technologies last year. It also laid the 
groundwork to lead the new ICT paradigm by launching Korea's first voice recognition 
artificial intelligence (AI) device, NUGU. As a result of these efforts, SK Telecom reported 
financial results of KRW 17,091.8 billion in revenue as well as KRW 1,535.7 billion in operating profit on a consolidated basis in 2016. Furthermore, SK Telecom continued 
making history by receiving the highest levels of external assessments across all of 
its management activities, as demonstrated by: its efforts as a United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) LEAD company; its status as the first Asian telecommunications 
company to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World for the ninth consecutive year; maintenance of the highest possible grade of “Excellent” in the 
Win-Win Index for the fourth consecutive year; and its first-place ranking in the National 
Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) for two decades (as of 2017).
SK T ELECOM IS COMMITTED TO 
SUCCESSFULL y BUILDING THE NEW ICT ECOS ySTEM 
AND LEADING THE 4TH INDUSTRIAL  REVOLUTION .
The 4th Industrial Revolution will restructure all industries to center around ICT innovation 
based on high connectivity and high intelligence while accelerating global competition. 
Responding to such changes with its key competitive edges in infrastructure and AI, SK 
Telecom is preparing to become a new global ICT company by expanding the business 
portfolios of its MNO, media, IoT, commerce and Enabler businesses and optimizing 
corporate value.
In MNO sector in 2016, SK Telecom differentiated and strengthened the competitiveness 
of its products and services while leading the new competition paradigm which is 
customer-retention oriented. It focused on providing customized benefits only available through SK Telecom by launching customer-preferred rate plans such as 'T signature' 
and 'Band playpack.' SK Telecom will strive to enhance its reputation as the top service LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
Jung ho park
President and CEO, SK TelecomMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
22 23SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
provider by offering customers services optimized for both wired and wireless networks, 
while focusing on reinforcing the competitiveness of its MNO services and products as 
well as customer communication based on thorough data analysis.
The network infrastructure of telecommunication operators is projected to become the 
key to actualizing and universalizing ICT convergence business models that will lead the 
4th Industrial Revolution. SK Telecom participates in 5G technological standardization 
initiatives with global telecommunication operators and equipment manufacturers. It successfully demonstrated the world's first 5G-based handover mechanism in September 
and 5G connected car technologies in November 2016, proving the potential of its 5G 
technologies. It will prepare content and services made for 5G and strive to become a 
service provider that leads innovative business models with the ultra-high speed, low latency and expandability of 5G, aiming to commercialize 5G services by 2019.
In media/home sector, SK Telecom will increase the number of fixed-line and wireless 
IPTV subscribers and create continuous growth in content revenue. SK Telecom's 
mobile media platform, oksusu, improved customer satisfaction by personalizing 
services, offering more advanced content recommendations and strengthening 
content competiveness. It has found its place as one of the main growth engines of the media business. SK Telecom’s wired and wireless media platform will thrive as a 
next-generation media platform by offering globally competitive content through 
exceptional investments and cooperation with various service providers while launching 
new business models based on AI and big data. 
SK Telecom will focus on its digital transformation business in the IoT sector to 
provide customers with new value by innovating its existing businesses based on 
the competitiveness of its core infrastructure. It is ready to lead the digitization of the 
industry by providing smart home services optimized for personalized environments based on seamless connectivity among devices, connected car services and the analysis 
of big data accumulated with each interaction in the Internet of things (IoT). In the 
IoT sector, SK Telecom will accelerate growth in the B2C and B2B divisions through 
the development of innovative services and products by concentrating on the ICT 
capabilities that exist within the wider Group including SK C&C and SK Hynix. 
To become a frontrunner in the global competition, SK Telecom will create top-class 
platforms centered around its existing services with competitive advantages such as 
NUGU and T map. Korea's first voice recognition AI device NUGU was launched by SK Telecom in September 2016 and proved the potential of the market for personalized 
AI platforms. SK Telecom's unique voice recognition AI platform technologies will lead 
new markets through efforts such as the continuous advancement of key technologies 
and diversification of services while building open ecosystems and collaborating with 
commerce-IoT platforms. 
SK T ELECOM WILL BECOME A GLOBAL NEW ICT COMPAN y July 2017
Jung ho park
President and CEO, SK TelecomTHAT GROWS WITH SOCIET y
THROUGH  INNOVATIVE , WIN -WIN  LEADERSHIP .
SK Telecom revised its Articles of Incorporation at the General Shareholders’ Meeting in March 2017 to include the revised version of SKMS, SK Group’s management system, and 
to focus on the satisfaction of all stakeholders. The new Articles of Incorporation declares 
that companies shall not only contribute to economic development but also grow with 
society by creating social value. The Group’s philosophy now states that its companies 
shall not only consider short-term growth as the factor of success but also consider 
sustainable future value creation. This illustrates SK Telecom's management philosophy 
that a company's success is based not only on short-term growth but also on sustainable 
value creation with consideration of the stakeholders. To put this philosophy into 
practice, SK Telecom will simultaneously pursue not only financial outcomes but also the social value that it creates, all with the aim of enjoying growth together with society. 
SK Telecom is committed to going beyond telecommunications and growing as a new 
ICT leader to bring about the changes of the future. SK Telecom will create sustainable 
results in the new ICT sector by innovating business models while also thriving together 
with society as it leads the ICT ecosystem. 
I would like to thank our loyal customers, investors and stakeholders for your continued 
interest and support as SK Telecom ushers in a promising future marked by change. 
Thank you.
Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview24 25
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
BOARD OF DIRECTORSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
TO  SECURE  TRANSPARENC y  IN  THE  DECISION -MAKING  PROCESS  AND  ACHIEVE  EFFICIENC y VIA CHECKS AND 
BALANCES , SK T ELECOM HAS ESTABLISHED AN INDEPENDENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE . SK T ELECOM ’S 
BOARD OF D IRECTORS (BOD) CONSISTS OF ONE E xECUTIVE DIRECTOR , ONE N ON-ExCEUTIVE D IRECTOR AND FOUR 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS FOR A TOTAL OF SI x DIRECTORS . ALL INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS SATISF y SK T ELECOM ’S 
REqUIREMENTS  FOR  'INDEPENDENCE  AND  ExPERTISE .'=BOARD OF DIRECTORS
March 2017
President & CEO of SK Telecom (2017~present)
President & CEO of SK Holdings C&C (2015~2016)
EVP of Corporate Development Division of SK C&C (2013~2014)
Member of the Independent Director 
Recommendation CommitteeMarch 2013
President of Jeil T&M (2016-present)
Advisor for BKL LLC (2008-2016)
Commissioner of the Seoul Regional Tax Office (2007-2008)
Member of the Audit Committee
Member of the Compensation Committee
Member of the Independent Director
Recommendation Committee
Member of the CAPEx Review CommitteeJae- hoon l ee
Chairman of the Board
Independent DirectorJung h o park
President & CEO
Dae-Shick o h
Independent Director March 2014
President of Korea Polytechnic University (2014-present)
Vice Minister of the Knowledge & Economy Ministry (2008-2009)
Vice Minister of the Industry & Resources Ministry (2007-2008)
Member of the Audit Committee
Member of the Corporate Citizenship Committee
Member of the Compensation Committee
Member of the CAPEx Review CommitteeJung h o Ahn
Independent DirectorDaesik c ho
Non-executive Director
Jae-hyeon Ahn
Independent Director
March 2014
Chief Professor of KAIST AIM Program (2015-present)
Dean of the External Dept. 
at KAIST College of Business (2013-2015)
Dean of KAIST Graduate School of Information 
& Media Management (2011-2013)
Member of the Audit Committee
Member of the Corporate Citizenship Committee
Recommendation Committee
Member of the CAPEx Review Committee
Member of the CAPEx Review CommitteeMarch 2017
Chairman of the SK SUPEx Council (2017-present)
President & CEO of SK Holdings (2013-2016)
Head of Financial and Risk Management & Corporate Auditing Office 
and Head of Business Management Office at SK Holdings (2011-2012)
March 2017
Associate Professor, Graduate School of Convergence Science 
and Technology, Seoul National University (2013-present)
Visiting Scholar, Google Inc. (2016)
Senior Research Scientist of 
Exascale Computing Lab, HP Labs (2007~2009)
Member of the Corporate Citizenship Committee
Member of the Compensation Committee
Member of the CAPEx Review CommitteeMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview26 27SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS MODELSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
ENABLERTransformation partner for the ICT capability-based industry
NEW VERTICAL BIz.
    Enter new markets and gain competitive advantages through ICT-based innovative strategiesnew IcT ecosystem leader to pioneer the 4th Industrial 
Revolution
For the past three decades, SK Telecom’s networks have connected 
people with the world and evolved towards a new future. SK Telecom, a company that has pioneered the history of South Korea’s wireless communications with unprecedented services and advanced technology, is now preparing for a new evolution based on an innovative business portfolio in new ICT areas such as the artificial intelligence (AI), media and IoT sectors.As the leader of the new ICT ecosystem, SK Telecom is driving innovation and growth to meet the demands of the 4
th Industrial 
Revolution era in which everything is connected and intelligent. In pursuit of this vision, while SK Telecom is expanding its ICT business portfolio and unfurling Digital Transformation Enabler businesses in other industries with its ICT capabilities, the company also seeks full-scale future growth through disruptive strategies based on ICT.OUR BUSINESS MODEL
INFRA-
STRUCTURE
Redefine SK Telecom’s role and business 
method by combining its existing core asset,  
the network, with the cloud
• Expand and differentiate connectivity
• Evolve into the network of the future, e.g. 5G
•Strengthen the competitiveness of  
the AI-based cloud
AI
Core foundation to differentiate and advance the 
competitiveness of all businesses 
• Realize NUI* at the level of human speech
• Secure differentiated intelligence element technology
• Secure data and build analysis systems
• Form the ecosystem through open-source AI technology
*NUI: Natural User InterfaceINITIATIVES  
INITIATIVES  ExPAND  THE  NEW ICT PORTFOLIO ENTER OTHER INDUSTR yS' DOMAINS
 COREMNO
MEDIA•  Growing sustainably by innovating 
business models
•  Innovating businesses by 
understanding customers through 
data analysis
•  Redefine BMs by considering the changing future environment, 
develop 5G products/services
•  (B tv) Evolution of the open-type  “Media & Home Platform”
•  (OTT) Strengthen content competitiveness  
and pursue BM innovation/global businesses through strategic alliances
•  Secure flexibility for forming the open-type 
platform
•  Promote the service gate as a meta platform
•  Offer data-based individualized services
•  Innovate the AI platform-based BM
•  Build the AI ecosystem and strengthen leadership 
•  Create profit through commerce-media/IoT connection
•  Promote SK Planet’s e-Commerce 
business growth
COMMERCEIOTcApITAl InpuT buSIneSS AcTIvITIeS cApITAl ouTpuT
FINANCIAL  CAPITAL
•  Creating profit and returns 
•  Shareholder returns
•  Contributing to GDP growth (indirect 
economic value)
HUMAN  CAPITAL
•  Direct and indirect job creation 
•  Fostering ICT talents and improving 
human capital
INTELLECTUAL  CAPTIAL
•  Technological development through 
innovative ICT, products, services and 
solutions
•  Contribution to a social innovative 
technology
MANUFACTURED  CAPITAL
•  IT infrastructure that contributes to personal lives and business productivity 
(LTE- & IoT-exclusive networks)
SOCIAL  & NETWORK  CAPITAL  
•  Improving social capital through increasing 
access to internet
•  Enhancing lifestyle value through communication
NATURAL  CAPITAL
•  Reducing social GHG through ICT
•  Contribution to the climate change 
response and adaptation through 
technologyFINANCIAL  CAPITAL
SK Telecom is listed on the Korea Stock Exchange, New york 
Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange. As SK Telecom’s 
business relies upon the financial capital provided by 
shareholders and investors, it strives to maximize shareholder value through dividends and the shareholder return policy.
HUMAN  CAPITAL
In recognition of the fact that human capital is a pivotal part of SK Telecom’s business model and that competent 
individuals contribute to innovation and excellent business 
performance, policies are implemented to attract and retain excellent employees and due diligence is performed to respect 
and uphold human rights in the business processes.
INTELLECTUAL  CAPTIAL
SK Telecom recognizes the importance of patented technology 
in the course of business and considers it to be a significant 
type of capital. Policies to foster the ICT ecosystem including 
open innovation, big data hubs and open platforms are SK Telecom’s approach to sharing its strengths and enhancing the 
value and efficiency of the use of joint intellectual properties 
of society.
MANUFACTURED  CAPITAL
SK Telecom’s businesses are dependent on physical  
infrastructural assets such as networks, the stability and 
sustainability of which are maintained through efficient investment.
SOCIAL  & NETWORK  CAPITAL  
While establishing cooperative relationships with various stakeholders including business partners and the government 
based on customer trust, SK Telecom is striving to earn more 
trust and respect by fulfilling its CSR and making efforts to contribute to society and create shared value.
NATURAL  CAPITAL
The operation of nationwide networks and data centers requires large amounts of electric power, and such use of 
energy leads to indirect GHG emissions. Accordingly, efforts 
are being made to improve the environmental capital through the use of ICT solutions and research to reduce social GHG 
emissions.•  Equip the business system for digital 
transformation 
•  Establish joint growth models based on partnerships with key players
•  Internalize domain knowledge and strengthen SK Telecom’s consultancy capabilities
•  Enter new markets through innovative ICT capability-based strategies 
•  Grow sustainably on the basis of an innovative core business modelMEANING
 
DIRECTIONMNO
Create differentiated customer value 
through data analysis/usage and customer 
channel innovation
Strengthen customer relationships through Deep 
Change in business models
MEDIA  
Secure customer time share with 
differentiated content
Promote the evolution of the open-type media 
platform and global BM, and offer augmented reality (AR)/virtual reality (VR) linked differentiated viewing experiencesMEANING
 
DIRECTION
IOT 
Realize seamless connection between diverse 
future devices including homes and cars
Strengthen business innovation and ecosystem 
leadership by dominating the service gateway and through individualized servicesMEANING
 
DIRECTION
MEANING
 
DIRECTIONCOMMERCE  
Innovate the digital commerce-based 
business model
Connect media/IoT and e-Commerce, promote core 
businesses, e.g. digital contentMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview28 29SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS   Business Performance and outlookSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS    Business Performance and outlook
FROM THE INNOVATION AND GROWTH IN ITS TELECOMMUNICATIONS BUSI -
NESS , SK T ELECOM WILL DEVELOP A BUSINESS PORTFOLIO BEFITTING A NEW 
ICT COMPAN y THAT IS LEADING THE 4TH INDUSTRIAL  REVOLUTION  AND  DRIVE  
FUTURE  VALUE  CREATION .BECOMING  
A NEW ICT C OMPANy TO LEAD  
THE 4TH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION
2016 PERFORMANCE
becoming a new IcT c ompany that Surpasses mobile Telecommunications
In 2016, SK Telecom did not simply maintain its leadership in the MNO sphere but successfully 
drove changes to become a leading company in the new ICT ecosystem. Firstly, SK Telecom’s commitment to act according to the company’s principle of rejecting wasteful market share competition in the mobile telecommunications marketplace and embracing a competitive paradigm focused on products and services whose value customers can experience has remained unchanged. Underpinned by the company’s meticulous big data analysis, SK Telecom further cemented the competitiveness of its products and services in 2016. By creating a new market centered around handsets and forming an efficient market operating system, the company sought to prepare a 
springboard for stable profit margins and growth. 
The Band Data Rate Plan, which offers the best level of data capacity and benefits in the industry, reached a record of about 12.55 million subscribers. Due to the constantly increasing demand for data and growth in premium rate plan subscribers, more than 40% of all handset upgrade subscribers chose to take part in either the Band Data Perfect or the 59 Rate Plan. In this way, SK Telecom has continued to innovate the primary business structure of the MNO sector and firmly asserted its status as a market leader. Furthermore, as SK Telecom discovers new business models that exceed existing competitive paradigms and suit the age of the 4
th industrial revolution, in which everything is becoming 
more converged and intelligent, it seeks to become South Korea’s representative new ICT company. On the one hand, as SK Telecom further cements its leadership as the No. 1 company in the MNO sector, it is also coming from a place of strength in its artificial intelligence (AI) platform to extend its business portfolio upon the two major axes of media and IoT and has successfully prepared a base for the new ICT ecosystem.  
maintaining Solid business Fundamentals and overcoming growth limits
In 2016, SK Telecom achieved KRW 17.918 trillion in annual revenue and KRW 1.5357 
trillion in operating profit according to the consolidated financial statements of the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFFS). Despite growth limits in the domestic telecommunications market, SK Telecom maintained revenue volume at last year’s level, but operating profit decreased 10.1% compared to last year because of increased payment and sales commissions and depreciation costs. An annual net profit of KRW 1.6601 trillion was recorded, a 9.5% increase since 2015 due to the impact of gains on disposal from LOEN and POSCO. In terms of the overall financial performance in 2016, although profits decreased somewhat due to the impact of a temporary rise in expenses to respond to competition and losses experienced by subsidiaries, the company’s business fundamentals remain solid, as demonstrated by the fact that revenues from mobile telecommunications grew year-over-year and revenues from media have continuously taken a favorable turn. Moving forward, SK Telecom will continue to conduct its management so that the quality of the consolidated performance including subsidiaries will improve. 201316,602
2,011
201417,164
1,825
201517,137
1,708
201617,092 
1,536 
Operational Revenue (Consolidated) Operational Profit (Consolidated) EBITDA (Consolidated)
Operational Revenue (NonConsolidated) Operational Profit (Non-Consolidated) EBITDA (Non-Consolidated)201312,860
1,9704,08513,013
1,7373,946
201412,557
1,6593,939
201512,351 
1,7824,137
20164,8134,717 4,701 4,603PERFORMANCE  BASED  ON  CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS (KRW billion)
PERFORMANCE  BASED  ON  NON -CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS (KRW billion)Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview30 31SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS   Business Performance and outlookSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS    Business Performance and outlook
>		Set a goal of achieving KRW 17.8 
trillion in revenue by accelerating new business growth
>		Strengthen core ICT and capabilities, e.g. 5G, big data and AI
>		Achieve revenue turnaround in MNO by deepening understanding of customers through data analysis-based marketing, etc.
>		Strengthen the media platform and lead the home/automobile centered IoT ecosystem
>		Pursue Digital Transformation Enabler 
businesses and expand the business 
modelsSTRATEGIES  FOR  2017role as an essential infrastructure that strengthens innovation in the MNO, media, IoT and commerce businesses. With a focus on NUGU, which features 
AI technology, SK Telecom will expand the domestic market and simultaneously seek to make the company’s AI reach a world-class level while leading the open-type industry ecosystem that will pioneer the AI-related industry and market through technological alliances and cooperation.
growth as a global new IcT leader by expanding the IcT capability-based business model
SK Telecom is building the ecosystem and engaging in standardization activities together with major ICT companies to achieve the world’s first 
commercialization of a 5G service by 2019 and plans to construct the world’s first experimental network by the end of 2017. SK Telecom is leading efforts to develop and standardize 5G-related technology such as by proposing the network slice interconnection technology, a key 5G technology, and the world’s first 5G overseas roaming and handover demonstration. Ultimately, SK Telecom will identify new business models suitable for 5G technology’s characteristics based on the company’s telecommunications and ICT capabilities. The company will also lead the 4
th 
Industrial Revolution by creating new ICT business models utilizing AI and virtualization technology with the data that is increasing due to greater connectivity.  As existing businesses in other industries go through digital transformation, SK Telecom will pursue enabler businesses that fulfill a critical capacity in this process due to its ICT capabilities such as the ability to implement a 5G technology-based hyper-connected era, AI and big data. Thus, SK Telecom will grow as a global new ICT leader that creates future market opportunities and new value. 
Shareholder Return policy
SK Telecom made corporate value innovation a top priority and put forth great efforts to improve value for stakeholders including shareholders 
and investors. From 2015, SK Telecom has raised the total dividends to KRW 10,000 per share as of DPS (Dividend per share) including an interim dividend of KRW 1,000. The company will make efforts to increase corporate value by maintaining a balance between growth investments and shareholder returns. 
National Customer 
Satisfaction Index (NCSI)In 2017, SK Telecom was the first company  
ever to take the No. 1 spot in the mobile  
telecommunications sector of the National Customer 
Satisfaction Index (NCSI) for 20 consecutive years. Ever since the NCSI was first conducted by the 
Korea Productivity Center in 1998, SK Telecom has 
been awarded the No. 1 ranking without fail. Not only that but in October 2016 the company has 
been ranked first in the mobile telecommunications 
sector of the Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) conducted by the Korea Management 
Association for 19 consecutive years. SK Telecom 
has also been honored with the No. 1 ranking in the Korean Standards Association’s Korean Standard 
Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) in July 2016 for the 
17th straight year. 
SK Telecom holds the Customer Experience 
Management (CEM), which seeks the highest customer value and customer empathy, as the standard for the company’s decision-making and 
conduct. During the monthly customer-oriented 
management meeting, the CEO and executives gather to hear and discuss customer opinions 
in order to determine the company’s direction. 
Furthermore, to implement customer value on a companywide level, SK Telecom operates a 
customer-oriented management organization. 
SK Telecom’s ability to rank No. 1 in the NCSI 
for two decades despite the highly competitive 
environment is a result of each employee working according to customer-oriented management with 
the aim of providing the best value to customers. SK 
Telecom will further establish the customer-oriented management system, which prioritizes customer 
value in every circumstance, and become a company 
that grows sustainably with its customers.cASe
no. 1
 in c ustomer Satisfaction 
for 20 y ears200892682
2009680
2010670
2011208656
2012655
2013656
2014667
2015489708
2016706
Payout Ratio (*) (%)53% 53%
34%39%53%73%65% 64%
58%
(*) Cash dividend/current net profit x 100 Repurchase of Shares Cash Dividends210ANNUAL  SCALE  OF  SHAREHOLDER  RETURNS (KRW billion)2017 FUTURE  PLANS  AND  OUTLOOK
In 2017, SK Telecom will lead the ecosystem of the new ICT age and discover new businesses 
based on the new ecosystem. SK Telecom plans to achieve KRW 17.8 trillion in operating profit, which is 4.1% more than the previous year. 
Telecommunications business - Strengthen the c ompetitiveness of Data Analysis-
based Services and c ommunications
SK Telecom seeks to outwardly expand the new ICT business to overcome the growth limits 
of the telecommunications industry. Within the telecommunications business, the company looks to lead the firm growth of its core businesses by strengthening its product · service competitiveness based on advanced data analysis of the market and by enhancing customer communication. In the context of the customer retention-based, stabilized market competition, SK Telecom plans to expand its base of new net subscribers centered around handsets, which forms the foundation for revenue growth. By leading the handset attraction competitive system, which is quality-oriented and cost efficient, the company also plans to reinforce its stable profit and growth base. In addition, from the wired and wireless integration perspective, SK Telecom will pursue added value suitable for the customer structure and implement the MNO revenue turnaround.
media - growth as a Total media platform provider
In the media platform sphere, SK Telecom has successfully attracted a total of 10.52 million 
fixed and wireless broadcast subscribers including 3.97 million B tv subscribers as of the end of 2016. Along with the successful launch of the integrated mobile channel, SK Telecom was reborn as a total media platform business by continuing the basis for growth through the outward expansion of media and development of new business models. With a focus on SK Broadband, SK Telecom plans to grow the subscriber base for premium rate plans such as giga internet and UHD broadcasts, as well as increase the competitiveness of the media business including IPTV through enhanced content competitiveness and linkage with the mobile channel oksusu. Meanwhile, SK Telecom has strengthened its data analysis system and based on the analysis of the elaborate content use patterns, the company will provide customized content optimized for user personalization. 
IoT - Focused pursuit of Digital Transformer businesses through existing business 
Innovation 
In the IoT platform sphere, SK Telecom has been leading the expansion of the open-
type ecosystem based on the completion of its hybrid IoT-exclusive network including the commercialization of the LoRa national network in 2016. During this time, the company also focused on entering markets within key areas such as production and public services. On the one hand, while SK Telecom identified promising public service-oriented products in 2017, the company also plans to help build the eco-system by developing new solutions through partnerships. Additionally, SK Telecom will innovate the home and automobile sectors with its core infrastructure including IoT, data and AI, and the company will also provide new customer value by enabling digital transformation across the entire industry. 
AI - Advance AI technology such as voice recognition and lead the ecosystem
The voice recognition device NUGU that SK Telecom launched last September has enjoyed a growth in users due to its excellent ability to recognize the Korean language. The company will actualize an exquisite level of natural language recognition and continue to advance its AI technology including analysis and inference. In the future, NUGU, which utilizes AI technology, will evolve into an AI assistant capable of providing optimized individualized service through device diversification, advancement of audio recognition technology, improvement of search-recommendation algorithms and strengthening the knowledge database. As the representative technology that will lead the 4
th Industrial Revolution, AI will not only disrupt all industries but is also expected to play a Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview32 33
Following SK Hynix’s experimental production of the nation’s first 16Kb SRAM in 1984, the 
company has solidified its technological leadership by presenting innovative semiconductor products in the marketplace that exemplify the world’s first – smallest – fastest – lowest voltage products. SK Hynix is making a new effort to become a global ‘memory-based semiconductor solution company’ that develops semiconductor items with telecommunications synergy made possible through convergence with SK Telecom. As SK Hynix responded flexibly to changes in the memory market owing to global issues during 2016, the company concentrated on profitability-focused management and thus demonstrated a strong performance in the latter half of the year. However, due to deteriorating market conditions stemming from sudden price fluctuations, the company’s revenue and operating profit stood reduced compared to the previous year at about KRW 17.198 trillion and KRW 3.2767 trillion respectively. Recently the semiconductor industry is gradually shifting from easily mass-produced simple products to more diversified application fields. Furthermore, due to convergence, the competitive paradigm is rapidly evolving from one oriented around cost competitiveness by improving productivity through CAPEx expenditures to a profitability-oriented one achieved by improving product value.  SK Hynix is not content to remain within the friendly memory market environment, but through the development of advanced technology and applied technology as well as the development of composite application products that combine memory controllers and firmware, the company will accelerate the Deep Change of the future, and SK Hynix will strive to continually achieve stability and growth despite the market changes that may occur. CREATING T OTAL V ALUE THROUGH  
HARDWARE - NETWORK - C ONTENT  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS   suBsidiary
*K-IFRS Consolidated Basis20133,380
2016 2015 201414,165
5,10917,126
5,33618,798
3,27717,198
Operating Profit Revenue201310.7
2016 2015 201426.6
10.827.1
12.627.3
11.826.0
* Calculated according to IDC March 2017 revenue NAND Flash DRAMSK Hy NIx P ERFORMANCE (KRW billion) MARKET  SHARE (%)SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS   Business Performance and outlook
OPERATIONAL  REVIEW  
lTe Subscribers and Data usage per person   The number of LTE subscribers and volume of data usage per person is steadily increasing. 
As much as customers’ needs related to data and actual usage amount are growing, SK Telecom will both enhance the value that customers experience and leverage this into revenue growth through innovative services based on data analysis and a diverse product lineup.
Penetration Rate (%) No. of LTE Subscribers (million people)201416.7
201519.0
1Q 1619.5
2Q 1620.0
3Q 1620.5
4Q 1621.159.2%66.3%67.5%68.7%69.8%71.2%MONTHL y LTE D ATA U SAGE P ER P ERSON
1Q 14 2Q 14 3Q 14 4Q 14 1Q 15 2Q 15 3Q 15 4Q 15 1Q 16 2Q 16 3Q 16 4Q 162.12.62.93.0 3.03.33.73.94.25.1
4.65.2(GB)LTE S UBSCRIBERS (million people)
IcT convergence Service users    As of the end of 2016, the number of 2nd device subscribers reached 1 million and continues to indicate a rising 
trend. Due to active marketing efforts and stronger content creation, as of the fourth quarter of 2016, the number of unique visitors to the mobile IPTV service oksusu stood at a record 4.6 million, a substantial 30.7% rise since the previous quarter. 
4Q 15 1Q 16 2Q 16 3Q 16 4Q 165997658921,0261,090
1Q 16 2Q 16 3Q 16 4Q 162,9253,1033,5154,656
* The oksusu service was launched on January 28, 20162ND  DEVICE  SUBSCRIBERS (thousand people) UNIQUE V ISITORS TO ' oksusu' (thousand people)marketing expenses and cApeX    Marketing expenses, at 24%, are on a downward trend compared to revenue owing to the easing of the 
overheated competition after market stabilization. Additionally, CAPEx is also showing a downward trend at about KRW 2 billion.
20113.24
20123.47
20133.43
20143.57
20153.06
20162.9525.8%28.2%
26.7%27.5%
24.3%23.9%
Proportion Compared to Operating Profit Marketing Expenses2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20162.3
0.50.3
0.4
0.4
0.5
1.41.50.5
1.71.92.6
1.82.9
2.32.11.92.0
Non-Network CAPEx Network CAPExMARKETING  Ex PENSES  (N ON -CONSOLIDATED ) (KRW billion) CAPE x (NON -CONSOLIDATED ) (KRW billion)Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview34 35
SK Planet is an integrated & personalized commerce company that connects the online and 
offline worlds and reinvents the possibilities of mobile. By offering diverse online to offline (O2O) services that blur the line between marketplace services that deliver a mobile commerce experience optimized to the digital age and on/offline shopping, SK Planet is leading the way in the true next commerce era.In 2016, although the company’s operating loss increased due to the impact of its active market operation activities, total revenue reached KRW 1.1709 trillion in 2016 and when excluding the effect of the LBS business organization split, the amount of revenue increased about 8% compared to the previous year. In particular, 11st’s revenue increased by 38%, contributing to the total revenue growth. SK Planet mutually connected the market platforms including 11st and OCB with differentiated data and technology from to create a more integrated and individualized commerce play. Thus, the company strengthened its leadership in the online/mobile arena, which continues to experience high-level growth, and became ranked No. 1 in UV(Unique Visitor) in the e-Commerce market in 2016. SK Planet is setting its sights on becoming the leading business in the general distribution category domestically by 2025. Starting with the commercialization of the world’s first ADSL service and Korea’s first high-speed wireless internet service, SK Broadband continuously expanded its business areas to include multimedia such as IPTV and mobile OTT and is leading a new paradigm in the domestic information communication business. In 2016, SK Broadband’s revenue experienced 7.7% year-over-year growth to reach KRW 2.943 trillion due to increased revenue from services such as high-speed internet and IPTV. By improving efficiency in expenses, the company succeeded in achieving reliable profit growth. SK Broadband attracted a total of 5.21 million high-speed internet subscribers, 4.28 million fixed-line phone subscribers and 3.97 million IPTV subscribers. SK Broadband is concentrating on improving quality and service by offering differentiated services and enhancing subscribers’ convenience through expanded distribution. The company continues to make progress in shifting the subsidy-focused competition for customers to a service-focused competition in quality. Moreover, SK Broadband will find more customized content with an eye on fixed and wireless IPTV growth including B tv and oksusu. The company will also continue to improve its competitiveness as a next-generation media platform company by strengthening alliances and collaboration with content producers/distribution partners. SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS   suBsidiary
201313
2016 2015 20141,378
8.71,512
-5.91,625
- 365.21,171
Operating Profit Revenue201373
2016 2015 20142,539
582,654
642,731
822,943
Operating Profit Revenue20132,0964,569 4,568
20142,8294,810
4,514
20153,4895,036
4,450
20163,9685,207
4,278
IPTV (B tv) Fixed-line Phones (B Phone) High-speed Internet (B Internet)SK BROADBAND  PERFORMANCE (KRW billion) SK P LANET P ERFORMANCE (KRW billion) NUMBER  OF  SUBSCRIBERS (thousand people, cumulative)
(million people)
* K-IFRS consolidated basis, Increments from the merger with SK M&C in Feb. 2013 have been added.MONTHL y UV S TATUS OF M AJOR E-C OMMERCE M OBILE A PPS
Coupang Ticket Monster Wemakeprice Auction Gmarket 11st8.6
7.1
6.4
5.45.25.1
* As of Dec. 2016; Source: Nielsen Koreanclick
** UV: Unique VisitorSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
yEAR 2016 A CHIEVEMENTS   suBsidiaryMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview36 37SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUESSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUES
MATERIAL ISSUE MANAGEMENT  
FOR MID- TO L ONG- TERM V ALUE  
CREATION
SK T ELECOM REVIEWS MAN y ECONOMIC , ENVIRONMENTAL AND SO -
CIAL CHANGES THAT MA y IMPACT THE COMPAN y’S SUSTAINABILIT y 
AND FUTURE VALUE CREATION . THUS , SK T ELECOM IDENTIFIES ITS 
MATERIAL ISSUES AND DISCLOSES ITS RESPONSES AND PERFORMANCE 
REGARDING EACH ISSUE ANNUALL y. 
By material issues, SK Telecom refers to those issues that are relevant to the company’s 
business and sustainability as well as the actual level of impact that they have on the company’s stakeholders and ability to create sustainable value. To select and prioritize the company’s material issues, SK Telecom operates a materiality assessment and response process based on stakeholder participation in addition to complying with the guidance on determining reporting topics and content composition as recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and the <IR> Framework put forth by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).
Economic, environmental and social issues include global political, economic and social issues 
including the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), global regulations, mid- and long-term social change trends, issues raised by international organizations and NGOs, and known externalities within the business process. These issues are managed as an issue pool according to SK Telecom's stakeholder engagement process.
Based on the IIRC's recommendations, SK Telecom has selected the following five aspects in 
its materiality assessment process. 1) Issues that may have a continual impact on SK Telecom’s value creation, 2) Issues related to the company’s strategy, governance and performance, 3) Issues that have a significant impact on key stakeholders, 4) Issues based on boardroom discussions, and 5) Issues that may lead to the loss of potential opportunities and risk if not sufficiently managed.
SK Telecom has conducted a three-step Materiality Assessment to determine priorities for 
important issues. The first (M-1) assesses the relevance through a document-based materiality assessment process at the industry-level (peer-to-peer analysis) and at the enterprise-level (SK Telecom's strategies). The second (M-2) is a more direct process of listening to stakeholder feedback, reflecting the opinions of stakeholders raised by each issue. SK Telecom conducts a survey of stakeholders in this process to evaluate the impact that each issue has on stakeholders. Based on the evaluation results, we have prioritized the impact level by issue. The final (M-3) is a qualitative assessment of the financial impact, assessing the impact of the issue in terms of cost, revenue, and risk and reflecting it in the final issue prioritization. Through this process, SK Telecom decided on a total of 11 material issues to report on including two core, four moderate and five relevant issues in 2016. Reporing on Material 
IssuesReview by BOD
(Report to the Corporate Citizenship Committee)Step I. Identification Step II. Assessment & Valuation Step III. Approval & Reporting  
* SK Telecom’s issue pool included 33 issues organized into seven categories. Among these, six topics that must be reported as a matter of course, 
such as financial performance, governance structure and risk management, were excluded from the materiality assessment.M-1  Relevance Analysis 
•  Industry peer group disclosure analysis      
- Peer companies' reporting
• Company context analysis - vision and strategy
M-2  Stakeholder Impact Analysis
•  Direct survey of main stakeholders such as customers, business partners, employees, local communities · NGOs, shareholders, the government, etc.
M-3  Financial Materiality Adjustment •  Assessment of the level of financial impact from the revenue, costs and risk aspects and adjusting the weight given to each issueStakeholder-proposed Issues
Business Strategies and Risk Issues
International Standard Review
 • SDGs • UNGC Principles • OECD MNE Guideline• GRI Guideline• SASB Matrix• ISO 26000MATERIALIT y A SSESSMENT  PROCESS
Business 
Strategy and Risk Issues
Stakeholder-proposed Issues
International Standards Reviewconfiguring the Issue pool 
The pool was deduced from  
economic, environmental and social issues by considering the issues raised by global political, economic and social issues, regulations, mid- and long-term social change trends, international organizations and non-profit organizations (NGOs) as well as by considering the  externalities within the business process. Identification Step I
SK Telecom's economic characteristics, environment and social issues were determined 
by taking into account industry characteristics, value chain, and business strategy. Mega trends such as the 4
th Industrial Revolution, and lifestyle changes due to ICT.
•  Relevant Issues: New ICT(Media, IoT, AI), Network Quality & 5G, ICT regulations change, etc. 
The material issues raised by stakeholders through the main stakeholder channels have been included in the issue pool. Please refer to the stakeholder engagement governance information on p. 65 for more details related to SK Telecom’s stakeholder engagement and communication channels
•  Relevant Issues: Personal information and privacy protection, mutual growth, etc.
SK Telecom has referred to the global issues raised by diverse and widely supported 
international initiatives such as the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Advanced Level 
program, the global social responsibility standard ISO26000 and the UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals).
•  IIRC <IR> Framework
• SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standard Board)
• GRI G4 Guidelines• UNGC COP (Communication On Progress) Advanced Level • DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indices)
• ISO26000Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview38 39
m-3. Financial materiality Adjustment
Finally, SK Telecom assessed how each issue may impact the company’s short-, mid- and long-term financial value creation from the three aspects of 1) 
revenue, 2) cost and 3) risk, weighting and reflecting them accordingly. From the profitability aspect, SK Telecom assessed the issues to determine if any of them could be a factor for direct profit creation opportunities such as the creation of new markets or a factor for potential competitive advantages. From the cost aspect, SK Telecom evaluated each issue’s impact on the company’s comprehensive capital costs to understand if it could be linked to not only direct costs but also to potential costs such as current and future fines and expenses related to complying with regulations. From the risk aspect, the company reviewed whether an issue presented a potential risk factor from the short-, mid- and long-term perspectives not only now but in the future as well. Company 
Context Analysis
Stakeholder SurveyIndustry Context Analysism-1. Relevance Assessment
To identify each issue’s relevance from 
the business and sustainability aspects, SK Telecom conducted a relevance assessment based on document review and according to the the results, the level of relevance for each issue was prioritized.
m-2. Impact Assessment
SK Telecom conducted a stakeholder survey to understand the impact that stakeholders experience according to each issue. The company prioritized each issue’s impact using the survey results. Assessment & v aluation Step II
As the leader of the MNO sector, SK Telecom has set a new strategy in 2017 to 
make an effort to become a pioneer of the new ICT ecosystem.
•  Content Reviewed: New ICT strategy, reports to the BOD’s Corporate Citizenship 
Committee, report topics from previous Annual Reports, media analysis results 
and analysis of investor meetings.
Each issue was evaluated to determine if it was an issue that other global 
telecommunications companies also faced. The topics that were prioritized highly in reporting by global players in fixed and wireless telecommunications were 
identified.
•  Target Companies: 13 global cable and wireless telecommunications companies.
•  Content Reviewed: Key issues covered in the companies’ Annual Reports and 
Sustainability Reports.
A total of 430 individuals and institutions, including SK Telecom’s six main 
stakeholder 
groups and the media, participated in the online survey. The online survey 
consisted of questions to select key issues and understand their materiality, an assessment of the overall confidence in SK Telecom as well as an assessment of 
the current level of each issue.
• Target Period: April 10, 2017 ~ April 21, 2017
•  Survey Method: Online survey
•  Responses: 430 people including from the government, shareholders and 
investors, customers, business partners, the media and experts.MATERIALIT y ASSESSMENT
RELEVANCEIMPACThigh
low
lowhighemeRgIng RelevA nT moDeRATe coRe
New ICT Strategy
Telecommunications Market 
Regulation Changes
Brand Value & Mgmt.
Compliance with Laws
Human Resource Development
Human Rights & Labor, Diversity
Taxes and Tax StrategyResource Responsibility/EfficiencySocial/Open Innovation
Distribution Network 
Management
Network Neutrality
Content Responsibility Electromagnetic 
Fields
Resolving 
the Digital Gap 
(Regional/Groups)Donations/Policy Support TransparencyTelecommunications’  Social Impact
Talent Recruitment & Retainment
Welfare and SafetyCoC/Anti-Corruption
Supplier Risk AssuranceICT Environmental 
SolutionWin-win 
GrowthSocial & Open Innovation
Privacy Protection
Climate ChangeNetwork Quality and 5G
Cost Revenue Risk Level
Core
Moderate
 
Relevant
 Financial Materiality
Material Issues
Network Quality and 5G
New ICT Strategy
Privacy ProtectionTelecommunications Market Regulation Changes
Social & Open Innovation
Climate ChangeSupplier Risk Assurance
Brand Value & Mgmt.
Win-win GrowthICT Environmental Solution
CoC/Anti-Corruption 
GRI G4 Aspect
Non-GRI
Non-GRICustomer Privacy 
Non-GRI
Non-GRIEnergy / Emissions
Supplier Assessments
Marketing CommunicationsNon-GRI
Environmental Products and Services 
Anti-competitive BehaviorMATERIAL  ISSUES
Page
pp.46-49,105
pp. 46-49
pp.106-107
pp.68-69
pp.50-53
pp.50-57 , 70-71
pp.78-82
pp.31,106
pp.81, 107
pp.50-53
pp.72-74Approval & Reporting Step III
The material issues (core, moderate and relevant issues) that SK Telecom selected are as follows. According to the results of the materiality 
assessment, SK Telecom determined a total of 11 material issues such as new ICT strategy, network quality and 5G; and is disclosing the key results and goals as well as business cases regarding the selected issues in greater detail across the entire report. To learn more about the business-social context for each material issue, please refer to the following page. SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUESSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUESMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview40 41
New ICT Strategy02
Network quality and 5G01
5gPrivacy Protection03
Telecommunication Market 
Regulation Changes04
Climate Change06
Social & Open Innovation05
MATERIAL  ISSUES  CONTEx T
01   network Quality and 5g
Despite the many changes that have taken place in the market 
and services, improving fundamental network quality and thereby strengthening the MNO business model remains SK Telecom’s core competitive asset. Network infrastructure failures may lead to the collapse of economic and social systems, and this constitutes business continuity risks for telecommunications companies. Due to the higher frequency and scale of natural disasters resulting from climate change, SK Telecom anticipates that it may face more physical threats 
to its network infrastructure. If the company fails to build resilient 
infrastructure, it may face impacts such as declining revenue from large-scale network failures as well as unexpected capital expenses for repairs and restoration. SK Telecom is not only continually investing 
to build a next-generation network infrastructure and ensure network 
quality, the company also possesses a systematic risk management system capable of responding to telecommunications failures and technical risks. In particular, SK Telecom is striving to improve its technological leadership through research efforts with global ICT companies including the operation of the 5G Innovation Center and organizing cooperation for 5G standardization. Please refer to pp. 42-43, 46-49, 105 for more details on the business case, performance and outlook. 
02   new IcT Strategy
The era of the 4
th Industrial Revolution in which everything is becoming 
connected and converged is giving rise to changes in people’s 
lifestyles and is also creating sweeping changes that transcend individual companies and different industrial domains. Consequently, a diversity of products and services that feature ICT convergence in daily life are emerging, such as in media, the internet of things (IoT), AI and intelligent cars. Such changes call for information and communications companies to innovate and expand their business models beyond the existing competitive paradigms. One compelling example can be seen in IoT, which is in the spotlight as a new information and communications area. There is significant potential for expansion and growth in IoT, the domestic market for which is expected to reach KRW 17 trillion by 2020. Through the expansion of its new ICT portfolio oriented around MNO, media, IoT and commerce, SK Telecom seeks to take its place as a ‘global new ICT company’ in the 4
th Industrial 
Revolution, which is fundamentally altering people’s lives. Please refer to pp. 42, 46-49 for more details on the business case, performance and outlook. 
03   privacy protection
In step with the growing use of mobile phones, the internet and 
email services, the issue of customer privacy protection is drawing keen interest, and the need to adopt stringent policy guidelines and activities for privacy protection has also increased substantially. The importance and impact of issues related to the sensitive information that telecommunications companies store, such as location based services (LBS) and demographical statistical data that are utilized by third-party service providers or are directly linked to revenue, are especially expected to increase.  Including privacy, the utilization of personal information that uses ICT is evolving into a human rights issue. SK Telecom is endeavoring to prevent human rights violations as related to ICT across all services through a human rights due diligence process based upon the companywide human rights policy. Please refer to pp. 43, 106-107 for more details on the business case, performance and outlook.04   Telecommunication market Regulation changes
The mobile communication business is a regulated industry, in which a 
business obtains permission to use a frequency that is a public good, from a government through auction, etc., and is directly affected by government policies and legal regulations. As the third anniversary since the enactment of the Handset Distribution Act, which was enacted to ensure the orderly distribution of handsets, approaches, ideas for improving the system such as the cap on subsidies and separation disclosure system are under discussion. Such proposals including calls for the reduction of telecommunications rates to heighten telecommunications’ nature as a public good, continue to add to regulatory uncertainty. SK Telecom is actively participating in the eradication of discrimination based on government regulations and striving to enhance profitability by strengthening competitiveness of operators within the scope of regulation through healthy competition centering on products and services. Please refer to pp.68-69 for more details on the business case, performance and outlook.
05   Social & open Innovation
ICT is the basis for linking and sharing knowledge and skills among 
all economic actors. ICT-based products and services not only provide better living convenience, but are also driving force for innovation and change in society through sharing economic cooperation, instruction and technology. SK Telecom pursues innovation not only through R&D investment for future growth businesses, but also through realizing and commercializing creative ideas through open innovation. As part of this process, SK Telecom is leading win-win cooperation involving diverse parties and economies of scale such as by operating the Global Innovation Center in which global telecommunications providers and related businesses participate as well as T developers, an initiative to pursue win-win growth with the developers’ ecosystem. The company is also solidifying technical collaboration and creating an innovative base for the whole spectrum of society. Please refer to pp.43, 50-53 for more details on the business case, performance and outlook.
06   climate change
In contrast with the Kyoto Protocol, by which only developed countries 
were obliged to reduce greenhouse gases, the Paris Agreement that was reached in December 2015 is considered a new climate regime as it is the first binding agreement that 195 countries must uphold. South Korea, where SK Telecom’s main business is located, presented a 37% reduction goal compared to business as usual (BAU) by 2030. Prior to this, South Korea had implemented the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). The ETS, as a regulation that responds to climate change by regulating the total quantity of emissions rights, allocated emissions rights to target companies and is a system that allows companies to freely trade with one another through market mechanisms. Since producing energy from fossil fuels has serious environmental effects, a dependable energy supply to ensure the reliability of its networks and data centers presents an important potential impact for SK Telecom. Please refer to pp. 43, 50-57, 70-71,110-113 for more details on the  business case, performance and outlook.SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUESSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT ISSUESMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview42 43SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
PROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUESSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OVERVIEW
PROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUES
PROGRESS ON MATERIAL ISSUES
Building a New ICT Ecosystem
PROGRESS NUMBER  OF  B tv + oksusu (*) 
SUBSCRIBERS  (CUMULATIVE)LONG-TERM  TARGET
New ICT 
 Media & Home
On the basis of the media platforms such as 
fixed-line IPTV and wireless OTT, SK Telecom will gain differentiated content competitiveness and evolve into an open-type next-generation media and home platform.•  Reach 27 million fixed-line and wireless subscribers (by 2021)
•  Reach KRW 4.5 trillion in revenue in the fixed-line and media sectors (by 2021)
2014
2015
2016
Network Quality & 5G
PROGRESS 5G INVESTMENT LONG-TERM  TARGET
Network Infra 
Investment – 5G
Starting with the publishing of a white paper on 
5G in 2014, SK Telecom has been demonstrating technological leadership through collaborative research including the operation of the 5G Global Innovation Center and participation in cooperative associations to standardize 5G.-Succeeded in building the 5G test bed in 2015
-Succeeded in demonstrating 5G handover technology in September 2016 and  demonstrating connected car technology in November 2016•  Standardize 5G technology (by 2018)
•  Successfully commercialize 5G service  (by 2019)PROGRESS IoT REVENUE  (INCL . B2B) LONG-TERM  TARGET
New ICT  
IoT 
SK Telecom is pursuing the creation of new 
business models by building an IoT ecosystem, strengthening connectivity based on an  exclusive national network and analyzing big data.•  Become the No. 1 M/S IoT provider in the nation through strong connectivity-based solutions and data analysis platforms (by 2021)
IoT revenue consists of machine-to-machine communication circuit revenue and revenue from the company’s solution business  that combines and offers services such as internalization · external solution and system integration (SI).
PROGRESS NUGU C ONNECTED  SERVICE LONG-TERM  TARGET
New ICT  
Platform 
AI is one of the technologies that will lead the 4th 
Industrial Revolution. Not only will AI have a far-
reaching ripple effect across all industries, but it 
is also a critical infrastructure for strengthening innovation in SK Telecom’s businesses. Based on 
the level of natural language recognition that is 
becoming more sophisticated, SK Telecom plans to continue accelerating its AI technology such as 
analysis and deduction.•  Introduce the nation’s No. 1 AI platform 
by offering the top level of AI technology available in the market (by 2018)
•  Realize a universal individualized platform capable of the level of human conversation  
(by 2021)
(*) Weather, Melon, B tv, Radio, 11st., etc.2016 17 kinds (*)Increase connected services by consistently upgrading NUGU, an AI device based on voice recognition technology launched in 2016.
2014 23 teams
2015 34 teams
2016 46 teams
2014 (41.9%)
2015 (100%) (*) 
2016 (100%) (**)2014 57.09 tCO2e / KRW billion 
2015 54.64 tCO2e / KRW billion 
2016 67.05 tCO2e / KRW billion 201873.81 tCO2e / KRW billion 
201978.24 tCO2e / KRW billion 
202082.41 tCO2e / KRW billionEnvironmental & Social 
PROGRESS GHG INTENSIT y LONG-TERM  TARGET
Expand Energy/GHG 
Operational Efficiency
The GHG intensity has been on the rise due to 
the acceleration of the LTE and 5G networks as well as infrastructure investments. SK Telecom has been making diverse efforts including innovating the N/W structure and slimming the network; increasing the efficiency of domestic energy; and using equipment with high energy efficiency. Limit the average GHG intensity to 82.41 tCO
2e 
/ KRW billion (by 2020)
PROGRESS NUMBER  OF  STARTUPS  SUPPORTED  
(CUMULATIVE)LONG-TERM  TARGET
Social & Open 
Innovation
SK Telecom supports startups through a  
substantial support system and is also  strengthening its role as a platform for  identifying growth BM.Supporting the development of 80 teams through the continuous startup support program (by 2020)
PROGRESS AUDITING  STORES  FOR  CUSTOMER  
DATA  PRIVAC yLONG-TERM  TARGET
Data  
Privacy
SK Telecom has implemented on-site surveys at 
field organizations, business partners and within the distribution network for customer data privacy, and has discovered and taken actions regarding key privacy issues.Maintain customer information leakages at zero through more advanced audits of the distribution network (by 2020)2014 1 case
2015 1 case
2016 0 cases
(*)  According to the number of large-scale network failure cases submitted to the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning: Cases are reported to the 
government when there is more than 1 instance of a switchboard failure, a failure of a base station in more than 10 local areas in the same city/district/borough, 
or a failure of equal scale such as these.PROGRESS NUMBER  OF  LARGE-SCALE  NETWORK  
FAILURE  CASESLONG-TERM  TARGET
Network Stability & 
Capacity
SK Telecom maintains a superior quality of data 
and voice calls compared to other providers, as demonstrated by the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning’s recognition of the company as having the fastest LTE service in the Telecommunications Service Quality Assessment in 2016. Keep large-scale network failures to zero cases through long-term investment and managing operational risk (by 2020)NEW ON TRACK NEED  FOR  IMPROVEMENT
5.19 million
7.56 million
10.52 million
2018 KRW 839 billion 
20212015 KRW 733.3 billion
2016 KRW 755.5 billion KRW 3.1 trillion
(*) Systemized and enhanced the structure of the methods of managing store data privacy
(**) Audited 100% of all stores except those with an extremely low risk level of information leakages by strengthening the risk management of the distribution 
network’s data privacy and using more advanced audits Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
(*) oksusu: previously B tv mobile45SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // meASuRIng ouT Imp AcT
business case 1. new IcT c ompany                     
business case 2. Social & open Innovation  
business case 3. Social and environmental p&l  46
5054
44SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // meASuRIng ouR Imp AcT
2Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview46 47
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 1. NEW ICT COMPANy 46SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUT IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 1. NEW ICT COMPANy  
issue
Appro Ach
EVALUATION
What are the main issues?
ICT innovation, which is characterized by 
connection and super intelligence, is the basis of the 4
th Industrial Revolution and it is expected 
that all industries will be re-centered around ICT. It is expected that a wide range of social changes will take place at the same time, and it is necessary to prepare for an integrated response to the social and economic effects of ICT.
What is SK Telecom's approach?
SK Telecom aims to lead innovation and growth by positioning itself as a new ICT ecosystem leader that will lead the 4
th Industrial Revolution 
era. SK Telecom will expand its business portfolio including in mobile communications (MNO), media, IoT, commerce and as an Enabler based on its competitive edge in infrastructure and artificial intelligence. By maximizing corporate value, we will evolve into a global new ICT company by the year 2021.
how do we measure our performance?
-  (Media & Home) Reach a record of 27 million subscribers of wired and wireless media (by 2021) and KRW 4.5 trillion in the wired and media areas (by 2021)
-  (IoT) Become the No. 1 M/S domestically (by 2021), achieve KRW 3.1 trillion in Digital Transformation revenue (by 2021)
- 
 (AI) Implement a personalized, general-purpose AI 
platform that features conversation at the level of human conversation (by 2021)We aim to become a global new I cT company to lead the 
4th Industrial Revolution that will usher in fundamental 
changes in the 'I cT-centric economy era,' redefining the 
information and communications industry by focusing on 
artificial intelligence (AI).globAl neW IcT c omp Any leADIng The eRA  
oF The 4Th InDuSTRIAl RevoluTIon 
measuring our Impact 
NEW ICT Company1The development of basic technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), big data, Internet of Things (IoT) and the spread of various mobile devices are leading to unprecedented social change and innovation. In particular, AI is a fundamentally different base technology compared to the existing traditional infrastructure, which affects not only the value chain of the ICT industry but also its the business model, and ultimately, it is expected to be the base technology of the 4
th Industrial 
Revolution. In combination with artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT) and the media will be replaced with new generation technologies, and the network will be redefined as an intelligent infrastructure. 
SK Telecom is seeking opportunities not only for the network but also 
for the ICT core including cloud and AI starting with next-generation platforms that go beyond PC and mobile. SK Telecom's new vision is to become a leader in the global ICT ecosystem leading the 4
th 
Industrial Revolution based on strengthening its core capabilities in ICT and AI, as well as driving innovation and growth.
New ICT means a system of sharing, opening and cooperation that 
combines innovative technologies such as AI and big data and creates new business models throughout the industry. SK Telecom will expand its business portfolio such as mobile communication, media, IoT, commerce and Enablers based on its competitive edge in infrastructure and AI. By maximizing our corporate value, SK Telecom will evolve into a global new ICT company by the year 2021. 
"AI and infrastructure as SKT's  
future base and core competitiveness"
•  Gain a differentiated competitiveness 
in artificial intelligence (AI) and  
infrastructure, both of which form the core of the ICT portfolio expansion
•  Secure the foundation for leading the ICT industry
•  Redefine ourselves as a new future 
growth engine and the central business 
model•  
Business innovation through  understanding
 customers based on data 
analysis in the MNO sector
• Foster media and IoT into new platforms 
•  Provide innovative services by  connecting with commerce"MNO, Media, IoT & Commerce 
that preempt the future ICT rather 
than legacy ICT""Digital transformation partner 
for all industries"“Enter the New Biz/New Tech sectors 
through ICT capabilities”
•  Collaboration and support for digital 
transformation according to the spread 
of ICT to other industries
•  Expansion of the business area through core capabilities of AI and infrastructure
•  Establish a foundation to lead the ICT-centered economy•  Lead and control the ICT-centered economy based on ICT competencies 
that are focused on other industries
•  Achieve potential growth in various 
industries beyond the ICT industry (e.g. 
the automobile industry worth KRW 
1,000 trillion)Enabler Business➊ ➋ ➌ ➍
Enter New Biz Expanding the New ICT PortfolioCore Technology and 
Infrastructure StrengtheningMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
SK Telecom'S 
neW IcT STRATegy
Innovate
Core BizExpand the
New ICT
PortfolioNEW BI z➍
media
COMMERCE
Mno
iot➋
ENABLER➌
Digital 
Transformation
Partner
core Technology and Infrastructure (AI, n/W, cloud and Data) ➊48 49
ㄴ
Strategic Direction 1. Strengthening the core Technology 
and Infrastructure 
The strengthening of the company’s core technology is compressed into 
the enhancement of AI technology and the innovation of infrastructure. SK Telecom's infrastructure will lead the infrastructure business for the expansion of the ICT business portfolio. We will place a top priority on data traffic and user scenarios required for the IOT and media businesses through the development and commercialization of 5G and other cutting-edge network technology, while also ensuring the efficient storage, management and analysis of cloud data. One of the main challenges is to find a new business model that is free of charge-based business models for simple network use.
Artificial intelligence is a key differentiating factor for all businesses, 
and it is necessary to establish a competitive advantage base in advance by securing the ability to optimally commercialize each type of application. For this reason, SK Telecom should not only strengthen the competitiveness of its AI engine technology including voice recognition, search and recommendations and decision-making through efforts such as R&D investment and acquiring key technology, but the company should also develop AI applications to introduce comprehensive solutions, e.g. individualized services on platforms and network evolution. Through this, we plan to build a competitive ecosystem by expanding various areas and devices to which artificial intelligence applies.
Strategic Direction 2. expanding the new IcT portfolio
SK Telecom is pursuing a new ICT business whose key direction is innovating business models in not only the MNO business but also in the media, IoT and commerce businesses on the basis of AI and data; connecting them with one another; and thereby expanding the portfolio. 
In the new ICT portfolio strategy, the mno business will provide 
core assets for the expansion of the ICT portfolio through data, the 
customer base and the distribution network. SK Telecom will evolve into a new MNO through business innovation by understanding customers through data analysis. 
In the media business , it is essential to secure customers’ time 
share by offering distinctive content. Therefore, we will strengthen our 
business partnerships to expand the next-generation device-based OTT (Over the Top) platform, while securing the content creation and procurement system according to the reorganization of media market competition. Based on subscription and subscription-based content sales revenue, we will also explore new business models that generate revenue from large -volume customer traffic.
The IoT business  will evolve into a next-generation integrated IoT 
platform that seamlessly connects with various future devices in the 
home and automobiles. By doing so, we will expand the range of devices that can be serviced through partnerships with next-generation device operators. We will continue to build a differentiated user experience and commercial ecosystem to grow into a core platform for the 4
th Industrial 
Revolution era.
The commerce area  is a key revenue-generating segment, and will 
lead to innovative value through selective entry to maximize synergy 
with the media and IOT platforms. It will internalize digital contents, e-commerce and O2O capabilities. In the case of the commerce business, we will develop leverage that leads to business model innovation by organically linking with the platform-infrastructure rather than an independent business.
Strategic Direction 3. promoting Digital Transformation 
Through the Enabler business, SK Telecom aims to build public leadership and create shared value by performing core competencies in the digital transformation process of other industrial companies. We will lead the digital transformation of non-ICT industries focusing on logistics and manufacturing, and establish business models for mutual growth based on partnerships and revenue sharing. SK Telecom plans to pursue a completely different approach based on its long-term relationships with other operators, aiming at a win-win business model.
For example, transportation and inventory providers need digital 
solutions to streamline distribution and conduct business. Providing new data to online and offline companies with logistics and 
automobiles and distribution in the mid- to long-term perspectives. As a result, SK Telecom will enter new biz and new technology businesses within other businesses based on its core ICT capabilities within new opportunities as it observes market changes from multifaceted perspectives.
For example, SK Telecom can become a provider of a 'Total Car Life 
Service' that provides 'autonomous driving solutions' in the future. The integrated life cycle service based on autonomous driving solutions can provide a platform for vehicle-sharing to users of shared services such as car sharing or provide autonomous driving solutions, information and services between service providers, as well as support the creation of an autonomous-based business model. Furthermore, within this process, SK Telecom will go beyond playing the role as a supporting partner for digital transformation in other businesses to being leader in creating and introducing entirely new markets.
SK Telecom will successfully evolve into a global new ICT company 
that provides innovative value and services, which surpass customer expectations. As a new ICT leader that leads the future beyond telecom operators, SK Telecom will achieve a Deep Change in the business model through cooperation and win-win leadership as well as revitalize corporate value with tangible performance.providing business efficiency innovation solutions through real-time AI analysis can greatly contribute to improving investment spending efficiency. It will raise the innovation on demand forecasting using artificial intelligence versus traditional business models, real-time monitoring of incoming and outgoing transactions through image recognition, analysis of freight volume and location of transit points and transportation times, and management of optimal transportation routes and distribution plans in real time.
Strategic Direction 4. entry into new biz/new Tech 
through IcT c ompetencies
SK Telecom's essential know-how in the process of the digital 
transformation of traditional industries such as energy, manufacturing and logistics is expected to bring new market opportunities such as 
Launch of Gper, LoRa-based location-tracking devices (Nov. 2016)
SK Telecom hybrid IoT network is commercialized nationwide (July 2016)Build a 5G infrastructure that 
will be the basis for the new 
ICT companySK Telecom plans to standardize 5G technology by 
2018 and commercialize 5G by 2019.
In order to strengthen the network infrastructure 
capacity that will become the foundation of the new 
ICT company, we are raising technical leadership 
through joint research with global ICT companies, such as the publication of the 5G White Paper in 2014 
and the formation of cooperative partnerships for 5G 
standardization. SK Telecom has been participating in the joint 5G standardization process, involving 
15 major telecommunication companies and 
equipment manufacturers such as AT&T, Ericsson and signed an MOU with Verizon in August 2016 for 5G 
standardization.
The 5G Global Innovation Center, which has 
been operating since 2014, provides the 5G test 
environment. The 5G Global Innovation Center provides a test-bed based environment for SMEs, 
startup training and joint development of new 
services. At the 5G Global Innovation Center, we succeeded in demonstrating the world's first 5G 
handover in September and demonstrated the 
world's first 5G connected car in November of the same year.
In addition, we announced our 5G service  
to customers through the LTE-based Pre-5G experience. Meanwhile, we are also providing the 4.5G experience by demonstrating the 1Gbps 
transmission at the Mobile World Congress (MWC) 
and commercialization of 5-band frequency CA. 
With respect to 5G investment, which is expected 
to establish a demonstration network in 2017, it is expected that the volatility will be large due to 
frequency allocation and market competition, such 
as the possibility of commercialization of high-frequency bands. SK Telecom will successfully 
establish a 5G network while realizing the 
downward stabilization of investment costs through efficient investment.cASe
- Published the 5G White Paper 2014
2015-  Completed the construction of 5G Global Innovation 
Center
2016- Built and Operated the 5G Pilot Test Network-  Strengthening cooperation of the 5G Ecosystem Cooperative Partnership
2018 - Standardization of 5G Technology (Planned)
2019 - Commercialization of 5G Service (Planned)SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 1. NEW ICT COMPANySK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 1. NEW ICT COMPANyMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
ReDeFIne The IcT 
buSIneSS
Redefine the ICT Industry based on AI (expansion of the ICT portfolio) 
and reform other industries based on ICT (enter new biz & new tech) 
Rearrange other industries 
based on ICT➋
Healthcare
EnergySecurityDistribution
ManufacturingLogistics
Primary 
IndustriesAutomobile
ConstructionFinance
AI➊ Redefine the ICT Industry based on AI50 51
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 2. SOCIAL & OPEN INNOVATIONSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 2. SOCIAL & OPEN INNOVATION
issue
Appro Ach
EVALUATIONS
What are the issues?
ICT-based products and services not only provide 
better living convenience, but also become a driving force for innovation and change in society as a whole through the linkage of economic entities. ICT has important implications for business creation and job creation. It is the time to maximize the fundamental social role with 'open innovation' maximizing SK's social role through communication technology competence.
What is SK Telecom's approach?
We will improve quality of life through NUGU, a personalized artificial intelligence platform based on voice recognition, as well as T map, a navigation platform to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We will build a technology-based open innovation ecosystem such as T developers. We will promote social value creation based on technology such as accelerating social innovation through startup support.
how do we measure performance?
-  Through the construction of voice recognition, artificial intelligence cloud and  platform  ecosystem, NUGU service will ensure life-friendly open platform success (by 2018)
-  By using the ICT solution, social greenhouse gas (scope 3) 599,000 tCO
2e achieved annually (by 2020)
-  Support 80 startups (comulatively) through the startup support program (by 2020)SK Telecom will promote social and open innovation by 
inviting various entities to participate. It is by connecting and 
sharing that we will lead innovation and change around us.neW SocIAl v AlueS pRovIDeD by 
connecTIonS AnD ShARIng
measuring our Impact 
Social & Open Innovation21. products with social-environmental value
nugu, the beginning of intimate conversation between humans and AI
SK Telecom launched NUGU, an intelligent virtual assistant service that 
uses voice recognition and natural language processing technology to identify the user's words, context and intentions based on advanced voice recognition technology in September 2016. When comparing the currently available voice recognition based AI speakers, NUGU’s strength is that it has improved its voice recognition through the accumulation of diverse innovative technology. For example, if you are playing music, or if you are away, NUGU will not work. This is because NUGU has increased the level of the system’s perfection through noise cancellation that effectively separates voices and noise, echo cancellation technology that enables voice recognition during music playback, advanced algorithm technology for voice understanding and synthesis, and high-performance microphones.
NUGU is an AI service that learns and grows endlessly. It has basic 
functions such as music, home appliance control, schedule, alarm and weather at the time of launch. Since its release, the daily briefings, podcasts and order delivery have been linked. In March 2017 we continued to increase the number of services related to 11st, domestic professional baseball and today's fortune. In the future, NUGU will connect new services optimized for voice recognition in various fields in order, and will enhance the value by providing more abundant services and advanced work.
T map navigation that reduces social costs with accuracy 
and efficiency
In July 2016, T map, which has been provided to existing SK Telecom LTE subscribers, has been made fully available for free to third-party 
customers. T map secured 430,000 new third-party users within seven days and recorded 10.6 million monthly users within 100 days. The estimation is based on the MAU (Monthly Active User: individual users who use the service more than once per month), hold more than 70% of domestic mobile navigation users, and the largest number of subscribers in the domestic single mobile navigation service.
In addition to the shortest distance function provided by ordinary 
navigation, T map also provides route guidance for mobile GHG reduction. SK Telecom has been recognized as the ITU International Recommendation Standard by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) for calculating social GHG reduction methodology through T map navigation. This is the first international recommendation standard that estimates GHG reductions for specific ICT services, such as real-time navigation. It provides real-time navigation users the ability to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by reducing travel time and driving time by avoiding traffic congestion.
In 2016, T map users achieved a 307,957tCO
2e reduction in GHG emissions 
by using T map. SK Telecom approved the business method of the carbon 
emission rights business, the reduction of social GHG emissions based on ICT service, and upgraded countermeasures as well. In addition, we plan to achieve an annual reduction of 599,000 tCO
2e by 2020 by expanding 
the number of T map users.T map
nugu
SK Telecom releases next-generation 
AI robot (Feb. 2017)T map monthly users exceeded 10 million (Nov. 2016)Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview52 53
'T phone' platform for customer Safety
T phone is leading the change to provide a safer calling environment for 
users. The T phone service works with the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) to provide a safe ringtone function that warns users of incoming calls from high-risk numbers that are likely to be used for spam, fraud, voice phishing, etc. In addition to this, it has functions such as "block security" that can block calls from numbers linked with crime such as fraud in advance according to customer's judgment, and "security recording" to automatically record calls when a high-risk number is detected . As customer protection services have been strengthened, T phone is gaining customers, exceeding 10 million subscribers in August 2016. 
2. expansion of social-environmental value solution 
business including emS
EMS (Energy Management System), SK Telecom’s representative energy 
efficiency solution, is a business that improves the energy operation and optimum operation plan for buildings, factories, public institutions, vehicles and facilities. SK Telecom has developed an optimal energy-saving plan that matches the relevant characteristics and the company provides EMS solutions and high-efficiency equipment as a preliminary investment and guarantees the savings and provides a model to recover business expenses based on the amount of savings during the contract period.
SK Telecom's Cloud BEMS collects real-time energy usage data from large 
buildings, department stores, hospitals, etc., and can analyze data anytime and anywhere through smartphones and tablets. In 2016, SK Telecom analyzed energy optimization data to enhance its competitiveness in EMS products, and launched new EMS in the freezing and refrigeration logistics field, as well as advanced the demand management business. We also diversified our solutions and portfolio by launching new products for energy-efficiency projects in transportation. SK Telecom carried out 40 projects with BEMS (Building Energy Management System) in 2016 and 43 projects with FEMS (Factory Management System).
3. provide social innovation based on connections and 
sharing
T developers: Developer ecosystem-centered open 
innovation channel
T developers is a developer ecosystem-centered open innovation 
channel where SK Telecom grows together with domestic developers. 
T developers provides a technology-centric physical infrastructure (T 
open lab), technology knowledge sharing and collaboration (T dev forum), and assets to accelerate innovation (T api). 
Since its establishment in June 2012, T open lab has expanded its 
cooperation with major nationwide startup training institutions. We support about KWR 10 billion worth of technology per year by strengthening support capabilities in new technologies such as virtual reality and augmented reality. The T dev forum is a forum for sharing technology innovation knowledge and information on the topic of the T phone
ICT industry. It also launched a forum for cooperating with SK Telecom by holding a technology forum every month. In recent years, we have been contributing to the creation of related ecosystems by encompassing leading technology areas in addition to major platforms such as IOT and media. T api is an ICT core asset opened to support technology and service innovation, providing database and technology assets to realize developers' ideas.
establish cooperative success stories through startup 
support and win-win cooperation
SK Telecom is building a success story not only by establishing a developer 
ecosystem and supporting startups, but also through continuous technology exchange and support. Location cloud solution specialist, Spacosa Co., Ltd. developed the first domestic bus location safety service by using a smartphone-based location application 'FAM y' , low-power 
Bluetooth 'beacon link,'  real-time positioning control system 'CatchLoc' and the LoRa network. Launched in November 2016, 'Gper' is the first GPS locator using the LoRa-based network chip in Korea. It has been 
SK Telecom EMS SolutionemS
developed to be small enough to be attached to a necklace or a bag with a low battery usage. Gper can be used without a smartphone. It can also help ensure the safety of children and the elderly with dementia. At present, SPACOSA is concentrating on Southeast Asian markets such as Singapore, Indonesia and Malaysia. In October, we also conducted a POC (technical verification) test with SK Telecom's overseas business team.
Pixtree Co., Ltd. is a company that has developed a real-time UHD 
encoder, which is essential equipment for UHD broadcasting that compresses UHD contents at high speed and transmits them in real time. Pixtree is supplying terrestrial TV, IPTV and satellite broadcasting service with excellent performance and stability. SK Telecom has helped to lead the early commercialization of cutting-edge technology while maintaining development cooperation for the past several years. In addition, by applying this product, we are providing UHD service to customers through the B tv service.
SK Telecom will lead the innovation and change of society as a whole through connecting the economic entities, sharing knowledge 
and technology by providing products and services with socio-environmental value, expanding social-environmental value solutions using ICT solutions such as EMS, and promoting open innovation through expanding the developer ecosystem.Seeking long-term growth 
with digital inclusionAccording to the 2016 National Information Divide 
Survey, the level of digital informatization of senior 
citizens is low (54.0%) compared to the general 
population. Senior citizens with low levels of informatization have limited access to services and 
high exposure to crime such as voice phishing. SK 
Telecom improves service accessibility including silver pricing for senior citizens and T silver service for 
seniors who are having difficulty using smartphones. 
In the meantime, we are actively responding to the digital divide problem by continuing education on 
smartphones for senior citizens. The effort to resolve 
the digital divide has increased the proportion of customers over 60s (4.3% over three years) and 
the proportion of smartphone subscribers (35.6% increase over three years). SK Telecom's efforts to 
eliminate the digital divide among senior citizens 
will contribute not only to solving problems caused 
by the social digital divide, but also to the long-term growth of profit and growth by shifting 
smartphones to elderly customers and increasing 
data usage. If the annual average growth rate (11.8% p) of smartphone subscribers among 60 years or 
more subscribers is maintained, it is predicted that 
customers' smartphone ratios will exceed 90% by the end of 2018. Accordingly, it is estimated that at 
least 1 million feature phone users will transition 
into smartphone users by 2018 (using 2016 figures as the standard), which is expected to lead to annual 
revenue growth of approximately KRW 193.3 billion.cASe
percentage of the total 
population in Korea over
 60 years old in 2020 (forecast)
23. 3%Results of smartphone education for senior citizens 
(cumulative numbers of participants)
2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20163401,3353,1324,7526,7118,61110,02611,04611,94612,400
Percentage of subscribers over 60 years old Percentage of smartphones among 
subscribers over 60 years old14.42014
15.32015
16.12016
442014
572015
702016Subscribers 
over 60 years oldSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 2. SOCIAL & OPEN INNOVATIONSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 2. SOCIAL & OPEN INNOVATIONMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview54 55
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 3. SOCIAL AND EMVIRONMENTAL P&L SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 3. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL P&L
issue
Appro Ach
EVALUATUINS
What is the issue?
Stakeholders' interest in the various economic 
and social effects (external effects) that arise from the business process of the company is being broadened from a qualitative perspective to a more quantitative perspective. It is time to develop a methodology for evaluating the impacts and external effects of the business and to make stronger efforts to reflect the profit and loss from a socio-environmental point of view in the company's performance.
What is SK Telecom's approach?
SK Telecom has adopted the double bottom line, which simultaneously aims to achieve both financial performance and social/environmental  value, reflecting the company's success factors not only in terms of short-term performance but also in the creation of sustainable future value in consideration of stakeholders. SK Telecom plans to strengthen its positive impacts and minimize negative externalities by developing methodologies to estimate economic,  environmental and social externalities.
how do we measure performance?
-  Development and introduction of a formalized methodology (double bottom line) to measure financial value and socio-environmental value (by 2021)
-  Limiting greenhouse gas emission intensity to 82.41 tCO
2e or below (by 2020)SK Telecom plans to pursue a double bottom line, which 
targets not only financial performance but social value 
as well, as the company thrives together with society.SK Telecom'S SocIAl AnD
envIRonmenTAl pRoFIT & l oSS
measuring our Impact 
 Social and Environmental P&L
3SK Telecom defines future corporate values not only from financial results such as sales and operating profit, but also from the perspective of the long-term happiness of stakeholders such as shareholders, investors, customers, suppliers, employees, government and local communities. SK Telecom has contributed to economic development not only by improving the quality of life through ICT, but also by directly and indirectly creating jobs, inducing higher production, expanding the ecosystem and creating new business opportunities. In addition, external effects such as the misuse of technology, resource use, environmental pollution, greenhouse gas emissions are also generated in the course of operating a business. There are socio-environmental benefits and costs that are not reflected in current financial statements as external effects of the company's business activities. SK Telecom seeks to realize corporate value enhancement that takes both positive and negative externalities into account in terms of the economy, the environment and society.
SK Telecom's Social-Environmental Profit & Loss Statement (SE P&L) 
is the first of SK Telecom's efforts to pursue a double bottom line to quantitatively measure the impact of a company from a socio-environmental perspective. Through the SE P&L, SK Telecom is able to create social value based on business competence in consideration of the socio-environmental impact across the value chain and business model, and eliminate the negative impacts that could undermine corporate value. The company anticipates that this will help to expand the scope of strategic decision-making and make future-oriented decisions.
1.environmental profit & loss Analysis
SK Telecom's environmental profit and loss analysis uses a step-by-step calculation method to measure the environmental impact of the entire value chain. In order to analyze the environmental profit and loss of SK Telecom, we went through three stages: reviewing the value chain; setting the scope and data collection; valuation and environmental profit and loss analysis.
Setting the scope and data collection
It is divided into buildings, networks, employees, devices (handsets, 
M2M), services and solutions in the value chain category for an 
NET  SOCIAL  
VALUE= +SOCIAL   
VALUE
CREATIOINNEGATIVE  
SOCIAL 
VALUE Creation of social value throughout 
management activities
Eliminate social problems that may 
arise from corporate activitiesSocIAl vAlue concepT oF SK Telecom'S Double b oTTom lIne
Employee ServiceBuilding
Device(*)
(Handset)Network
Service(**)
(Navigation)
(*)  Handset: LCA certification such as environmental grading or carbon labeling, CTS certification Standard: Galaxy S8, Galaxy Tab S3, 
Galaxy S7 Edge, Galaxy Note 7, Galaxy S6, Galaxy S5, Galaxy S4, Galaxy S3, Galaxy Note 2, Galaxy Note, Galaxy Note 10.1, iPhone 7,IPhone 
7 Plus, iPhone 6s, iPhone 6s plus, iPhone SE, iPhone 6, iPhone 6 plus, iPhone 5s, iPhone 4s, iPhone 4, iPhone 3Gs, iPad 5G, iPad Pro 9.7, 
iPad Mini 4, Ipad 3, iPad Mini 2, iPad Mini, iPad Air2, iPad Air, iPad 4th Generation, iPad 3rd Generation, iPad 2.
(**) Navigation: The amount of GHG emissions reduced was determined by calculating the difference between the GHG emissions emitted 
when drivers used the 'shortest distance route' and when they used the 'optimal route' provided by T map for reaching their destinations. 
SK Telecom’s methodology for calculating the social GHG emissions saved through use of T map navigation was recognized as an 
internationally recommended standard by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and this standard methodology was used in 
this case.Raw material collection
Raw material collection
Raw material collection
CBRaw material collection
Production
Construction  |  Purchase
Component    |    Assembly
CB CBPurchased | Production | Installation
Disposal
Disposal
Collection/Recycle Disposal
CBRecycle and Disposal
100% applied  products and services
Solution
(EMS Solution)Operation/Use
Move / Travel 
E WT CB WSBuilding operation
Using distribution   |   Use
CB CBNetwork operation
Use
E CBE WT CB WS
E CB
E CB
Use
EValue ChainProducts and ServicesSeTTIng The Scope In envIRonmenTAl 
pRoFIT AnD loSS AnAlySIS
Energy Water Greenhouse Gas WasteMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview56 57
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 3. SOCIAL AND EMVIRONMENTAL P&L SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // MEASURING OUR IMPACT
BUSINESS CASE 3. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL P&L
environmental profit and loss analysis. Environmental data were collected 
from the perspective of the lifecycle assessment (LCA) such as raw material collection, production, operation/use and disposal. Buildings and networks that are part of the calculation only include the operating phases in which data management is being carried out during the raw material collection, production and disposal phases. We are considering expanding the life-cycle range to include the entire range of impacts such as raw material collection, purchasing, production, installation and disposal. The handset collects data based on the results of the life cycle environmental impact assessment conducted on some makes of Samsung and Apple's tablet and smartphone models and converted them into the total subscriber range. However, IoT devices such as M2M (Machine to Machine) and 2
nd devices among the handsets were 
excluded from the calculation of available data. SK Telecom provides the optimal GHG reduction route to users of the T map navigation service, and estimates how much greenhouse gas reduction compared to the shortest route provided by general navigation is calculated through social GHG reduction studies. However, at the present stage, SK Telecom's various platform and solution services are limited to the T map navigation platform and EMS solutions.
value calculation
The results of the profit and loss analysis are calculated as monetary 
values, and the regional characteristics are reflected in the variables. Since SK Telecom generates more than 95% of its sales in Korea, SK Telecom prioritizes Korean data in consideration of regional similarities. However, where data were not easy to obtain, we used the latest global data. In general, when considering impacts, we choose the appropriate value for the impact assessment objective in the measured relative absolute volume or socio-environmentally feasible alternative. For example, if the T map navigation service user chooses the optimal route, it will emit a relatively small amount of greenhouse gases compared to the shortest path guided by normal navigation. SK Telecom applied the 'total amount' in the environmental impact calculation process, but in the case of the T map service, we applied the 'maximum amount' that is the reduction effect against the shortest distance considering the suitability of service purpose.
2. Social profit & loss Analysis
Environmental profit and loss analysis is developed based on the Life Cycle Assessment methodology. On the other hand, the analysis of profits and losses of the social sector is under the development of detailed methodology and valuation protocols. SK Telecom has selected the scope of coverage and the influence of the measurement target limited by referring to the Social Capital Protocol presented by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
Setting the scope and measurable impact
The analysis of social profit and loss included the effects of adopting the 
traditional market ICT solution for the 'Traditional Market Activation' project, which has been promoted as a major initiative, and the prevention of customer harm caused by SK Telecom's T phone service.
value calculation
In the case of the 'Traditional Market Activation' program, we used the 
Social Return on Investment method to calculate how much the income of small business owners in traditional markets increased compared to the increase in income in the traditional market through the introduction of ICT solutions such as MyShop and Smart Wallet of SK Telecom. SK Telecom supported ICT solutions on an average of 80% of stores in Chongok Jaeil Market and Incheon Shinki Market. The sales change of stores through traditional market support program increased sales by 10% . Through SK Telecom's traditional market support program, it has been confirmed that SK Telecom contributed a total of KRW 324 million in operating profits to small business owners in both markets.The T phone service works in cooperation with the Financial Supervisory 
envIRonmenTAl Imp AcT v Alue 
cAlcul ATIon ReSul T
 
Impact Area
Building 
  
Network  Employee  
ServiceDevices  
(Handset) 
Service  
(Navigation)
Service(EMS) Building operation  
 
Network operation 
 
Move and Travel 
Raw material collection and production
UseCollection and Recylce
BEMS
FEMS 
Impact
Energy use
Greenhouse gas emissionsWater use
Waste discharge
Energy useGreenhouse gas emissions
Energy use
Greenhouse gas emissionsGreenhouse gas emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions
Greenhouse gas emissionsEnergy Reduction Amount (*)
GHG Reduction Amount (*)
Energy Reduction Amount (**)Energy Reduction Amount (**) 
Value
2,961 TJ
145,091 tCO2e 
757,658 m3
1,928 ton 
11,021 TJ
535,369 tCO2e
99 TJ
5,658 tCO2e
556,910 tCO2e
290,425 tCO2e
9,312 tCO2e
 141,867 L
307,975 tCO2e
-
- 
Impact value (KRW)
(-)91,988,473,591
(-)2,744,541,356
(-)688,027,059(-)292,358,064
(-)342,386,007,242
(-)10,127,040,004
(-)3,075,602,460
(-)107,026,728
(-)10,534,502,196
(-)5,493,681,575
(-)176,152,898
(+)42,255,666,300
(+)5,825,655,100
(+)3,700,000,000(+)5,400,000,0002015  
Value
2,938 TJ
143,681 tCO2e
712,910 m3
1,691 ton
13,977 TJ
678,942 tCO2e
78 TJ
4,485 tCO2e
667,178 tCO2e
284,223 tCO2e
2,469 tCO2e
184,421 L
424,196 tCO2e
-
 - 
Impact value (KRW)
(-)91,273,939,686
(-)2,717,869,796
(-)628,572,747
(-)256,419,858
(-)434,219,147,375
(-)12,842,866,872
(-)2,423,201,939
(-)84,838,260
(-)12,620,333,627
(-)5,376,361,092
(-)195,321,672
(+)54,930,751,256
(+)8,024,091,536
(+)5,400,000,000(+)7,200,000,0002016
(*) Energy reduction and greenhouse gas reduction are the relative reductions of T map users compared to the shortest distance navigation.
(**) The BEMS and FEMS solution is the customer's energy cost reduction target.Service (FSS) to provide customers with the ability to prevent customers 
from incurring damage to their e-mails by ringing a high-risk number that is likely to be used for spam, fraud or voice phishing. According to estimates by the FSS, the pre-blocking rate through the T phone service has increased by 38%, and it is estimated that 1,712 people avoided potential voice phishing damage of about KRW 19.7 billion per year.
3. Social-environmental profit & loss Statement
The Social-Environmental Profit & Loss Statement, comprising the environmental profit and loss analysis and the social profit and loss analysis, are as follows:SK Telecom recorded a pre-tax profit of KRW 2.096 trillion as of 2016. The environmental impact of buildings, networks, employee movements and trips, and devices manufacturing-use-disposal phases in the business operation process was estimated based on domestic overall environmental costs, resulting in an estimated environmental loss of approximately KRW 563.2 billion. SK Telecom contributed to saving about KRW 76 billion in environmental costs by informing drivers of the shortest routes to reach their destinations through T map navigation and also by offering EMS solutions. On the social side, it contributed to the improvement of the traditional market operating profit of about KRW 0.3 billion through the traditional market ICT solutions and prevented potential voice phishing damage of about KRW 19.7 billion through the T phone service.
In the case of the environmental profit & loss analysis results, the analysis 
applied the lifecycle model but excluded from the scope the production and installation of the network equipment within the value chain and was applied in a manner limited to only some services in the social area.  SK Telecom will strive to improve the socio-environmental profit & loss analysis throughout the entire value chain and business model, and to maximize future corporate value by eliminating potential costs and risks from social-environmental impacts.
1  We used the concept of CE Delft's Shadow Prices Handbook, produced by a 
Dutch environmental impact analysis agency, to calculate the impact value. The 
potential price means the price reflecting the opportunity cost if the market 
price is incomplete, and CE Delft's potential price study is a measure of the key 
environmental impacts of European standards. In Korea, however, comprehensive 
and reliable potential price studies have not been conducted, and this analysis 
has been estimated based on domestic standard environmental costs.
2  Energy, water and waste costs - In order to calculate the potential price by 
energy use, it is desirable to track the effect of each energy source separately. 
However, in this analysis, the total cost of electricity, which is the main energy 
source for buildings and networks, is applied (MOTIE: Ministry of Trade Industry 
and Energy, 2016). We applied the total cost of gasoline in the transportation 
fuels (MOTIE, 2016). In the case of water, the opportunity cost to be considered 
varies depending on the water source. However, the water used in this analysis 
was assumed to be tap water and the impact value was calculated based on the 
water general cost (ME: Ministry of Environment,  2016). In the case of wastes, the 
impact value was calculated based on the waste disposal cost of private trustees 
and the overall cost of collecting transportation (Incheon wastewater collection and 
transportation cost management average by company).3  Greenhouse gases - There is a domestic market price based on the greenhouse gas Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) in January 2015. Emission rights are allocated 
to individual companies under government aggregate regulations, and price 
fluctuations may occur depending on emissions trading trends. This calculation 
applies the closing price for the closing date of the final emission trading market for 
the fiscal year.
4  Impact Value related to the EMS solution, traditional market ICT solution and the 
T phone damage prevention reflected the financial benefits, namely cost reduction, 
increase in sales and operating profit, prevention of potential damage obtained from 
stakeholders through SK Telecom's use of products and services.
5  Impact can occur through in the short-, mid-to long-term. If a long-term impact is 
determined, we will assume the duration of impact and estimate the future residual effect by using the cash flow discount method. This analysis did not take into 
account the residual effects of long-term effects. We assume that the price of market 
transactions, including the right of greenhouse gas emissions, reflects the potential 
future value.Key ASS ump TIonS AnD lImITATI onS oF Soc IAl-envIRonmen TAl pRoFIT  & loSS2,096 -95
-447
-3 -13
-5 -0.2+63+0.3Environmental Profit & Loss Social Profit & Loss
Pre-tax 
ProfitBuildings Networks Employee 
ServicesDevice 
ManufacturingDevice 
UsageDevice 
DisposalT map 
ServiceTraditional 
Market ICT 
SolutionsDemage 
Prevented by 
T phone+19.7
+13
EMS 
Solutions1,629
Social-
Environmental 
Profit & Loss Financial Profit S&E Net Profit2016 SocIAl-envIRonmenTAl 
pRoFIT & l oSS STATemenT(KRW billion)Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview58 59
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // AccounTAbIlIT y SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
governance Report  
Risk management Report    Transparency  Report  human Rights Report  Supply chain Report  6066727578
3Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview60 61
The board’s Roles and Responsibilities
According to SK Telecom’s corporate statutes and Articles of Incorporation, 
the Board of Directors has been given the highest decision-making authority related to the company’s management from the shareholders. The Board holds the responsibility and role as the highest decision-making body and thus mediates diverse stakeholders’ interests and approves management decisions. Furthermore, the Board undertakes the deliberation and approval of matters such as conflicts of interest related to the company’s investment plans and internal transactions as well as transparent compensation. The Board also reviews and undertakes responsibility for the company’s overall risk management. Specifically, in order to protect long-term corporate value, the Board is fulfilling its role and responsibility to independently review the positive and negative impacts that the company’s decisions may have on stakeholders. In 2016, there was a total of 13 Board meetings and the directors’ attendance rate stood at 98.7%.
An Independent and Transparent board
SK Telecom is continuing to strengthen the Board’s operation 
with a focus on independent directors. Currently, the percentage of independent directors is 66.7%, which is higher than that of other large corporations on average (50.2%, according to the large corporation governance status reported to the Fair Trade Commission in December 2016). Moreover, since 2009, SK Telecom has separated the positions of the Chairman of the Board and the CEO to enhance the independence of the governance structure and after 2012, an independent director that satisfies all independence requirements has assumed the responsibility of the Chairman of the Board. SK Telecom’s independence requirements for independent directors complies with domestic commercial laws, the Fair Trade Law and other laws, and they are also specified in the Board’s Articles of Incorporation. Additionally, to prevent conflicts of interest, directors are restricted from engaging in transactions pertaining to the company’s business interests without prior approval or becoming a general partner or director of a company within the industry. In the interest of improving the Board’s efficiency, independent directors and auditors are also limited to holding a maximum of two concurrent positions.  
A Diversity-based board Selection policy
SK Telecom takes the diversity of its employees and stakeholders into 
consideration and forms a Board of Directors that can represent them. To accomplish this, the company maintains a director selection process in order to actively pursue diversity during the course of nominating and selecting directors in a manner that is free of discrimination based on gender, race/ethnicity or country of origin/nationality. Furthermore, through its corporate Articles of Incorporation, SK Telecom stipulates that the members of the Board shall have deep expertise and experience in the areas of economics, management, accounting, law and telecommunications and execute precise decision-making based on this foundation, thereby contributing to the company’s development, risk management and protection of shareholder rights. On this basis, SK Telecom is nominating and selecting as director candidates those individuals that are experts and can fill the skill gap in comparison with the company’s goals for the Board’s expertise. Thus, along with the candidate’s individual competence, SK Telecom is focusing its efforts on ensuring skill balance & diversity.   According to these principles, SK Telecom’s Independent Director Recommendation Committee may nominate an independent director candidate and if the candidate is given final approval through a majority vote by the majority of the Board members attending, the candidate’s appointment may be finalized at the General Shareholders’ Meeting through a transparent and lawful procedure.  The board’s c ommittees
To ensure that the Board of Directors faithfully executes its roles and responsibilities, SK Telecom operates five committees under the Board including the Independent Director Recommendation Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, CAPE x Review Committee 
and Corporate Citizenship Committee. To safeguard fairness and transparency, all the committees, except for the Independent Director Recommendation Committee, are entirely comprised of independent directors.  
Independence of the Audit c ommittee
At SK Telecom, the composition, operation, authority and responsibility 
of the Audit Committee are stipulated in the Committee’s regulations in accordance with commercial laws, other applicable laws related to the capital market and financial investment businesses and the company’s own Articles of Incorporation. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. It is responsible for overseeing accounting and conducting operational audits and to accomplish this, the Committee audits the financial statements and supplementary schedules; reviews the procedures and results of the audits performed by independent accounting firms; reviews the company’s major issues; and reviews the operating status of the company’s internal accounting system as reported by an internal accounting manager and an external auditor. 
BORAD  OF  DIRECTORS  NOMINATION  PROCESSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORT
Independence ExpertiseIndustry 
Experience & 
Tenure in the 
IndustryTRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE  
BASED ON INDEPENDENCE AND ExPERTISE
Resolution on the 
appointment at the 
General Shareholders’ 
MeetingNomination of candidates 
by the Independent 
Director Recommendation 
CommitteeIndividuals who do not 
fall under conditions 
for independence 
disqualification or conflicts of interest (Individuals 
falling under Article 32 (3) 
of SK Telecom’s Articles of Incorporation)
•  The majority of the Board members attending 
and appointment by a 
majority vote
•  Directors with special 
interests are prohibited 
from exercising their voting rightsConsideration of diversity including gender, race/
ethnicity, country of origin 
and nationality, and preventing discrimination
1  Current executives, executive officers and employees involved in the business affairs of criteria the company, or former executives, executive officers and employees who were 
involved in the business affairs of the company in the past 2 years
2  The largest shareholder of the company, and his/her spouse and lineal descendants and 
ascendants
3  In case the largest shareholder is a corporate body, its directors, auditors, executive officers and employees
4  Spouses and lineal descendants and ascendants of the directors, auditors and executive 
officers of the company
5  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of the parent company or 
subsidiaries
6  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of corporate bodies that are major stakeholders
7  The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of other companies at which a 
director, executive officer or employee of the company is serving as a director or executive 
officer
1  Person who controls a company having a competitive relationship with the Company, as of interest specified in the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law (FTL) or any person relating to such a person
2  Person who is, or has been within last two years, an officer or an employee of a company having a competitive relationship with the Company, or a company which belongs to the same enterprise group as such competitor under the Fair Trade Law (FTL)
3  Person who is, or has been within last two years, an officer or an employee of a corporation which is the largest Shareholder or the 2nd largest Shareholder of a company having a competitive relationship with the Company, or a company which belongs to the same 
enterprise group as such corporation under the Fair Trade Law (FTL)Disqualification Criteria 
Conflict of InterestSK T ELECOM’ S INDEPENDENCE  AND  CONFLICT  OF  INTEREST  
STATEMENTPool of outside 
experts
 
Session
384th  
385th 
 386
th 
387th 
388th  
 
389th 
390th 
391st
392nd 
 393
rd
394th 
395th 
 396
th 
 
 BOARD  ACTIVITIES  (2016)
 
Date
Jan. 21, 2016 
Feb. 3, 2016 
Feb. 18, 2016
March 2, 2016
March 18, 2016 
 
April 5, 2016
April 28, 2016May 20, 2016
June 23, 2016 
 
July 28, 2016
Sept. 22, 2016 
Nov. 24, 2016 
 
Dec. 16, 2016 
   Director Attendance Rate
83.3% 
100% 
100%
100%
100% 
 
100%
100%100%
100% 
 
100%
100% 
100% 
 
100% 
   Main Agendas
Approval of merger after divestiture, incl. SK Planet’s LBS business / Designate the closing period and base record date related to expressions of 
small-scale objections / 2016 transactions with SK Planet’s products/service/assets32nd fiscal year financial statements / 32nd fiscal year business report / 2016 authorization of long-term financing / Transactions with SK 
Broadband’s real estate sublease / Status of the internal accounting management system / 2015 Q4 follow-up report
Convoking the 32nd General Shareholders’ Meeting / Results of evaluating the operating status of the internal accounting management systemApproval of merger after divestiture for SK Planet / Investment to promote growth at One And
Appointment of the Chairman of the Board / Appointment of the committee members / Securing additional LTE frequencies / 2016 Q2 transactions 
with SK Group / Company bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities / Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities
Notice of substitute general meeting to report for SK Planet’s merger after divestiture
Payment of the operating expenses of the SUPEx Pursuance Association for 2016 / 2016 Q1 follow-up reportPayment for new LTE frequency allocation costs / Registration for the re-allocation of 2.1GHz frequencies
2016 Q3 follow-up report / Service transactions with SK (China) Corporate Management Limited Construction / Share of the operating expenses 
for the strategic technology planning group in 2016 / Company bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities / Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities / 2016 additional CAPEx plan for the LTE network
Interim dividends / 2016 statement of accounts / 2016 Q2 follow-up report / Promotion plan for fin-tech related joint ventures 
2016 Q4 transactions with SK Group / Neos Networks contribution in-kind equity / Company bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities / Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities
Comprehensive share exchange with SK Communications / Landscaping and facilities management services transaction with SK Forest / Indeung 
Mountain SUPEx  Center lease transaction / 2017 contract for the joint management of company-use aircraft / 2016 Q3 follow-up report / Results 
of law abidance and effectiveness evaluation 
2017 Management Plan / 2017 Q1 transactions with SK Group / 2017 transactions with Infosec / 2017 maintenance and repair services for base 
stations / 2017 construction for building fixed-line and wireless networks / 2017 operation service of customer contact channels / Approval of short-term electronic bond issuance limits / Company bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities / Fund management deal 
with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities / 2017 purchase of PS&M customer terminal bonds / Report on the sale of POSCO sharesMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview62 63
performance evaluations and Remuneration payments
SK Telecom evaluates its directors’ long-term performance and 
evaluations are considered during re-nomination after the end of his/her term, and the remuneration and severance pay for directors is determined by a vote at a General Shareholders’ Meeting and paid in a fair and transparent manner. Each year, SK Telecom conducts a performance evaluation that covers the directors’ expertise in the company’s businesses and technologies, how actively they fulfilled their Board activities, etc. and the results are discussed at a Board meeting. When a director is re-nominated by the Independent Director Recommendation Committee after the end of his/her term, his/her previous performance as a Board member is considered. The limits for Board members’ remuneration are determined at the General Shareholders’ Meeting and passing through a resolution at the meeting, the remuneration is paid in a fair and transparent manner. In the interest of enhancing the transparency of directors’ remuneration, since 2014, SK Telecom has disclosed the individual remuneration of directors and auditors whose remunerations were above KRW 500 million within the company’s business reports. The remuneration for Board members must be within the limits set at the General Shareholders’ Meeting and are calculated according to the value of their respective duties. Performance-based compensation of up to 200% of the annual salary is determined by a comprehensive evaluation of measurable indices such as financial performances including revenue, operating profit and EVA and the non-measurable indices such as leadership, achievement of strategic goals, expertise and other contribution to the company’s management performance. For the management, external perception indices including the 3 major customer satisfaction survey results and sustainability performance results along with environmental and social indices such as reduction in GHG emissions, revenue from environmental solutions and corporate revenue from social contribution solutions are reflected in the performance evaluation.  
Committee
Independent Director 
Recommendation CommitteeAudit Committee 
 
 
Compensation Committee 
CAPEx Review Committee 
 
Corporate Citizenship 
Committee COMPOSITION AND R ESPONSIBILITIES OF THE C OMMITTEES WITHIN THE B OARD
 
Composition
Executive director 1
Independent directors 2Executive director 0
Independent directors 3 
 
Executive director 0
Independent directors 3Executive director 0
Independent directors 4 
Executive director 0
Independent directors 3  
Authority and Responsibility
• Recommend independent directors candidates for appointment for the General Shareholders’ Meeting 
•  Inspect and audit the directors’ job execution, work performance and financial status
•  Investigation of the Board, injunction of violated actions and convene an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with the 
Commercial Act
•  Review and approve the transactions of affiliates including private contracts for transactions that are above a certain amount
•  Review the remuneration system and level for the CEO 
•  Review the CAPEx plan for the following year and review the business plan CAPEx plan when comprehensively changing the business 
plan for the current year
•  Change the major CAPEx (exceeding 10% of CAPEx) / Review the quarterly or semi-annual CAPEx execution performance
•  Set and review the CSR initiative direction / Report CSR initiatives to the Board
•  Handle stakeholder communication and resolve their grievances
•  Comprehensive review of the company’s social and environmental risks
* The CAPEx Review Committee and Corporate Citizenship Committee began to be entirely comprised of independent directors in 2015.
 
 
Committee
Compensation CommitteeCAPEx Review Committee 
 
Corporate Citizenship 
Committee 
  
Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee
Audit Committee 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  ACTIVITIES OF THE C OMMITTEES UNDER THE B OARD   
Members
Jay-young Chung, Dae-Shick Oh, Jae-Hyeon Ahn
Jay-young Chung, Dae-Shick Oh, Jae-Hoon Lee, 
Jae-Hyeon Ahn 
Jay-young Chung, Jae-Hoon Lee, Jae-Hyeon Ahn 
 
  
Dong-Hyun Jang, Jae-Hoon Lee, Jae-Hyeon Ahn
Dong-Hyun Jang, Jay- young Chung, Dae-Shick Oh
Dae-Shick Oh, Jae-Hoon Lee, Jae-Hyeon Ahn   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
Director 
Attendance Rate
100%91.8% 
 
91.7% 
 
  
100% 95.8% 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
    
Date
April 27, 2016April 27, 2016
Nov. 23, 2016
Dec. 15, 2016April 27, 2016
July 27, 2016
Sept. 21, 2016Nov. 23, 2016 
Feb. 18, 2016
April 28, 2016
Feb. 2, 2016 
  
Feb. 17, 2016 
 
 
 
March 17, 2016 
April 27, 2016 
 
July 27, 2016 
Sept. 22, 2016
Nov. 23, 2016
Dec. 15, 2016 
    
Main Agendas
Chairman appointment - Jay- young Chung
Chairman appointment - Jae-Hoon Lee
Report on the status of major investee companies 
2017 investment plan Chairman appointment - Jae-Hyeon Ahn
Report on the key content of the 2015 Annual Report (integrated report)
2016 mutual growth initiative plan and key performance 2016 ethical management initiative performance and plan / 2016 CEM initiative status 
/ Corresponding measures and plan for the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS)
Candidate nomination at the 32nd General Shareholders’ Meeting - Dae-Shick OhChairman appointment - Dong-Hyun Jang
Operation status of the internal accounting management system / 2015 second-
half management diagnosis and audit results and 2016 plan / Auditors’ opinion on the internal monitoring system / Construction of fixed and wireless communications 
networks in 2016 / 2016 contract for customer gift provision / SKTCH service agreement
Results of the 2015 fiscal year audit / Results of the 2015 fiscal year internal accounting management system evaluation / Evaluation of the operating status of 
the internal accounting management system / Confirmation of the bill for the 32nd 
General Shareholders’ Meeting and the opinion on the document examination / 32nd audit report
2016 transmission equipment/optical cable maintenance service changes / 2017 
transmission equipment maintenance serviceChairman appointment / Happynarae expendable materials and supplies 
procurement / Remuneration for outside auditors in 2016 / Comprehensive approval 
of service provision by outside auditors in 2016 / 2016 accounting audit planResults of the half-yearly review of outside auditors / 2016 first-half management 
diagnosis and audit results and second-half plan
Construction of fixed and wireless communications networks in 2016 Consignment of wired network services in 2017
2017 service transaction with SK Planet / 2017 product and service transaction with SK 
Techx / 2017 service transaction with SK Wyverns / 2017 work alliance contract with One Store / 2017 accounts receivables collection delegation / 2017 exchanger maintenance 
service / 2017 lease transaction for electrical communication equipment 
Name
Dong-Hyun Jang 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 INDIVIDUAL  REMUNERATION  PAyMENTS  FOR  Ex ECUTIVES /DIRECTORS
 
Remuneration Calculation Standard and Method
O Remuneration that is not included in the total remuneration amount: Retirement benefits
O The total remuneration amount of KRW 1,331 million is the sum of earned income, other income and retirement income
• Earned income: 1) Consists of KRW 570 million in pay (Determined according to the director remuneration standards and within the 2016 
remuneration limits. The base salary was set at KRW 570 million by comprehensively considering the duties (as the CEO), position (as the President), leadership, expertise and contribution to the company. One-twelfth of the total amount, KRW 47.5 million, was paid monthly.)  
2) Incentive pay of KRW 757 million (the management incentive for the 2015 performance, which was paid in early 2016, consists of the target 
incentive and profit sharing. The payment of the CEO’s performance-based compensation of 0~200% of the annual salary is determined by a 
comprehensive evaluation of measurable indices such as financial performance including revenue and operating profit and the non-measurable indices such as leadership, achievement of strategic goals, expertise and contribution to the company’s management performance. With an 
operating revenue of KRW 17.14 trillion and operating profit of KRW 1.71 trillion (consolidated basis), the company consistently achieved results 
above a certain level from the perspective of measurable indices. The company was also ranked No. 1 in NCSI in 2015 for the 18th consecutive year, ranked No. 1 in all three network quality assessments such as KS-SQI and KCSI, strengthened its primary competitiveness such as the world’s 
first commercialization of L4 and simultaneously made efforts to stabilize the market, thereby cementing its market leadership. Moreover, through 
various efforts in the Lifestyle Enhancement/IoT/Media spheres in order to become a next-generation platform provider including through the launch of the first domestic open-type platform based smart home service, considering that SK Telecom has solidified the foundation for the 
creation of new corporate value, the performance-based pay of KRW 757 million was paid.) 3) Miscellaneous earned income: KRW 4 million (long-
term continuous performance award, medical expenses.)
• No remarks regarding other income and retirement income
* According to the directors/executives whose remunerations exceeded KRW 500 million in 2016, including retired directors/executives 
Total Payment Amount
KRW 1,331 million 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
Jung Ho Park (CEO)CEO’ S S TOCK O WNERSHIP (*)
 
Number of Shares Owned
1,000 shares 
Stock Options
66,504 shares
(*) As of March 31, 2017REMUNERATION  PAyMENTS  FOR  DIRECTORS  
 
 
 Executive director
Independent director
Audit Committee member or auditor
Total 
 
Total Number 
(persons)
2
1
36  
Total Payment    
(KRW million)
1,756
78
235
2,069 
Average  
Remuneration  
(KRW million)
878
7878
345RATIO OF THE H IGHEST R EMUNERATION TO THE M EAN  
EMPLO yEE  REMUNERATION
 
Total CEO Remuneration  
(KRW million)
1,331 
Mean Employee Remuneration  
(KRW million)
102 
Ratio (*) 
13.05
(*)  Calculated by dividing the total CEO remuneration by the mean employee remuneration (2016)
 Position
Fomer  
President and CEO / 
Executive  
Director  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORTMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview64 65
THE C ORPORATE CITIzENSHIP C OMMITTEE AND  
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
corporate citizenship c ommittee
To strengthen the Board’s responsible management, SK Telecom 
established the Corporate Citizenship Committee in May 2008 as the highest decision-making body for responsible management under the Board. With a focus on the Corporate Citizenship Committee, SK Telecom is fulfilling its social responsibility as a global company and practicing responsible management as part of its core management activities. From the perspective of improving long-term corporate value, the Corporate Citizenship Committee has a duty to thoughtfully consider the company’s sustainability and social responsibility in addition to making decisions related to responsible management. As of March 2017, the Corporate Citizenship Committee consists of three independent directors, whose roles include setting the implementation direction in the five major sustainability management areas including customer-oriented management, mutual growth, CSV and social contribution, ethical management and environemental management as well as advising on sustainability management activities and monitoring the key issues and results. Looking forward, SK Telecom is further strengthening the role of the Corporate Citizenship Committee including through the operation of a consultative body that can support the Committee’s activities. The company has also expanded the Board’s sustainability management roles and responsibilities. Since 2013, SK Telecom has published a yearly integrated report containing both the sustainability management report and financial performance results. The Corporate Citizenship Committee undertakes a review of the integrated report’s key issues before it is published. 
Stakeholder engagement
Through the company’s continued success and development, SK 
Telecom seeks to create value for its stakeholders as well as contribute to social and economic development and the happiness of mankind. In October 2016, the SK Group revised its management system, SKMS, and expressed its resolve to make stakeholders’ happiness its top management philosophy and increase the company’s social value. SK Telecom amended its corporate Articles of Incorporation to include this information. To put this into practice, SK Telecom clearly delineates its stakeholders into six main groups including customers, business partners, employees, local communities/NGOs, shareholders and the government and is carrying out management activities based on communication with these groups. SK Telecom established and disclosed its stakeholder engagement policies and both internally and externally expressed its commitment to stakeholder engagement in 2013. Based upon this, the company further improved the transparency and efficiency of its management through stakeholder engagement and seeks to acquire stakeholders’  support and trust. SK Telecom’s stakeholder engagement policies define the requirements for internal and external stakeholders to participate in all the company’s management activities, provide guidelines from the companywide perspective related to stakeholder communication to the relevant internal organizations and provide a process to resolve stakeholder issues. These stakeholder engagement policies applies to the company’s entire management activities including overseas operations. To equip individual departments to manage and process each of SK Telecom’s stakeholder communication channels according to the stakeholder engagement policy, the company has designated the organizations and individuals in charge and operate according to a responsibility system. Of the feedback and grievances received through each stakeholder communication channel, those deemed to have a substantial impact or are otherwise considered important are reported to the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the Board. 
cSR grievances and c omplaints
SK Telecom operates an integrated channel on its website to collect 
stakeholders’ CSR complaints and grievances related to labor, human rights, the environment and ethics. Through this, if there are opinions, cases of social responsibility violations in business processes or grievances and complaints about cases of damage, SK Telecom seeks to understand and actively resolve the CSR issues. After verifying the content of the feedback and grievances received through the CSR grievance channel, SK Telecom actively resolves them through the operating department’s monitoring and due diligence. Furthermore, the content and handling process of CSR issue-related cases that were judged and acted upon as critical issues are reported to the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the Board, and actively reflected in management activities and improvement efforts are being developed to prevent similar cases from occurring. 
onlIne c SR 
gRIev AnceS/
compl AInTS  
chAnnel
CSR Grievances/Complaints Channel
The resolution process for grievances/complaints on human rights, labor, social, environmental and customer privacy protection issuesSTAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT  AND  COMMUNICATION  CHANNELS
•  Policy proposal by participating in meetings 
and discussions supervised by the government
•  Public-private Project Participation
•  Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning 
•  Korea Communications Commission
•  Fair Trade Commission•  Korea Commission for Corporate PartnershipGOVERNMENT•  VOC Collection channels such as On/offline Customer Center, “T World”
•  Customer interaction within distribution network through stores/branches
•  CRM questionnaires
•  Customer satisfaction survey
•  SK Telecom homepage
•  Social media pages such as blog, Facebook, etc. 
•  Customer Advisory Board
•  Meetings and events across the yearCUSTOMERS
•  VoP reception channel
•  Portal site for business partners (Open2U) 
•  Win-Win Conference•  Partner’s Day•  One-on-One Meeting
•  Win-Win Innovation Center website
•  Win-Win Growth Satisfaction Survey
•  T open lab, Open Innovation CenterBUSINESS  PARTNERS
01
Fact check with due diligence 
by relevant department(s)02
Take action on issues and 
actively resolve them03
Report major measures taken 
to the Corporate Citizenship 
Committee under the Board04
Drive improvement to
 prevent similar issues05
Disclose major issues, 
measures taken and external 
informationBOD’ S ADMINISTRATION  OF  SOCIAL  RESPONSIBILIT y• Investor meetings (conferences, NDR, etc.) 
• Seminars on business status
• Information to investors (homepage)
• Public disclosure (FSS, KR x, SEC, LSE, etc.) 
• Shareholders’ meetingSHAREHOLDERS
• Semi-annual meetings with NGOs
• Online volunteer platform
• Online donation platform
• Local Residents’ Council (participating in 
community development)• Social contribution programs 
• CSV Advisory CouncilLOCAL  COMMUNITIES
• Labor union (labor union website)
• Labor-Management Council
• Letter to the HR (intranet)
• Company newsletter and in-house broadcastEMPLO yEES
Customer-
oriented 
ManagementMutual GrowthSocial 
ContributionEthical 
ManagementEnvironmental 
ManagementBOD
Corporate 
Citizenship 
CommitteeSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORTMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview66 67
INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT  
BASED ON A C OMPANyWIDE SySTEM
Risk management governance
SK Telecom’s Board defines the companywide risk profile and threshold 
levels by risk and holds the top responsibility for overall risk management decision-making. In the decision-making process for management issues by major issue, the Board conducts decision-making regarding potential risks by issue and risk management. Namely, the Board recognizes the risks that the company may face and conducts the ultimate decision-making regarding the company’s tolerance to exposure and response strategy regarding all of the risks including strategic risk, financial risk, investment risk. Risks from the environmental and social perspective including operational risk, tax risk and reputational risk.Monitoring and responding to companywide risks occurs through the Management Support Office, which is under the direct control of the CEO. The Management Support Office is in charge of managing the risk profile, mapping the responsible department regarding key risks and defining the response by risk. Through close cooperation with the business departments, this office also oversees monitoring according to the defined risk levels, spread of risk awareness, and carrying out responses. If an urgent risk occurs, the Management Support Office reports to the CEO and has the authority to summon the personnel of the Companywide Crisis Response Situation Room, supervised by the relevant COO.
managed Risks 
The range of SK Telecom’s companywide risk management covers 
financial and non-financial risks including the business risk area such as strategic risks, financial risks (market, interest rates, taxation, foreign exchange) and regulatory risks; business operation risks such as large-scale customer complaints, customer information leakages and network failures; and reputational (social responsibility) risks that can impact the company’s reputation such as unfair trade, bribery and treats.crisis Response process 
Since 2014, SK Telecom has been strengthening its risk management 
system to operate a companywide crisis response center to respond promptly to serious crisis situations. The Companywide Crisis Response Situation Room is called upon during serious crisis situations necessitating urgent responses such as when the risk may affect various organizations within the company or may have a serious impact on business operations, including a dramatic increase or spread of traditional and social media reports of a certain situation and drastic increases in reports of the same type of customer complaints (e.g. VOC, Voice of Customer) in a short period of time. Such companywide crisis situations include a nationwide network failure (incl. failures caused by natural disasters), leakage of customer information, as well as investigations and media coverage of unethical behaviors of executives and employees of the company. 
A more Advanced Risk management Structure 
SK Telecom has not only set up autonomous risk response systems 
by department and established risk response systems suitable for each business organization’s characteristics and situation, but it has also enhanced the preemptive inspection system by business area. In particular, to prepare for the increasing impact of the risk of information security incidents, SK Telecom is continuously examining the level to which it is complying with security policies while also diagnosing and removing physical and technological vulnerabilities. Additionally, by conducting regular simulations, the company is building a response system that enables swift and methodical action. 
Support for Investment c ompanies’ Risk management Systems
SK Telecom has built a companywide risk management system that 
includes primary investment companies. The company has clear inter-company situation reporting standards by major risk type, and has established an organic risk responding system for investment companies to share information in the event of unexpected emergency situations and to cope with crises through prompt decision-making. With the aim of improving management stability within the even more organic cooperative system, SK Telecom is operating a companywide risk management working group, and has also formalized risk management meetings that include investment companies so that potential risks can be identified in an ongoing manner. Moving forward, SK Telecom will continue to ensure the stability of business operations by diligently overseeing its risk management system. 
COMPANy WIDE  RESPONSE  Sy STEM  FOR  RISK  INCIDENTS
Risk Perceived/
Occurred Management 
Support OfficeCEOBoardRisk management 
responsibility
Department/Headquarters 
Investment Companies
Business RisksHead of Division, Head of Department/
Director of the Headquarters,  
Investment Company Representative
Companywide crisis response center•  Situation report: The executives of SK Telecom 
and investment  companies
•  Post-examination: Management Support Office 
and individuals in charge of risk management 
at investment companies
➌ Report
➍ Spread of situation➎ Cooperative response➐ Situation report
➍ 
Spread of
situation➏ 
Determine 
whether to callPerceive situation
➊
➋
Crisis responseMonitoring & auditing risk
managementReport 
to CEO 
• Strategy - Predict customer needs and demands, business decision-making, changes in technology and industry environment
• Regulatory risk - Sudden changes in related systems and policies 
• Financial - Exchange rate, changes in interest rates, liquidity, credit, assets, debt management• Operational process - Appropriateness of organizational design, performing incorrect processes
•  Individual corruption - Leaking company information, financial dealings with employees and stakeholders, illicit profits/usage, embezzlement of public funds, violation 
of prohibition on concurrent positions/outside work
• Sexual ethics - Sexual harassment, gender discrimination
• Employee conflict - Conflicts between employees, leaders, or the company• Employee incidents/accidents - Death from negligence or serious injuries from accidents, job-related accidents, public criticism (e.g. assault)
• Company losses due to job-related negligence - Neglectful sales, asset management
• (Collective) customer actions
• Large-scale customer complaints - Service failures, computational errors
• Unfair trade - Transactions with relatives/borrowed name companies, illicit transactions, special treatment of specific enterprises and overlooking defects• Customer information leaks - Leak of subscribers’ personal data, leak of terminal information and call records
• Spread of negative press through traditional and social media 
• Conflict with suppliers - Violence, sexual harassment, legal disputes due to changes in the business environment 
• Giving/receiving money and valuables or special treatment
• Business partners violating data privacy - Business partners leaking trade secrets externally or using company information wrongfully• Business partners’ illegal actions - Customer fraud at authorized dealerships/stores
• Fair trade violations - Illegal subsidies, violation of Protection of the Communications Act, collusion
• Inappropriate entertainment - Offering bribes, other special treatment
• Accounting fraud - Creating slush funds, fraudulent accounting, disclosure violations
• Search/Investigation by state institutions - Violations of laws, search/investigations such as the investigation of company policies Business Risks
 
Employees
 
Customer Values
 
Business Partner
 
Governance  
Relationship
 RISK M ANAGEMENT A REAS AND F ACTORSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
GOVERNANCE REPORTMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview68 69
Risk 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
      
 
   SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT
long-term Risks & opportunities
SK Telecom is thoroughly analyzing significant risk factors in the management environment, identifying emerging risks and categorizing their 
impacts from the short-, mid- to long-term perspectives to respond strategically to them. Through advanced risk management that considers future risks to the company from the long-term perspective, SK Telecom seeks to overcome risks and create new opportunities. RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES
context
 
•  There are limits to growth in the saturated wireless telecommunications market as demonstrated by the over 40 million smartphones in use domestically and a wireless telecommunications penetration rate of 110% (as of December 2016). 
•  It is possible that the growth trend of subscribers will remain stagnant due to the high domestic wireless telecommunications service penetration rate, which may have a negative effect on management performance. Continual efforts to create management results are necessary. 
      
 
•  After the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act came into effect in October 2014, the wasteful subsidy competition in the wireless telecommunications market cooled down and discrimination between users in terms of benefits was resolved. Thus, the competitive structure evolved into a service- and quality-oriented marketing competition. 
•  Three years have passed since the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act was legislated 
and it is expected that if the ‘Cap on Subsidies’ is not separately extended by lawmakers, it will 
automatically expire in October 2017.
    
 
•  One of the consistent demands by stakeholders and politicians is the easing of household 
communications expenses through reduced telecommunications rates. 
•  Since 2013, the government implemented various policies such as the phased termination of mobile telecom subscription fees and the adoption of the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act in 
October 2014 and continues to debate regulations. 
 
   
 
  
•  Network neutrality is the principle that internet service providers should allow equal access to all 
traffic on internet networks without regard to the users or content providers. In Korea, the ‘Network 
Neutrality and Internet Traffic Management Guidelines (2011)’ and ‘Standards for the Reasonable Management of Traffic on Communications Networks / Transparent Use and Traffic Management (2013)’ are in effect and telecommunications companies comply with them.
•  The United States had been a strong supporter of network neutrality, but since Ajit Pai, the new Chairman took office at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the US has been adjusting its policies to ease network neutrality in the interest of telecommunications providers’ investment and innovation. 
Due to such movement, it is expected that there will be a trend of easing global regulations in terms of 
network neutrality.
•  It is expected that the Korean government will comprehensively consider global trends and unfold network neutrality policies in the interest of industry and ecosystem development.Status 
Matured 
     
 
     
 
Matured     
 
  
 
 
Matured    
 
 
Emerging 
 
      
 
   potential Impacts on SKT
 
•  According to documents reported to the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs, as of Dec. 31, 2016, the wireless telecommunications penetration rate is 111.3%, a high rate compared to other industrialized nations. Thus, SK Telecom expects that the downward trend towards stabilization in the demand for wireless telecommunications will continue. Consequently, it will be difficult to anticipate a dramatic rise in revenue in the wireless telecommunications section. 
•  In the mid- to long-term, the growth rate of SK Telecom’s wireless subscribers may decline, and this is expected to limit the wireless telecommunications business’s revenue and profit growth. 
   
•  While it is expected that the ‘Cap on Subsidies’ provision in the Mobile Device 
Distribution Improvement Act will expire, due to the market overheating that may result, it is possible that new regulations may be debated and adopted, so there remains risk in the regulatory uncertainty. 
•  However, due to the increased LTE penetration rate, it is expected that subsidy-driven 
marketing competition and expansion of the market size will not be easy. Accordingly, 
it is expected that the impact from the expiration of the ‘Cap on Subsidies’ will be limited. 
   
•  The continuous demand for network investment arising from greater data traffic and 
5G is expected to rise due to a sharp rise in the consumption of media content and the adoption of new ICT services such as connected cars. As a result, the revenue decrease from the reduced net telecommunications expenses is expected to have a 
negative impact not only on profitably but also the investment expenditures that form 
the foundation for the company’s future competitiveness. 
•  In the telecommunications industry, market entry is limited by the government’s granting of business authorization and frequency auction, so it is an industry with a high sensitivity to regulation. 
•  Due to SK Telecom’s dominant market position in the wireless communications sector, regulations apply asymmetrically to the company. If additional regulations come into force, it may have a disproportionately large impact on SK Telecom’s profitability and competitiveness compared to other companies.  
•  It is expected that zero-rating agreements, in which the content provider is 
responsible for data charges instead of the content user, will expand as network 
neutrality regulations loosen. 
•  If zero-rating spreads, it is expected to create an energized platform service environment through diverse providers’ cooperation, improving the benefits to users in addition to increasing telecommunication providers’ autonomy in launching new products. 
•  Furthermore, it is expected to ease the burden of network investment expenses that 
telecommunication providers bear through a growth structure with a virtuous cycle.
 
  What are we doing about it?
 
•  Through retention-oriented marketing efforts to offer differentiated customer benefits including retention programs such as the best data and voice call services, quality management of service contact points and management, SK Telecom continues to be the No. 1 in market share (49% as of December 2016).
•  Based on the core capabilities of SK Telecom’s traditional wireless telecommunications business, the company is reforming its business structure as a provider of new ICT-
based services to deliver new value to customers and create new value-based profit. 
 
   
•  According to the intent of governmental regulations including the Handset Distribution 
Act, SK Telecom is actively participating in settling the culture of ending discrimination among users as well as taking part in healthy competition based on products and services. The company is also striving to improve profitably by strengthening benefits for users within regulatory boundaries and strengthening its competitiveness as a 
service provider. 
•  SK Telecom is avoiding wasteful marketing-oriented competition and choosing instead 
to change the competitive paradigm by strengthening its primary product- and service-oriented competitive strategy. 
•  To accomplish this, SK Telecom is not only actively engaged in dialogue with regulatory agencies such as the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning and 
Korea Communications Commission, but also trying to minimize negative impacts 
through preemptory actions such as proposing policy.
 •  SK Telecom is making efforts to increase actual benefits to customers through differentiated product and service competitiveness rather than artificially reduced rates. 
•  To provide telecommunications services that are indispensable to groups such as low-
income groups, senior citizens and handicapped individuals whose access to service 
is more vulnerable, SK Telecom is actively participating in rate reduction systems for low-income and handicapped individuals and special rates for senior citizens. 
•  To ensure a system of reasonable rates, SK Telecom is striving to assist good policymaking by actively engaging in dialogue with the Ministry of Science, ICT and 
Future Planning and Korea Communications Commission.
 
 
 
•  SK Telecom complies with the ‘Network Neutrality and Internet Traffic Management 
Guidelines’ that were established in relation to network neutrality by the Korea 
Communications Commission (KCC) in 2011. The company will faithfully fulfill its responsibility as a network provider by responding promptly to regulatory changes in the future as well. 
•  Additionally, SK Telecom will continue to develop and innovate technology to provide an efficient and stable network. 
 
 
   
Sustained pressure to cut 
telecommunications rates
Limits to growth in the wireless 
telecommunications market due to 
population decline and domestic 
subscriber saturation
Global trend of deregulating 
network neutrality
Revision to Mobile Device Distribution 
Improvement Act
(expiration of the cap on subsidies)
Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview70 71
RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES
Risk 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
      
 
    context
 •  Because the ICT industry is infrastructure-based, it in an industry that requires enormous amounts of investment funds for large-scale network development and maintenance.
•  As there is a shift in generations from CDMA to WCDMA (3G), then to LTE (4G) and finally 5G, there is not only a demand for indirect costs such as R&D for technological competitiveness, but financial expenditures for large-scale infrastructure investments are unavoidable. 
 
 
     
 
•  The 4
th Industrial Revolution, with a focus on connection and convergence, is expected to blur the 
boundaries between industries and realize the bulk sharing of information between objects, giving rise to changes in market structure across all industries.
•  The resulting emergence of new business models such as artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of 
Things (IoT), autonomous cars, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) is expected to not only 
change the ICT industry but also change the global market’s main competitive structure. 
    
•  As the danger from climate change becomes a major global agenda, climate change regulations are 
gradually strengthening including through the strengthening of the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). Thus, this is giving rise to risks related to securing emissions credits and increased operating expenses from the cost of electricity.
•  In January 2015, the Korean government implemented the Emissions Trading Scheme and following the 
completion of the post-Kyoto Protocol at the COP21 (Paris Agreement) at the end of 2015, set a national 
target of reducing GHG emissions by 37% compared to BAU, and is strengthening market and non-market regulations. 
  
 
  
•  The high-speed internet network has the nature of a public good and privacy protection is not only 
the foundation of customer trust but also the basic duty of a provider. 
•  Privacy protection is a basic right and legally protected under the Protection of Communications 
Secrets Act, etc. However, it can also be restricted for the public interest in cases of certain criminal suspects, terror and national security. 
•  Wireless telecommunications providers have an obligation to prevent customer damage due to DDOS, system hacking, viruses, ransomware, spam, etc.
•  Telecommunications companies have an obligation to protect equal information access rights to the 
internet and protect secrets regarding personal telecommunications information. Thus, they must 
establish clear and balanced positions and policies regarding governmental or political requests to provide personal information and customers’ privacy. 
   Status 
Emerging 
     
 
     
 
Emerging     
 
 
 
Emerging     
 
 
Emerging 
 
 
      
 
    potential Impacts on SKT
 
•  As a telecommunications company, SK Telecom is maintaining a certain level of investment expenditures to secure network competitiveness by building and maintaining networks.
•  In the 5G era, data consumption is expected to rise sharply compared to 4G as business models reflect next-generation media content such as autonomous cars and VR/AR. Therefore, telecommunications providers possessing related capabilities will 
not only offer networks but grow as a Smart Piper. 
•  As there are plans to standardize 5G technology in 2018 and commercialize it in 
2019, there exists a possibility of changes in CAPEx compared to LTE and the actual investment amount is expected to experience fluctuations according to frequency allocations and competitive strategies. SK Telecom will consistently make efforts to stabilize CAPEx by making network investments more efficient.
 •  As the new business models of the 4
th Industrial Revolution will be based upon 
connection through network infrastructure, the telecommunications providers that possess the relevant network expertise will enjoy an advantage in securing leadership in the 4
th Industrial Revolution. 
•  It is expected that the role of telecommunications companies will be highlighted from the perspective of the utilization of users’ diverse information on the base of the 5G network, and such a future trend can be a new opportunity for SK Telecom. 
•  The investment needed to lead the ecosystem including investments for new technology and expanding business models will inevitably have a financial impact but it is a key factor in securing competitiveness for long-term growth. 
 •  SK Telecom consumes a large amount of energy across its data centers and networks to operate its networks and base stations, increasing the necessity of capitalizing the 
externalities from GHG emissions and managing them. 
•  There is a need for SK Telecom to be continuously aware of this situation because 
of the financial burden that the company may have to bear as well as the negative impact this may have on future business operations, such as the environmental liabilities that may result because the amount of emissions credit allocations from the government are low compared to SK Telecom’s anticipated GHG emissions (BAU) and there are long-term uncertainties in the emissions trading market. 
    
  
•  The process and basis regarding requests for personal information from Korean judicial authorities, investigative agencies and governmental institutions are defined in the Protection of Communications Secrets Act and Telecommunications Business Act. 
•  Korean telecommunications companies received about 1,125,054 communications data and 300,942 requests for communication verification data from governmental 
institutions such as prosecutors, the police and the National Intelligence Service 
as of 2015 (according to the number of data requests reported to the Ministry of Science and Technology in Nov. 2016). It is expected that the importance of the use of personal information including for investigating crime will further increase. 
•  SK Telecom is preparing policies that balance the basic rights of users such as privacy protection with the concerns of governmental institutions and the public interest. The company is considering this issue from a long-term risk perspective. 
  What are we doing about it?
 
•  Through the development of content related to 5G networks such as 5G services that utilize VR/AR, autonomous cars and connected cars, SK Telecom will secure next-generation network/telecommunications market competitiveness in advance. The company is making continuous efforts to secure profit creation opportunities for the future. 
•  SK Telecom is forming collaborations with global companies to standardize 5G 
and securing channels for technological cooperation while also strengthening 
its capabilities in the global ICT market. Additionally, the company successfully demonstrated the world’s first 5G handover in September 2016 and the world’s first 5G connected car in November 2016.
•  SK Telecom is readying the groundwork to build a 5G experimental network by the end of 2017 (as a goal) and after standardizing the technology in 2018, the company 
expects to commercialize it in earnest around 2019. 
 
•  SK Telecom prepared a foundation for the AI sector as it released Korea’s first voice recognition based AI platform NUGU in September 2016 and is building a business model to pioneer the 4
th Industrial Revolution based on AI and the 5G network.
•  In the future, SK Telecom will make every effort to be the representative new ICT company in the age of the 4
th Industrial Revolution by continuing its business 
innovations. This includes occupying the future media/IoT/commerce platforms in advance, promoting enabler businesses in the enterprise sector and entering other industries that converge with ICT, all upon the basis of differentiated competitive 
advantages and core capabilities of its AI and infrastructure. 
 
•  SK Telecom is managing the energy usage and GHG emissions from operations as a key indicator while also including the construction of low-energy networks in the business plan and operating accordingly.
•  SK Telecom is striving to minimize environmental risks that may occur in the future by providing social GHG reduction research and infrastructure that utilizes ICT. For instance, the company’s GHG savings calculation method utilizing T map navigation was recognized as an international standard.
•  To respond proactively to the Emissions Trading Scheme, SK Telecom is continuing to have discussions through the BOD’s Corporate Citizenship Committee and in addition to 
the company’s own GHG reduction activities, it is preparing a variety of corresponding 
measures. These measures include easing the price risk through the distributed purchase of emissions credits, the recognition for early action GHG emissions between 2012~2013 and registering for additional allocations of GHG emissions credits from the new installation of equipment. 
 
•  SK Telecom established human rights principles regarding freedom of expression and 
misuse of technology through a formalized corporate human rights policy, and is doing its best to protect users’ rights and interests as well as human rights. 
•  Cooperation regarding communications data, communications verification data and communications restrictions are carried out according to the strict procedures and limitations specified in current law, and along with continuous diagnostic activities 
and internal audits to check for elements of potential violations of users’ rights, the 
company is doing its best to minimize human rights risks. 
•  SK Telecom is pursuing zero (0) cases of privacy protection incidents through efforts centered around the Information Protection Planning Team that is dedicated to this task. To protect customer privacy, the company is strengthening the features of the privacy protection control tower and updating the diagnostic system, building a data-based Intelligent Security system, strengthening the wireless telecommunications network 
IT system security diagnosis and upgrading preventative systems, and strengthening 
personnel and material security systems according to changes in the ICT environment. 
   Qualitative Changes in Wireless 
Telecommunications Technology 
(5G, etc.)
Emergence of Emissions Credit Risks 
from Intensifying Climate Change
Privacy Protection and 
Human Rights
Market Paradigm Shift from 
the 4th Industrial Revolution 
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
RISK MANAGEMENT REPORTMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview72 73
PRACTICING F AIR AND TRANSPARENT  
ETHICAL MANAGEMENT  
code of c onduct and practice guidelines 
SK Telecom declared through the Code of Conduct its responsibility 
to stakeholders including employees, partner companies, customers, shareholders and local communities, and clearly presented a direction regarding the company’s comprehensive ethical management such as the application standards and attitude of the Code of Ethics that employees are expected to keep, and is applying a z ero-Tolerance Policy 
regarding compliance with the Code of Ethics. Based on the standards in the Code of Conduct, the detailed ethical implementation status was established in the Code of Ethics and Practice Guidelines, in order to prevent any confusion that may arise from discrepant interpretation from individual to individual regarding SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct and ethical standards. In addition, in order to present understanding of and response standards regarding diverse situations in which ethical issues may occur, the Practice Guidelines for the Code of Ethics (FAQ) is provided to leaders and employees.
ethical management System 
SK Telecom is practicing ethical management from three perspectives: 
Prevention – Detection – Response. In 2016, while SK Telecom continued to foster each of the three domains of the ethical management framework, the company has also made progress in ethical management by focusing on improving management speed based on honesty, managing potential risks in its methods of working and business aspects as well as enhancing the implementation system for leader-centric ethical management.
understanding potential ethical management Risks 
SKMS, the management system of SK Group, covers practical 
diagnostic topics including ethics awareness, measures to take in the event of occurrence and reporting obligations. Furthermore, SK Telecom internally surveys its employees regarding practicing ethical management on an annual basis and discovers potential risks. Beginning in 2016, this survey was expanded to cover the employees of all investment companies. By sharing the survey results and supporting companies that have vulnerabilities in ethical management, SK Telecom demonstrates its commitment to help its investment companies to possess stronger ethical management. Moreover, as the public’s interest in corporate ethical issues has grown as of late and to call attention to the Code of Ethics and practice guidelines, SK Telecom has begun implementing self-inspections at the team level in 2016. According to the results, the company discovered key ethical risks including information security-related issues such as employees’ handling of documents and the handling of sensitive documents. To address this situation, SK Telecom made it a priority to detect documents that present a risk and induce cleansing at field organizations as well as to check that risk cleansing is performed on a quarterly basis in key departments. SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
TRANSPARENCy REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
TRANSPARENCy REPORT  
SKT E THICAL M ANAGEMENT F RAMEWORK
Prevention Detection Response
Follow-up
•  Information Dissemination
•  System Improvement
•  Follow-up EducationDisciplinary Action Survey
Feedback
Examination of Education/
PreventionInformation Channel
Diagnosis and Audit
Regular Monitoring
Individual OrganizationEthical Standards
Infrastructure (Management Organization)SK T ELECOM ’S C ODE OF C ONDUCT F RAMEWORK
Fair Trade/Transparent 
Transactions & CSR 
Practice Agreement,
Supplier ESG  
Code of Conduct
•   Anti-bribery and customer information protection
•  Compliance with SK Telecom’s standard for social and environmental responsibilityCode of Ethics
• Code of Ethics
• Practice guidelines
•  Ethical management practice guide
• Practice pledgeHR Policy
•  Employment, evaluation and compensation regulations
•  Detailed regulations on  anti-discriminationCustomer Information 
Protection Policy
•  Detailed pledge for customer information protection and 
practice guidelines
•  Personal Information 
Protection PolicyAutonomous Fair 
Trade Compliance 
Guidelines
•  Prevention of money 
laundering and insider trading
•  Anti-monopoly and  
anti-competition behavior preventionEmployees Business PartnersInternalization of ethical management practice
Through preventative inspections and education regarding the assessed 
potential risks, SK Telecom is implementing proactive prevention and employee protection activities regarding case occurrences. The Code of Ethics Practice Pledge and ethical education is given regularly to all employees and the company is reflecting the needs of new employees/experienced employees/leaders and organizations requesting education in addition to strengthening on-demand education aimed at instilling awareness of ethical management in employees. In 2016, in order to establish a culture of leaders taking the lead in practicing ethical management, a total of 63 executives and team leaders participated in ethical management practice workshops especially designed for leaders. In addition, SK Telecom implements 1:1 guides for newly recruited executives, thus communicating in detail the ethical management guidelines regarding topics such as a leader’s role and attitude; receiving money and valuables, treats and conveniences; conflicts of interest and procurement/personnel requests; protecting the company’s assets and budget use; and setting the example during overseas business trips. Through such efforts, SK Telecom has strengthened the management’s internalization of ethical standards as well as the prevention of ethical risks. Furthermore, SK Telecom has expanded the scope of targets for ethical management education to business partners and the distribution network, and is providing ethical management education at the same level as the ethical management education conducted for its own employees. These efforts are a clear illustration of how SK Telecom is making strides in promoting an ethical management culture.
Group ethical management education (sessions)
201699.8 98.3 96.2
201483.1 81.387.6
201589.199.4 96.271218
Online practice pledge (%)
Online education regarding audit cases (%)STATUS OF E MPLO yEE E THICAL M ANAGEMENT E DUCATION
SK Telecom CEO Human Rights Statement (2013)
Universal Declaration of Human Rights (2004) UNGC 10 Principles (2008)Ruggie Guiding Principles on Business & 
Human Rights (2012)Online education regarding sexual harassment prevention (%)Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview74 75
ethical management Diagnosis and Auditing
In order to proactively prevent business, management and ethical 
risks in field organizations, SK Telecom is conscientiously selecting priority inspection scenarios on a quarterly basis and monitoring for symptoms afterwards. The company has developed 27 internal control audit support scenarios linked to the ‘SK Group Ethical Management Policy’ implemented in 2015, and in 2016, carried out sequential inspections for those 27 scenarios. Beginning in 2017, SK Telecom will build upon this basis to build a regular risk monitoring system at the organizational level. It will be utilized for designating which members of the Ethics Management Office will be in charge of the company’s respective organizations, conducting risk intelligence, mapping the audit support system by respective organization, as well as monitoring. Furthermore, SK Telecom is regularly conducting ethical management diagnostics and auditing in order to help leaders take the initiative in managing ethically as well as to prevent inefficiencies in each business area and potential risks. During 2016, the ethical management diagnostics and auditing covered inspections of executives’ budget use, improvement of the inefficient meeting culture, safety inspections of network equipment, actual inspections of the management of deposits for lease as well as inspections of fund management systems. SK Telecom is carrying out improvement measures according to the diagnostic results. 
ethics c ounseling and Reporting
SK Telecom operates an Ethics Counseling Center to enable regular 
reporting of ethical management issues and counseling. SK Telecom has opened channels such as the corporate website, in-person counseling and mail correspondence to make ethics counseling and reporting services freely available to all stakeholders including employees, customers and business partners. These channels not only enable reporting of wrongful conduct and corruption, but also consultation on diverse ethical issues that stakeholders may face. SK Telecom also operates diverse internal ethics counseling and reporting channels for employees. If an individual wishes to make a direct report, there is a direct reporting channel connected to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The company strives to support internal employees’ ethics and grievance consulting and resolution including through multifaceted methods such as ‘My Counselor’ , ‘Letter to the HR, ’ the availability of female counselors for sexual harassment cases as well as the Intranet. Strengthened protection of Reporters
SK Telecom runs a counseling and reporter protection program in 
order to protect the identities of individuals who use the reporting and counseling services and the matters discussed; the related content is kept confidential to prevent it from becoming public against the service users’ wishes. Since September 2015, SK Telecom strengthened the policy of protecting internal reporters and stipulated a provision for protecting the internal reporter’s identity and content of the counseling and reporting, and introduced a disciplinary action system regarding the leakage of the reporter’s identity. 
Fair c ompetition, culture of Transparent Transactions
With the aim of improving the practice of fair competition and 
transparent transactions among its business partners, SK Telecom is conducting the Autonomous Fair Trade Compliance Program and included a fair and transparent trade category in the CSR Practice Agreement, and making fair trade compliance mandatory. The fair trade compliance standards for business partners are applied equally without regard to country or region, and SK Telecom firmly enforces compliance with the standards. Failure to provide consent or comply with matters will result in non-approval for registration or the termination of existing contracts. 
Anti-Trust c ompliance 
SK Telecom is part of the SK Group, which enacted the ‘SK Compliance 
System Guidelines’ starting in 2008 and is strengthening fair trade systems by disseminating these guidelines. In 2016, SK Telecom was not involved in any anti-trust investigations, nor did it pay any fines for violations related to fair trade. SK Telecom will continue to endeavor to create a fair trade culture while leading ICT industry’s growth by collaborating with its partners. 
public policy
SK Telecom abides by Korea’s Political Fund Act, which prohibits 
companies from making political contributions. The company also cooperates with the public policies implemented by the government such as job creation, gender equality and the protection of socially vulnerable groups and attempts to meet the social demands such as anti-corruption and fair competition.
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT
 
Type
Entertainment and other special treatment
False reporting and budget abuseMisappropriation of company money
Reputation damage
Excessive loansSexual harassment and workplace etiquette
Violation of the work policy
Management responsibilityBreaches of the Anti-trust Policy
Total 
Action
Dismissal 3
Suspension 1 / Pay cut 3
Suspension 2
Suspension 2ACTIONS T AKEN A GAINST C ODE OF E THICS V IOLATIONS IN 2016
 
Cases
4
2
2
2
10
Customer Complaints
Ethics Counseling/Reporting (*)Related to Subsidiaries
Drop (**)Simple Cooperative Issues
(*)  Self-surveys are implemented for ethics counseling/reporting cases and cases beyond that are 
handled by the relevant department
(**) Surveys not implemented due to incomplete reported information/withdrawal of the report6 26
4031830ETHICS  COUNSELING  CENTER  OPERATION (Case)
ToTAl 
483 COMPANy- WIDE HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE  
AND MITIGATION MEASURES
SK Telecom takes great care to ensure that human rights violations do not 
occur during the company’s operations, either within its direct business operations or business relationships. Through shared communication and exchange of information between individuals via ICT, SK Telecom believes that communications technology can make valuable contributions to the progression of human rights as well as societal wellbeing, openness and knowledge, leading to an overall improvement in people’s quality of life. In line with these beliefs, the company is striving to integrate the values prescribed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into its comprehensive corporate structure. 
Identifying human Rights Issues in the v alue chain 
and Risk mapping
Scope
The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights provide 
companies and shareholders with a corporate framework to promote human rights. By understanding and cultivating principles related to human rights protection, respect and remedy, companies are expected to hold themselves accountable for respecting the rights of others and eliminating any negative influences that would constitute a possible rights violation. SK Telecom introduced a companywide human rights policy in 2012 and has continued to bolster its management in the human rights sphere. Through the company’s human rights policy, SK Telecom has identified the key rights related to its business as follows: 1) the human rights of all SK Telecom employees and business partners, 2) the protection of personal information and privacy, 3) the right to access information and freedom of expression, and 4) the prevention of the misuse of technological services and data. From this perspective, SK Telecom has surveyed regarding whether there are any detailed human rights risks in the company’s main organization, its subsidiaries and the value chain that its business partners belong to.
Risk Identification
After SK Telecom first established its approach to human rights in 
2016, the company conducted a Gap Analysis with the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and recently re-determined its priority of important human rights issues. SK Telecom’s process of identifying its human rights risks was carried out by comprehensively reviewing 1) research regarding recent human rights issues including the OECD guidelines for conflict minerals, 2) research tracking about human rights issues from third-party organizations and NGOs, 3) yearly stakeholder surveys and issue identification, and 4) integrated grievance resolution content gained through the Corporate Citizenship Committee and channel for raising CSR issues. 
establishing the mitigation process
The results of the 2016 risk analysis selected the following key human 
rights issues: 1) conflict minerals in the raw material collection phase for network and device equipment, 2) employees’ work hours and safety in the network building and operation phase, 3) humane treatment and protection of customer service consultants, and 4) personal information privacy during the sales and distribution processes. Through a due diligence process regarding the relief and mitigation measures for the priority human rights issues identified, SK Telecom is seeking to 
HUMAN R IGHTS R ISK I DENTIFICATION AND M ITIGATION M EASURES E STABLISHMENT P ROCESS
Risk Identification
process for establishing mitigation measuresExternal Internal Global Guidelines
•  General guidelines incl. the UNGC Human Rights Principles
•  Industry guidelines incl. the Global e-Sustainability Initiatives (GeSI)
•  Separate issue guidelines incl. the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals of Conflict-Affected and High-
Risk Areas
Third-Party Assessments•  Business & Human Right Resource Center Action Platform
•  Third-party human rights assessment results (Human Rights Risk 
Indices, etc.) Annual Stakeholder Survey•  yearly survey of stakeholders
•  Stakeholder channels including discussions with stakeholder participation 
Grievance Resolution Channel•  Report to the BOD (Corporate Citizenship Committee) through the grievance resolution channel
Identify human rights risksDesignate the responsible 
organizationReview the mitigation 
measuresMonitoring and reporting
Corporate Culture division Responsible organization by issue BODSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
TRANSPARENCy REPORTMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview76 77SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
HUMAN RIGHTS REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT
understand the current situation, map the responsible organizations 
by each separate issue and ensure that the measures are not one-time effort, but are carried out continuously. One way that the company is accomplishing this task is by matching the responsible organization with the issue at stake. For instance, in the case of the conflict mineral issue, SK Telecom has put the Win-Win Cooperation Office in charge of the regular work for this issue. For the call center work environment issue, the company has put the Wireless Business Center Process Innovation Team in charge of working on the issue. 
Results of the Due Diligence on c ore human Rights Risks
conflict minerals
Conflict minerals, mainly gold, tungsten, tin and tantalum, have emerged as a major issue within the electronics industry after the existence of armed rebels within the Democratic Republic of Congo using conflict minerals to extract personal funds was revealed to the global community. Products that are of major concern in relation to conflict minerals include electronics such as mobile phones and laptops.While SK Telecom does not personally manufacture electronic materials, the company evaluates all purchased materials, equipment and parts by utilizing the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) provided by the EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) and GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) to identify the country of origin and conduct due diligence regarding conflict minerals. As a result of the 2016 reasonable supply chain due diligence, the company has not directly procured any conflict minerals nor were any direct contract relationships discovered with refineries in 
KEy H UMAN R IGHTS I SSUES IN SK T ELECOM ’S V ALUE C HAIN AND D UE D ILIGENCE R ESULTS
Product/Service
DeviceNetwork Collection of Raw Materials
Collection of Raw MaterialsEquipment Manufacturing BuildRaw Materials Manufacturing Sales/Distribution Operation
Operation
Content Sales DevelopmentCustomer 
Service
Device ManufacturingA B
CD EF
G
Subjects of Implementation Precautionary Attention
Key Human  
Rights Issue
Conflict Minerals 
 
Work Hours/Safety Humane  
Treatment
Privacy  
Protection 
Work Hours
Indigenous Rights
Access to InformationVulnerable Groups 
Indigenous People, 
Children 
Installation & 
Operation Operators
Consultants 
General 
 
Internal Employees
Indigenous People
Children, General Subjects of Review 
Raw Material  
Suppliers 
Subsidiary  
(Network O&S)
Subsidiary  
(Call Center)
Subsidiaries, Partners 
(Distribution Network, 
Stores)SK Telecom
Local Communities
SK Telecom Risk Level 
Subject of Due 
Diligence 
Subject of Due 
Diligence
Subject of Due 
DiligenceSubject of Due 
Diligence 
Precautionary Attention
Precautionary Attention
Precautionary Attention  Nature of the Issue 
The tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold used in electronic devices, when these are products of 
the Democratic Republic of Congo or neighboring countries, contribute to continued conflict in those areas. This can result in the exploitation of child labor in the production process.
Compliance with work hours in the network operation process and resolution of safety issues 
that threaten physical harm.
Protection of consultants who are exposed to customers’ unreasonable words and behavior 
(profanity, verbal abuse, threats, insults, sexual harassment, etc.) or senseless demands.Protection of personal information and privacy, an important right of the information age. 
 
Issues regarding forced labor in employees’ work environment, child labor and rights violations.
Direct violations of indigenous rights such as land use and property during business expansion.
Protection of the universal right to access information and content responsibility toward children. PLATFORM
Survey 
Scope
100% 
 
100% 
100% 
100%(*) 
 
100%
-
- Issues 
Discovered
0% 
 
2% 
17.7% 
9.6% 
 
0%
-- Measures 
Taken
100% 
 
100% 
100% 
100% 
 
100%
-
-  
2016 Due Diligence Resultsconflict areas. Accordingly, no additional need for conflict mineral due 
diligence was found within SK Telecom’s supply chain. when employees are asked to work on rest days or night shifts, the team leader must grant prior permission to give the work order. Network O&S limits such situations through the absenteeism and tardiness management system by requiring that the work status be registered and receive approval from the associated team leader. Accordingly, the total work hours per week has been maintained at a consistent level for the past three years. 
network operation employees’ Work hours and Safety
SK Telecom has built and operates 2.44 million base stations across 
the country to run the company’s wireless communications network. The company performs data processing work and physical repairs simultaneously to maintain the communications networks and conduct repair work. During this process, workers may be exposed to human rights issues as related to safety accidents and working hours, which must receive careful attention. SK Telecom’s subsidiary, Network O&S, is managing the status of safety accidents at the companywide level as the operator and is continuously carrying out inspections of the status of the safety equipment on-hand (helmets, etc.) and the condition of their use.In 2016, SK Telecom has investigated safety conditions monthly and having discovered one case of a significant risk, the company has taken measures to resolve it. Regarding work hours, following the recent political administration’s agreement with a plan to reduce the legal maximum work hours (including overtime work) in Korea, this global human rights issue is becoming a significant business issue. To manage network operations employees’ work hours, Network O&S requires that  
2014
0 
2015
0 
 
Continuous monitoring of whether conflict minerals are 
used in main business sites 
 
SK Telecom’s Use of Conflict Minerals
Measures for Resolution  
2016
0
protection of Service c onsultants (emotional labor, etc.)
SK Telecom has collaborated regularly with its call center partners 
and executed preventative measures including the improvement of the treatment of consultants and creating a more advanced work environment. making the work environment more advanced. The consultants exposed to customers’ emotional demands such as verbal abuse and profanity on an average of 1-2 times per month. Although the frequency of this exposure is not high, even if it is occurs once, it can cause severe pain and stress. Specifically, though such incidents may be recognized, the consultant cannot defend his or herself in the interest of customer satisfaction, resulting in the suffering of emotional labor.In order to protect consultants facing difficulties due to emotional labor, SK Telecom’s call center subsidiary has put a systematic process (employee protection program) to handle instances of consultants’ exposure to unreasonable words and behavior while working, which may include profanity, verbal abuse, threats, sexual harassment or senseless requests. The responses to such situations include understanding (warning) and terminating the call or connecting the caller to the consultant’s superior. This policy is being continuously updated (most recently revised in August 2016). Moreover, a follow-up management program called ‘Mind Care’ is in operation. The program not only investigates work stress and responses to stress through emotional health diagnoses 1-2 times per year, but also continues to provide personal and group consultations to high-risk groups. In addition to these efforts, since 2014, the system has been improved so that consultants may freely select their work hours between a 4-hour and 6-hour shift, thereby preventing stress and offering a greater degree of personal freedom.  privacy protection
To prevent personal information and privacy violations, SK Telecom 
discerns the degree of risk exposure through regular audits of all distribution partners with which the company has transactions and carries out corrective measures for risks that occur. Since 2015, SK Telecom has implemented personal information privacy audits of about 4,700 stores, which covers the total number of stores, in marketing and solutions. The company has also conducted remote audits of about 20,000 PCs annually for information leakage. In 2016, SK Telecom conducted 3,397 (75.4%) customer information privacy audits and inspections of stores and products/services. The reason that the audit rate falls short of the 100% rate in 2015 is because the company has focused on auditing stores that are expected to have a higher risk of large-scale information leakages. 
 
2014
52.9 
2015
52.9 
 
Instances of working during rest days or night shifts must be registered 
in the absenteeism and tardiness management system and approved by the team leader. Working during rest days or night shifts take place after the team leader grants advance approval of the work order. 
 
Work Hours Per Person (Hours/Week)
Measures for  Resolution  
2016
53.2
 
Service Top
Number of Participants in Diagnoses 
Measures for Resolution - Personal Consultation
Measures for Resolution - Group Consultation
Service Ace
Number of Participants in Diagnoses 
Measures for Resolution - Personal Consultation
Measures for Resolution - Group Consultation  
2014
3,963 people 
(97%)
105 people
138 people
2014
2,789 people 
(65%)
78  people
6 sessions, 
 51 people 
2015
3,963 people 
(97%)
352 people322 people
2015 
3,781 people 
(100%)
106 people
12 sessions, 
179 people 
2016
3,735 people 
(100%)
605 people546 people
2016
3,384 people 
(98.5%)
107 people
50 sessions, 
311 peopleEMOTIONAL  HEALTH  DIAGNOSES  AND  CONSULTATIONS 
Rate of Inspection Among All Stores (%)
Discovered Cases Requiring Improved Security
Corrective Measures - Rate of completed measures (%)
Short-term measures taken (cases)Long-term measures taken (cases)  
2014
41.9%
--
-
- 
2015
100% (*)
491100
322
169 
2016
100% (**)
326100
218
108
EE
E EEpotential human Rights Issues Requiring Additional Attention
land use
During the process of building base stations and network infrastructure, 
telecommunications companies may face potential issues related to violating indigenous land rights. SK Telecom has assessed that as 95% of the company’s revenue originated in the Republic of Korea and because the company does not have plans to directly enter overseas markets in the MNO business section, the risk of violating such rights remains low. During the construction of domestic business sites, base stations and network infrastructure, SK Telecom is conducting a preventative review process so that safety issues such as electromagnetic fields and violations of indigenous rights do not occur. Furthermore, SK Telecom processes cases of rights violations through existing channels (customer center, etc.) and if problems occur, the company actively resolves them.
prohibition of Discrimination for Access to Information
In this age of high internet accessibility, the inability of certain groups to 
access information may even lead to limitations upon one’s citizenship and right to political participation. SK Telecom believes that the equal right to access information is a crucial human right and thereby implements digital inclusion through a range of approaches such as 1) rate reductions for vulnerable groups, 2) improved access through education, and 3) expanding network for universal informational access. Please refer to “Access to Service” on p. 104 to learn more about SK Telecom’s measures to increase access to information. Furthermore, SK Telecom supports children’s right to safely access online information as an important right and supports universal measures (restriction of adult material, illegal content, etc.) so that they may enjoy online content in a safe manner. Please refer to “Content Responsibility” on p. 106 for more details about SK Telecom’s diverse measures for ensuring responsible content distribution and safe internet use. Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
(*) Audited 100% of all stores except those with an extremely low risk level of information leakages by strengthening the risk management of the distribution network’s data privacy and using more advanced audits (*) Systemized and enhanced the structure of the methods of managing store data privacy
(**) Audited 100% of all stores except those with an extremely low risk level of information leakages by 
strengthening the risk management of the distribution network’s data privacy and using more advanced audits 78 79SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
SUPPL y CHAIN REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
SUPPL y CHAIN REPORT
GREATER COMPETITIVENESS THROUGH A  
RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN  
context 
This Report discloses SK Telecom’s supply chain sustainability 
management policies and processes, and its purpose is to inform stakeholders about responsibility and assurance for the products and services value chain. In the process of its business operation, SK Telecom depends upon a variety of suppliers for the development and spread of network devices, building and operating the network infrastructure as well as providing and developing platform content. This Report contains information regarding SK Telecom’s efforts to review and resolve significant risk factors involving suppliers in the supply chain as well as support the ability to discover possible opportunities. 
Supplier eSg c ode of c onduct
SK Telecom defines its social responsibility compliance requirements 
for suppliers through the Supplier ESG Code of Conduct. The Supplier Code of Conduct covers 1) anti-corruption, 2) fair trade compliance, 3) data privacy and protection, 4) financial transparency, 5) appropriate participation in public policies, 6) respect for customer value, 7) environmental protection, 8) employees’ welfare and safety, 9) community involvement, and 10) human rights. For more details about SK Telecom’s supply chain policy, please refer to its homepage (http://www.sktelecom.com/supplychain.) Through the ‘Supplier ESG Code of Conduct’ and ‘Fair Trade/Transparent Transactions & CSR Practice Agreement, ’ which are based upon the company’s supply chain policy, SK Telecom is improving the specificity of suppliers’ social responsibility requirements as well as their ability to put them into practice. As a representative company of UNGC LEAD, SK Telecom reflects the UNGC principles in its supply chain guidelines, on the foundation of its UNGC LEAD activities. SK Telecom’s supply chain guidelines refer to the global e-sustainability initiative e-Gesi’s JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) Guidelines. During the contract process, SK Telecom requires its suppliers to comply with these principles and through a monitoring process, the company makes use of a number of measures such as requesting corrective measures and terminating transactions. 
SK Telecom’s Supply chain Status
SK Telecom has designated a ‘critical supplier’ group after having 
comprehensively considered the degree of the company’s reliance upon the transactions as well as the impact on the company’s continued operations. SK Telecom’s critical suppliers are comprehensively considered, categorized and managed according to their 1) relevance to the company’s core businesses and reliability, 2) high level of transaction amounts, and 3) possession of proprietary technology for which substitution is not possible. Accordingly, as of 2016, 318 companies are categorized into the Tier 1 critical supplier group out of a total of 1,881 registered partners. Advance Screening of Supply chain Sustainability
In 2016, 100% of newly registered partner companies were screened according to the Fair Trade/Transparent Transactions & CSR Practice Agreement and were requested to comply with the supply chain policy through Open2U, SK Telecom’s electronic contract system. The Fair Trade/Transparent Transactions & CSR Practice Agreement is an official document that requests compliance and agreement with the Supply Chain ESG Policy. According to the screening results of the newly registered partner companies, those that do not satisfy the set standards (credit rating of B- or higher, a score of 70 points or higher on the contract execution ability evaluation) cannot, by regulation, become a supplier for SK Telecom. In addition, newly registered partner companies are evaluated for having cash payment and support programs for sub-suppliers, environmental policies and human rights/labor policies, etc. and those that do can receive up to 10 extra points. 
Identification and Analysis of Key Supply chain Risks 
SK Telecom comprehensively reflects the risk factors discovered 
through internal risk processes including business partner surveys such as the biannual Win-Win Growth Satisfaction Survey, partner company meetings, listening to the voice of partners and risk management working groups, and reviews the results of the risk gap analysis of each supplier group and risk mapping by supplier at the monthly ‘procurement performance analysis and improvement meeting. ’ SK Telecom defines the main risks that may occur in the supply chain as follows, and reflects these in the supply chain sustainability process. 
SK T ELECOM ’S P ROCESS FOR A R ESPONSIBLE S UPPL y C HAIN
Global Guidelines / Standards
•  UNGC Principle
•  OECD MNE Guidelines
•   UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights
•  EICC, etc
Stakeholder Engagement Channels
•  Annual Stakeholder Survey
•  Business Partner Meetings (Win-Win 
Conference, 1-on-1 meetings, voice of 
partners)
•  Business Partner Survey
Internal Risk Management Processes
•  Win-Win Index Assessment Gap Analysis
•  RM Working Group•  Procurement Review Meeting•  Supplier ESG Code of Conduct
•  Procurement Guidelines•  Registration requirements
•  Contract provisions
•  Evaluation
•  AuditSCM
Risk ProfilePolicy MonitoringCorrective 
measures
Contract 
termination 
2020 Target
750 
750 
 
100 
Notes
 
Service/Construction/
Equipment/Goods 
Suppliers 
Total Number of Newly 
Registered SuppliersHuman Rights - Environment - 
Ethics - Social Screening 
Rate of Advance Assessments 
2014
712 712 
 
100 
2015
706 706 
 
100 
2016
725 725 
 
100SUPPL y C HAIN ESG A SSESSMENT (A DVANCE S CREENING ) 
 
Partner Category
Tier 1  
 
  
 
Non-Tier 1 
Number of 
Partners
1,881
275
1,123 
249
234
318
35 
Proportion of 
Procurement
100%
26.2%
50.3% 
3.5%
20%
87%
-SUPPL y CHAIN  SPEND  ANAL ySIS  
Total Number of Registered Suppliers
Equipment (Network and Infrastructure)
Services (Software and Solution 
Development)Goods
Construction
Critical Suppliers
Critical Suppliers
  
Main Risk Factors 
Tier 1   
 
  
 
  
 
  
Non-Tier 1 
 
 
OverallEconomic  
Risks 
 
Social Risks 
 
Environmental  
Risks  
Overall 
 
Risk Level
-High
High
HighHigh
Moderate 
Low
Moderate
ModerateLow  
-  
Rate (No. of companies)100% (1,881)
100% (1,881)
100% (1,881)100% (1,881)
100% (1,881)
72.1% (1,357)
 
14.6% (275)14.6% (275)
14.6% (275)
27.1% (509)
 
100% (35)  
Assessed Group
-All Suppliers
All Suppliers
All SuppliersAll Suppliers
Service Suppliers /  
Construction SuppliersEquipment Suppliers
Equipment Suppliers
Equipment SuppliersConstruction Suppliers/  
Equipment Suppliers
Interim Contract Suppliers (**) 
Assessed Sourcing Group
(*)The rate of suppliers determined to have a high risk level according to the risk analysis results.
(**)Calculation limited to cases when an interim contract instead of a direct contract is made with the small and medium sized suppliers for N/W facilities construction or the supply of general goods (SK E&C, Happynarae). 
 
Rate (No. of companies)2.7% (52)
0.2% (3)
0% (0)0% (0)
0.9% (17)
0.9% (12)
 
0.4% (1)0.7% (2)
0.7% (2)
2.9% (15)
 
2.9% (1) 
Rate at High Risk (*)  
 
Overall RisksEthical and Anti-Corruption Principle Violations in the Contract Process
Collusion and Other Unfair Trade Practices
Delayed Payment to SubcontractorsUnsound Financial Structure (low credit rating)
Violation of ILO Labor Regulations and Reasonable Labor Practices 
(compliance with work hours, wage payment, and other labor rights)Conflict Minerals
Violations of Environmental Regulations
High GHG Emissions
Failure to Adopt an Environmental Management System 
Overall RisksSUPPL y C HAIN R ISK I DENTIFICATION & A NAL ySIS R ESULTSMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
Awareness Guidance & Monitoring Action80 81
procurement Strategy and Supply chain Sustainability 
SK Telecom’s procurement strategy prioritizes 1) gaining competitiveness 
by improving the procurement structure through TCO (Total Cost Ownership), 2) revitalizing strategic integrated procurement through a ‘procurement synergy consultative group’ with SK subsidiaries and invested companies, 3) improving cost efficiency by checking the production cost structure from the zero-base perspective, 4) optimizing and improving business-friendly procurement processes, and 5) creating an environment for advance procurement risk management and fair trade compliance. Furthermore, SK Telecom continues to cooperatively develop sustainability management goals and expand support for overseas export while creating an environment conducive to fair trade. By executing this procurement strategy and sustainability management goals in a connected manner across the company, SK Telecom helps its partners and the company to not only maximize resource-creation, but also removes inefficient practices, formalities and procedures from the procurement process so that it can be optimized through efficiency. The following business case will explain how SK Telecom achieves its procurement strategy by practicing responsible supply chain risk management.corrective measures
For partners whose diagnostic and assessment results demonstrate 
a need for improvement, SK Telecom creates a plan for corrective measures and requests that partner companies make efforts to improve their ESG performance. Despite these efforts, in 2016, a total of 3 companies received corrective measures according to the diagnosis and assessment results, and due to the seriousness of their policy violations including fair trade violations, and occurrence of unethical issues, a permanent suspension of transactions was implemented against two of the companies.
cASeSupply chain eSg Assessments
SK Telecom is confirming the proportion of registered partners that have 
undergone written surveys and on-site surveys as the key indicator of supply chain ESG risk assessment activities. In 2016, among the 1,881 Tier 1 suppliers, 1,351 have done written surveys, 225 have undergone on-site surveys (includes separate visits and meetings with partners and 1-on-1 meetings), which covers 91% of all registered partners. With regard to the third-party external review and diagnostic assessment for partners, the 376 partners that were candidates for mutual growth cooperation participated in a third-party external review conducted by the Korean Commission on Cooperative Partnership. SK Telecom is applying such policies and performance indicators to all domestic and international suppliers. 
In 2016, 100% of newly registered partner companies were 
screened according to the Fair Trade/Transparent Transactions & CSR Practice Agreement through Open2U, SK Telecom’s electronic contract system. 
Due to 
the majority of SK Telecom’s total procurement amount (KRW 3.7 trillion) being made up of domestic suppliers, with international procurement making up about KRW 20.9 billion (0.56%), performance indicators are also managed with a focus on Korea. During 2016, SK Telecom conducted written surveys of 1,351 suppliers among all Tier 1 suppliers (1,881 companies) and on-site surveys of 225 companies (includes separate visits and meetings with partners and 1-on-1 meetings). Regarding the partners that were judged to be exposed to ‘high risk’ in the risk identification process, 100% of them received on-site surveys or supply chain audits through third-party surveys to prevent risks in advance. 
SK Telecom offers programs for capability improvement and incentive 
programs for exemplary partners on an annual basis based on diagnostic and assessment results. Programs to improve capabilities include technological support such as technology transfer and Open Collaboration as well as security activities, and also include the SK Win-Win Academy, where partners can engage in CEO seminars, MBA courses and training support for reducing risk. Risk reduction training includes topics such as mutual growth partnerships and includes training regarding procurement policies and policy compliance. For outstanding partners, the incentive and support programs include unit price adjustment, funding (financial) assistance, technology and training support, and welfare.
 
 
Tier 1  
  
 
  
 
Non-Tier 1 
  
 
Total Number of Registered Suppliers (*)
Number of Suppliers Assessed
Number of Suppliers Surveyed in Writing (Audit)Number of Suppliers Surveyed On-Site (Audit) 
Number of Suppliers Surveyed by 3rd Parties 
Assessment Rate of Suppliers
Total Number of Critical Suppliers (**)
Number of Critical Suppliers Assessed (***)
Rate of Critical Suppliers Assessed (%) 
2014
1,5101,020
815
205 
- 
67
--
- 
2015
2,3461,5821,270
212 
100 
67
20
10
50 
2020 Target
2,1002,0001,400
242 
150 
95
40
24
60 Notes
 Includes separate discussions with Construction/Equipment 
Suppliers and 1-on-1 meetingsPartner experience survey conducted by the Korean Commission 
for Corporate PartnershipSUPPL y C HAIN ESG A SSESSMENT ( By T yPE)
 
2016
1,881
1,7261,351
225 
150 
91
35
21
60
 Notes
Tier 1 & Critical Non-Tier 1 Suppliers
Tier 1 Suppliers Category
Critical Suppliers
Suppliers at a High Risk Level 
No. of Companies
353
52 
No. of Companies Assessed
321
52 
Rate (%)
 91
100
* SK Telecom conducts its supply chain ESG assessment on an annual basis and the above assessment rate has been calculated according to the suppliers that were assessed annually.RISK M ONITORING AND A SSESSMENT (2016, B y TIER )SK Telecom’s energy efficiency joint venture supports a business 
partner’s optimized energy reduction solution that combines an energy platform (BEMS/FEMS) and lighting control technology. The Energy Management System (EMS) is a package comprised 
of a cloud server-based management platform and facilities to 
help manage energy use, and it is a solution that allows users to 
continuously reduce their energy use expenses through this business 
partner’s optimized energy consulting. This solution helps businesses 
with high levels of energy consumption to respond to energy policies such as the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System and a yearly energy reduction of 5% is possible. Furthermore, through the natural air conditioning system and reduced vehicular fuel use by using the T map service, the business partner achieved KRW 82,759 million (314 cases) in energy expense savings. ENERG y EFFICIENC y JOINT  VENTUREbuSIneSS cASe 1. 
Energy Savings Achieved  
by the Business Partner
 82,759  
million
KRW
SK Telecom has jointly developed and commercialized an optical 
repeater for mobile communications such as LTE with a partner company and made an import substitution for the foreign-made base station equipment that it normally purchased. SK Telecom has 
pursued joint development including patent grants for a savings-
type optical repeater and relay base telecommunication cabinet and carried out import substitution. The company has also supported partnerships for productivity innovation as well as exports such as overseas sales of ICT solutions. Furthermore, SK Telecom has successfully exported cloud transmission equipment to the U.S. through patent grants and joint developments.JOINT  DEVELOPMENT  AND  PREFERENTIAL  
PROCUREMENT OF N ETWORK E QUIPMENTbuSIneSS cASe 2. 
Joint development  
of N/W equipment
316
cases
 
2020 Target
100 
 
100 
 
 
 
- 
 
-- 
Notes
 
 
 
  
 
Reviewed by the 
Procurement Review 
Committee1 year suspension
Permanent suspension  
Rate of High Risk Level 
Suppliers with Established Plans for Improvement (%)
Rate of Suppliers with Improved ESG Performance 
within 12 months of 
Establishing Plans for Improvement (%)
Number of Suppliers that Received Corrective Measures 
Banned TemporarilyBanned Permanently  
2014
- 
 
- 
  
 
2 
 
11 
2015
100 
 
83 
 
 
 
2 
 
02 
2016
100 
 
90 
 
 
 
3 
 
12RISK -RELATED  CORRECTIVE  MEASURES  FOR  PARTNERS
(*) This number includes all suppliers including those with which SK Telecom did not have transactions in the past 3 years
(**) Calculation limited to cases when an interim contract instead of a direct contract is made with the small and medium sized suppliers for N/W facilities construction or the supply of general goods (SK E&C, 
Happynarae)
(***) SK Telecom’s N/W facilities construction began in 2015 and an interim contract with Happynarae was implemented starting in 2016SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
SUPPL y CHAIN REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
SUPPL y CHAIN REPORTMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview82 83
FINANCIAL & 
NON-FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
cSR pRA cTIce A gReemenT
FAIR TRADe/TRAnSp ARenT TRAnSA cTIonS & c SR pRA cTIce AgReemenT (2016)
As a party to a transaction with SK Telecom, we, the undersigned hereby agree to actively cooperate with SK Telecom’s CSR Practice 
Agreement (corporate social responsibility), which includes ethical management, and to enable a fair and transparent transaction culture to take root, we agree to the following. 
 
1      Regarding transactions with SK Telecom, we will not offer 
any bribes, entertainment or conveniences either directly or through a third-party in order to influence transactions including to influence the transaction’s establishment or to set favorable transaction conditions. 
2      In the case that an SK Telecom employee requests offers 
such as  bribes, entertainment or convenience during transactions, we will promptly report it to SK Telecom’s Ethical Counseling Center  (http://www.sktelecom.com, Tel.080-801-6262, Fax. 080-801-6272). 
3      Regarding SK Telecom’s management information including 
subscriber information made known to us during transactions 
with SK Telecom, we will not use such information for transactions with other businesses without prior consent, nor share the information with any third-parties.
4      We will not engage in unfair trade practices including 
collusion practices.5       We will actively participate in practicing CSR in transactions 
with SK Telecom. 
       1)   We will prohibit wrongful labor practices including forced/
compulsory labor and child labor.
       2)   We will prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, race, 
religion, disability and maternity.
       3)   We will respect political, religious, physical freedom as well 
as civil rights.
       4)   We will recognize our responsibility regarding environmental 
protection and pursue the development of eco-friendly 
technology.
       5)   We will cooperate in enabling fair and transparent trade and 
the spread of mutual growth.
       6)   We will comply with all labor principles that the International 
Labour Organization (ILO) recommends and that which the 
government ratifies regarding safety, welfare and work hours.
6       In the case that we violate this agreement, we agree to 
accept responsibility for the measures SK Telecom may take, 
including limiting the volume of transactions and contract termination, according to the degree of the violation and internal standards. 
Financial Statements84
Financial MD&A91
Non-Financial Statements98
Non-Financial MD&A100
Independent Auditors' Report114
Third-Party Assurance Statement115
Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement118SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // ACCOUNTABILIT y
SUPPL y CHAIN REPORTMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview84 85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Short-term financial instrumentsShort-term investment securities
Accounts receivable - trade, net
Short-term loans, netAccounts receivable - other, netAccrued revenue
Advance payment
Prepaid expensesDerivative financial assets
Inventories, net
Assets classified as held for saleAdvanced payments and other
Non-current Assets
Long-term financial instrumentsLong-term investment securities
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Property and equipment, netInvestment property, netGoodwill
Intangible assets, net
Long-term loans, netLong-term accounts receivableLong-term prepaid expenses
Guarantee deposits
Long-term derivative financial assetsDeferred tax assets
Defined benefit assets
Other non-current assets
Total AssetsLiabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable—tradeAccrued payables - otherUnearned revenue
Withholdings
Accrued expensesIncome tax payableUnearned income
Derivative financial liabilities
Current liabilitiesShort-term borrowings
Current portion of bonds payable and long-term borrowings
Current portion of capital lease Liabilities Long-term non-trade payable
Liabilities classified as held for sale
Other current liabilities
Non-current liabilities
DebenturesLong-term borrowingsLong-term payables—otherLong-term unearned revenue
Finance lease liabilities
Defined benefit obligationsDerivative financial liabilitiesOther non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities
Other non-current liabilities
Total Liabilities
Equity
Equity attributable to controlling interestShare capital
Other paid up capital
Retained earningsReserves
Non-controlling interests
Total Equity
Total Liabilities and Equity2016
5,996,6281,505,242
468,768
107,364
2,240,926
58,979
1,121,444
2,780
55,675
169,173
0
259,846
0
6,431
25,301,035
937
828,521
7,404,323
10,374,212
0
1,932,452
3,776,354
65,476
149,669
88,130
298,964214,770
75,11130,24761,869
31,297,6632015
5,160,242
768,922691,090
92,262
2,344,867
53,895
673,739
10,75396,570
151,978
0
273,556
0
2,610
23,421,145
10,623
1,207,2266,896,293
10,371,256
15,071
1,908,5902,304,784
62,454
2,420
76,034
297,281166,399
17,257
0
85,457
28,581,3872015
5,256,493
279,782
1,323,434
136,844865,327920,739381,794
224,233
0
40,988
260,000
703,087
26
120,185
0
54
7,950,7986,439,147
121,553581,697
2,842
0
98,85689,296
29,217
538,114
50,076
13,207,291
15,251,079
44,639
189,510
15,007,627
9,303
123,017
15,374,096
28,581,3872014
5,083,148
834,429313,068
280,161
2,392,150
74,512
690,527
10,134
70,772
134,404
0
267,667
10,510
4,814
22,858,085
631
956,280
6,298,088
10,567,701
14,997
1,917,5952,483,994
55,728
3,596
51,961
285,144
70,035
25,083
0
127,252
27,941,2332014
5,420,310
275,495
1,381,850
129,255
1,053,063
952,418
99,236
327,003
0
51,075
366,600
590,714
3,804
189,389
408
0
7,272,6535,649,158
149,720684,567
19,659
26
91,587
130,889
36,013
444,211
66,823
12,692,963
14,506,739
44,639
277,998
14,188,591
(4,489)
741,531
15,248,270
27,941,233(KRW million) (KRW million)SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2016
6,444,099
402,445
1,767,799
174,588964,084
1,125,816
474,931
188,403
86,950
66,227
2,614
888,467
0
301,773
02
8,737,1346,338,930
139,716
1,624,590
2,389
0
70,739
203
31,690
479,765
49,112
15,181,233
15,971,399
44,639
199,779
15,953,164
(226,183)
145,031
16,116,430
31,297,663SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENT  OF  FINANCIAL  POSITIONMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview86 87
Operating revenue
Revenue
Operating expense
Labor cost
Commissions paid
Depreciation and amortization
Network interconnectionLeased lineAdvertising
Rent
Cost of products that have been resoldOther operating expense
Operating income
Finance incomeFinance cost
Gain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures, netOther non-operating income
Other non-operating expense
Profit before income tax
Income tax expense from continuing operationsProfit from continuing operations
Discontinued operation income
Profit for the yearAttributable to
Controlling interest
Non-controlling interest
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (KRW)Diluted earnings per share (KRW)Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations  after income tax
Items that maybe be reclassified to profit or loss:
Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale financial assetsNet change in other comprehensive income of investments 
in associates and joint ventures
Net change in unrealized fair value or derivativesForeign currency translation differences for foreign operations
Total comprehensive incomeTotal comprehensive income attributable to
Controlling interest
Non-controlling interests2015
17,136,73417,136,734
(15,428,728)
1,893,7455,206,951
2,845,295
957,605389,819
405,005
493,586
1,955,861
1,280,861
1,708,006
103,900
350,100
786,140 
30,910
243,491
2,035,365
519,480
1,515,885
0
1,515,885
 
1,518,604
(2,719)
 
20,98820,9882015
1,515,885
1,835
(14,489)(14,489) 
16,324
(3,661) 
(5,709) 
(1,271)
26,965
1,517,720
1,522,280
(4,560)2014
17,163,798
17,163,798
(15,338,693)
1,659,7775,692,680
2,714,730
997,319399,014
415,857
460,309
1,680,110
1,318,897
1,825,105
126,337
386,673
906,338 
56,279
273,558
2,253,828
454,508
1,799,320
0
1,799,320
1,801,178
(1,858)
25,154
25,1542014
1,799,320
(28,486)(32,942)(32,942) 
4,456
27,267 
8,187 
(45,942)
14,944
1,770,834
1,777,519
(6,685)CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 
2016
17,091,816
17,091,816
(15,556,072)
1,869,7635,376,726
2,941,886
954,267394,412
438,453
517,305
1,838,368
1,224,892
1,535,744
575,050
326,830
544,501 
66,303
298,629
2,096,139
436,038
1,660,101
0
1,660,101
 
1,675,967
(15,866)
 
23,49723,4972016
1,660,101
(247,331)
(7,524)(7,524) 
(239,807)(223,981) 
(9,939) 
(13,218)
7,331
1,412,770
1,432,982
(20,212)(KRW million) (KRW million) CONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF C OMPREHENSIVE I NCOMESK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTSMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview88 89
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities
Net income of continued operation
Adjustment for income and expenses
Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating activities
Interest receivedDividends received Interest paidIncome tax paid
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash inflows from investing activities
Decrease in short-term financial instruments, netDecrease in short-term investment securities, netCollection of short-term loans
Decrease in long-term financial instruments
Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities
Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures
Proceeds from disposal of property and equipmentProceeds from disposal of intangible assetsNet proceeds from the disposition of non-current assets held for saleCollection of long-term loans
Decrease of deposits
Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets
Increase in cash due to acquisition of a subsidiary
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries
Receipt of National Treasury subsidy
Cash outflows for investing activities
Increase in short-term loansIncrease in short-term investment securities, net
Increase in short-term loans
Increase in long-term loansIncrease in long-term financial instrumentsAcquisition of long-term investment securities Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures Acquisition of property and equipment
Acquisition of intangible assets
Increase in assets held for saleIncrease in depositsIncrease in other non-current assetsCash outflows due to business overtakeAcquisition of subsidiary business, net of cash acquired32nd
3,778,1294,080,2941,515,885
3,250,143
(685,734)
43,400
62,973
(275,796)(132,742)
(2,880,499)
914,542
0
105,158398,308
7,424
149,310
185,094
36,586
3,7691,009
2,132
14,635
607
10,355
155
0
(3,795,041)
385,612
0
370,378
16,70110,008
312,261
65,080
2,478,778
127,948
0
12,536
2,542
13,197
031st
3,677,3854,070,9821,799,320
2,978,995
(707,333)
56,706
13,048
(280,847)(182,504)
(3,683,165)
341,387
5,627
0
207,439
2,535
65,287
7,333
25,143
10,917
3,667
4,454
8,891
94
00
0
(4,024,552)
0
174,209202,501
4,3412,522
41,30560,020
3,008,026
130,667
552
6,903
18,233
124,486250,78733rd
4,243,1684,713,4261,660,101
3,039,561
13,764
44,60298,267
(245,236)(367,891)
(2,462,208)
1,140,664
222,322
0
238,980
28
555,519
66,85222,549
16,532
0
1,960
14,894
728
0
0
300
(3,602,872)
0
6,334
239,303
32,287
342
30,949
130,388
2,490,455
635,387
0
12,943
763
4,498
19,223(KRW million) CONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF C ASH F LOWS CONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF C HANGES IN E QUIT y
 
  
2014.01.01(Basic Capital) 
Total Comprehensive profit 
Dividends paid
Issuance of hybrid bond Interest on hybrid bond Acquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockChanges in the scope of consolidation Business combination under common controlChanges in equity of subsidiaries2014.12.31(End of term capital)2015.01.01(Basic Capital)Total comprehensive profit 
Dividends paid
Issuance of hybrid bond Interest on hybrid bond Acquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockChanges in the scope of consolidation Business combination under common controlChanges in equity of subsidiaries2015.12.31(End of term capital)2016.01.01(Basic Capital) Total comprehensive profit 
Dividends paid
Issuance of hybrid bond Interest on hybrid bond Acquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stockChanges in the scope of consolidation Business combination under common controlChanges in equity of subsidiaries2016.12.31(End of term capital)  
Share  
Capital
44,639
0000000000
44,63944,639
0000000000
44,63944,639
0000000000
44,639  
Other Paid  
up Capital
317,508
00000000
(28,641)(10,869)
277,998277,998
00000
(490,192)
425,744
00
(24,040)
189,510189,510
000000000
10,269
199,779  
Retained 
Earning
13,102,495
1,801,178
(31,440)
(666,802)
0
(16,840)
00000
14,188,59114,188,591
1,518,604
(13,402)
(668,494)
0
(16,840)
0000
(832)
15,007,62715,007,627
1,675,967
(7,499)
(706,091)
0
(16,840)
00000
15,953,164  
Reserves 
(12,270)
0
7,781
00000000
(4,489)(4,489)
0
17,078
0000000
(3,286)
9,3039,303
　
(235,486)
00000000
(226,183)  
Total 
13,452,372
1,801,178
(23,659)
(666,802)
0
(16,840)
000
(28,641)(10,869)
14,506,73914,506,739
1,518,604
3,676
(668,494)
0
(16,840)
(490,192)
425,744
00
(28,158)
15,251,07915,251,079
1,675,967
(242,985)(706,091)
0
(16,840)
0000
10,269
15,971,399 
Non-controlling 
Interest 
714,185
(1,858)(4,827)
(170)
0000
23,667
0
10,534
741,531741,531
(2,719)(1,841)
(143)
0000
(5,226)
0
(608,585)
123,017123,017
(15,866)
(4,346)
(300)
000000
42,526
145,031(KRW million)
Profit for the yearOther comprehensive income
Profit for the yearOther comprehensive income
Profit for the yearOther comprehensive incomeEquity  
Total Equity 
 
14,166,557
1,799,320
(28,486)
(666,972)
0
(16,840)
00
23,667
(28,641)
(335)
15,248,27015,248,270
1,515,885
1,835
(668,637)
0
(16,840)
(490,192)
425,744
(5,226)
0
(636,743)
15,374,09615,374,096
1,660,101
(247,331)(706,391)
0
(16,840)
0000
52,795
16,116,430 
Controlling Interest of Parent CompanySK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTSMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview90 91
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash inflows from financing activities
Proceeds from short-term borrowings
Issuance of debentures
Proceeds from long-term borrowingsCash inflows from derivative transactionsCash increase due to consolidated capital transactions
Cash outflows for financing activities
Repayment in short-term borrowings, netRepayment of long-term non-trade payablesRepayment of debenturesRepayment of long-term borrowingsOutflow of cash due to transaction of derivative productsDecrease in finance lease liabilities
Payment of dividends
Interest on hybrid bond
Acquisition of treasury stock
Decrease in cash from the consolidated capital transaction
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalentsCash and cash equivalent at beginning of the yearEffects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year32nd
(964,583)
1,375,206
0
1,375,031
0
175
0
(2,339,789)
106,600
191,436
620,000
21,924
655
3,206
668,494
16,840
490,192
220,442
(66,953)
834,429
1,446
768,92231st
(559,399)
1,421,088
102,868
1,255,468
62,552
200
0
(1,980,487)
0
207,791
1,039,938
23,284
6,444
19,388
666,802
16,840
00
(565,179)
1,398,639
969
834,42933rd
(1,044,829)
861,624
0
776,727
49,000
251
35,646
(1,906,453)
257,386122,723
770,000
33,387
0
26
706,091
16,840
0
0
736,131
768,922
189
1,505,242FINANCIAL MD&A (Management Discussion & Analysis)SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&A
creation and Distribution of economic v alue 
In 2016, SK Telecom has generated a total economic value of 
KRW 18.278 trillion, consisting of financial investment returns that includes operating revenues of KRW 17.92 trillion, revenue from asset disposals and other revenue. Among the total value created, KRW 17.533 trillion has been distributed reasonably to stakeholders, considering the future value of the company and investment efficiency, and after the distribution, the total retained economic value of KRW 745 billion has been added to the total equity. On the other hand, a total of KRW 29 billion in governmental tax deductions were received in 2016 for investing in the development of research personnel, productivity improvement and energy savings.
KRW 745  billion Economic Value RetainedDistribution to Business Partners and Miscellaneous 
Operating Expenses: Economic value distributions 
to business partners and other operating expenses for service provision such as the cost of goods sold, commissions paid to suppliers, R&D and network investment. 
Distribution to Employees: Wages, benefits and 
welfare, the reserve for retirement allowances.
Distribution to Shareholders and Investors: Dividends 
and interest payments.
Distribution to the Government: Payment of 
corporate taxes among other taxes and frequency usage fees applied.
Distribution to the Local Communities: Pure 
donations to local communities, not including indirect impact resulting from business investments and infrastructure support.Distribution of Economic Value
13,97897
1,870723865
KRW 17.533 
trillion(KRW billion)
Business Partners & Other Operations
Shareholders & Investors
GovernmentEmployees
Local Communities management’s Discussion & Analysis
This Management’s Discussion & Analysis (MD&A) is provided to 
enable readers to assess our results of operations and financial condition for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, compared to the preceding year.  This MD&A section should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report.  Unless otherwise specified, all amounts are presented on a consolidated basis and are based on our audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by Korea.  All amounts are in Korean Won (KRW).  All references to “we, ” “us” or “our” shall mean SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and, unless the context otherwise requires, its consolidated subsidiaries.  References to “SK Telecom” shall mean SK Telecom Co., Ltd., but shall not include its consolidated subsidiaries.This MD&A section contains “forward-looking statements, ” as defined in the U.S Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry.  The forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We caution you that reliance on any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties, and that although we believe that the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and, as a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions could be incorrect.  Risks and uncertainties associated with our business are more fully described in our latest annual report on Form 20-F and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not conclude that we will necessarily achieve any plans and objectives or projected financial results referred to in any of the forward-looking statements.  We do not undertake to release the results of any revisions of these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. 
1. 2016 oveRvIeW 
In a wireless telecommunications industry currently defined by fast-paced advancements in the LTE network, we have emerged as the leader in the new information and communication technology (“ICT”) era by launching innovative new products and services designed to meet customers’ evolving preferences and needs.  As part of our effort to provide innovative new products and services, we introduced “T Signature” and “Band Playpack” rate plans and new smartphone devices including the Luna S.  In addition, in September 2016, we launched NUGU, the first intelligent virtual assistant service launched in Korea with Korean language capabilities based on advanced voice recognition technologies.  We have also focused on growth of the second device market, and we plan to actively develop our next-generation growth businesses in Internet of Things (“IoT”) solutions, media and e-Commerce and other innovative products offered through our platform services. Our operations are reported in four segments: (1) cellular services, (2) fixed-line telecommunication services, (3) e-Commerce services and (4) other businesses. 
cellular Services
We offer wireless voice and data transmission services, sell wireless 
devices and provide IoT solutions and innovative platform services through our cellular services segment. We maintained our leadership position in the wireless business in 2016 with 29.6 million subscribers (including subscribers of mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) that lease our networks) as of December 31, 2016, of which approximately 21.1 million subscribed to our LTE service and 21.9 million used smartphones.  Our share of the Korean wireless market based on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) decreased by 0.3%p  to 49.1% as of December 31 from 49.4% as of December 31, 2015.The Korean wireless telecommunication industry is considered to have reached its maturation stage with more than a 100% penetration rate.  However, with continued advancements in network-related technology, we are able to increase the quality of cellular services we provide to our subscribers.  By continuing to be innovative in developing core competencies, we have firmly established our position as the market leader in wireless telecommunications. For example, in 2016, we developed various rate plans that are tailored to meet our customers’ needs for increased data usage, including our “T Signature” rate plans for customers seeking unlimited wireless data usage for fixed rates and a multitude of other premium benefits such as mobile device insurance coverage and mobile device upgrades, as well as our “Band yT” rate plans targeting customers in their 
twenties and thirties seeking a wider range of content services such as subscriptions to upgraded music streaming services.  We continue to endeavor to strengthen our customer relationships by engaging our subscribers to integrate our service offerings in various aspects of their daily lives such as “T map, ” our interactive navigation service which we provide to all users free of charge, “T Pay, ” our mobile payment service offered to our subscribers, and “oksusu, ” our mobile IPTV service with a wide range of unique media offerings.  In addition, we developed the Luna S and the Sol Prime, high-quality devices available at reasonable price points that were designed to run exclusively on our networks and also compete with premium smartphones. In 2016, our cellular services segment revenue was KRW 12.35 trillion, representing 72.3% of our consolidated operating revenue. (KRW million) CONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF C ASH F LOWS  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTSMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview92 93
Statement of Income
Operating revenue
EBITDA(1)
Operating expense
Operating profit
Profit for the year
Statement of Financial Position
Total assetsCash & marketable securities
(2)
Total liabilities
Interest-bearing financial debt(3)
Total equity
Financial Ratios (%)
EBITDA marginOperating marginNet margin
Debt-to-equity ratio
(4)(KRW billion) FINANCIAL  INFORMATION  (CONSOLIDATED )  
2015
17,137
4,701
15,429
1,708
1,516
28,581
1,505
13,207
7,524
15,374
27.4
10.0
8.8
49.2Change
-0.3%
-2.1%
0.8%
-10.1%
9.5%
9.5%
35.1%
14.9%
-2.0%
4.8%
-1.8%
-10.0%
10.2%
-7.1%2016
17,092
4,603
15,556
1,5361,660
31,298
2,034
15,181
7,370
16,116
26.9
9.09.7
45.7
201517,137
201617,092CONSOLIDATED  OPERATING  REVENUE (KRW billion)SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&A
Fixed-line Telecommunication Services
We offer fixed-line telephone, broadband Internet and advanced media 
platform services (including IPTV) and business communications services through our fixed-line telecommunication services segment.  Our fixed-line telecommunication services are provided by our subsidiaries, SK Broadband.  As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 4.3 million fixed-line telephone subscribers (including subscribers to VoIP services), approximately 5.2 million broadband Internet access subscribers and approximately 4.0 million IPTV subscribers.As part of our initiative to be a new ICT company to lead the 4
th 
Industrial Revolution, we aim to provide an advanced media platform with various media content and service offerings through our fixed-line telecommunication services segment.  We currently offer IPTV services under the brand name “B tv” with access to more than 166 live high definition channels as well as video-on-demand service providing a wide range of media content, including recent box office movie releases, popular U.S. and other foreign TV shows and various children’s TV programs.  We also offer “B tv UHD, ” which is an ultra-high definition IPTV service and has a resolution that is four times as high as the standard high definition broadcasting service in the IPTV industry. Further, we are strengthening our ability to provide customized content by collecting and analyzing data regarding customer consumption patterns. We are strengthening the connection between mobile and media as well as leading mobile consumption trends by discovering original content optimized for mobile and providing popular domestic and international live broadcast channels, movies and sports through our mobile IPTV service oksusu. The number of unique visitors to oksusu is continuously increasing and was recorded at about 4.6 million people as of the fourth quarter of 2016.In 2016, our fixed-line telecommunication services segment revenue was KRW 2.94 trillion, representing 17.2% of our consolidated operating revenue. 
e-commerce Services 
Our e-Commerce services segment consists primarily of our 
marketplace business and online-to-offline (“O2O”) commerce business operated by our subsidiary, SK Planet.  Our key platform in the e-Commerce business is “11st” which is an online marketplace that offers a wide range of products through an online and mobile interface.  As of December 31, 2016, the mobile version of 11st was the leading mobile commerce platform in Korea in terms of unique visitors according to Korean Click.  The mobile version of 11st is continuing to grow, with an increase in the percentage of annual gross merchandise volume, which represents the total annual monetary value of customer purchases of goods and services, net of estimated refunds, to 52% in 2016 from 41% in 2015.  We have also expanded our online open marketplace business globally to Turkey, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.  We have also further expanded the scope of our O2O commerce businesses provided under the “Syrup” brand name.In 2016, our e-Commerce services segment revenue was KRW 1.22 trillion, representing 7.1% of our consolidated operating revenue. other businesses
We strive to continually diversify our products and services and 
develop new growth engines that we believe are complementary to our existing products and services, such as our portal service and other miscellaneous businesses, which we include in our others segment. We offer a portal service under our “Nate” brand name through SK Communications that can be accessed through its website, www.nate.com, or through its mobile application.  In addition, we operate a security and network surveillance business through our wholly-owned subsidiary Neosnetworks, a provider of residential and small business electronic security and other related alarm monitoring services.  We also operate a mobile application marketplace, “One Store” in collaboration with KT, LG U+ and NAVER Corporation.In 2016, our others segment revenue was KRW 0.58 trillion, representing 3.4% of our consolidated operating revenue. 
2. eXecuTIve SummARy
In our cellular services segment, we earn revenue principally from our wireless voice and data transmission services through monthly plan-based fees, usage charges for outgoing voice calls, usage charges for wireless data services and value-added service fees paid by our wireless subscribers as well as interconnection fees paid to us by other telecommunications operators for use of our wireless network by their customers and subscribers.  We also derive revenue from sales of wireless devices by our subsidiary, PS&Marketing.  Other sources of revenue include revenue from our IoT solutions and platform services as well as other miscellaneous cellular services.In our fixed-line telecommunication services segment, we earn revenue principally from our fixed-line telephone services, broadband Internet services, advanced media platform services and usage charges as well as interconnection fees paid to us by other telecommunications operators for use of our fixed-line network by their customers and subscribers.  Our e-Commerce services segment became a separate reportable segment as of January 1, 2016.  In our e-Commerce services segment, we derive revenue from our consolidated subsidiary SK Planet, which earns revenue principally through third party seller fees earned (including commissions) for transactions in which it acts as a selling agent to the “mini malls” on 11st, its online open marketplace platform, as well as advertising revenue from 11st and its O2O commerce solutions.  In our others segment, we earn revenue from our hardware businesses through sales of projection display devices and high end audio devices, the development, production, supply and maintenance of systems software and online information provision business operated by our subsidiary, SK M&Service, advertising revenue from our “Nate”  portal service operated by our subsidiary, SK Communications, and sales commissions through our mobile application marketplaces.  The following selected consolidated financial information has been derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report.
Financial Statement Summary (c onsolidated) 
SK Telecom follows the numbers in the annual report submitted to DART. Our operating revenue decreased by 0.3% to KRW 17.09 trillion 
in 2016 from KRW 17.14 trillion in 2015 due to decreases in wireless service revenue and interconnection revenue, among other reasons. Our operating expense in 2016 increased by 0.8% to KRW 15.56 trillion from 15.43 trillion in 2015, primarily due to increases in commissions and depreciation and amortization.  As our operating revenue decreased and operating expense increased in 2016, our operating profit decreased by 10.1% to KRW 1.54 trillion in 2016 from KRW 1.71 trillion in 2015 and our operating margin decreased by 1.0%p to 9.0% in 2016 and EBITDA margin decreased by 0.5%p to 26.9% in 2016.  Our profit for the year increased by 9.5% to KRW 1.66 trillion in 2016 from KRW 1.52 trillion in 2015. Our total assets increased by 9.5% to KRW 31.30 trillion as of December 31, 2016 from KRW 28.58 trillion as of December 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase in intangible assets resulting from an increase in the carrying amount of our frequency usage rights and an increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from the proceeds of the sale of our 15.0% interest in Loen Entertainment in February 2016 and the sale of our 1.42% interest in POSCO in November 2016.Total liabilities increased by 14.9% to KRW 15.18 trillion as of December 31, 2016 from KRW 13.21 trillion as of December 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase in long-term payables related to the acquisition of frequency usage rights in 2016.  Total equity was KRW 16.12 trillion as of December 31, 2016, which increased by 4.8% from December 31, 2015.  Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2016 was 45.7%, compared to 49.2% as of December 31, 2015. 
3. Revenue 
Our operating revenue in 2016 decreased 0.3% to KRW 17.09 trillion from KRW 17.14 trillion in 2015.  This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in wireless service revenue as a result of an increase in the number of subscribers who elected to receive discounted rates in lieu of receiving handset subsidies as well as a decrease in interconnection revenue from decreases in interconnection rates and land-to-mobile call volume.(1) EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expense
(2) Cash & marketable securities = Cash & cash equivalents + Marketable securities + Short-term financial instruments  
(3) Interest-bearing financial debt = Short-term borrowings + Current portion of long-term debt + Debentures + Long-term borrowings  
(4) Debt-to-equity ratio = Interest-bearing financial debt/Total equityMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview94 95
OPERATING  Ex PENSE (KRW billion)
Labor Cost1,870
1,894
Commissions 
Paid5,377
5,207
Depreciation and 
Amortization2,942
2,845
Network 
Interconnection954
958
Leased Line394
390
Advertising438
405
Rent517
494
Cost of Products 
that have been resold1,838
1,956
Other Operating 
Expenses1,225
1,281
2016 Total: 15,556 2015 Total: 15,429SUBSCRIBERS & M ARKET S HARE IN 2016 (Subs: in thousands, Market share: %)
Subscriber Market Share1Q28,920
3Q29,451
2Q29,150
4Q29,59549.449.2 49.349.1Subscribers & market Share
The total number of wireless subscribers in Korea was approximately 
60.3 million as of December 31, 2016 with a wireless telecommunications service penetration rate of 116.6%.  Despite the saturated wireless market in Korea, SK Telecom continued to add new subscribers throughout the year, and ended the year 2016 with approximately 29.6 million subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs that lease SK Telecom’s networks).  SK Telecom’s wireless market share based on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) slightly decreased by 0.3%p to 49.1% as of December 31, 2016 from 49.4% as of December 31, 2015.The number of SK Telecom’s LTE subscribers increased to 21.1 million as of December 31, 2016 from 19.0 million as of December 31, 2015 . Subsidiaries
The consolidated revenue of SK Broadband, which is mostly generated 
from its fixed-line telecommunication services, increased by 7.7% to KRW 2.94 trillion in 2016 from KRW 2.73 trillion in 2015, primarily as a result of an increase in revenue from IPTV services attributable to an increase in the number of IPTV subscribers.  SK Planet’s revenue, which is mostly derived from 11st and its O2O businesses, decreased by 27.9% to KRW 1.17 trillion in 2016 from KRW 1.63 trillion in 2015, primarily due to the spin-off of SK Planet’s former platform and T Store businesses in 2016. PS&Marketing’s revenue, which is mostly derived from sales of handsets, decreased by 6.3% to KRW 1.68 trillion in 2016 from KRW 1.79 trillion in 2015, primarily due to a decrease in the number of handsets sold in 2016 as a result of the maturity of the handset market.
4. pRoFITAbIlIT y
operating expense
Our operating expense for 2016 amounted to KRW 15.56 trillion, 
representing a 0.8% increase from KRW 15.43 trillion in 2015.  The increase in operating expense was primarily due to increases in payment and sales commissions as well as depreciation costs. The commissions increased by 3% year-over-year due to the impact of our subsidiaries’ business expansion such as greater marketing costs related to promotional activities for 11st, our open market platform,  which was partially offset by a decrease in marketing costs related to our cellular services. The increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to amortization of certain frequency bandwidth usage rights we acquired or re-licensed in 2016 as well as amortization of software.  
operating profit and ebITDA
Our operating profit decreased by 10.1% to KRW 1.54 trillion from KRW 
1.71 trillion in 2015 and our operating margin decreased to 9.0% in 2016 from 10.0% in 2015 as our operating revenue decreased and our operating expense increased. Our EBITDA decreased by 2.1% to KRW 4.60 trillion in 2016 from KRW 4.70 trillion in 2015 .
non-operating Income and expenses
Our finance income increased significantly by 453.5% to KRW 575 billion 
in 2016 from KRW 104 billion in 2015, primarily due to a significant increase in gain on disposal of long term investment securities to KRW 459 billion in 2016 from KRW 11 billion in 2015 relating to the sale of our 15.0% interest in Loen Entertainment in February 2016 and the sale of our 1.42% interest in POSCO in November 2016.  Our finance costs decreased by 6.7% to KRW 327 billion in 2016 from KRW 350 billion in 2015 primarily due to a decrease in impairment loss for available for sale financial assets as well as a decrease in interest expense.  Gains related to investments in subsidiaries and associates decreased 30.7% to KRW 545 billion in 2016 from KRW 786 billion in 2015, primarily due to a decrease in share of profits of SK Hynix, in which we have a 20.1% interest.  Our other non-operating income increased by 112.9% to KRW 66 billion in 2016 from KRW 31 billion in 2015 primarily due to refunds received in 2016 in connection with the overturn of certain fines previously imposed on us by the FTC(Fair Trade Commision) that we had paid.  Our other non-operating expenses increased by 23.0% to KRW 299 billion in 2016 from KRW 243 billion in 2015, primarily due to increases in impairment loss on property and equipment and intangible assets, bad debt for accounts receivable – other and donations. 
Income Tax
Income tax expense decreased decreased by 16.0% to KRW 436 billion 
in 2016 from KRW 519 billion in 2015, primarily due to SK Planet's use of tax loss carryforwards related to its loss on disposal of shares of SK Communications. Our effective tax rate in 2016 decreased by 4.7%p to 20.8% in 2016 from 25.5% in 2015.profit for the y ear
Principally as a result of the factors discussed above, our profit for the year increased by 9.5% to KRW 1.66 trillion in 2016 from KRW 1.52 trillion in 2015. Net margin was 9.7% in 2016 compared to 8.8% in 2015.
ARPU IN 2016 (Billing ARPU: KRW)
2015
Overall36,118
2016
Overall35,636
2016 1Q35,959
2016 2Q35,764
2016 3Q35,471
2016 4Q35,355ARpu 
SK Telecom’s billing average monthly revenue per subscriber (billing 
ARPU) decreased by 1.3% to KRW 35,636 in 2016 from KRW 36,118 in 2015.  This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in revenue attributable to an increase in the number of subscribers who elected to receive discounted rates in lieu of receiving handset subsidies. SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview96 97
5. FInAncIAl STRucTuRe
current Assets
We had current assets of KRW 6.00 trillion as of December 31, 2016, 
a 16.2% increase from KRW 5.16 trillion as of December 31, 2015.  Our cash and marketable securities (including short-term financial instruments) increased by 35.2% to KRW 2.03 trillion as of December 31, 2016 from 1.51 trillion as of December 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from the proceeds of the sale of our 15.0% interest in Loen Entertainment in February 2016 and the sale of our 1.42% interest in POSCO in November 2016. Our accounts receivable (trade and other) increased by 11.4% from KRW 3.36 trillion as of December 31, 2016 from KRW 3.02 trillion as of December 31, 2015. equity
Our total equity as of December 31, 2016 amounted to KRW 16.12 
trillion, which increased by 4.8% from December 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase in retained earnings.  
6. cApITAl eXpenDITuReS (non-conSolIDATeD bASIS)
SK Telecom spent approximately KRW 1.96 trillion for capital expenditures in 2016 compared to KRW 1.89 trillion for capital expenditures in 2015, each on a separate basis. Of the amount spent in 2016, we spent approximately KRW 1.1 trillion, or 56.2%, on capital expenditures related to expanding and enhancing the quality of our LTE network and KRW 0.46 trillion on other non-network related capital expenditures primarily related to developing new products and maintenance and upgrades to our information technology systems.CURRENT  ASSETS (KRW billion)
Cash & Marketable 
Securities2,034
1,505
Accounts Receivable 
(trade and other)3,362
3,019
Short-term Loans59
54
Inventories260
274
Other Current Assets282
308
2016 Total: 5,997 2015 Total: 5,160EQUIT y (KRW billion)
Share Capital45
45
Capital Surplus (Deficit) and 
other Capital Adjustments200
190
Retained Earnings15,953
15,008
Reserves-226
9
Non-controlling 
interests145
123
2016 Total: 16,116 2015 Total: 15,374NON -CURRENT  ASSETS (KRW billion)
Property and 
Equipment10,374
10,371
Intangible Assets3,776
2,305
Investment Assets8,234
8,114
Other Non-Current 
Assets2,917
2,631
2016 Total: 25,301 2015 Total: 23,421
INTEREST  PAyABLE  ON  FINANCIAL  BORROWINGS (KRW billion)
Short-term 
Borrowings3
260
Current Portion of 
Long-term Debt889
704
Debentures 6,339
6,439
Long-term 
Borrowings139
121
2016 Total: 7,370 2015 Total: 7,524non-current Assets 
We had non-current assets of KRW 25.30 trillion as of December 31, 
2016, an 8.0% increase from KRW 23.42 trillion as of December 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase in intangible assets.  Our intangible assets increased by 63.8% to KRW 3.78 trillion as of December 31, 2016 from KRW 2.30 trillion as of December 31, 2015 primarily due to an increase in the carrying amount of our frequency usage rights.  
liabilities 
We had KRW 15.18 trillion of total liabilities as of December 31, 2016, 
a 14.9% increase from KRW 13.21 trillion of total liabilities as of December 31, 2015, mainly due to an increase in long-term payables related to the acquisition of frequency usage rights in 2016.  Our total interest-bearing financial debt decreased by 2.0% to KRW 7.37 trillion as of December 31, 2016 from KRW 7.52 trillion as of December 31, 2015.  Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2016 was 48.9%, compared to 49.2% as of December 31, 2015.Operating revenue
Operating expense
Labor cost(1) 
Commissions paid(2) 
Depreciation and amortization(3)
Network interconnectionLeased line 
Advertising
RentCost of products that have been resold
Other operating expenses
Operating profit
Finance income
Finance costs
Gain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries and 
associates, netOther non-operating income
Other non-operating expenses
Profit before income tax
Income tax expense
Profit for the year 
EBITDA
(4)(KRW billion) STATEMENT OF I NCOME (C ONSOLIDATED )
2016
17,092
15,556
1,870
5,377
2,942
954
394438
517
1,838
1,225
1,536
575
(327)
545 
66
(299)
2,096
436
1,6604,603% of Revenue
100.0%
91.0%
10.9%31.5%
17.2%
5.6%
2.3%2.6%
3.0%
10.8%
7.2%9.0%
3.4%
(1.9%)
3.2% 
0.4%
(1.7%)
12.3%
2.6%
9.7%
26.9%2015
17,137
15,429
1,894
5,207
2,845
958
390405
494
1,956
1,281
1,708
104
(350)
786 
31
(243)
2,035
519
1,5164,701% of Revenue
100.0%
90.0%
11.1%30.4%
16.6%
5.6%
2.3%2.4%
2.9%
11.4%
7.5%
10.0%
0.6%
(2.0%)
4.6% 
0.2%
(1.4%)
11.9%
3.0%
8.80%
27.40%
(1) Labor cost = Salaries + Provisions for defined benefit liabilities
(2) Includes marketing commissions and other commissions
(3) Excludes R&D-related depreciation 
(4) EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreciation within R&D expenseSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview98 99
NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MD&A
1.1 Total Employment  
 
1.2 Recruitment and Turnover  
1.3 Maternity and Parental Leave  
1.4 Human Capital Improvement  
1.5 Labor Practices
1.6 Employee Health, Safety and Well- Being2015
4,046
186
79
563
681
170
48
2.84
17,125
96
85.0
02016
4,399
190
73
734
359
185
42
2.03
17,303
98
87.3
1Section 1. human capital
2014
4,253
210
99
396
265
161
40
3.46
14,368
96
83.4
0Total Number of EmployeesSpecial Employment and Minorities
Total Number of Overseas Employees
Total Number of New EmployeesTotal Number of Turnover Employees
Number of Employees on Maternity Leave
Number of Employees on Parental Leave  
Training Expense per Employee (KRW million)Number of Training Courses (T class) Participants Annually
Rate of Employees' Performance Evaluations (%)
Labor Union Membership Rate (%)
 
Number of Occupational Accidents (person)
MD&A
2.1 Access to Service
  
2.2 Network Quality and Risk Management  
 
2.3 R&D Investment  
2.4 Customer Satisfaction and  Customer Safety Indicators
2.5 Privacy Protection (Data Privacy)
2.6 Electromagnetic Fields
 
2.7 Mutual Growth with Partners2015
66.3
188,453
1,404
5,649
36,160
838,775
1
585.7
998
76
0.026
0
100 (**)
37,504
99.9
3252016
71.2
190,413
758
3,649
39,620
1,208,543
0
640.9
1,248
76
0.014
0
100 (***)
23,535
99.9
376Section 2. Social capital
2014
59.2
196,806
1,353
3,441
33,120
594,943
1
496.5
971
74
0.043
0
41.9
30,606
99.9
291LTE Subscribers Rate (%)Total Rate of Reduction for Disadvantaged Groups (KRW million)
Participation in Education to Resolve the ICT Informational Divide
Support for Areas with Weak Telecommunication Services (Sites) Wireless Network Capacity (wireless lines in thousands)
Annual Data Traffic Processed(TB)
Number of Large-scale Network Failure Cases  (*)Total R&D Expenditure (KRW billion)R&D Personnel (person)
NCSI (Korea Productivity Center)
Rate of Micropayment Fraud VOC (%)Customer Information Leakages (cases)
Rate of Assessments Conducted Among Total Stores (%)
Number of intensity measurements taken at wireless stationsRate of wireless stations at level of the electromagnetic field rating system
No. of Company Participants in Mutual Growth CooperationMD&A
3.1 GHG Emissions  
3.2 Energy Consumption  
3.3 Water Consumption  
3.4 Waste and Recycling  
 
3.5 Resources  
 
3.6 Environmental Coasts and Investments2015
686,118
54.64
14,081
1.12
757,658
60.34
1,9280.154
358497
3.6
709
89,1252016
828,073
67.05
17,012
1.38
712,910
57.721,6910.137
358798
3.1
754
45,150Section 3. natural capital
2014
742,859
57.09
15,271
1.17
695,725
53.461,7630.135
317797
4.5
475
7,368Total Emissions (tCO2e)
Intensity (tCO2e/KRW billion)
Total Energy Consumption (TJ)
Energy Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)
Volume of Water Consumption (m3)
Intensity (m3/KRW billion)
Total Waste (ton) 
Waste Discharge Intensity (ton/KRW billion)
Recycling Rate (%)Rate of New Subscriptions (%)Rate of T membership Mobile Card Issuance to New Customers (%)
Device Retrieval Rate (%)
Total Environmental Costs(*) (KRW million)
Annual Cost of Purchasing GHG Emissions Credits  (KRW million)MD&A
2.8 Assessment of the Supply Chain’s Sustainability
 
 
2.9 Community Investment  
 2015
706
100
2,346
6734
1,030
67,5292016
725100
1,881
9146
1,234
165,380Section 2. Social capital
2014
712100
1,510
6723
890
40,755Total Number of Newly Registered Partners
Human Rights - Environment - Ethics - Social Screening
Total Number of Registered PartnersAssessment Rate of Partners
BRAVO! Restart Support for Startups (cumulative, number of teams)
Cumulative danations collected on Give U (KRW million)Cumulated volunteer opportunities registered on With U
(*) Excl. Green Procurement, GHG Emissions CreditsMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
(*)  According to the number of large-scale network failure cases submitted to the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning: More than 1 failure of a switchboard; more than 10 failures at sites in the same city/district/
area; and failures of a similar scale must be reported
(**) Systemized and enhanced the structure of the methods of managing store data privacy
(***) Audited 100% of all stores except those with an extremely low risk level of information leakages by strengthening the risk management of the distribution network’s data privacy and using more advanced audits 100 101SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&A
NON-FINANCIAL MD&A (Management Discussion & Analysis)
basis of preparation
 
Reporting Standards and principles 
The purpose of this Non-Financial Management Discussion & Analysis 
is to present our management’s analytical opinions on the key non-financial performances of the company in terms of human capital, social capital, environmental capital, etc. from the reporting period of January 1st to December 31st 2016. This Non-Financial MD&A complies with international reporting principles as follows:
01   International Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework      The <IR> 
Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) requires a 
concise report on how an organization’s strategies, governance, performance 
and future outlook are connected to its short-, mid-and long-term value creation in the economic, social, and environmental context. Please refer to pp. 26-27 for 
the capital model implemented to adhere to the integrated reporting principles 
of IIRC, and pp. 36-41 for the assessment of importance to define key subjects according to the impact on value creation. 
02   Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 
G4     The GRI provides information on the aspects and indicators of reporting 
from economic, social and environmental perspectives so that stakeholders can discern the organization’s performance. It defines the subject according to the correlation of each aspect from the impact on stakeholders and from economic, 
social and environmental perspectives. Please refer to pp. 36-41 for the results of 
the Materiality Assessment conducted in accordance with the GRI requirements. 
03   AccountAbility AA1000     The AA1000 series identifies and prioritizes 
sustainability issues in relation to the organization and defines its framework and principles. The information in this report is verified by third parties 
according to the Assurance Standard (AA1000AS). Please refer to pp. 115-
117 for the result of the third-party assurance performed by an independent 
institute. 
References 
01   UNGC COP (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress)    A 
guideline for reporting compliance to the Ten Principles of the UNGC by its 
members 
02   ISO26000    An international social responsibility standard presented in 
November 2010 by the ISO (International Standard Institution)
03   CDSB Reporting Framework    Standard for carbon disclosure put 
forth by the Climate Disclosure Standard Board (CDSB) in September 2010
 04   SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standard Board) -  Telecommunication 
Standards    Core issues and key performance indicators in the  
telecommunications industry released in April 2014 by the U.S. SASB Scope of Data 
The scope of the Non-Financial Statement of Social & Environmental 
Performances is limited to the data of SK Telecom without the inclusion of the data of its subsidiaries and supply chain, unless stated otherwise. This coincides with the scope of unclassified sales of SK Telecom, which is a holding company according to K-IFRS. The environmental data on energy, greenhouse gases (GHG), waste and water is estimated based on 28 domestic business sites* (including networks and data centers). More than 95% of SK Telecom’s sales are generated in South Korea, and accordingly, the data coverage meets the 95% requirement against the sales. 
*  28 business sites: T-Tower, Namsan, Guro, Jangan, Seoul National University, FMI, yongin, Boramae, 
Seongsu, Suyu, Incheon, Bundang, Dunsan (Old & New), Busan, Cheongju, Wonju, Taepyeong, Bolli, 
Sincheon, Buam, Data Center, Anrak, Wusan, Song- jeong, Jeonju, Jeju, Jungdong, Myeongryun
Section 1. human capital
1.1 Total employment
Total employment is a key indicator that shows a company’s job 
creation status. The total number of employees includes those who are permanent employees, who have signed employment contracts directly with SK Telecom, and temporary (contract-based) employees, and this figure does not include the employees and executives of its subsidiaries or related businesses. As the number of new employees grew owing to the expansion of new recruitment and the T map operation headquarters move-in, the total number of employees increased by 8.7% compared to 2015 to reach 4,399  as of the end of 2016.   The percentage of female employees, a key diversity indicator, increased by 0.47%p compared to last year to 13.9%, and the percentage of females in management positions is demonstrating a steady trend of 9.9%. In terms of age group, the percentage of employees in their 20s to 30s increased to 9.2%, which is a 1.1%p increase compared to last year. The percentage of permanent employees continues to stand at 96%. To increase the employment of minorities, SK Telecom is making efforts such as applying additional points to job candidates from disadvantaged groups and implementing a ‘Special Screening System for the Disabled, ’ which includes the expanded separate hiring of handicapped individuals. In 2016, the number of veterans employed by the company decreased by one individual, but five disabled employees were additionally recruited. The total number of overseas personnel including expatriate employees and local employees is 73 and compared to the total number of employees, the percentage of those overseas is low. The percentage of local managers at overseas business locations is 33.3% and after this percentage rose above 30% in 2014, it has held steady at a constant rate.1.2 Recruitment and Turnover 
The number of new employees by age and gender as well as the number of turnover employees is calculated according to the personnel who are permanent employees, who have signed employment contracts directly with SK Telecom, and temporary (contract-based) employees. In 2016, SK Telecom actively carried out new recruitment and it is expanding the human capital base necessary to become a new ICT company that is able to lead the 4
th Industrial Revolution while also 
contributing to the creation of jobs in society. In 2016, the total number of new employees was 734, an increase of 30.4% compared to last year. The number of employees in their 20s who were hired, directly related to solving the youth unemployment problem, was 283 individuals, with the company maintaining a similar level as the previous year. By age, the percentage of employees in their 30s and 40s increased temporarily following the T map operations headquarters move-in to reach 56.4%, a 10.4%p increase. In 2016, the turnover rate decreased 8.7%p compared to last year to reach 8.1%. This was because the turnover rate, which temporarily increased due to the voluntary retirements and the transfer of work to subsidiaries and investment companies that took place in 2015, recovered to the rate of average years. SK Telecom conducts a wide and diverse range of welfare systems including the ‘Health-On’ program and flexible time, ‘Refresh’ vacation time for long-time employees, company housing that allows employees to live alone as well as greater support for clubs, thereby contributing to greater employment and work productivity. 
 
Expatriate Employees
Local EmployeesTotal Number of Overseas Employees
Total Number of Overseas Managers
Total Number of Local ManagersPercentage of Local Managers 
2014
267399
19
6
31.6% 
2015
20
5979
15
5
33.3% 
2016
20
5373
15
5
33.3%OVERSEAS  EMPLO yMENT 
Female share of total workforce (*)
Females in management positions (**)  
2014
13.9
8.6 
2015
13.4
9.5 
2016
13.9
9.9FOSTERING F EMALE T ALENT
(*) Percentage of female employees compared to total number of employees
(**) Percentage of females in management position compared to total workforce in management position 
(including junior management positions and executives)
20144,253
20154,046
20164,399TOTAL N UMBER OF E MPLO yEES
Disabled Veterans201455155
201554132
59
2016131SPECIAL  EMPLO yMENT  AND  MINORITIESTOTAL  NUMBER  OF  EMPLO yMENT
 
2014
4,253
4,147
106
3,662
591290
3,727
236 
2015
4,0463,925
121
3,504
542326
3,533
187 
Total Number of Employees
Employment Type 
Gender 
Age  
  
 
 
Permanent Temporary
Male
FemaleUnder 30
Over 30 - Under 50
Over 50 
2016
4,3994,242
157
3,789
610405
3,707
287
 
2014
396302
94
220163
13 
2015
563421142
296
259
8 
Total Number of New Employees
Gender 
Age  
  
 
Male
Female
Under 30
Over 30 - Under 50
Over 50 
2016
734593141
283
414
37NEW  EMPLOy EES
TURNOVER  
 
2014
265181
84
157
99
9 
2015
681467213
180
351149 
Total Number of Turnover Employees
Gender 
Age  
  
 
Male
Female
Under 30
Over 30 - Under 50
Over 50 
2016
359289
70
133178
48Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview(%)102 103
1.3 maternity and parental leave
SK Telecom is actively implementing policies to support employees 
and lighten the burdens that they face related to maternity and childcare. These policies are not limited to maternity and parental leave, but also comprise systems to ensure reduced workloads for employees and prevent them from experiencing any disadvantages, for instance, preventing maternity and paternal leave users from being at a disadvantage during evaluations. Additionally, the company offers nursing rooms and congratulatory allowances to commemorate the birth of employees’ children. Other programs to support childcare include scholarships for children, the operation of in-house daycares and children’s camps.  In 2017, SK Telecom implemented a program for telecommuting during pregnancy and a childcare system for children entering school, thereby strengthening the systematic structure to support employees’ childbirth and childcare plans. Parental leave is available to both male and female employees for a maximum of one year per child. In the case that a female employee chooses to use her maternity and parental leave consecutively, the company offers a maximum of two years’ parental leave. The number of individuals using paternal leave surpassed 40 people during the year and the rate of male employees using paternal leave is notable for reaching 16.7%, a 6.3%p increase year-over-year. Furthermore, the rate of employees returning from parental leave, which is a key indicator related to job security for users of parental leave, stands at 92.9% in 2016, a 13.7%p increase and demonstrates that rates have returned to normal levels after the voluntary retirements that took place in 2015.  1.4 human capital Improvement 
SK Telecom introduced a companywide capabilities diagnosis in 2016 and 
is progressing towards fostering market top experts by business segment. Approximately 80% of all employees participated in the capabilities diagnosis in order to find out their skill levels and the results will be used to develop new efforts to nurture business experts in each segment. Since 2015, SK Telecom has continued to carry out the Market Top Expert (MTE) program for developing specialists at the section level and has made progress in gaining qualitative change by expanding the weight of the course from 34% the previous year to 75% in 2016. In order to improve the ability of the organizational units to drive change in the leadership sphere, SK Telecom has strengthened the capabilities and leadership of the team leaders. The company runs a skill fostering program for team leaders focused on the core capabilities for managing organizations, which has a total of 7 courses, and was held 35 times. Company executives were invited to teach the courses, successfully creating an atmosphere of ‘leaders nurturing leaders. ’ Furthermore, through team leader group coaching, SK Telecom sought to invite the proposal of practical solutions to resolve organizational and personal issues and put change into practice. With an aim to foster the next generation of leaders, the company is building a pipeline for fostering key personnel and reorganizing the fostering system. SK Telecom runs a differentiated fostering program for key personnel by rank from managers to executives and has cemented a systematic annual operation program including a year-round/annual follow-up process that was newly introduced. Especially as the SKMS was revised in 2016, the company has actively implemented education to improve employees’ VWBE (Voluntary, Willingly, Brain Engagement) level. In order to enhance the ability to execute SKMS, SK Telecom has held customized need-based workshops such as business models and working methods by each area. Moreover, in order to improve the organizations’ and employees’ VWBE, SK Telecom upgraded the organizational development programs and reformed/implemented real problem resolution programs through advance diagnoses. In 2016, the total number of training hours invested per employee was 68 hours, and the training expense per employee was KRW 2.03 million. This appears to be a numerical decrease since last year, but it is essentially a result of SK Telecom’s continuous efforts to utilize more in-house instructors and strengthen the connection with actual work by boosting the internal educational system. Indeed, despite the fact that the expenditures for investing in training decreased in scale through the enforcement of greater efficiency in training expenses, in 2016, the number of annual training courses offered by SK Telecom’s human resource development center stood at 133, the number of participants in training courses reached 17,303, increasing by 35.7% and 1.0% respectively year-over-year. 
PARENTAL  LEAVE
Number of Individuals Who Took Parental Leave Rate of Return after Taking Leave (%)201440
201548
20164297.5
79.292.9 
2014
161
35
126
100
40
35
5
97.5
4.0  
2015
170
37
133
100
48
43
5
79.230.8  
2016
185
20
165
100
42
35
7
92.9 
5.3 MATERNIT y/P ATERNIT y L EAVE  AND  PARENTAL  LEAVE
 
Number of Employees on Maternity Leave
Maternity Leave Users - Female 
Paternity Leave Users - Male
Rate of Return after Childbirth (%) Number of Employees on Parental Leave
Parental Leave Users - Female
Parental Leave Users - Male
Rate of Return after Taking Leave (%)
Rate of Retirement within 12 Months after Return (%)The rate of performance evaluations means the number of employees 
out of the total number of employees that received evaluations according to the pre-defined performance evaluation system. SK Telecom is conducting performance evaluations of all employees and from 2014 to 2016, the company has maintained this at a level greater than 96%. In 2016, SK Telecom has improved the evaluation and compensation system across the company and enhanced the system so that it could carry out performance evaluations that have been optimized by area. In particular, besides profit sharing in the area of incentives, the suitable performance systems are applied in the areas such as long-term incentives, target incentives and betting, and they are differentiated by area. The company keeps a cumulative record of annual performance evaluation results to add points toward promotion and reflect them in incentives in the long-term. 
1.5 labor practices
SK Telecom actively protects employees’ freedom of association 
based on ILO Convention 87 and 98 as well as Korean labor laws. In accordance with freedom of association, SK Telecom’s employees have voluntarily formed a labor union and join the labor union according to each individual’s free will. The labor union membership rate is the ratio of current members of the labor union to total number of members eligible for membership. The rate of current labor union membership is calculated among those workers eligible for such membership and as of the end of 2016 the membership rate was 87.3%, as part of a continuous increase for the past three years. To achieve ideal labor-management relations, SK Telecom is making efforts to promote a mutually beneficial labor-management culture and improve employees’ working conditions. To this end, it resolved the regular wage issue, introduced the wage peak system, reached an agreement to extend the retirement age in 2014 and introduced the pension support system in 2015. In 2016, SK Telecom has expanded benefits such as a downward adjustment of interest rates on company loans and expanding the eligibility to receive medical examinations, 1.6 employee health, Safety and Well-being
SK Telecom currently operates a diverse range of programs to improve 
employees’ health and for their well-being including creating a pleasant working environment by maintaining a suitable temperature, humidity, lighting intensity and noise level. The company also supports employees so that they can manage their mental health including physical fitness and stress levels by operating an in-house physical fitness space called ‘Actium’ and Ki Training.
Furthermore, to help employees to enjoy a flexible work environment, 
SK Telecom has introduced a Flexible Time system and a system for pregnant women to telecommute. The company is making great efforts to ensure employees’ work life balance by providing maternity and parental leaves beyond what is legally required and aiding employees in raising their children. 
SK Telecom analyzes and assesses employees’ health status each 
year through the Health-On Index (health questionnaire). In 2016, the Health-On Index showed a favorable increase of 0.5 points to 72.2 points. 
 
Training Expense per Employee (KRW million)
Average Annual Training Hours (*) (hours)Number of Training Courses Given Annually (**) 
(number of courses)
Number of Training Courses (T class) Participants Annually (**) (person) 
2014
3.46
91
108 
14,368  
2015
2.84
8298 
17,125  
2016
2.03
68
133 
17,303 STATUS OF E MPLO yEE T RAINING
(*) According to the total number of training hours including internal and external courses
(**) According to SK Telecom’s in-house training courses excluding external training courses 
Number of Employees Eligible for Labor Union 
Membership (Person)Labor Union Members (Person)
Labor Union Membership Rate (%) 
2014
2,497 
2,082
83.4 
2015
2,316 1,968
85.0 
2016
2,479 2,164
87.3LABOR  UNION  MEMBERSHIP  
 
Rate of Employees’ Performance Evaluations 
2014
96 
2015
96 
2016
98RATE  OF  PERFORMANCE  EVALUATIONS  CONDUCTEDclearly demonstrating labor-management efforts to promote employees’ 
welfare and improve morale. SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview104 105
Furthermore, SK Telecom is dedicatedly pursuing greater access to 
service through rate reductions for disadvantaged groups. The total amount of rate reductions for disabled and low-income individuals aimed at increasing access to information was KRW 190 billion, the scale of which is being maintained at a steady level. In 2015, for reasons such as the departure of target subscribers, the total rate reductions for special groups appeared temporarily reduced. However, in 2016, the amount of rate reduction per person increased and the total amount of rate reductions given to special groups in fact rose by 1.04% year-over-year to reach KRW 190 billion.Section 2. Social capital
2.1 Access to Service
SK Telecom’s expansion of service accessibility lays the groundwork for providing even more convenient mobile telecommunications services by securing and maintaining the absolute number of subscribers and expanding telecommunications devices. It consists of promoting digital inclusion for disadvantaged groups including low-income individuals and senior citizens. Efforts to improve service accessibility can potentially lead to the potential growth of the subscriber base and average revenue per user (ARPU). This may not only have a positive impact on SK Telecom’s future revenue, but from a social standpoint, it improves access to information and the quality of people’s lives. The rate of LTE subscribers and the number of 2
nd device subscribers is an 
indicator of mobile internet access. In 2016, the ratio of SK Telecom’s LTE subscribers increased 4.9%p year-over-year and was recorded as 71.2%. In the 2
nd device space, through the launch of differentiated products 
that identified customers’ needs including T kids phone, T outdoor and T pocket-fi, SK Telecom is leading the market. In 2016, the total number of 2
nd device subscribers increased 1.8 times compared to last year to about 
1.09 million and this included T kids phone, T outdoor and T pocket-fi subscribers. Due to the consistent growth of the 2
nd device market, 
SK Telecom’s mobile service accessibility and usability is expected to increase.
LTE S UBSCRIBERS R ATE (%)
2014 2015 2016 
LTE Subscribers Rate (%)
Total Number of Subscribers (1,000 people)
Number of LTE Subscribers (1,000 people) 
2014
59.2
28,27916,737 
2015
66.3
28,62618,980 
2016
71.2
29,59521,078LTE S ERVICE  AND  SMARTPHONE  PENETRATION 
Type
Creating a Healthy Work Environment
 
 
 
   
Fitness
 
Nutrition  
 
Stress Management  
  
Flexible Work Hours
Telecommuting
 
 
Childcare and Children’s Education
 
Maternity/Parental Leave
  
 
 
 
 
    
Key Program and Support Details
- Building of an automated temperature and humidity control system 
and twice-daily measurements. Operation of an air-conditioning and exhaust fan and management of internal dust/CO2 through batch ventilation before the start of work hours. Management of light intensity and sound levels (Yearly fixed measurements to check for illumination levels of greater than 500 Lux / sound levels below 60dB, *office standard)
- Creation of an ergonomic work environment by introducing height-
adjustable desks, ergonomic chairs and open standing conference rooms.
-  Operation of an in-house physical training center, Actium, and support 
for scientific exercise management including the management of online 
exercise prescriptions and exercise records through the companywide fitness system and custom exercise instruction.
-  Supporting balanced eating habits by operating an in-house cafeteria (T-Patio)
-  As part of the Actium Health-On program, the company offers nutrition education ‘Food Therapy’ and ‘Eliminating Addictions’ and even a ‘Team Nutrition Class’ for team leaders.
-
  Operation of an employee counsler service program 'My Counsler' (Provide counsel about stress and difficulties in workplace, health, etc.)
-  Operation of the Actium Health-On mental health program (for emotional health letter, health lectures, laughter exercise, healing yoga, etc.)
- Operating the Ki Training program-  Operation of a Flexible Time system to allow employees to manage work hours flexibly.
- 
 In 2016, SK Telecom shifted to a cloud PC that allows all employees to 
access their work with a remote PC from a variety of devices anytime, anywhere, enabling them to work outside the office.
-  System for telecommuting during pregnancy (after the 29th week of pregnancy, requires consultation and registration)
-   Execution of a wide range of childcare support programs including the operation of an in-house daycare, support for children’s educational expenses (preschool, elementary/middle/high school, university) and support for children’s camps.
-   Reduced work hours during pregnancy: 6-hour workday throughout the length of pregnancy.
-   Maternity leave: The company offers 90 days of leave after birth, 120 days after the birth of twins and 5 days of paid leave when a spouse gives birth.
-   Parental Leave: The company offers 1 year of paid leave for a child under 8 years of age. If a female employee uses maternity and 
parental leave consecutively, she can register to use one additional 
year of parental leave.
-   Parental leave automatic transfer: When maternity leave is about to expire, an employee can automatically begin to use parental leave consecutively without registering separately.
-   Care leave for children entering school: The company offers a 90 day leave once a year for employees with children entering elementary school.employee health and Well-being programs
59.266.371.22.2 network Quality and Risk management 
Going beyond leadership in the MNO area, SK Telecom is moving to 
become a pioneering operator in the new ICT ecosystem on the basis of its network infrastructure. Offering a high-quality network is SK Telecom’s fundamental asset in terms of its core service competitiveness and to this end, the company is making the appropriate quantitative network investments and is simultaneously pursuing consistent quality enhancement as well as technology development to provide excellent quality network services. In 2016, the company’s annual wireless telecommunications wireless network capacity was 39.62 million lines and the total number of subscribers was 29.59 million, so it has 134% of retention capacity.The data traffic processed annually increased at a high level, with an increase of 44.1% in 2016 compared to the previous year. SK Telecom is responding flexibly to the growing data traffic by accurately estimating and monitoring demand and making its best efforts to offer the best network services.In terms of LTE transmission speed, SK Telecom was recognized by the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning’s ‘Communications Service Quality Evaluation’ offering the fastest LTE service. Indeed, in 2016, the company was recorded as having transmission speeds that exceeded domestic telecommunications operators’ average speeds and maintains its superiority in call quality compared to other companies. The rate of devices by LTE bandwidth shows broadband and CA devices are 50% and 46% respectively, indicating that the device rate of offering services beyond broadband at a device is 96%. Rather than pausing here, SK Telecom was the first in the country to commercialize the LTE-A pro service with a speed of 500 Mbps in June 2016. By securing 900 Mbps in 2017 and 1Gbps in 2018, the company plans to continue providing the industry’s highest level of LTE service quality. In order to ease and resolve the digital divide for disadvantaged groups in terms of access to information, SK Telecom is consistently offering education on smartphone use and ICT education that utilizes its ICT capabilities. Since 2007, together with the SK college student volunteer group ‘Sunny, ’ SK Telecom has operated the mobile phone education program ‘Happy Mobile World’ for senior citizens. Besides this, SK Telecom addresses the smart divide facing different groups by continuously running programs such as the S/W (software) education business and an ICT challenge to ease the informational divide experienced by handicapped youth. In 2016, due to the closing of some programs, a total of 758 people participated in SK Telecom’s ICT educational programs, a number that decreased from the previous year.  
Additionally, SK Telecom is constantly expanding the regional boundaries of telecommunications services for the benefit of residents of areas with weak service accessibility such as remote mountainous areas and island areas. In 2016, the company gave installation support to a total of 3,649 sites in regions with low access to telecommunications services including remote mountainous areas, hiking trails and island areas. This is in addition to the universal loss of services compensation that SK Telecom gives to provide standard telecommunications services to low-income individuals and residents of sparsely populated areas. As of May 2017, out of a total of KRW 44.1 billion in universal loss of services compensation that the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning expanded to telecommunications service providers in 2015, SK Telecom took responsibility for paying KRW 14.9 billion of that amount.
2014594,943
2015838,775
20161,208,543ANNUAL D ATA T RAFFIC P ROCESSED (TB) 
Wireless Network Capacity (wireless lines in 
thousands)Annual Data Traffic Processed (*) (TB) 
2014
33,120 
594,943 
2015
36,160 
838,775 
2016
39,620 
1,208,543WIRELESS N ETWORK C APACIT y AND D ATA T RAFFIC  
PROCESSED  ANNUALL y 
Total Rate Reduction for Disadvantaged Groups 
Rate Reduction - DisabledRate Reduction - Low-income
Rate Reduction - Veterans
Rate Reduction - Miscellaneous  
2014
196,806128,422
58,299
9,931
154 
2015
188,453122,462
56,058
9,800
133 
2016
190,412123,187
57,068
10,032
125RATE  REDUCTION
ICT Challenge 
104  
Number of Participants in 2016 
by Individual ProgramSmartphone Education for 
Senior Citizens 
454 SW Education 
Business
200 PARTICIPATION  IN  EDUCATION  TO  RESOLVE  
THE  ICT INFORMATION  DIVIDE(KRW million)
 
Installing Services - Mountainous Areas (Sites)
Installing Services - Hiking Trails (Sites)Installing Services - Island Areas (Sites)
Support Fund for Universal Loss of Service (*) (KRW billion) 
2014
1,594
337
1,510
17.9 
2015
5,182
75
392
14.9 
2016
3,195
217
237
14.9SUPPORT  FOR  UNDERSERVED  AREAS
(*) In May 2017, due to the fact that SK Telecom’s universal loss of services compensation increased in 
2015, last year’s report utilized data based on estimated amounts. Thus, the 2015 data was correctly 
amended in this current report and the company’s 2016 universal loss of services compensation has 
been reported using estimated amounts. (*) Including wireless phones (2G/3G/4G), Wibro and WifiSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview106 107
2.3 R&D Investment
In order to make a leap as a new ICT company to lead the 4th Industrial 
Revolution, SK Telecom, on the basis of expanded investment into 
R&D, is actively making mid- to long-term R&D investments that will propel growth in the ICT convergence age including 5G and IoT from network and marketing infrastructure investments. On the strength of the policy of expanding R&D investment, the 2016 R&D investment expenditures increased by 9.4% since the previous year to KRW 641 billion. This increase is not only evident in the expenditures, but is also taking place consistently through efforts to recruit human capital in the form of talented researchers. In 2016, following the recruitment of AI R&D personnel at the Institute of Technology and the transfer of control of the T map business from SK Planet, a transfer of personnel took place. Accordingly, as of the end of 2016, SK Telecom had 1,248 R&D personnel, which represents a 25.1% increase since last year. 2.4 customer Satisfaction and customer Safety Indicators 
SK Telecom is achieving improvements in long-term customer loyalty 
through the Customer Experience Management (CEM), which strives for the highest customer value. In 2016, the company was ranked No. 1 in Korea’s three major customer satisfaction surveys (NCSI, KCSI, KS-SQI) and became the first in the country to rank No. 1 on NCSI for 20 consecutive years. In addition, according to the internal Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey conducted biannually by SK Telecom, the company recorded 78 points in 2016, a 2.6% increase since last year.Furthermore, in order to provide a communications environment in which customers may use the company’s services with confidence, SK Telecom is continuously strengthening customer safety services centered on preventing bill shock, personal information protection, children’s safety as well as eradicating illegal fraudulent messages like spamming and phishing. The rate of micropayment fraud VOC, which is an indicator of customer safety, is the ratio of the number of micropayment fraud complaint VOC to the number of received consultations. The rate of micropayment fraud VOC is noticeably decreasing each year and reached a rate of 0.014% in 2016, half of last year’s rate.  
Total R&D Expenditure (**) (KRW billion)
R&D Personnel (person) 
2014
496.5
971 
2015
585.7
998 
2016
640.91,248R&D I NVESTMENT  (*)
(*) In 2016, the T map product planning part was transferred from SK Planet and the calculation standard 
for R&D expenditures and personnel was readjusted. Past data have been recalculated according to the 
current standard.
(**) R&D expenditures calculated to include pure R&D (network infra., marketing infra., new growth 
businesses and mid- to long-term R&D), investment in growth businesses (incl. equity investment) and 
organizational expenses 
 
2014
75 
74 
75.4 
70.6  
2016
78 
 
76 
78.4 
 
72.5 
   
No. 1 for 20 
consecutive years
No. 1 for 19 consecutive years
No. 1 for 17 
consecutive years 
SK Telecom Internal Customer 
Satisfaction Index Results (*)NCSI  
(Korea Productivity Center)KCSI  
(Korea Management Association)
KS-SQI  
(Korea Standards Association) 
2015
76 
76 
75.7 
74.5  
2017
- 
76 
 
- - CUSTOMER  SATISFACTION  (Out of 100 points)
(*)  The average of internal surveys results conducted twice annually (in the first & second half of the year)To telecommunications companies, network infrastructure failures 
have the potential to become business continuity risks, and if failures continue to occur, they may even cause a temporary collapse of economic and social systems. Appropriately absorbing the increasing amount of high-level data traffic and maintaining quality while also minimizing the rate of network failures is one of the challenges for SK Telecom and all telecommunications companies. In 2016, SK Telecom is providing stable telecommunications services by strengthening activities to prevent service failures such as responding in real-time to symptoms, expanding automated service detour solutions and establishing thorough measures to prevent the recurrence of breakdowns.  LTE Download Service Speed41.83120.09
48.36
LTE Upload Service Speed142.21LTE S ERVICE  TRANSMISSION  SPEED (Mbps)
Domestic Provider Average SK Telecom
(*)  Results of the 2016  ‘Telecommunications Service Quality Assessment’ by the Ministry of Science, 
ICT and Future Planning
 
Number of Large-scale Network Failure Cases  (*) 
2014
1 
2015
1 
2016
0NETWORK  FAILURES  
(*)  According to the number of large-scale network failure cases submitted to the Ministry of Science, 
ICT and Future Planning: More than 1 failure of a switchboard; more than 10 failures at sites in the 
same city/district/area; and failures of a similar scale must be reported2.5 privacy protection (Data privacy) 
SK Telecom recognizes customer data privacy as a key management issue 
and is taking the utmost care and efforts to identify and remove potential risks in advance, strengthen and give training regarding information protection systems, and enhance inspections of stores and subsidiaries. In 2016, SK Telecom built the Security & Quality Management System (SQMS), which is a companywide dedicated product/service security management system. The company also designed an infrastructure dedicated to precluding information leakages by completely blocking external access to customer information and only allowing informational access and handling through a virtual secure-access site. As a result of SK Telecom’s ongoing privacy protection efforts, there was not a single case of customer information leakage from events such as hacking at SK Telecom since 2011. Customer information leakage is defined as an instance of penetration/breach of SK Telecom’s customer personal information security system through hacking, thus leading to the stored customer personal information being leaked externally.SK Telecom minimizes  human rights risks with continuous diagnostic activities and internal audits to check for elements of potential violations of users’ rights. Moreover, SK Telecom established human rights principles regarding freedom of expression and misuse of technology through a formalized corporate human rights policy, and is doing its best to protect users’  rights and interests as well as human rights such as privacy protection.SK Telecom notifies all subscribers about the categories, purpose and retention period for the personal information collected according to the relevant laws and the company receives prior consent from subscribers through an opt-in method. The collected information is used strictly within the scope of the purpose for which consent has been given and the company is making its best effort to protect personal information such as by providing information to third parties only with customers' optional consent.
2.6 electromagnetic Fields 
Following the implementation of mandatory electromagnetic fields 
measurements since June 2007 until the present, SK Telecom has been fulfilling this regulation, and in 2016, a total of 23,535 cases of electromagnetic fields at wireless stations have been measured. The measurement results show that the actual measurement of SK Telecom’s wireless stations is less than merely 1/10 of the standard for  
Rate of Assessments Conducted Among Total Stores (%)
Number of Audits on Products/Services Information Protection Management
Rate of Audits Conducted Among Total Products/Services (%)
Areas for Security Improvement Discovered (cases)Corrective Measures - Rate of completed measures (%)
 Short-term measures taken (cases)
 Long-term measures taken (cases)  
2014
41.9
- 
-
--
-
- 
2015
100(*)
224 
100
491100
322
169 
2016
100(**)
163 
100
326100
218
108DISTRIBUTION  NETWORK  CUSTOMER  INFORMATION  PROTECTION  
 
No. of Requests Processed (*)Number of ‘Communications 
Data’ Requests
328,262RESPONSES  TO GOVERNMENTAL  INSTITUTIONS ’  DATA  REQUESTS
Number of ‘Communications 
Verification Data’ Requests
63,185
(*)  Number of cases in which data was provided in response to requests made by governmental 
institutions, 2016 annual standard
-  Communications Data: The user’s name, resident registration number, address, phone number, ID, 
subscription start and end dates. The courts, prosecutors and investigative agencies may request 
such data when investigating a crime, executing sentences or conducting trials according to the 
Telecommunications Business Act. 
-  Communications Verification Data: The other party’s subscription number, log records, (date, time) and IP address is classified as communications verification data according to the Protection of 
Communications Secrets Act. Investigative agencies make the request by receiving permission from 
the courts with their reasons for the request, connection with the subscriber in question as well as the 
scope of the data needed. 
 
Customer Information Leakages (cases) 
2014
0 
2015
0 
2016
0CUSTOMER  INFORMATION  LEAKAGES
Since 2015, SK Telecom implemented personal data privacy audits of 
approximately 4,700 stores (100% compliance) in the marketing and solutions areas and is remotely implementing regular assessments of 20,000 distribution network PCs related to information leakage on an annual basis. Continuing from 2015, 3,397 customer data privacy audits and 100% inspections for stores have been implemented in 2016 as well. In addition, 163 data privacy inspections (100%) based on products/services were conducted. In 2016, rather than simply performing diagnoses on regular B2B stores where risk is low, SK Telecom has focused on diagnosing issues related to stores that the company expects may be at high risk of experiencing large-scale information leakages. Furthermore, SK Telecom has further expanded the scope of privacy protection inspections in 2016 and through conducting deep diagnoses of 31 points of contact including the customer centers, distribution centers and technical support centers of the company’s 12 investment companies, customer data privacy and leakage risk inspections and improvement measures were successfully implemented. SK Telecom also conducted focused consulting for each of its investment companies to bolster their privacy protection management capabilities.In accordance with the Telecommunications Business Act (Article 93, Clause 6) and Protection of Communications Secrets Act (Articles 2 and 13), if a governmental institution makes a request for data, SK Telecom cooperates in providing the relevant data according to the legal criteria and methods. Every year on a quarterly basis, the company gives a report to the relevant ministry and office, the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, regarding the statistical data about the details provided. Cooperation regarding ‘communications data, ’ ‘communications verification data, ’ and ‘communications restrictions’ are carried out according to the strict procedures and limitations specified in current law. SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
(*) Systemized and enhanced the structure of the methods of managing store data privacy
(**) Audited 100% of all stores except those with an extremely low risk level of information leakages by 
strengthening the risk management of the distribution network’s data privacy and using more advanced 
audits 
 
 
Total CAPEx (KRW trillion)
 Network CAPEx
 Non-Network CAPEx 
2014
2.1
1.6
0.5 
2015
1.9
1.4
0.5 
2016
2.0
1.5
0.5CAPEx
20140.043
20150.026
20160.014RATE OF M ICROPA yMENT F RAUD V OC (%)108 109
2.8 Assessment of the Supply chain’s Sustainability
SK Telecom defines the main risks that occur in the supply chain and 
reflects this in the supply chain responsibility assurance process. The risk factors identified are formalized in the 'Supplier ESG Code of Conduct' and ‘Fair Trade/Transparent Transactions & CSR Practice Agreement’ and 100% of the company’s partners are subject to them. While SK Telecom requires compliance with these principles in the contract process, through a long-term monitoring process, it takes a variety of measures such as requiring corrective measures and terminating business relationships. Please refer to pp. 78-81 for SK Telecom’s Supply Chain Report for more detailed information. 
(*)  This number includes all suppliers including those with which SK Telecom did not have transac -
tions in the past 3 years
(**)  Calculation limited to cases when an interim contract instead of a direct contract is made with 
the small and medium sized suppliers for N/W facilities construction or the supply of general 
goods (SK E&C, Happynarae)
(***)  SK Telecom’s N/W facilities construction began in 2015 and an interim contract with Happynarae 
was implemented starting in 2016
-  Number of Suppliers Partners Surveyed On-Site (Audit): Includes separate discussions with Con-struction/Equipment Partners and 1-on-1 meetings
-  
 Number of Suppliers Surveyed by 3rd Parties: Partner experience survey conducted by the Korean 
Commission for Corporate Partnership 
 
Total Number of Registered Suppliers (*)
Number of Suppliers Assessed
Number of Suppliers Surveyed in Writing (Audit)Number of Suppliers Surveyed On-Site (Audit)Number of Suppliers Surveyed by 3rd Parties
Assessment Rate of SuppliersTotal Number of Critical Suppliers (**)Number of Critical Suppliers Assessed (***)
Rate of Critical Suppliers Assessed (%) 
2014
1,510
1,020
815
205
-
67
-
-
- 
2015
2,346
1,582
1,270
212
100
67
20
10
50 
2016
1,881
1,726
1,351
225
150
91
35
21
602020
 Target
2,1002,0001,400
242150
95
40
2460SUPPL y C HAIN ESG A SSESSMENT (A UDIT )
 
 Tier 1
 
 
 
  
Non-Tier 1
 Number of intensity measurements taken at wireless stationsMEASUREMENT OF E LECTROMAGNETIC F IELD I NTENSIT y AT  
BASE S TATIONS
Rate of wireless stations at level one of the electromagnetic field rating system (%)201430,606
201537,504
201623,53599.9 99.9 99.9
2.7 mutual growth with partners 
SK Telecom is contributing to the growth of a healthy invigorated 
ICT industry by putting mutual growth into practice. In 2015, SK Telecom strengthened its outreach efforts to SMEs by being the first company in Korea to make an agreement with KOTRA to create ‘Global Branch Support, ’ which allows KOTRA’s trade centers to be utilized as 
MAIN R ESULTS OF M UTUAL G ROWTH IN 2016 
2020 Target
750 
750 
 
100 
Notes
 
Service/Construction/
Equipment/Goods 
Suppliers 
Total Number of Newly 
Registered SuppliersHuman Rights - Environment - 
Ethics - Social Screening 
Rate of Advance Assessments 
2014
712 712 
 
100 
2015
706 706 
 
100 
2016
725 725 
 
100SUPPL y C HAIN ESG A SSESSMENT (A DVANCE S CREENING )overseas branches. SK Telecom has also partnered with the Sejong 
and Daegu Centers for Creative Economy and Innovation (CCEI) to carry out activities to support SMEs.Beyond this, SK Telecom has continued to faithfully fulfill various Fair Trade Commission (FTC) practices (contract conclusion, partner selection and management, internal review board and written records issuance and retention) by providing SMEs with funds, increasing their sales, as well as offering technical, educational and HR support. In recognition of such results, in 2016, SK Telecom obtained the Top Excellence grade in the Win-Win Index Assessment (mutual growth agreement by the Korean Commission for Corporate Partnership) for three consecutive years, and was selected as a top honors company.human safety. According to the electromagnetic field rating system introduced in August 2014, almost all of the wireless stations have been recorded at the safest level, level one, and indeed more than 99.9% of the measured wireless stations met the standard. Moreover, since August 2014, SK Telecom has been supporting the five-year research project on electromagnetic fields’ human impact conducted by the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science since August 2014. The project is currently in its third year and the company is bearing 50% of the KRW 1.5 billion total cost.  
2.9 c ommunity Investment 
SK Telecom approaches the concept of investing in local communities from the perspective of Creating Shared Value (CSV) that creates innovations in social value by utilizing the company’s ICT and infrastructure capabilities. Based on this strategic direction, SK Telecom prioritizes 1) Creating ICT-based sharing value, 2) Providing technology-based platforms for local communities, and 3) Minimizing the digital divide. Creating ICT-based sharing value means implementing activities that support the foundation of society through the fostering of ICT-based social enterprises and startups. As SK Telecom’s flagship project for both the younger and older generations since 2013, BRAVO! Restart supports the founding of ICT convergence ventures. The program not only contributes to the discovery of SK Telecom’s new growth engines, but also combines with its ICT capabilities to play a part in solving social problems. To date, a total of 46 teams participated in BRAVO! Restart and received support for their startups. In order to serve communities by creating technology-based platforms, SK Telecom has developed and operates a donation platform ‘GiveU’  and a volunteer matching platform ‘WithU. ’ According to the expansion of the platform-based social contribution culture, the total amount of donations through GiveU in 2016 increased 45.7% since last year to KRW 201 million and a cumulative total of KRW 1.23 billion. The cumulative volunteer opportunities registered on WithU increased greatly to 165,000, a figure which grew 2.4 times since 2015. Digital inclusion efforts encompass investment activities to increase the level of access to service for groups that are vulnerable to the digital divide including the disabled and senior citizens. Please refer to the 2.1 Access to Service category for detailed information on results. 
In addition, through SK Telecom employees’ volunteer activities, 
the company has been able to contribute to the expansion of the sharing culture. SK Telecom has especially strengthened specialized 2.10 public policy
SK Telecom abides by Korea’s Political Fund Act, which prohibits 
companies from making political contributions. The company also cooperates with the public policies implemented by the government such as job creation, gender equality and the protection of socially vulnerable groups and attempts to meet the social demands such as anti-corruption and fair competition.We do not provide any kind of political funds, including political funds, election funds, or funds to lobby specific political groups or parties. However, we are actively cooperating for the development of 
 
Organization
Korea National Association of Child Welfare
The Happy ICT Foundation
KJChoi Foundation
Peace Flower Network for youth
Korea Federation of Organization of the 
Disabled
Korea Blind Union
Motion and Sound 4 AllCommunity Welfare Centers
Citizens United for Better Society
Seoul y MCA
Unification AcademyKorea Organ Donation Society
Busrugy: Leftover Love Sharing Community
Korea Association of Senior Welfare CentersCHARITABLE  CONTRIBUTION  AND  SPONSORSHIP
 
ProgramICT education program for youth
Smart local food
Scholarships for college students from vulnerable groups
youth path camp
Hackathon competition for disabled youth
Audio book application “Happy Library”
Education for developmentally disabled youthSupport for vulnerable groups
Multicultural cooking class and support for visiting 
hometownsyouth Shinmungo (Consultation Room)
Support for young North Korean defectors and teen-to-teen mentoringEstablishment of a support center for organ-failure 
patients
Challenge! English Up!Guide senior citizens on how to use a mobile phone
1) Connected with SDG 9 ‘Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure’
2) Connected with SDG 1 ‘No Poverty, ’ SDG 2 ‘z ero Hunger, ’ and SDG 4 ‘Quality Education’
3) Connected with SDG 9 ‘Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure’ and SDG 4 ‘Quality Education’*   SK Telecom conducts its supply chain ESG assessment on an annual basis and the above 
assessment rate has been calculated according to the suppliers that were assessed annually. 
Category
Critical Suppliers ( Tier 1 & Critical Non-Tier 1 
Suppliers)
Suppliers at High Risk Level (Tier 1 Suppliers) 
No. of Companies  
353
52No. of Companies 
Assessed
321
52 
Rate(%)
91
100RISK  MONITORING  AND  ASSESSMENT  (A UDIT )
201451
201529
201644RATE  OF  SPECIALI zED  VOLUNTEERING (%)
 
BRAVO! Restart Support for Startups 
(cumulative, number of teams)Cumulative donations collected on 
GiveU (KRW million)
Cumulated volunteer opportunities registered on WithU 
ICT-based Creating 
Shared ValueTechnology-based 
Platforms for Local 
Communities  
2014
23 
890 
40.755  
2015
34 
1,030 
67.529  
2016
46 
1,234 
165,380 MAIN  PROGRAM  RESULTSvolunteer activities such as ICT-related volunteer opportunities 
based on SK Telecom’s capabilities and talent donations in order to improve employees’ satisfaction with their volunteer experiences and also to enhance the efficiency of the volunteer programs. The rate of specialized volunteer work has been calculated by dividing the volunteer hours performed by the ICT volunteer and pro-bono volunteer groups by the total number of volunteer hours performed. In 2016, the rate of specialized volunteer work increased 15%p year-over-year to be recorded at 44% and the results show that specialized volunteer work makes up about half of all of the volunteer work performed. SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
 
 
- Supported revenue increases of KRW 257.8 billion for 710 companies 
by commercializing new technology produced by SMEs, fostering 
ventures and expanding the ICT ecosystem through sharing and 
openness 
- Loan support through the Mutual Growth Fund (KRW 167.5 billion)
- Support for SMEs through equity investments (funds, direct investment, 
etc. for a total of KRW 40.9 billion in 2016)
- Direct funding for startups, technology development, management 
support, etc.
- 100% cash payments and early payments (SME Care Program) 
 
- Free support for technology development (T developers, T open lab, LoRa, etc.)
- Strengthening technology protection for partner companies by 
operating a technical database
- Customized education by job position such as the Win-Win Growth 
Academy (CEO seminars, mutual growth MBA)
- 110 online courses available and the continuous development of new courses
- Supporting the recruitment and fostering of human resources by 
operating the SK Stepping Stones program
- Programs to support the welfare of partner companies (welfare points, 
scholarships, etc.)
- Total of 81 contracts for performance sharing (monetary compensation, 
continuous transactions, growth support, etc.) 
 
Support for 
partners to 
generate increased 
revenue
Funding (financing)  
 
 
 
Improvement of payment methods 
and dates
Technical support and protection
 
Education/training and HR/recruitment 
support
 
 
Other support  
Other voluntary 
practices110 111
Total GHG Emissions (tCO2e)TOTAL GHG E MISSIONS AND I NTENSIT y
GHG Intensity (tCO2e/KRW billion)2014742,859
2015686,118
2016828,07357.0954.6467.05
T map navigation service contributes to reducing fuel use and GHG 
emissions by informing drivers of optimal routes that account for the distance and real-time road conditions between the user’s current location and destination. The volume of social GHGs that T map helped to reduce in 2016 is estimated to be about 0.42 million tons annually. Since opening T map and making it free to use, the number of subscribers has been steadily climbing and considering the increase rate of registered cars and the spread of the navigation service usage, SK Telecom has set a goal to reduce 0.6 million tons of social GHG emissions annually by 2020. Section 3. natural capital 
3.1 greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 
SK Telecom’s GHG emissions are calculated based on the company’s main 
28 buildings including data centers and the guidelines on preparing and managing the statements for the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). The scope of this estimation includes emissions from all the network facilities (base stations and equipment), but it does not include emissions from subsidiaries and supply chains. Greenhouse gas intensity, on the other hand, is calculated by dividing the total emissions of greenhouse gas by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (data coverage). In 2016, SK Telecom’s total GHG emissions amounted to 828,073 tCO
2e, 
a 20.7% increase from the previous year. This was primarily a result of an increase in power consumption from the new establishment of company buildings and installation of more network equipment. Regarding direct GHG emissions, SK Telecom successfully reduced this amount by 15.2%. To reduce GHG emissions, the company put forth a variety of efforts including the integration of network equipment such as base stations, replacement of worn-out air conditioners and the adjustment of air-conditioning and heating. However, the amount of emissions reduced was small compared to the total amount that increased, resulting in an overall increase in emissions. In the future, SK Telecom has plans to discover and implement independent reduction activities such as the use of high-efficiency relay stations and integrating the management of base stations. In addition,  
2016
0
7,416
(*)  Direct political donations: Donations and support for political campaigns and election funds, 
organizations or politicians related to specific parties or politics, lobbying organizations or lobbyists
(**)  Policy support expenses: Donations and support for the purpose of cooperating for public policy such 
as paying association fees to tax-exempt institutions, economic organizations and institutions that 
may influence the development of telecommunications policy
(***)  Major Policy Support Expenses in 2016 (top five): KRW 3,093 million contribution to the Large Small 
and Medium Business Agricultural Cooperative Federation; KRW 1,513 million in support of an 
economic & industrial association; KRW 1,500 million donation to the Barun ICT Research Center; KRW 
756 million to the Korea Telecommunications Operators Association (KTOA); and KRW 200 million to 
the Korea Association for ICT Promotion (KAIT) 
 
Direct Political Donations (*) (KRW million)
Policy Support Expenses (**) (KRW million) 
2014
0
9,818 
2015
0
9,562POLIC y S UPPORT  Ex PENSES 
Total Emissions (tCO2e)
Intensity (tCO2e/KRW billion)
Direct Emissions (tCO2e)
Stationary Combustion (tCO2e)
Mobile Combustion (tCO2e)
Indirect Emissions (tCO2e)
Electricity (tCO2e)
Steam (tCO2e) 
2014
742,859
57.09
7,124
4,877
2,248
735,750
735,664
86 
2015
686,118
54.64
8,431
5,650
2,781
677,687
677,585
102 
2016
828,073
67.05
7,152
4,945
2,207
820,921
820,836
85GREENHOUSE  GAS EMISSIONS  public policy and the public interest by supporting politically neutral 
organizations that indirectly impact policymaking.SK Telecom recognizes that such expenditures related to policy influence may become a potential risk factor from the company's mid-to long-term business perspective and, thus, it is managing the details and scale of all donations from a companywide level. Furthermore, since February 2017, SK Telecom has revised the Board of Directors statutes to ensure the fairness of execution costs that may impact policy related to the company's business as well as to strengthen transparency. For instance, the revised statutes have bolstered the advance approval process by requiring a vote by the BOD for donations that exceed KRW 1 billion.by securing carbon offsets through co-operation with partners and SMEs, SK Telecom will actively participate in the Emissions Trading Scheme and achieve its targets. SK Telecom is expanding the scope of managing indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) through research to reduce social GHG emissions and offering excellent environmental solutions. In terms of reducing social GHGs, SK Telecom refers to using the ICT services it possesses to reduce the GHG emissions that result from the activities of daily life. As SK Telecom’s flagship activity to reduce social GHG emissions, the 
3.2 energy c onsumption 
SK Telecom’s energy consumption is managed in compliance with guidelines on preparing and managing the statements for the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), and the numerical figures are aggregated by entering billing invoices from energy suppliers into the system. The total energy consumption is calculated by including the consumption from all 28 of SK Telecom’s company buildings, data centers and network facilities (base stations and equipment), but the energy consumption of the company’s subsidiaries and supply chain is not included. The intensity of energy consumption is calculated by dividing the total energy consumption by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (data coverage). Regarding energy reduction results due to the use of natural air-conditioning and renewable energy development, the estimated value measured data from the previous year (2012~2013) has been equally applied to 2016. SK Telecom continuously reduced energy consumption through reduction activities such as decreasing the use of energy sources for the heating and cooling systems of company buildings, integrating network equipment such as relay stations and base stations as well as replacing worn-out air conditioners. Despite such efforts, the energy consumption in 2016 was 17,012 TJ, an increase of 20.8% since the previous year due to the establishment of new company buildings and installation of additional network equipment. For SK Telecom, indirect energy consumption resulting from the use of electricity accounts for 99.3% of the total consumption. Accordingly, SK Telecom seeks to achieve improved energy efficiency 3.3 Water c onsumption 
Water consumption is estimated based on SK Telecom’s 28 company buildings including data centers, according to invoices for water usage, and the calculated total does not include consumption by subsidiaries or the supply chain. The intensity of water consumption is calculated by dividing the total water consumption by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (data coverage). As part of measures to reduce water consumption, SK Telecom implemented an adjustment of the Seongsu cooling tower drain amount and changes to the cooling tower supply water at the Wonju building. Owing to these efforts, despite an increase in the number of people consuming drinking water and an increase in the cooling tower supplementary water required for the additional telecommunications equipment installed, SK telecom successfully reduced annual water consumption by 5.9% to 712,910m
3 in 2016.  Total Energy Consumption (TJ)TOTAL E NERG y C ONSUMPTION AND I NTENSIT y
Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)201415,271
201514,081
201617,0121.17 1.121.38
Water Consumption (m3) WATER  CONSUMPTION  AND  INTENSIT y
Intensity (m3/KRW billion)2014695,725
2015757,658
2016712,91053.4660.3457.722016424
2020 Target599ANNUAL S OCIAL GHG E MISSIONS R EDUCTION (*) (1,000 tCO2e)
(*) The effect of reduced social GHG from use of the T map service
 
Total Energy Consumption (TJ)
Energy Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)Direct Consumption (TJ)
Natural Gas (Nm
3)
Diesel (Liter)
Kerosene (Liter)
Indirect Consumption (TJ)
Electricity (MWh)Steam (GJ)
Total Power Consumption Reduction (MWh)
Reduction from Building Management (MWh)Reduction from Natural Air-Conditioning System (MWh)
New Renewable Energy Generation Facilities (MWh) 
2014
15,271
1.17
121
1,561,961
66,000
439,182
15,150
1,577,830
3,192
45,729
3,143
39,857
2,729 
2015
14,081
1.12
146
1,912,250
279,084495,790
13,954
1,453,265
2,692
44,731
2,145
39,857
2,729 
2016
17,012
1.38
119
1,560,708
271,150494,765
16,893
1,760,535
2,311
46,838
4,252
39,857
2,729ENERG y C ONSUMPTION 
Volume of Water Consumption
Waterworks Usage
Groundwater Usage
Intensity (m3/KRW billion) 
2014
695,725632,304
63,421
53.46 
2015
757,658687,087
70,571
60.34 
2016
712,910648,643
64,567
57.72WATER  CONSUMPTIONby managing company buildings with a focus on innovating network 
structures and making networks slimmer as well as generating electricity through renewable energy facilities. Taking into consideration the increased energy consumption due to investing in 5G facilities, SK Telecom plans to achieve 1.7 TJ per KRW billion in revenue by 2020 in terms of energy consumption intensity.SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview112 113
Cumulative Customers New Customers20143497
20154997
56
201698T MEMBERSHIP M OBILE C ARD I SSUANCE R ATE (%)3.5 Resources 
Through efforts such as electronic billing, the T membership mobile 
card and device retrieval, SK Telecom is creating a solid base for reducing resource consumption during the course of customers’ use of the company’s services. As the company continues to strengthen these efforts, it is putting resource reduction into practice. The total number of electronic bill subscribers includes customers who receive their bills via smart phone, email or MMS. The rate of new subscription indicates customers who subscribed to the electronic billing service among all new subscribers. The electronic billing service has the benefits of improved security of personal information and reduced usage of resources such as paper, and thus, the number of subscribers to the electronic billing service has increased at a steady pace. By the end of 2016, the total number of electronic bill subscribers reached approximately 22 million and since the introduction of the smart billing service in 2010, the number of customers taking advantage of the electronic billing service has grown steadily. The new electronic bill subscription rate was recorded at 87% in 2016, a 3p% increase compared to last year. Since August 2013, SK Telecom has completely replaced the plastic card that was previously issued to customers that subscribed to T membership with a mobile eco-card. It is expected that the use of the T membership mobile eco-card will result in saving 4.88 grams of plastic per customer and reducing 12 grams of carbon emissions from being emitted. This is equal to reducing the use of four A4 size pieces of paper or contributing the volume of oxygen from 40 pine trees. In the past, SK Telecom issued over 5 million plastic membership cards annually to run the T membership service. Once this entire amount is switched over to mobile cards, the company expects that an estimated 24 tons of plastic resources will be conserved and 55 tons of carbon emissions will be reduced annually. In 2016, SK Telecom the T membership mobile card issuance rate was a cumulative 56%. This is a 7%p increase year-over-year and the rate is steadily increasing each year. Of note is the fact that the T membership mobile card issuance rate among new customers in 2016 was 98% and owing to this, the company has found that the carbon emissions reduced has been even greater.  
 
Total Electronic Bill Subscribers (people)
Rate of New Subscriptions (%) 
2014
19,604
77 
2015
21,328
84 
2016
22,402
87ELECTRONIC  BILLING  SERVICE  SUBSCRIPTIONS
 
Rate of T membership Mobile Card Issuance to New 
Customers (%)
Number of T membership Mobile Cards Issued (new 
annual)
Number of T membership Plastic Cards Issued (new annual)
Cumulative Rate of T membership Mobile Cards Issued (%)
Number of T membership Mobile Cards Issued (cumulative annual)
Number of T membership Plastic Cards Issued 
(cumulative annual) 
2014
97 
2,831,082 
76,369 
34
3,466,419 
6,741,591  
2015
97 
2,031,727 
79,554 
49
5,661,830 5,810,530  
2016
98 
2,031,727 
45,981 
56
6,711,262 5,347,620 T MEMBERSHIP M OBILE C ARD U SAGE3.4 Waste and Recycling 
Waste discharge volume is estimated based on SK Telecom’s 28 
company buildings including data centers, and the calculated total does not include the waste discharged by subsidiaries or the supply chain. The intensity of waste discharge is calculated by dividing the total waste discharge volume by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (data coverage). The total volume of waste discharge including domestic, large-size and food waste was reduced overall in 2016 to 1,691 tons, a 13.3% decrease since last year, and the rate of recycling was 35%, a rate that has been steadily maintained at a level over 30%.
WASTE V OLUME AND R ECyCLING R ATE
1,7631,928
Total Waste (ton) Recycling Rate (%)2014 2015 20161,6913135 35 
Total Waste (ton)
Domestic Waste (ton)
Large-sized Waste (ton)
Food Waste (ton)
Designated Waste (ton)Recyclable Waste (ton)
Waste Discharge Intensity (ton/KRW billion)Recycling Rate (%) 
2014
1,763
685
79
416
33
548
0.135
31 
2015
1,928
648
91
505
18
666
0.154
35 
2016
1,691
590
68
406
41
587
0.137
35WASTE AND R ECyCLING  The device retrieval rate was calculated by dividing the number of 
devices sold by the total annual devices retrieved. In 2016, the device retrieval rate was 3.1%, a similar rate as last year.
3.6 environmental c osts and Investment 
The environmental investment and cost is estimated on SK Telecom’s 
parent-only basis. The environmental costs are the expenditures for reducing SK Telecom’s environmental impact and improving environmental performance. The company classifies and calculates such expenditures into categories including costs and taxes paid to save energy and respond to climate change; waste and recycling disposal; provide education and training; and contribute to nature conservation. In addition, SK Telecom also implements and tracks green procurement. Green procurement costs encompass the purchase of products with an energy efficiency grade and high-efficiency energy certification; high-quality recycled product certification; environmental mark certification; environmental product declaration; carbon performance declaration; and low-carbon product certification, but this does not include environmental costs.In 2016, the total environmental costs increased 6.3% year-over-year and reached KRW 754 million. The main reasons for the higher environmental costs include increases in expenses to save energy and respond to climate change, waste disposal, recycling service and education/training expenses. Furthermore, following the newly established infrastructure equipment, the company recorded a high level of GHG emissions in preparation for the government’s allotment of emissions credits in 2016 and purchased the credits that it lacked, resulting in an emissions purchase cost of KRW 1.3 billion. Due to the expansion of green certification centered on high-price equipment purchases in 2015, a year in which green procurement costs greatly increased, such costs were reduced to nearly half in 2016, but are on a rising trend overall. 
other Disclosures 
SK Telecom is committed to complying with regulations of the 
supervising agencies including the Fair Trade Commission (FTC), Korea Communications Commission (KCC) and Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning (MSIP), and undertakes management activities, while actively reflecting demands made by stakeholders and the government, which expect fair market competition. Despite these efforts, however, SK Telecom was subject to the following sanctions from KCC in 2016, and corrective actions were taken accordingly.  
T Devices Sold (in thousands)
Devices Retrieved (in thousands)Device Retrieval Rate (%) 
2014
8,133
370
4.50 
2015
9,063
326
3.6 
2016
8,726
222
3.1DEVICE  RETRIEVAL  RATE
 
Total Environmental Costs  
(Excl. Green Procurement, GHG Emissions Credits)
Energy Saving and Climate Change Response Cost
Waste Disposal Service
Recycling ServiceEducation/Training Cost
Nature Conservation Cost
Charges & TaxesMiscellaneous 
2014
475 
207
101
24
13
7
123
0 
2015
709 
242
95
2024
0
328
0 
2016
754 
271
107
25
33
0
318
0TOTAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  COSTS (KRW million) 
Annual Cost of Purchasing GHG Emissions Credits 
2014
- 
2015
- 
2016
1,316PURCHASE  OF  GHG E MISSIONS  CREDITS (KRW million)
20147,368
201589,125
201645,150GREEN  PROCUREMENT  COSTS (KRW million)
 
Date of Sanction
Sanctions and 
Corrective Measures  LIST OF S ANCTIONS AND C ORRECTIVE M EASURES
 2016. 1. 14
Fine of KRW 15 million and corrective action order in relation to 
the “Case of correction in relation to the violation of the personal information effective term system” by the KCC. Paid the fine and 
reported the corrective measures to the KCC.SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&ASK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NON-FINANCIAL MD&AMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview114 115
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  THIRD-P ARTy ASSURANCE STATEMENT  SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
THIRD-P ART y ASSURANCE STATEMENT
To The Board of Directors and Shareholders   
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of sk telecom co., ltd. and its 
subsidiaries  (the  “Group”),  which  comprise  the  consolidated  statements  of  financial  position  
as  at december 31, 2016 and 2015, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, 
changes in  equity  and  cash  flows  for  the  years  then  ended,  and  notes,  comprising  a  summary  of  significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
management’s Responsibility for the c onsolidated Financial Statements
management  is  responsible  for  the  preparation  and  fair  presentation  of  these  consolidated  financial statements in accordance with korean international financial reporting standards, and for 
such internal control  as  management  determines  is  necessary  to  enable  the  preparation  of  consolidated  financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
Auditors’ Responsibility 
our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with korean standards on auditing. those standards 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.   
an audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the consolidated financial statements. the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including 
the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. in making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the 
entity’s preparation  and  fair  presentation  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  in  order  to  design  udit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. an audit also includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.   We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 
opinion 
in  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  present  fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the consolidated financial position of the Group as at december 31, 2016 and 2015 and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated 
cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with k orean international financial reporting standards. Introduction 
sk telecom inc. (hereinafter referred to as “sk t elecom”)  commissioned dnV Gl Business assurance k orea ltd. (hereinafter 
referred to as “dnV Gl”), part of  dnV Gl Group, to undertake independent assurance of the integrated annual report 2016 
(the “report”). dnV Gl’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by 
the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. 
Scope of assurance 
the scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1 st  January to 31 st  d ecember 2016. this included:  
•  evaluation  of  adherence  to  the  a ccountability  principles  provided  in  aa1000  a ccountability Principles standard (aPs) 
2008.
•  Verification of disclosures to check the report is prepared ‘in accordance’ with the Gri Guidelines G4 (comprehensive 
option) (aggregated level of data from the period between January and d ecember in 2016) 
•   evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to  material  issues  
and  the  process  for  generating,  gathering  and  managing  the  quantitative  and qualitative data in the report. 
verification method  
We performed our work using aa1000as(2008) and dnV Gl’s assurance methodology Verisustaintm(*),  which is based 
on our professional experience, international assurance best practice. We provided the moderate level of assurance and type 2 assurance as set forth in aa1000as. the audit was carried out in may and June 2017. the site visit was made to 
sk telecom Head office in seoul, korea.  the assurance engagement was conducted in the following method based on 
sampling.: 
• challenged  the  sustainability-related  statements  and  claims  made  in  the  report  and  assessed  the robustness of 
the underlying data management system, information flow and controls 
• interviewed representatives from the various departments 
•  conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and computerized system 
• reviewed the outcomes of the materiality assessment report
limitations 
the engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of sk telecom’s subsidiaries, 
associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the report. dnV Gl did not interview external 
stakeholders as part of this assurance engagement. financial statements of sk telecom, data announced on dart system of 
the financial supervisory service(http://dart.fss.or.kr), and data on the website(http://www.sktelecom.com) of sk telecom 
subject to assurance are not included in the scope of assurance. data assurance was conducted by checking the basis in a 
limited scope, including inquiry, analysis, and limited sampling method, on the data collected by sk telecom. the aggregation 
and calculation process for building economic performances is reviewed and tested by the audit team. also, environmental 
and social data were  verified  using  the  aggregated  data.  the  directors  of  sk  telecom  have  sole  responsibility  for  the 
preparation  of  the  report.  the  responsibility  of  dnV  Gl  in  performing  the  assurance  work  is  to  the management  of  sk  
telecom  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  reference.  dnV  Gl  expressly  disclaims  any liability or co-responsibility for any 
decision a person or an entity may make based on this assurance statement. February 22, 2017 
Seoul, Republic of Korea
KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp.
This report is effective as of February 22, 2017, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or 
circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.   Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been 
updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 
(*) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com/assurance/
reporting/verification.html)Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview116 117SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
THIRD-P ART y ASSURANCE STATEMENTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
THIRD-P ART y ASSURANCE STATEMENT
opinion and observation
on the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the report does not properly 
describe the adherence to the accountability Principles in aa1000aPs(2008) nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with Gri G4 
comprehensive option. further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; 
The Foundation principle of Inclusivity 
recently sk Group has announced 'Happiness of stakeholders' as one of the utmost management philosophies and 
has revised its articles of incorporation to reflect this philosophy. sk telecom has identified stakeholder groups such 
as customers, suppliers, employees, local communities·, nGos, shareholders and Governments. the stakeholder 
engagement policy and process have been established and is described in the report. material issues of stakeholders 
received by respective business units were reported to the corporate citizenship committee under the Board of directors 
and reflected in the development of sustainable management policies.
materiality 
the report presents the materiality assessment process. the relevant issue pool was formed by analyzing key issues  from  
various  information  sources  such  as  international  standards,  stakeholder  survey,  industry  peers’ reports and journalist reports. issues were rated by the relevance of business and sustainability aspects and the impact on stakeholders. material 
issues were determined considering the weight of profit, cost, and risk. the audit team has not noted that the material 
information is intentionally omitted that may influence the decision-making process of stakeholders during the engagement. the audit team has judged that six material issues are properly identified and prioritized based on the stakeholder’s concerns and expectation through the materiality assessment process.
Responsiveness 
the communication process with stakeholders has been established, and appropriate responses to stakeholders’ views, 
concerns and expectations are reflected in the report. for selected material issues, contexts of sustainability are explained 
and performance over the mid & long term target and evaluations are clearly disclosed. the corporate citizenship 
committee under the Board of directors approves strategies for sustainable management including customer-oriented 
management, mutual growth with partners, csV, and social responsibility activities, ethics & compliance, and environmental 
management.  also the committee periodically reviews major issues and achievements. sk telecom has attempted to 
complete the environmental-social profit analysis (P&l) by analyzing the environmental and social impacts and quantifying its environmental and social benefit. in addition, sk telecom has identified major human rights issues that may arise in its 
value chain and expanded improvement activities for identified problems to major subsidiaries and partner companies. these 
activities are considered a meaningful progress to achieve balanced growth based on social and environmental values as well as economic performance.
Accuracy and Reliability  
any  errors  and  misstatements  identified  during  the  engagement  were  corrected  prior  to  the  report  being published. 
data and information contained in the report has been described as an accurate and reliable way on the basis of sample checked, other reported information and other available evidence.  
Findings in relation to specific sustainability performance information:  
dnV  Gl  has  evaluated  the  nature  and  extent  of  sk  telecom’s  adherence  to  the  aa1000  accountability Principles  
as  described  above.  in  addition,  the  reliability  of  data  and  information  is  evaluated  for  type  2 assurance. dnV Gl 
has interviewed the Person-in-charge for the data and information in order to figure out the generation, aggregation and processing of data and information and reviewed the relevant documents and records based on which the statements in the report are addressed. especially in-depth review is conducted on the reliability of data and information with regard to Water 
consumption, Waste generation, a ccident rate and ethics  &  compliance.  the  reporting  of  the  management  performance  
presented  in  the  report  helps  to understand the sk telecom’s impact in economic, social and environmental areas, as 
well as the achievements in those regards. sk telecom has developed an effective methodology for gathering the specific 
information and data respectively for reporting. the data owners interviewed are able to demonstrate to trace the origin and 
the  data  source  of  the  specific  data  and  information  are  identifiable.  from  our  analysis  of  the  data  and information, 
and sk telecom’s processes, we conclude that the data and information included in the report are the results of stable and 
repeatable activities. 
competence and Independence 
dnV Gl Business  assurance is part of dnV Gl Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment  
and  training  services,  helping  customers  to  build  sustainable  business  performance.  our environmental  and  social  
assurance  specialists  are  present  in  over  100  countries.  the  assurance  work  was performed by independent team 
which meets dnV Gl’s competence requirements. dnV Gl was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data 
included in the report except for this assurance statement. the audit team has complied with dnV Gl code of ethics during 
the assurance engagement. 
 13 June 2017 
Seoul, Korea 
In Kyoon Ahn
Country Representative 
DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
118 119
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
OTHER  
INFORMATION
SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // FINANCIAL & NON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GREENHOUSE GAS A SSURANCE STATEMENT
CEO Human Rights Statement120
Supplier ESG Code of Conduct122
GRI Index124
SASB Index129
UN Global Compact130
Non-Consolidated Financial Statements132
SK Telecom Global Network138
Investor Information139GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
ASSURANCE STATEMENT 
Introduction 
dnV Gl Business assurance korea ltd. (“dnV Gl”) was commissioned by sk telecom co., ltd. (“sk telecom”) to verify the 
sk telecom’s Greenhouse Gas inventory report for the calendar year 2016 (“the report”) based upon a reasonable level of 
assurance. sk telecom is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions and energy consumption data on the basis set 
out within the guidelines on the operation of greenhouse gas and energy target management scheme (notification no. 2014-
186, korean ministry of environment). our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of sk telecom only 
and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. dnV Gl expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any 
decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement.  
Scope of Assurance 
the  GHG  emissions  and  energy  consumption  data  covered  by  our  examination  comprise  direct emissions  (scope 1  
emissions), energy  indirect emissions (scope 2 emissions) and fuel, electricity, steam energy consumption : 
•GHG emissions under verification : GHG emissions from 2016•organizational boundary for reporting :  sk t elecom co., ltd. (in k orea) 
verification Approach 
the verification has been conducted by dnV Gl from february through march 2016 and performed in accordance with the 
verification principles and tasks outlined in the guidelines on the operation of GHG and energy target management scheme (notification no. 2014-186, korean ministry of environment) and the verification guideline for ets (notification no. 2016-
015, ministry of strategy and finance). We planned and performed our work  so  as  to  obtain  all  the  information  and  
explanations  deemed  necessary  to  provide  us  with  sufficient  evidence  to  provide  a  reasonable verification opinion concerning the completeness of the emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton co 2  equivalent. as 
part of the verification process:  •We have reviewed the greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption report for the calendar year 2016  •We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions and energy data 
conclusions 
as  a  result  of  the  work  described  above,  in our opinion  nothing  has  come  to  our  attention  that would  cause  us  to believe  that  the  greenhouse emissions and energy consumption set out in sk telecom’s report are not fairly stated. the 
greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption of sk t elecom for the year 2016 were confirmed as below; 
This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (28 th   April 2016). 
Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy 
which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of SK TELECOM is subsequently 
brought to our attention.  
SK TELECOM  
Direct emissions(Scope 1)Indirect emissions(Scope 2)Total emissions  
2016년
7,152
820,921828,073Greenhouse Gas Emissions of SK Telecom Co., Ltd.  
from Year 2016 (unit : ton co2e)
※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different 
from  the real number with ± 2 tCO 2 .  
※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 
In-Kyoon Ahn  c ountry manager
Dnv gl business Assurance Korea ltd28 th   April  2017 
young-Keun Kim  lead v erifierMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
120 121SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
CEO HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
CEO HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT
CEO HUMAN RIGHTS STATEMENT
Under the SKMS principle, “For the company’s continuous development, the company creates value for customers, employees, 
and shareholders, fulfills a key role in social and economic development, and makes contributions to the happiness of mankind, ” SK Telecom aims to accomplish its business goals while fulfilling its social responsibilities and codes of conduct. The company’s social responsibilities defines its human rights duties towards customers, employees, suppliers, partners and the community.
SK Telecom, as a company that practices a high level of awareness of global citizenship, respects the basic rights of all 
stakeholders that it encounters through products, services, contracts, purchases, and other business activities.
SK Telecom declares its support for the human rights principles stated in the UN Universal Declaration Human Rights and 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Ruggie Framework and pledges to fulfill its human rights responsibilities. SK Telecom will make every effort to prevent human rights abuses involving business and avoid complicity in such abuses. Furthermore, the company will ensure governance with integrity to take measures and provide communication regarding an organization responsible, under the UNGC Human Rights / Labor Principles, the operating structure, the monitoring process and incidents. SK Telecom will exercise due diligence to assure compliance with the policy within the whole supply chain as well as SK Telecom and its subsidiaries.
Specifically, SK Telecom, as an ICT provider, is aware of potential human rights risks in the following aspects and will do 
its utmost to prevent any problems that may occur:
1) Human Rights of Employees and Partner Companies (Human Rights in the Workplace)
•  Fundamental prevention of wrong labor practices, such as child and forced labor
•  Prevention of discrimination by gender, ethnicity, religion, disability and race
•  Political, religious, and physical freedom, and respect for civil rights
•  Other labor principles recommended by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and endorsed by the government: 
safety/health, working hours, etc.
2) Human Rights in Privacy Policies
•  Demanding minimum personal information, recording and saving to comply with laws
•  Notification prior to saving information, fiduciary duty, and ability to freely delete information
•  Optimal security system for preventing leaks, including data encryption
•  Limited and responsible use of personal information for service/marketing purposes
May 2017
President and CEO, SK Telecom
Jung ho park3) Human Rights in Access to Information & Freedom of Expression
•  Obligation to ensure equality of access to services regardless of class/disabilities
•  Efforts to bridge the digital/smart divide: education, rate plans, and systems
•  Responsibility for distributed information to protect minors, including children and adolescents
•  Fundamental support for freedom of expression
4) Prevention of Misuse of Technologies, Services, and Data (Human Rights in Technology)
•  Refusal to use technologies, electronic devices and data for dual purposes
•  Prevention of misuse of technologies, such as wiretapping, signal interference, or hacking
SK Telecom always keeps the channels of stakeholder communication open to prevent any human rights violations. If you have witnessed or experienced incidents of such violations, please inform the company through the appropriate channel. (http://sktelecom.com/en/sktelecom/csr/csr04_02.jsp) 
SK Telecom is committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities and pursuing the happiness of stakeholders and pledges to take 
the lead in advocating and complying with the Human Rights principles.
Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview122 123SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
SUPPLIER ESG C ODE OF C ONDUCTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
SUPPLIER ESG C ODE OF C ONDUCT
SUPPLIER ESG C ODE OF C ONDUCT
I. Scope
SK Telecom’s Supplier ESG Code of Conduct covers all suppliers that have transactions with the company. It also requires suppliers to comply with 
SK Telecom’s Business Principles and Practices in their transactions with sub-suppliers.
II. processes for Responsible Supply chain management
III. policy
The phrase “Supplier” in this Supplier Policy shall, where relevant, 
also include all employees, contractors, subcontractors and agents of the Supplier.
As one of the world’s leading ICT companies, SK Telecom has adopted 
the Business Principles to ensure stakeholders’ trust and that its behavior meets the highest standards of integrity.
Thus, SK Telecom requires all of its suppliers to adopt SK Telecom’s 
Business Principles and Practices as their code of conduct. Under the Business Principles, suppliers shall faithfully abide by the code of conduct to prevent risks that may arise in finance, reputation and business concerning SK Telecom and the suppliers themselves, and shall realize a win-win partnership for mutual benefits. SK Telecom ensures that its suppliers will achieve sustainability by managing their environmental and social performances based on the Supplier ESG Code of Conduct, and to apply such a policy to their subcontractors under the overarching goal of realizing the sustainable supply chain management as defined by SK Telecom.
1. ANTI-BRIBER y 
Supplier shall act with honesty, integrity and fairness in its dealings 
both internally and externally. Supplier shall not tolerate any form of bribery, including improper offers of payments or gifts to or from employees. Supplier shall avoid any contracts that might lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest between personal activities and the business. Supplier shall neither give nor accept hospitality or gifts that might appear to incur an obligation. Supplier shall pursue mutually beneficial relationships and seek to promote the application of SK Telecom’s Business Principles with relevant business partners and suppliers.2. F AIR-C OMPETITION  & C OMPLIANCE  
Suppliers shall actively participate in SK Telecom’s endeavors for fair trade compliance and shall conduct business in compliance with fair trade laws and systems to ensure fair competition. Supplier shall comply with the provisions of all applicable domestic and international laws and appropriate standards and principles.
3. PRIVAC y PROTECTION  
Suppliers shall protect the information they acquire in the course of 
the business operation related to SK Telecom, and shall not use such information for purposes other than for carrying out the Company’s rightful business activities, unless otherwise allowed under the relevant laws. Suppliers shall not acquire or use SK Telecom’s or other companies’ information or trade confidential information in an illegal or improper manner.
4. FINANCIAL  INTEGRIT y 
SK Telecom will provide the best possible return for its shareholders 
over the longer term. Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom will maximize corporate value through transparent and efficient business management as it continues to pursue management innovation, and shall share its profits with its shareholders but will also take into account social and environmental considerations.
5. PUBLIC  POLIC y 
Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom will voice its opinions on 
government proposals and other matters that may have an impact on SK Telecom and its stakeholders. Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom will not make gifts or donations to political parties or intervene in party political matters.
6. CUSTOMER  VALUE  
Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom shall maintain the quality 
of products and services that customers expect, and create an environment in which customers can use the products and services safely and beneficially, thereby using its best efforts to increase its customer value.
7. Environment 
Suppliers shall practice environment-friendly business management and abide by international standards and laws pertaining to environmental protection, and the internal regulations. Suppliers are also advised to establish an environment management system which includes an independent audit by a third party.
8. HEALTH  & SAFET y 
Suppliers shall institute systems, and provide regular education and 
training that promote Employees’ health and safety, and comply with relevant international standards, laws and internal regulations governing employee health and safety. Suppliers shall exert its utmost efforts to encourage their Employees to present a spirit of challenge and creativity based on mutual trust and pride, and help the Employees pursue happiness together with their colleagues.
9. C ONTRIBUTION  TO COMMUNIT y
Suppliers recognize that SK Telecom will actively participate in social 
contribution activities including volunteer activities and disaster relief as a responsible corporate citizen in the community.
10. HUMAN  RIGHTS
Suppliers shall not engage in any form of discrimination against their 
stakeholders including but not limited to customers, employees and community members in all locations where they conduct business based on race, ethnicity, religion, gender, disability, etc. Suppliers, in all locations where they conduct business, shall recognize and protect basic human rights through various activities including but not limited to underage protection and customer privacy protection. Suppliers will also make the utmost efforts to maintain the optimum working conditions for their employees including work-hour compliance, a guarantee of minimum wages, prohibition on the use of child or forced labor, etc.Measuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview
SK T ELECOM ’S P ROCESS FOR A R ESPONSIBLE S UPPL y C HAIN
Global Guidelines / Standards
•  UNGC Principle
•  OECD MNE Guidelines
•   UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights
•  EICC, etc
Stakeholder Engagement Channels
•  Annual Stakeholder Survey
•  Business Partner Meetings (Win-Win 
Conference, 1-on-1 meetings, voice of partners)
•  Business Partner Survey
Internal Risk Management Processes
•  Win-Win Index Assessment Gap Analysis
•  RM Working Group•  Procurement Review Meeting•  Supplier ESG Code of Conduct
•  Procurement Guidelines•  Registration requirements
•  Contract provisions
•  Evaluation
•  AuditSCM
Risk ProfilePolicy MonitoringCorrective 
measures
Contract 
terminationAwareness Guidance & Monitoring Action124 125SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
GRI INDExSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
GRI INDEx
General Standard  
Disclosure
Strategy and 
Analysis
Organizational Profile 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
Identified 
Material Aspects and Boundaries 
 
  
 
  
 
Stakeholder 
Engagement 
  
Report Profile 
 
 
   Indicator
G4-1
G4-2G4-3
G4-4
G4-5G4-6
G4-7
G4-8G4-9
G4-10
G4-11  
G4-12
G4-13 
G4-14 
 
G4-15 G4-16
G4-17 
G4-18 
G4-19
G4-20 
G4-21 
G4-22
G4-23
G4-24
G4-25G4-26
G4-27 
G4-28
G4-29
G4-30G4-31
G4-32
G4-333rd Party 
Assurance
√
√
√√
√
√√
√
√√
√ 
 
√
√ 
√ 
 
√ 
√
√ 
√ 
√
√ 
√ √
√√
√
√√ 
√
√
√
√√
√ 
Description
CEO Message
Key Impacts, risks and opportunitiesName of the organization
Primary brands, products, and services
Location of the headquartersNumber and name of countries the organization operates
Nature of ownership and legal form
Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customer and beneficiaries)Scale of the organization
Total number of employees
Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements  
Organization’s supply chain
Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, 
ownership, or its supply chain
Whether and how the precautionary approach is addressed  
Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other 
initiatives to which the organization subscribes
Memberships of associations
Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements, and whether any entity is not covered by the report
Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and the application of 
reporting principles on the processList of all material aspects identified in the process
Aspect Boundary within the organization limitation related to the Aspect Boundary within the 
organizationAspect Boundary outside the organization limitation related to the Aspect Boundary outside 
the organization
Any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasonsSignificant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries
Stakeholder groups engaged
Basis for identification and selection of stakeholdersApproach to stakeholder engagement
Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders, and how the organization has responded to 
those topicsReporting period
Date of most recent previous report
Reporting cycle (Annual, biennial)Contact point
‘In accordance’ option
Policy and current practice with external assurance Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
pp. 20-23
pp. 68-71SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
pp. 26-27
SK-T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoulpp. 26-27, 138
p. 16
pp. 26-27pp. 26-29, 100-101
pp. 100-101
p. 103, As stated in Article 35 of the Labor Union & Labor Relations Act, 100% of the target for the collective bargaining 
agreement is covered with 50% of labor union membership
pp. 78-81pp. 28-35 
p. 20-23, SK Telecom supports precautionary principles and 
responds to large risks with unpredictable impacts such as 
climate change through UNGC LEAD activities
About This Report, pp.130-131 
About This Report, pp.130-131
pp. 33-35, The entities list is included on pp. 7-9  of the 2016 Business Report
pp. 36-39 
pp. 36-39
pp. 36-39 
pp. 36-39 
Specific attention indicated as notes if necessary 
Specific attention indicated as notes if necessary 
pp. 36-39
pp. 64-65pp. 64-65
pp. 64-65 
About This Report
About This Report
About This Reportp. 140
About This Report
About This ReportGRI G4 G ENERAL S TANDARD D ISCLOSURESGRI INDEx
General Standard  
DisclosureGovernance 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
Ethics and 
Integrity  
  
Indicator
G4-34
G4-35 
G4-36 
G4-37 
G4-38
G4-39
G4-40
G4-41G4-42 
G4-43 G4-44 
G4-45 
G4-46
G4-47 
G4-48
G4-49
G4-50 
G4-51 
G4-52 G4-53 
G4-54 
G4-55 G4-56
G4-57G4-58 3rd Party 
Assurance
√
√ 
√ 
√ √
√√
√
√ 
√ 
√ 
√ √
√ 
√
√√ 
√ √ 
√ 
√ √ 
√
√
√  Description
Governance Structure of organization including the highest governance body and its committee
Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees
Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for 
economic, environmental and social topicsProcesses for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental 
and social topics
Composition of the highest governance body and its committeeWhether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer
Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees
Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managedHighest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating the organization’s 
purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies and goals to economic, environmental and social impacts
Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics
Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, 
environmental and social topicsHighest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social 
impacts, risks, and opportunities
Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processFrequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and 
opportunities
Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the sustainability reportProcess for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body
Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body, and 
policy to resolve the concernsRemuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and remuneration policy performance 
criteria and highest governance body and senior executives’ relevance to economic, environmental and social goals
The process for determining remuneration (Participation of remuneration advisory committee, independent management performance, relationship of remuneration advisory committee with organization)
How stakeholder’s view and sought and taken into account regarding remuneration (Includes vote result and 
suggestion for remuneration policy)Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median annual total 
compensation for all employees (excludes the highest- paid individual)
Ratio of the percentage in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excludes the highest- paid individual)
Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct
Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviorInternal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior (System report, 
whistle blow system, hotline etc.) 
Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
pp. 60-62, 64
pp. 60-62, 64 
p. 64 
p. 64 
p. 62
p. 60
pp. 60-61
pp. 60-61pp. 63-64 
p. 64 p. 63 
pp. 64, 66 
pp. 64, 66
pp. 61-62, 64, 66 
p. 64
pp. 60-64
pp. 61-62, 64 
p. 63 
p. 63 pp. 60-63 
p. 63 
p. 63 pp. 72-73
p. 74p. 74 GRI G4 G ENERAL S TANDARD D ISCLOSURESMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview126 127
 
Aspect
Economic 
Performance     
Market Presence 
 
 
 Indirect Economic 
Impacts   
Procurement Practices    Indicator
G4-EC1
G4-EC2G4-EC3
G4-EC4
G4-EC5   
G4-EC6
G4-EC7
G4-EC8
G4-EC9 3rd Party 
Assurance
√
√
√√
√ 
 
√
√√
√  
Description
Direct economic value generated and distributed
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate changeCoverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 
Financial assistance received from government
Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage  
Proportion of senior management hired from the local community
Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported
Significant indirect economic impacts
Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation  Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
p. 90
pp. 70-71Applied to all full-time employees as Defined Contributions or Defined Benefits
p. 90
SK Telecom provides entry level wages higher than the local minimum wage in all regional operations and does not discriminate according to gender. 
However, details were not disclosed due to internal information policies.
p. 101pp. 50-53
pp. 50-53
p. 79 Economic CategoryGRI G4 S PECIFIC S TANDARD D ISCLOSURES GRI G4 material aspects
Evironmental Category
 Aspect
Energy 
  
 
 
Water
Emissions  
 
  
 
  
Effluents and 
Waste
Products and 
Services Compliance 
Overall 
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment  Indicator
G4-DMA
G4-EN3G4-EN4
G4-EN5
G4-EN6G4-EN7
G4-EN8
G4-DMAG4-EN15
G4-EN16
G4-EN17G4-EN18
G4-EN19
G4-EN20G4-EN21 
G4-EN22
G4-EN23
G4-DMA
G4-EN27G4-EN29 
G4-EN31
G4-DMA
G4-EN32
G4-EN33 3rd Party 
Assurance
√
√
√√
√
√√
√
√√
√
√√
√
√ 
√
√√
√
√ 
√
√√
√  
Description
Disclosures on Management Approach
Energy consumption within the organization Energy consumption outside of the organization  
Energy intensity
Reduction of energy consumptionReductions in energy requirements of products and services 
Total water withdrawal by source
Disclosures on Management ApproachDirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)
Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)
Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity
Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
Emissions of ozone  depleting substances (ODS)NOx, SO x, and other significant air emissions 
Total water discharge by quality and destinationTotal weight of waste by type and disposal method
Disclosures on Management Approach
Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and servicesMonetary value of significant fines and total number of non monetary 
sanctions for non compliance with environmental laws and regulations
Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by typeDisclosures on Management Approach
Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
p. 43
pp. 110-111pp. 110-111
pp. 110-111
pp. 110-111pp. 50-53
p. 111
p. 43pp. 109-110
pp. 109-110
pp. 109-110pp. 109-110
pp. 109-110
ODS emissions are very insignificant due to the nature of the industryOther emissions such as NOx and SOx are very insignificant due to  
the nature of the industry
p. 111p. 111
pp. 54-57
p. 570 cases of environmental law violations, no fines or penalties paid 
pp. 112-113
pp. 78-81
p. 79
pp. 78-81 Social Category : Labor Practices and Decent Work  
 Aspect
Employment  
 
Occupational 
Health and SafetyTraining and 
Education 
  
Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity
Supplier 
Assessment for Labor Practices   Indicator
G4-LA1 
G4-LA2G4-LA3
G4-LA6 
G4-LA9
G4-LA10 
G4-LA11 
G4-LA12 G4-DMA
G4-LA14G4-LA153rd Party 
Assurance
√
√
√√ 
√
√ 
√ √ 
√
√
√ Description
Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region
Benefits provided to full -time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employeesReturn to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender
Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work 
related fatalities, by region and by genderAverage hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 
and assist them in managing career endingsPercentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by 
employee category
Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity
Disclosures on Management Approach
Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteriaSignificant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
p. 101
pp. 102-103p. 102
p. 103 
pp. 102-103
pp. 102-103 
p. 103 
pp. 24-25 pp. 78-81
p. 79pp. 78-81GRI G4 S PECIFIC S TANDARD D ISCLOSURES GRI G4 material aspects
Social Category : Human Rights    
 Aspect
Child Labor 
Forced or 
Compulsory Labor
Assessment  
Supplier Human 
Rights Assessment  Indicator
G4-HR5 
G4-HR6 
G4-HR9 G4-HR10
G4-HR113rd Party 
Assurance
√ 
√ √ 
√
√ 
Description
Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken 
to contribute to the effective abolition of child laborOperations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 
measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor
Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments
Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria
Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken  Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
pp. 75-77 
pp. 75-77 
pp. 75-77 p. 79
pp. 79-81SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
GRI INDExSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
GRI INDExMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview128 129SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
GRI INDExSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
SASB INDEx
Social Category : Society    
 
Aspect
Local 
Communities     
Anti-corruption  
 
 
 
Public Policy
Anti-competitive Behavior  
 
Compliance  
Supplier 
Assessment 
for Impacts on 
Society  Indicator
G4-SO1  
 
G4-SO2
G4-DMAG4-SO3 
G4-SO4
G4-SO5
G4-SO6
G4-DMA 
G4-SO7 
G4-SO8 
G4-DMA
G4-SO9
G4-SO10 3rd Party 
Assurance
 
 
√√
√ 
√
√
√ 
√ 
√ √
√√  Description
Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 
assessment, and development programs  
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities
Disclosures on Management ApproachTotal number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption and the significant risks identified  
Communication and training on anti corruption policies and procedures Conformed incidents of corruption and actions taken
Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ beneficiary
Disclosures on Management Approach 
Total number of legal actions for anti competitive behavior, anti trust, and 
monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non monetary sanctions 
for non compliance with laws and regulations  
Disclosures on Management ApproachPercentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society
Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain 
and actions taken Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
Community engagement was focused on Korea, where over 95% of 
the revenues are generated, and SKT did impact assessments and development programs
No significant potential/actual/negative impacts on local communities found
pp. 72-74p. 72, There is a companywide ethical management diagnosis process 
p. 73
p. 74
p. 109
p. 74 
0 cases of violations or legal corrective measures related to unfair trade 
practicesNo fines or penalties paid related to unfair trade practices  
pp. 78-81
p. 79
pp. 78-81 GRI G4 S PECIFIC S TANDARD D ISCLOSURES GRI G4 material aspects
Social Category : Product Responsibility    
 
Aspect
Product and 
Service Labeling 
Marketing 
Communications    
 
 
Customer Privacy 
 
  Compliance    Indicator
G4-PR4 
G4-PR5
G4-DMA
G4-PR6 
G4-PR7 
G4-DMA
G4-PR8 
G4-PR9 3rd Party 
Assurance
 
√
√
√ 
√ 
√
√ 
  Description
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 
concerning product and service information labelingResults of surveys measuring customer satisfaction
Disclosures on Management Approach
Sale of banned or disputed products  
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 
concerning marketing communicationsDisclosures on Management Approach
Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 
and losses of customer dataMonetary value of significant fines for non  compliance with laws and regulations 
concerning the provision and use of products and services  
Cross Reference/Direct Answer/Omission
0 cases of violation related to product and service information and labeling
p.106pp.68-69
0 cases. There were no products that posed a severe risk to 
stakeholders, caused social controversy or were banned in 20160 cases of violations related to marketing communications 
pp.106-107
p.106 
p.113 SASB INDEx
Accounting Metric
Wireless Subscribers
Wireline Subscribers
Broadband SubscribersNetwork traffic, percentage on cellular network, and percentage on fixed network
Network bandwidth capacity, percentage leased 
 Category
Quantitative
QuantitativeQuantitative
QuantitativeQuantitative
 
 Unit
Number
NumberNumber
Petabytes, %
Mbps, % 
 Code
TC0301-A
TC0301-B
TC0301-CTC0301-D
TC0301-E 
 Cross Reference/Direct Answerp.32
p.35
p.35p.105
p. 105, pp. 47-48, SK Telecom directly owns the networks in 
the domestic mobile telecom business; it rents lines to MVNO businesses as required by the Telecommunications Business ActACTIVIT y METRIC
TopicEnvironmental Footprint 
of Operations
Data Privacy  
 
  
 
Data Security 
 
 
Product End-of-Life 
ManagementManaging Systemic 
Risks from Technology 
Disruptions 
Fair Competition Category
Quantitative  
Discussion 
and Analysis
Quantitative  
Quantitative
Quantitative  
Quantitative  
Discussion and Analysis
Quantitative
 
Quantitative  
Discussion and 
Analysis
Quantitative  Unit
GJ / % 
n/a % 
KRW
Number, % 
Number, % 
n/a Weight (tons), 
percentage by weightDisruptions/customer, 
Hours/customer
n/a 
KRW Code
TC0301-01 
TC0301-02 TC0301-03 
TC0301-04
TC0301-05 
TC0301-06 
TC0301-07 TC0301-08 
TC0301-09 
TC0301-10 TC0301-11 Cross Reference/Direct Answer
pp. 110-111 
pp. 106-107 - 
p. 113
p. 113 
No information security violations  
pp. 106-107 pp. 111-112 
p. 105 
p. 66-67, 105  No fines or penalties paid related 
to unfair competitionDISCLOSURE  METRIC
Accounting MetricTotal energy consumed, percentage grid electricity, percentage renewable energy; 
amount of energy consumed by (a) cellular and (b) fixed networks
Discussion of policies and practices relating to collection, usage, and retention of customer information and personally identifiable information
Percentage of users whose customer information is collected for secondary 
purpose, percentage who have opted-inAmount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated with customer privacy
Number of government or law enforcement requests for customer information, 
percentage resulting in disclosureNumber of data security breaches and percentage involving customers’ personally 
identifiable information
Discussion of management approach to identifying and addressing data security risks 
Materials recovered through take back programs, percentage of recovered materials 
that are (a) reused, (b) recycled, and (c) landfilledAverage interruption frequency and average interruption duration 
Description of systems to provide unimpeded service during service interruptions Amount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated with  
anti-competitive practicesMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview130 131SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
UN GLOBAL C OMPACTSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
UN GLOBAL C OMPACT
Associations / Initiatives
UNGC Headquarters
UNGC Korea
UNGC LEADJoining dateMay 2007
Sept. 2007
Jan. 2011Purpose / RemarksInvolvement in the global CSR initiative activities helped advance the internal CSR system and gain a better reputation in 
CSR at home and abroad UNGC A CTIVITIESThe UN supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) 
and advocates the 10 universal principles including those related to human rights, the environment, labor and anti-corruption, and requests support for a wide range of the UN’s development plans including the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
SK Telecom joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a UN organization 
that collaborates with businsses, in 2007. As a founding member of UNGC Korea, a local association of UNGC, SK Telecom not only adheres to the 10 principles but also broadly supports the UN’s development plans such as the SDGs. SK Telecom became the first in the country to be designated as a UNGC LEAD company in January 2011. SK Telecom has offered the Board Program (a CSR education program for board members) to the Corporate Citizenship Committee and took the initiative to apply the global CSR best practices to Korea. 
In April 2013, SK Telecom publicly declared its support for the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the human rights principles in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie Framework, and SK Telecom’s CEO affirmed that the company would fulfill its responsibility related to respect for human rights. 
By complying with and supporting the UNGC principles, SK Telecom will 
undertake a variety of activities to solve domestic and international social issues and to spread global CSR trends in the future as well. 
UNGC Advanced Criteria
 
Fulfillment of the UNGC 10 Principles in Strategy and Operation
Criterion 1 Commitment to integrate the UNGC 10 principles into business function and units
Criterion 2 Practicing the UNGC 10 principles across the value chain
 Definite Human Rights Policy and ProcedureCriterion 3 Human rights commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 4 Effective management system to incorporate the human rights principles into business and management procedures
Criterion 5  Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the human right principles in the business and management proceduresCross Reference / Direct Answer  
pp. 20-23, 130
pp. 120-123, 130
 
pp. 75-77,120-121
pp. 75-77
pp. 75-77 UN G LOBAL C OMPACT A DVANCED C RITERIA I NDE xUNGC INDEx
UNGC Advanced Criteria 
Definite Labor Policy and Procedure
Criterion 6 Labor commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 7 Effective management system to incorporate the labor principles into business and management procedures 
 
Criterion 8  Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the labor principles in the business and management 
procedures
 
Definite Environmental Policy and Procedure
Criterion 9 Environment commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 10  Effective management system to incorporate the environmental principles Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to 
ensure compliance with the environmental principles in the business and management procedures
Criterion 11  Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the environmental principles in the business and management procedures
 
Definite Ethics and Compliance Policy and Procedure
Criterion 12 Ethics commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 13 Effective management system to incorporate the ethical principles into business and management procedures
Criterion 14  Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the ethical principles in the business and management procedures
 
Activities to Support the More Broad and Comprehensive UN Objectives and Goals
Criterion 15 Contribution through key businesses to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
Criterion 16 Strategic community investment and charity work to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
Criterion 17 Public engagement and communication to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
Criterion 18 Partnerships and outside initiatives to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
 
Governance and Leadership for Sustainability
Criterion 19 CEO’s sustainability commitment and leadership
Criterion 20 The Board of Directors’ selection and oversight of sustainability agenda items
Criterion 21 Stakeholder engagementCross Reference / Direct Answer  
p. 103
p. 103, Through the trade union and collective bargaining, 
the labor principles are integrated and the Labor 
Management Council is in operationThe grievance channel for employees is in operation and the 
Labor Management Council checks the relevant issues
 
pp. 50-57
pp. 50-57, 109-111 
pp. 50-57, 109-111 
 
p. 72
pp. 72-74
pp. 72-74 
 
pp. 50-53
pp. 108-109
pp. 109, 103
About This Report 
pp. 20-23
pp. 60-62, 64-65
pp. 36-39, 64-65UN G LOBAL C OMPACT A DVANCED C RITERIA I NDE xMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview132 133
NON-C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Short-term financial instrumentsShort-term investment securities
Accounts receivable - trade, net
Short-term loans, netAccounts receivable - other, netAccrued revenue
Advance payment
Prepaid expensesInventories, net
Advanced payments and other
Non-current Assets
Long-term financial instrumentsLong-term investment securities
Investments in associates and joint venturesProperty and equipment, net
Goodwill
Intangible assets, netLong-term loans, netLong-term accounts receivable 
Long-term prepaid expenses
Guarantee depositsLong-term derivative financial assetsDeferred tax assets
Defined benefit assets
Other non-current assets
Total Assets2015
2,713,529
431,666121,500
92,262
1,528,751
47,741
264,741
7,505
80,92692,220
45,991
226
20,433,411
10,062
726,505
8,810,5487,442,280
1,306,2361,766,069
35,080
0
29,802
166,656139,923
00
250
23,146,9402014
2,689,913
248,311143,000
197,161
1,559,281
67,989
305,990
6,354
51,619
86,070
23,694
444
20,022,549
69
608,797
8,181,7697,705,906
1,306,2361,928,169
38,457
0
28,551
156,807
67,728
00
60
22,712,462NON -CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENT  OF  FINANCIAL  POSITION
2016
3,661,115
874,350
95,000
97,340
1,594,504
54,143
772,570
460
30,988
107,989
32,479
1,292
21,787,459
102
560,966
8,726,5387,298,539
1,306,2363,275,663
11,160
147,139
27,918
173,287176,465
58,41024,787
249
25,448,574(KRW million)
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Accrued payables - otherUnearned revenueWithholdings
Accrued expenses
Income tax payablePrepaid incomeUnearned income
Derivative financial liabilities
Current liabilitiesShort-term borrowings
Current long-term borrowings
Non-current liabilities
DebenturesLong-term borrowings
Long-term payables - otherLong-term unearned revenue
Defined benefit obligations
Derivative financial liabilities Other non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities
Other non-current liabilities
Total Liabilities
Equity
Share capital Other paid up capital
Retained earningsReserves
Total Equity
Total Liabilities and Equity2015
3,491,306
927,170
50,100
607,690
540,770375,189
10,014
0
37,551
230,000
592,637
120,185
5,876,174
5,033,495
72,554
550,964
2,768
4,006
89,29620,055
56,274
46,762
9,367,480
44,639
369,446
13,418,603
(53,228)
13,779,46023,146,9402014
3,378,0461,086,485
39,148
801,119615,488
91,31592,783
0
50,456
200,000
211,863
189,389
5,792,195
4,655,137
80,147
657,001
19,544
15,555
130,889
27,676
144,876
61,370
9,170,241
44,639
433,894
12,996,790
66,898
13,542,22122,712,4622016
4,464,1601,546,252
71,431
642,582663,918461,999
1,360
86,95059,027
0
628,868301,773
6,727,460
4,991,067
61,416
1,602,943
2,389
0
0
21,493
0
48,152
11,191,620
44,639
371,481
13,902,627
(61,793)
14,256,95425,448,574(KRW million)SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
NON-C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
NON-C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview134 135
Operating revenue
Revenue
Operating expense
Labor cost
Commissions paid
Depreciation and amortization
Network interconnectionLeased lineAdvertising
Rent
Cost of products that have been resoldOther operating expense 
Operating incomeFinance incomeFinance cost
Other non-operating income
Other non-operating expenseGain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries,  
associates and joint ventures
Profit before income taxCorporate taxNet profit for the term
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (KRW)Diluted earnings per share (KRW)2015
12,556,979
12,556,979
10,898,203
694,666
5,102,7232,155,531
720,879358,031
175,776
403,317462,256
825,024
1,658,776
246,394314,191
15,277
132,993
3,819 
1,469,444
362,683
1,106,761
15,233
15,2332014
13,012,644
13,012,644
11,275,484
588,635
5,591,2452,095,702
771,786370,549
213,605
377,112457,049
809,801
1,737,160
82,276
293,338
37,422
184,177
57,593 
1,321,750
293,209
1,028,541
14,262
14,262NON -CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENT  OF  INCOME
Net profit for the termOther inclusive gains and losses
Items not reclassified as a profit or loss during the follow-up period
Remeasurement factors of defined benefit systems
Items reclassified as a profit or loss during the follow-up period
Gain or loss from appreciation of tradable financial assetsGain or loss from appreciation of derivative products
Total inclusive gains and losses for the term32nd
1,106,761
(119,740)
386386
(120,126)(121,528)
1,402
987,02131st
1,028,541
(118,086)
(13,808)(13,808)
(104,278)
(66,103)(38,175)
910,455NON -CONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF C OMPREHENSIVE I NCOME2016
12,350,479
12,350,479
10,568,307
634,754
4,716,5552,242,546
687,048347,741
174,186
424,929502,770
837,778
1,782,172
323,563261,393
54,288
200,771135,077 
1,562,782
345,508
1,217,274
17,001
17,001
33rd
1,217,274
(18,884)(10,319)(10,319)
(8,565)
5,385
(13,950)
1,198,390(KRW million)NON -CONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF C HANGES IN E QUIT y (KRW million) (KRW million)
Profit for the yearOther comprehensive income  
 
 
2014.01.01 (Basic Capital)
Payment of dividendsBusiness combination under common controlInterest on hybrid bond
Acquisition of treasury stock
Proceeds from treasury stockTotal income 
2014.12.31 (End of term capital)
2015.01.01 (Basic capital)
Payment of dividends
Business combination under common controlInterest on hybrid bond
Acquisition of treasury stock
Proceeds from treasury stockTotal income 
2015.12.31 (End of term capital)
2016.01.01 (Basic capital)Payment of dividendsBusiness combination under common control
Interest on hybrid bond
Acquisition of treasury stockProceeds from treasury stock
Total income 
2016.12.31 (End of term capital)Equity 
Other Paid Up Capital 
Share 
Capital 
 
44,639
0
00
0
00
0
44,639
44,639
000
0
000
44,63944,639
00
0
00
0
0
44,639  
Capital 
Excess of 
Par Value
2,915,887
000
0
00
0
2,915,887
2,915,887
000
0
000
2,915,8872,915,887
00
0
00
0
0
2,915,887  
Treasury 
Stock 
(2,139,683)
000
0
00
0
(2,139,683)
(2,139,683)
000
(490,192)
369,249
00
(2,260,626)(2,260,626)
00
0
00
0
0
(2,260,626)  
Loss on 
Disposal of 
Treasury Stock
(18,087)
000
0
00
0
(18,087)
(18,087)
000
0
18,087
0
0
0
000
0
00
0
00  
Hybrid 
Bond 
398,518
000
0
00
0
398,518
398,518
000
0
000
398,518398,518
00
0
00
0
0
398,518  
Other 
 
(722,741)
000
0
00
0
(722,741)
(722,741)
000
0
38,408
0
0
(684,333)(684,333)
0
2,035
000
0
0
(682,298)  
Total  
 
433,894
000
0
00
0
433,894
433,894
000
(490,192)
425,744
00
369,446369,446
0
2,035
000
0
0
371,481 
Retained 
Earnings  
 
12,665,699
(666,802)
0
(16,840)
00
1,028,541
(13,808)
12,996,79012,996,790
(668,494)
0
(16,840)
00
1,106,761
386
13,418,60313,418,603
(706,091)
0
(16,840)
00
1,217,274
(10,319)
13,902,627 
Reserves 
  
171,176
000
0
00
(104,278)
66,89866,898
000
0
00
(120,126)
(53,228)(53,228)
00
0
00
0
(8,565)
(61,793) 
Total Equity 
 
 
13,315,408
(666,802)
0
(16,840)
00
1,028,541
(118,086)
13,542,22113,542,221
(668,494)
0
(16,840)
(490,192)
425,744
1,106,761
(119,740)
13,779,46013,779,460
(706,091)
2,035
(16,840)
00
1,217,274
(18,884)
14,256,954Profit for the yearOther comprehensive income
Profit for the yearOther comprehensive incomeSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
NON-C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
NON-C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview136 137
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities
Net profit for the term
Adjustment for income and expensesChanges in assets and liabilities related to operating activities
Interest received
Dividends receivedInterest paidIncome tax paid
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash inflows from investing activities
Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net
Decrease in short-term financial securities, net
Collection of short-term loansDecrease in long-term financial instruments
Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities
Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures
Increase in cash flow from combining businesses
Disposition of tangible assetsProceeds from disposal of intangible assetsDisposition of non-current assets scheduled to be disposed of
Collection of long-term loans
Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets
Cash outflows for investing activities
Increase in short-term investment securities, net
Increase in long-term financial instruments
Acquisition of long-term investment securities Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures
Acquisition of property and equipment
Acquisition of tangible assetsAcquisition of intangible assets
Increase in other non-current assets
Increase in long-term loans2015
2,947,129
3,219,373
1,106,7612,811,718
(699,106)
18,78659,462
(221,309)
(129,183)
(2,062,182)
745,965105,158
21,500
387,922
7
22,106
185,557 
0
23,372
343
0
00
(2,808,147)
0
364,687
10,000
296,254306,382
1,752,804
77,830
190
02014
3,221,433
3,580,032
1,028,5412,886,389
(334,898)
20,95413,048
(224,119)
(168,482)
(2,622,617)
319,389
0
30,500
197,925
2,522
54,218
0 
0
25,677
1,127
3,667
3,660
93
(2,942,006)
94,802
195,700
2,522
28,801
210,060
2,319,016
91,060
0
45NON -CONSOLIDATED S TATEMENT OF C ASH F LOWS
2016
3,575,572
4,005,289
1,217,2742,931,278
(143,263)
23,014
113,955
(199,332)
(367,354)
(1,974,842)
629,565
0
36,500
232,745
0
336,669
1,063 
360
14,539
7,689
0
00
(2,604,407)
6,335
237,197
40
19,50187,088
1,674,027
580,219
00Cash flows from financing activities
Cash inflows from financing activities
Proceeds from short-term borrowingsProceeds from long-term borrowingsIssuance of debentures
Cash inflows from derivative transactions
Cash outflows for financing activities
Repayment in short-term borrowings, net
Repayment of long-term borrowings
Repayment of long-term non-trade payables
Repayment of debenturesPayment of dividends
Acquisition of treasury stock
Interest on hybrid bondOutflow of cash due to transaction of derivative products
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalentsCash and cash equivalent at beginning of the yearEffects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 2015
(701,420)
927,204
30,000
0
897,029
175
(1,628,624)
0
12,814
190,134
250,000
668,494
490,192
16,840
150
183,527248,311
(172)
431,6662014
(798,911)
801,035
0
3,552
797,364
119
(1,599,946)
60,000
12,814
207,668
629,940
666,802
0
16,840
5,882
(200,095)
448,459
(53)
248,3112016
(1,158,738)
607,725
0
0
607,474
251
(1,766,463)
230,000
12,814
120,718680,000
706,091
0
16,840
0
441,992
431,666
692
874,350(KRW million) (KRW million)SK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
NON-C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
NON-C ONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overview138 139
SK TELECOM GLOBAL NETWORK
SK Telecom Americas
310 De Guigne Drive, Sunnyvale, CA 94085, USA TEL  1-408-328-2900     FA x  1-408-328-2931U.S.
SK Telecom (China) Holding Co., Ltd.25F, SK Tower, No. 6 Jia, Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District,  Beijing 100022, ChinaTEL  86-10-5920-7777     FA x  86-10-5920-7724CHINA
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office8F, NBF Hibiya Bldg., 1-1-7, Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyo-da-ku,  Tokyo 100-0011, JapanTEL  81-3-3591-3800  JAPAN
SK Malaysia Representative OfficeSuite 53A, Level 53, Vista Tower, The Intermark, 348 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, MalaysiaTEL  603-2166-9011 MALAYSIAINVESTOR INFORMATIONSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
SK TELECOM GLOBAL NETWORKSK Telecom AnnuAl RepoRT 2016  // OTHER INFORMATION
INVESTOR INFORMATION
 
 SK Telecom Co., Ltd.65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea 
82-2-6100-2114
http://www.sktelecom.comCORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
   March 29, 1984DATE OF ESTABLISHMENT
 KRW 44,639 million As of December 31, 2016PAID IN CAPITAL
 Email: skt.ir@sk.com SK-T tower, 65, Euljiro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-999, KoreaINVESTOR RELATIONS 80,745,711 Shares As of December 31, 2015NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES
Form 20-FForm 6-K: Quarterly Reports, Proxy Statements, and other material announcementsAVAILABLE FILINGS
www.sktelecom.comCOMPANY WEBSITE  
 Korea Stock Exchange: 017670.KS (Common Stock)New york Stock Exchange: SKM (ADS) 
London Stock Exchange: SKMD (ADS)SECURITIES LISTINGS
 Friday, March 24, 2017, at 9 AMSK-T tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-999, KoreaANNUAL GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING  
 Kookmin Bank
Securities Agency Business Department,
36-3, y eoido-dong, y eongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea
Tel: 82-2-2073-8110
Fax: 82-2-2073-8111TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRARMeasuring Our Impact Accountability Financial & Non-Financial Statements Other Information Company Overviewyou can download this Report as a PDF file from
the official website of SK Telecom (www.sktelecom.
com/en/) To	contribute	 to	resource	 recycling	 and	environmental	 protection,	 SK	Telecom	 used	
FSC™	(Forest	Stewardship 	Council	Ⓡ	)-certified 	paper,	bearing	the	logo	carried	
only	by	products	 made	using	timber	from	environmentally	 developed	 and	managed	
forests.	
The	report	was	printed	at	a	FSC-certified	 print	shop	using	soy	oil	ink	which	
drastically	 reduces	 the	emissions	 of	air	pollutants.		 The	company	 also	participates	
in	the	Carbon	Neutral	Program	 run	by	the	Korea	Energy	Management	 Corporation	 to	
offset	greenhouse	 gas	emissions	 generated	 from	the	pulp	and	energy	used	to	print	
reports.	Despite	 the	company’s	 varying	efforts	to	reduce	environmental	 impacts,	 since	
the	process	 of	making	and	printing	in	paper	generates	 pollutants,	 this	Report	is	
published	 both	in	print	and	as		an	PDF	file.	SK	Telecom	 plans	on	reducing	 resource	
and	energy	use	through	using	more	PDF	files	and	the	official	website	of	SK	Telecom	
that	contain	a	lot	more	information	 than	in	the	print	version	due	to	lack	of	space.	
We	encourage	 our	readers	to	access	this	Report	as	a	PDF	file	instead	of	the	print	
edition	and	visit	the	official	website	to	save	resources	 and	protect	the	environment,		
while	accessing	a	lot	more	information	more	conveniently.
Participants of SK Telecom
Office of the Board of Directors
CEM TeamInformation Security Planning TeamCustomer Communication TeamCustomer Billing TeamEthics Management TeamManagement Support Team 1Vitality Enhancement TeamPricing TeamAffiliate Marketing & Promotion TeamPayment Business TeamInfra Strategy TeamSolution Planning TeamO&M Innovation TeamT map Business TeamTechnology Strategy Team
Corporate Strategy TeamCorporate Planning Team
Accounting TeamTax TeamIR OfficeJuly 2017 SK Telecom Jung Ho Park 
hyeseung.han@sk.com
jane.kim@sk.com Sung Hyung Lee
Jeong-Hwan ChoiHee-Jun ChungHye Seung HanJung Hyun KimPublicate DatePublishingPublisher
ContactProduction 
Responsibility
Korea Productivity Center 
IM creative Iljin Printing Planning & AdvisoryEditing & DesignPrintingCompliance TeamCorporate Partnership Planning TeamGlobal Alliance Planning TeamPolicy Team
Service Policy Team
Business Cooperation TeamTechnology Cooperation Team
EMD Team
Labor Relations TeamHR Planning TeamHR TeamGeneral Affairs TeamLeadership Innovation TeamCSV Team
Seoul CEI Team
Healthcare ICT Business TeamJeongmin Choi
Sooseang Son
Gyujin Shin
Dongsu Moon
Seungchan Maeng
Jinwoong y u
Dongkyun Ham
Gwangjoo Lee
Wonsuk Lee
Sangyeup Lee
Minseok Jang
Mijung Song
Taehyun Kim
Jongyo Kim
yongseon Park
Kyungwoo Kim
Kyungae Kim
Sungnam Shin
Hyungeal Jang
Seunghee Lee
Sangkyung JoJinsok Lee
Hyuntae Kim
Miae Han
Dong Huh
Jinha Lee
Jungah Kwak
Jaechul Jang
Sungyong Park
Seungha Lee
Jongyoon Ho
yongyoup Lee
Taehee Wang
Dongwon Lee A
Daesung Kim
yoonbong y oo
Sungtaek Kim
Wonte Kim
Jongho Kim
younsoo Na
Sunmin Park
yein Cho
yongmin Kim
Sunhyun Kim
Hunchul y oo
Daeyong Woo
Hyunny Lee
SK Telecom 
AnnuAl RepoRT 2016