2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability ReportPartner for  
New Possibilities
SK Telecom has publicly advocated the principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and it was named the Mobile 
Communications Sector Leader for three consecutive years in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) assessment 
made by Dow Jones Indices and RobecoSAM, and was listed in the DJSI World Index for ﬁve straight years. Also, 
through CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), SK Telecom has gained global recognition in the area of climate change strategy since 
2010 . In addition, SK Telecom has been participating in Integrated Reporting Pilot Program initiated by 
IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) since 2012 .Integrated Reporting
This Report is the seventh Sustainability Report and the ﬁrst Integrated Report released 
by SK Telecom.
Applicable Guidelines  |    SK Telecom has since 2011  has been a participant in the 
Pilot Programme Business Network of <IR> (Integrated Reporting), the standard 
framework for the integrated reporting of both ﬁnancial and nonﬁnancial informa-
tion, and this Report was prepared in accordance with the guiding principles and 
report content suggested in the <IR> Consultation Draft of the International Frame-work. Furthermore, this Report was developed based on the Global Reporting Initia-tive (GRI)'s G
3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and on the reporting principles 
of Communication on Progress (COP) of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. The report's level of correspondence to the Reporting Guidelines and to the Framework is 
disclosed in page 
61.
Stakeholder Engagement and Board of Directors Review  |    This Report provides com-
prehensive information on SK Telecom's business strategy and results for its long-term 
growth and sustainable development. In order to incorporate stakeholder interests 
into the process of deﬁning report content, the Report was prepared in accordance 
with the GRI Boundary Protocol: 'Deﬁning Report Content and Boundaries' and declares a GRI Application level of "A+". The material topics and content contained in the Report were reviewed by the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the Board 
of Directors, the company's highest decision-making body. Moreover, the company sought external assurance to demonstrate the credibility of the Report. Please see 
pages 
58 to 60 for the External Assurance Statement.
Scope and Boundary of the Report  |    This Report excludes data for the companies in 
which SK Telecom invests and for its supply chain. Such data on the companies and 
supply chain, however, have been included as remarks only if they are likely to have 
a signiﬁcant impact on stakeholders' decisions regarding the subsidiaries and supply 
chain, considering SK Telecom's ﬁnancial and operational control and actual inﬂuence and the effects of its business. Geographically speaking, the Report covers data for the company's major places of business and sales operations in the Republic of Korea, for the reporting period from January 
1st through December 31st, 2012 . The Report, 
however, also discloses a portion of the qualitative data generated until May, 2013 . 
Though there are no particular technical boundaries of the report, the previous data was re-calculated based on the 
2012  data upon discovering any changes made to the 
data collection methodology or technique. The publication date of the previous report 
was in May, 2012 , and the company releases a Sustainability Report annually.
Partner for 
New Possibilities
Key Strategic Achievement
Telco & New Business
- First operator in the world to apply Advanced-SCAN
technology to an LTE network 
- First operator in the world to commercialize HD Voice,
multi-carrier LTE, and LTE Femtocells
Subscribers
Technology 
Leadership B2B
Expanding Business Area
- Partnerships between SK Telecom and VESTEL of Turkey 
to expand into the smart education market in Eurasia
M&A
Overseas 
Expansion  Convergence
Social Responsibility 
- Topped the three biggest customer satisfaction in Korea
  (NCSI, KCSI, KS-SQI)
- Launched innovative services (T-Freemium, T-Baseball)  / 
improved the 8 major Voices of Customer (VOC) (reduced com-
plaints by 50%) Surpassed the 1-million SNS fan mark
- Provided support for traditional markets utilizing 
business solutions / created jobs for the disadvantaged 
through the ICT-based social enterprise "Happy ICT"/ 
launched a donation platform and enhanced R&C-based 
social contributions, including the "Visiting Smart Class" 
 M&A
Environmental 
Management Customer 
Experience 
ManagementEthics & 
Compliance    
Social 
ContributionWin-Win 
Growth SK Planet's revenue*SK Telecom creates new value across all industries by practicing innovation on a daily basis, based on its well-established infrastructure and human 
resources in order to make the world a happier, richer place. In 2012 , SK Telecom became the ﬁrst Korean telecommunications operator to report 7 mil-
lion LTE subscribers, achieved a variety of business milestones, such as becoming the world's ﬁrst to commercialize the HD Voice service and topping all customer satisfaction indexes in Korea, while reporting an increase in sales totaling 
16.3 trillion KRW (a year-over-year growth of 2.5%) on the strength 
of continuous innovation.
Economic Impact on 
Stakeholders
Allocation of Earnings
(unit: billion KRW)
*76,477 million KRW from the 2012  government grant investment  
Investment cost community  
Community donations  
employee   
Cost of employee beneﬁts  government
Tax payments business partners
Cost of purchasing products & services stockholders
Shareholder dividends 5,576 670
1,283 2082,858 81- First Korean operator to surpass the 7-million LTE 
subscriber mark
- 400,000 T-roaming unlimited data subscribers in 79
countries. First operator in the world to commercialize
LTE auto-roaming service
- Opened the integrated control center "T Cloud Biz"- First company in Korea to obtain "Good SLA
 Certiﬁcate" for T Cloud Biz
'12 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q32,24532,92333,13533,761Mobile phone ARPU trend    KRW LTE subscriber trend*    10,000 people
'12 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q177334567753
*Based on the cumulative 
The company is launching new busi-
nesses through ICT convergence and working to diversify its revenue sources. In 
2012 , earnings from the new busi-
nesses grew steadily.
To strengthen its content aspect, SK Tele-
com spun off SK Planet. With the special-ization of its business in 
2012 , SK Planet 
has seen a steady increase in revenue.- Ofﬁcially launched SK hynix
- Laid the foundation for healthcare businesses:
launched Health Connect, acquired NanoEntek / 
acquired a majority stake in Tianlong of China.
*Sale of solutions after deducing the mobile phone/   
   network access revenues from the gross sales'12 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q243250267274  billion KRW
*Based on SK Planet's own revenue'12 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q132138157211 10.911.511.713.0
- Eliminated risks and inefﬁciency through business
audits / consultations / implemented an audit & 
consulting system to address ethical issues at 
subsidiaries  
- Created the international standard method for 
calculating social greenhouse gas reductions / named the best company in the telecommunications sector by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for 
3 
consecutive years 
- Created the collaborative system  (opened T open lab/ 
held a launching ceremony for the Win-Win Committee / 
shared key M 2M technologies) 
- Operated the Win-Win Fund (worth 145 billion KRW) / 
operated the Win Win Academy 
(23,268 employees attended)Employee Satisfaction  
 point 
2010 2011 2012868481
2010 2011 2012 201374757374
Customer Satisfaction*  
 point 
*Based on the NCSI scoresTop Top Top Top
2010 2011 201283.9
74.5
Business Partner Satisfaction*  
 point 
*BPSI(Business Partner Satisfaction Index) replaced  
   by "Win-Win Growth Satisfaction Index" effective  
   in 2012 .74.4SK Telecom surpassed 7-million sub-
scribers by the end of 2012  and 10 mil-
lion as of May, 2013 .
The increase in LTE subscribers has led 
to the steady growth of ARPU(Average 
Revenue Per User). In the 4th quarter of 
2012 , the company reported a mobile 
ARPU of 33,761 KRW, a 4.7% increase 
over the 1st quarter.
Ratio of revenues from new 
businesses and B 2B 
  Revenue from new businesses (billion KRW)   
  Ratio of B 2B of the total revenue (%)CEO Message 2
Business & Strategy 
Our Business Model 4
Key Risks & Opportunities 6
Strategy: Partner for New Possibilities 8
Governance
Governance & Remuneration 10
Corporate Citizenship Committee 12
Ethics & Compliance 16
Our Created Value
LTE Leadership 20
ICT Convergence & New Business 23
Customer Experience Management 26
Digital Inclusion 29
R&C Social Innovation 32
Win-Win Growth 35
Climate Change 38
Talent Attraction & Retention 41
Performance Review
Financial Data 44
Operational Data 46
Appendix
Materiality Report 52
UN Global Compact 56
Statement on Human Rights 57
External Assurance Statement 58
GRI, UNGC Table 61 
 2012-2013 Highlights
March_ Ofﬁcial launch of SK hynix
SK hynix, the world's second largest memory 
chip manufacturer, was ofﬁcially launched as SK hynix under the "SK Wings of Happiness." 
April_ Ranked 1st place in K-BPI (Brand 
Power Index of Korean Industries) for 12 
consecutive years 
The company ranked ﬁrst place in the mobile service sector of the 
14th Brand Power Index 
of Korean Industries (K-BPI) announced by Korean Management Association Consulting (KMAC) and was named a Golden Brand.
August_ Became the world's ﬁrst operator 
to commercialize HD Voice (VoLTE) 
The company became the world's ﬁrst mobile 
operator to commence the next-generation "HD Voice" service over LTE. 
October_ Topped the three biggest 
customer satisfaction in Korea 
The company topped the mobile telecommu-
nications category of the KS-SQI (Korean Stan-dard Service Quality Index), along with the NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index) and the KCSI (Korea Customer Satisfaction Index).
February 2013  _ Awarded Outstanding LTE 
Contribution at MWC Global Mobile Awards
The company's 4G LTE with PETA Solution won 
the Outstanding LTE Contribution award at MWC 
2013  Global Mobile Awards.September_ Named the DJSI's Mobile 
Communications Sector Leader for 3 
consecutive years
The company was named the Mobile Commu-
nications Sector Leader of the Dow Jones Sus-tainability Index (DJSI) for three consecutive years and also listed in the DJSI World index for 
5 years straight.
December_ Surpassed the 7-million LTE 
subscriber mark 
The company surpassed the 7-million LTE sub-
scriber mark only 17 months after the commer -
cialization in July 2011  (as of April 2013 , over 
10-million).
2011/12March _ Topped both cable and mobile 
services
The company topped the three largest catego-
ries of cable and mobile services (revenue, cus-tomer satisfaction, and brand) in 
3 years.CEO MESSAGE
2
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
"SK Telecom will continue to grow by creating new value using synergy 
between businesses based on our portfolio in the ICT industry, including telecommunications, and by fulfilling our social responsibilities."3 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Distinguished stakeholders,
The year 2012 witnessed unprecedented levels of competition in the global LTE market and radical changes in the Korean ICT 
industry, such as data market expansion and accelerated convergence across all industrial boundaries. Upon completion of the LTE network nationwide, SK Telecom cemented its position through continuously successful outcomes, such as holding the largest market share by becoming the first Korean mobile operator to surpass 10 million LTE subscribers, inclusion in the DJSI 
World index for 5 consecutive years, being selected as the leader in the global mobile telecommunications sector for 3 years 
straight, and topping the National Customer Satisfaction Index for 16 consecutive years. Furthermore, with the spin-off of SK planet to strengthen our platform capabilities in response to the changing ICT environment, SK Telecom successfully launched SK hynix in February, 2012, and completed its business portfolio as a total ICT company consisting of the three components of hardware, platform, and network. Such restructuring has led to business results, such as SK hynix's credit rating upgraded by S&P 
and Moody's, two global credit rating agencies.   
SK Telecom has advocated the United Nations (UN) "Sustainable Development Goals" and, in 2008, formed the Corporate 
Citizenship Committee under the Board of Directors as the highest-level body responsible for social responsibility. It was part of SK Telecom's effort to practice social responsibility across all areas, including Customer Satisfaction, Win-Win Growth, Social Responsibility, Ethics and Compliance, and Environmental Management. SK Telecom also enhanced its reputation on the global stage: in 2012, at the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The company hosted the social enterprise session and gave a presentation regarding building a global IT platform for social enterprises. At the ITU Symposium on ICTs, the Environment and Climate Change, the "Methodology for Estimating the Effects of Greenhouse Gas Reductions Using ICTs" implemented by SK Telecom was adopted as an international standard. SK Telecom will continue to help create social value by incorporating into its business activities global standards for corporate social responsibility suggested by the UN Global Compact (UNGC).  
The Vision 2020: Partner for New Possibilities, declared in February, 2012, represents SK Telecom's commitment to creating an 
ICT ecosystem where it can work with customers, business partners, and communities to achieve sustainable development. To implement Vision 2020, the company announced "Happy Companion" in May this year to realize "Happiness" with customers and "Companion" with society. Through "Happy Companion", SK Telecom, a leading Korean ICT company, will drive economic and social changes, realize the best customer value, and try our utmost to become a socially responsible, respected 
company that contributes to Win
-Win growth and job creation. 
 
When society and companies explore new possibilities for a better world, SK Telecom will always stand by and work with them 
to be "Happy Companion". Your continued support and attention will be greatly appreciated. 
Thank you.
President & CEO of SK Telecom     Ha Sung -Min4
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Shareholder Information WHO WE ARE WHAT WE dO
Innovator that creates a happiness network for customers
In 1984 , SK Telecom became the ﬁrst Korean company to start the ﬁrst 
generation of analog mobile phones and later the world's ﬁrst opera-
tor to successfully commercialize the CDMA (Code Division Multiple 
Access) technology, the 2.5G CDMA 2000  1X, 3G synchronous, and 
ﬁnally HSDPA (High-Speed Downlink Packet Access) and HSUPA (High-
Speed Uplink Packet Access) services. SK Telecom continues to lay 
diverse foundations for growth to lead the coming age of convergence with a variety of state of the art services. SK Telecom has expanded the 
scope of networking possibilities and will make the world, including 
Korea, a happier place with its various information and communications technologies (ICT) that can improve not only interpersonal communica-
tion, but also productivity in the industry.    Realizing customer happiness by providing high-quality 
mobile phone service and a variety of integrated services
SK Telecom has become a leading ICT brand in Korea by providing high-
quality mobile phone and various integrated services. The company 
offers mobile phone services using its generic strategies for devices, rate 
plans, networking, and content, and has laid the foundation for a vari-ety of services, from high-quality video to multimedia gaming services, 
which can be enabled in wireless environments by commercializing 
LTE for the ﬁrst time in Korea. In terms of B
2B, SK Telecom is develop-
ing a Win-Win growth model by which it evolves with its business part-
ners using expertise and open platforms in a variety of service sectors. 
In keeping with the global ICT trends, the company also continues to seek solutions to increase productivity across all industries using mobile 
technologies, including healthcare, automobiles, education, and ﬁnance 
which provides an ideal business environment. OUR BUSINESS
MOdEL 
Name 
Founding date
Type of company 
Head ofﬁce location 
Major countries for 
business* SK Telecom
March 29, 1984
Incorporated SK-T Tower, Euljiro 
2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea
Republic of Korea, U.S., Japan, U.K., China, Vietnam, 
Singapore, Indonesia, and UAEOverview
As of December 2012
SK Group 
25.22%SK Telecom 
13.69%
Minority shareholders 
32.12%CITI BANK ADR
24.00%
Other 
4.47%*However, at least 95% of sales occur in Korea. 
Network operators 
Network installation, 
maintenance & repairs providersTerminal/Network Components Networks
Associates/Subsidiaries Business PartnersSK Telecom
Device manufacturers 
Microprocessors, memory chips, home appliances, mobile phones, etc. 
System operators 
Telecommunications equipment vendors, hardware and system softwareSK hynix5 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
HOW WE dO
"Respected Company" that brings happiness and fulﬁlls social responsibility
The SKMS (SK Management System) is a set of fundamental management principles for the continuous growth of SK Group and practiced by all SK afﬁl-
iates, including SK Telecom. SUPEX is a method for practicing SK Group's SKMS management principles aimed at achieving the "super excellent" level 
across all business activities. SK Telecom is committed to achieving SUPEX so that it can realize the vision of the SKMS, "For the company's continuous 
development, create value for customers, employees, and shareholders, fulﬁll a key role in social and economic development, and make contributions to the happiness of mankind."     
Content providers
Broadcasting, media education, 
etc.
Platform operators
Navigation, search, security pro-viders, portals, etc.
Application providers  
Application developers Platforms / Contents / Applications Services
SK planetMobile phone services Ubiquitous/  
Convergence servicesIndividual customer services 
4G LTE T MAP 
B2B servicesBusiness customer services
Smart Health T bizpoint
GeovisionT Smart Learning T Cloud BizIntegrated cable and wireless services
T Store TB free for families 
T Roaming T Cloud Melon NateMembership service Hoppin TB combined  
discounts 11th Street [ Business Value Chain ]As an ICT product and service 
provider, we provide high-quality 
products and services on the 
strength of our competitiveness  PRIdE
Pride in our capabilities SINCERIT y
Sincerity for customers TRUST
Trust in colleagues RESPONSIBILIT y
Responsibility for society 
Dedicated to providing superior customer value, we continuously 
offer new, happier experience for 
customersWe respect each other and work together to achieve the company's 
goals We develop innovative services 
that can contribute to community growth and generate proﬁt 
ethically
Smart Insight myshop 6
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
OPERATING C ONTEx T & KEy ISSUES      SK Telecom identiﬁes risks and opportunities from a 
comprehensive perspective, taking into account the market conditions and stakeholder interests. SK Telecom will create growth 
opportunities and increase stakeholder value by adopting a long-term approach and systematic management towards material 
issues facing the company.
- Network quality is still  
 a fundamental, essential  
 competitive element
- Taking a dominant position in  
 the LTE market is an absolute  
 indicator for a company's   long-term success and future  
 growth
- Enhancing platform services  
 based on network/data   quality contributes to  
 individuals' quality of life
- Differences in perception of  
 investment and efﬁcient use  
 of network technologies and  
 the role of such technologies       as public goods
- Provide the best network     quality and call services
- Commercialize LTE-A (By 2013 )
- Reach 100% multicarrier  
   coverage targeting high data     trafﬁc areas (By 
2013 )
- Complete LTE network    nationwide (Accomplished) 
- Invested in multicarrier  
  deployment (In progress)
- Fast, secure operation of  
  multi-networks such as 
3G  
  and Wibro (In progress) 
- Standardized LTE-A and  
  developed technologies    (In progress)LTE Leadership
01Major 
Issues
Business 
Context
Social/
Environmental
Context
Commitment
Target & Goals
2012 Status- Declining growth of mobile  
 telecom operators and   devaluation of the  
 telecommunications market  
 due to market saturation and  depression
- ICT providers' expansion into  
 adjacent markets and compe-  tition over integration 
- Familiar, convenient customer   experience and intelligence   technologies, cloud computing,  
 etc.
- Social expectations for SK  
 Telecom shifted from the sale  
 of traditional goods & services  
 to the provision of innovative   products through the best   channel 
- Provide new value based on   ICT industry convergence
- Create an ICT convergence  
 system through active M&As  
 (By 2012 )
- Expand into healthcare   prevention/care industry   (By 
2013 )
- Reach 40% investment in  
 R&D compared to net proﬁt   (By 
2014 -2015 )
- Prepared to evolve into a content-oriented company (SK platform spin-off, etc.) 
(Accomplished)
- Started new business and 
expanded business, including 
the acquisition of SK hynix, and reinforced inﬂuence over the value chain (Accomplished)
- Invested in Tianlong, a Chinese 
molecular diagnostic tester manufacturer (Accomplished)ICT Convergence  
& New Business
02
- Competitive advantages  
 perceived by customers  
 diversiﬁed from traditional  
 ones (i.e., quality) to brand,  
 released smartphones,  
 corporate image, etc.
- Providing outstanding customer  
 experience leads to customer  
 satisfaction
- High expectations for fair  
 competition with other  
 operators and fair marketing  
 communication 
- Appropriate protection policy  
 is required for service users  
 due to the complexity of the  
 rate structure
- Pursue customer happiness as  
 well as customer satisfaction by  
 providing the best services 
- Reduce smartphone-related  
 VOCs by 25% compared with  
 2012  (By 2013 )
- Implement CE innovation tasks  
 (By 2013 )
- Rank 1st place in mobile  
 telecommunications sectors  
 of the three CSI (NCSI, KS-SQI,  
 and KCSI) (Accomplished)
- Reduced major customer  
   complaints (the 8 VOCs) by  
   50% compared with the level  
   in late 2011  (Accomplished) Customer Experience  
Management  
03RISKS & 
OPPORTUNITIES 7 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
- Increasing digital divide means  
 a decline in service opportunities  
 and potential customer base in  
 the long term
- Digital inclusion for the disabled  
 and low-income households  
 contributes to increasing the  
 customer base and developing   a new market 
- Increased digital divide since   the distribution of the Internet   due to changes in the smart  
 environment, such as the  
 adoption of the smartphone
- Socioeconomic polarization  
 due to the gap in information  
 accessibility  
- Resolve the ICT exclusion   and digital divide of the  
 disadvantaged 
- Increase ICT programs for the  
 disadvantaged (By 2013 )
- Provide public solutions   for the disadvantaged and  
 increase solution usage  
 (By 
2013 )
- Improved digital inclusion by, for  
 instance, holding a contest using  
 smartphones (Accomplished)
- Developed a library app for the  
 visually impaired and increased  
 content (Accomplished)digital Inclusion
04
- Seeking effective R&C-based   social responsibility helps discover   and implement new businesses 
- Increase social value by  
 implementing R&C-based CSR  
- Need for CSR activities based   on key capabilities due to the   paradigm shift from traditional  
 CSR to CSV (Creating Shared  
 Value)
- Provide opportunities and   sharing platforms through ICT
- Provide assistance in ICT-based   start-ups for the baby boomers'   generation (By 
2013 )
- Contribute to revitalizing the   ICT-based traditional market  
 (By 
2013 )
- Strengthened R&C-based CSR  
 platform, such as the donation  
 platform "Give U" (Accomplished)
- Created a model for revitalizing  
 the traditional market based  
 on industry-community  
 collaboration using business  
 solutions (Accomplished)
- Formed an ICT social enterprise  
 (Accomplished)R&C Social 
Innovation
05
- Adopting the Greenhouse Gas  
 Target Management System,   reinforcing environmental  
 regulations, and enforcing the  
 information disclosure mandate 
-"Green Business" is a new  
 area where the company can  
 expand based on its generic ICT  
 strategy, such as climate change  
 prevention using ICT
- Increased natural disasters,   such as typhoons and ﬂoods   due to climate change in Korea 
- Increased social priorities in  
 green growth and GHG reduction  
 after the government suggested  
 the GHG reduction targets 
- Contribute to preventing   climate change using  
 technologies and platforms 
- Adopt the international  
 standard for estimating social   GHG reductions using RNS  
 (Real-time Navigation Service)  
 (By 
2013 )
- Publish an ITU report on social   GHG reduction in the ICT area  
 (By 
2013 )
- Assistance in green growth by  
 reducing social GHG emissions   (research) (In progress)
- Reduced GHG emissions by  
 
0.59% compared with the  
 target (Accomplished)
- Established a green corporate  
 climate, including operating  
 the Green ICT Committee   (Accomplished)Climate Change
06
- With the announcement that  
   the government (Win-Win Growth   Committee) will evaluate Win-Win  
 growth results starting in 
2012 ,  
 companies are required to meet a  
 higher level
- Identifying and eliminating risks  
   across the supply chain in the aspects  
 of human rights, environment, and  
 labor has become a key element in  
 business risk management 
- Direct demand for Win-Win   growth among large and small/  medium enterprises, including  
 economic democracy 
- Encourage support and  
 participation in Win-Win  
 growth, one of the national   policy priorities 
- Create an industry ecosystem   based on Win-Win climate 
- Adopt and operate the four fair  
 trade guidelines (By 2012 )
-Establish the Win-Win growth-  related KPI and strategy  
 (By 
2012 )
- Improved the supply chain   risk management system  
 and increased the level of   procurement policy disclosure   (By 
2013 -2014 )
- Signed agreements with 234  
 partners on Win-Win growth   and fair trade (Accomplished)
- Amended and disclosed   
 internal rules taking account   of the four fair trade guidelines   (Accomplished)
- Operated the Win-Win    Fund worth 
215 billion KRW 
 (Accomplished)Win-Win Growth
07
- The key to winning competition  
 in the digital era is increasing   the importance of human  
 capital, such as speed and  
 originality
- Education, career development,  
 and HRD (talent attraction  
 & retention) programs are the   source of SK Telecom's long-  term competitiveness 
- Cultivating expertise and   career development based   on continued learning and  
 job experience contribute to  
 enhancing value for individual   employees
- Develop specialized human   resources with the best ICT  
 skills 
- Announce and execute human  
 culture innovation tasks  
 (By 2012 -2013 )
 - Use the smart learning  
 (T-earning) system in at least  
 50% of job training (By 2014 )
-Increased outside training  
 support by improving IDP   (Accomplished)
- Adopted the smart  
 learning system (T-earning)   (Accomplished)Talent Attraction  
& Retention
08 Business, Social, 
and Environmental 
ImpactsStakeholder 
InterestMarket ConditionsMajor Risks and 
Opportunities 01 02
03
06 07 0804 05
VISION & STRATEGy   
Under the vision of reaching 100 trillion KRW in corporate value and entering the Global Top 100, SK Telecom pledges to provide total value in 
Telco & New Business, Platform and Hardware areas and create new value for a richer, happier world. 
Vision
Business
Portfolio
Strategic 
Focus
Mission 
StatementWe create new value across industries by practicing innovation on a daily basis 
using our well-established business infrastructure and human resources to make 
the world a happier, richer place.STRATEGy :  
Partner for New Possibilities
100 & 100
100 trillion in corporate value, Global Top 100
Telco&
New Business
Platform H/W
SKT
Telco & New 
Business  Expanding 
Business BoundarySocial 
Responsibility 8 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability ReportCEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix9
Telco & New Business 
Transformation-based 
new growth drivers
Expanding Business 
Boundary
Providing total value based on tech-
nology innovation and convergence
Social Responsibility 
Company dedicated to creating value for customers and practicing
social responsibility STRATEGIC FOCUS   
We are witnessing unprecedented levels of competition in the global LTE market and radical changes in the ICT industry, such as data market expansion 
and accelerated convergence across all industries. SK Telecom will expand its business based on technological innovation and convergence while 
enhancing its key capabilities in the telecommunications business. The company also pledges to become a respected company that increases customer 
value and fulﬁlls corporate social responsibility. 
Changing customers' lifestyles and creating new value using ICT based on a better 
understanding of customers and well-established customer service channels
Evolving into a smart, open structure to lead the age data N/W and functioning 
based on a new ecosystem
Different partners bring their capabilities together through an open collaborative 
structure and continuously provide the best solutions related to one another 
Developing areas of value innovation through the transfer of key telco capabilities and Expanding business in the long term in a variety of areas through open 
collaboration 
Conducting world-class research and development in different areas and 
increasing growth opportunities by developing innovative business items  
SK Telecom, SK planet, and SK hynix develop their own distinctive capabilities, 
bring them together to provide innovative products/services and lead the ICT 
industry 
Expanding growth areas by creating new ICT businesses across industrial, 
geographical boundaries and continuously expanding into the global market 
Dedicated to continuous growth of the ecosystem based on openness and cooperation and driving Win-Win growth in the ICT industry by creating an 
environment for all ICT areas to grow
Creating new jobs, expanding overseas, leading green ICT, and enhancing the 
domestic ICT industry's competitivenessMarketing
 
Networks
 
Solutions  
ICT Convergence 
Technology Platform 
Growth
Portfolio Synergy 
 
New Market  
 
Industry  
 
Community  Independence and Transparency of the Board 
The company's Board of Directors consists of 8 members, 3 executive and 
5 non-executive (outside) Directors, and has 5 committees, which are the 
Independent Director Recommendation Committee , the Audit Committee, 
the Compensation Committee, the CapEx Review  Committee, and the  
Corporate Citizenship  Committee. To ensure the independence of each 
committee, SK Telecom has speciﬁed the ratio of Outside Directors and 
guarantees the transparent operation of each committee in accordance 
with the committee operating guidelines.
Separation of Chairman of the Board and CEO     In March 2012 , SK 
Telecom appointed Outside Director Lim Hyun-chin as Chairman of the 
Board of Directors and strengthened the independence of its governance. 
The Audit and Compensation Committees  are comprised entirely of Non-
executive Directors to ensure the fairness and transparency of the Board's 
activities. On February 22, 2013 , the company declared that Cho Dae-
sik, an Executive Director candidate, and Oh Dae-shick , a Non-executive 
Director candidate and a candidate member of the Audit Committee, who 
were nominated by the Independent Director Recommendation , attend 
the 29th General Shareholders' Meeting. At the meeting held on March 
22, the appointment of new Directors was ﬁnalized. At least half the com -
mittee consists of Non-executive Directors in accordance with clause 4 of 8 
of Article 542 of the Commercial Act.
Transparent Nomination Process     When appointing Directors, SK Tele -
com selects experts with a vast knowledge and experience in manage -
ment, economics, accounting, law, and related technologies, who can con -
tribute to the company's growth and the protection of shareholder rights.  GOVERNANCE & 
REMUNERATION 
BALANCEd, TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE 
SK Telecom aims to increase its corporate value and maximize shareholder value through reasonable, progressive decision-making by the Board of 
Directors on the basis of transparent, responsible management. The company also pledges to incorporate stakeholders' interests into business ac -
tivities through open communication with stakeholders and their engagement.
The Independent Director Recommendation  Committee nominates a Non-
executive Director, who is then appointed by a majority vote of the Directors in attendance. Afterwards, through a transparent, legitimate process, the 
appointment of the Director is conﬁrmed at a general shareholders' meeting.
Independent Audit Committee
    SK Telecom conducts an audit in accor -
dance with the committee structure, operation, rights and responsibilities 
stated in the Audit Committee guidelines based on applicable laws and the 
articles of incorporation. The Audit Committee is responsible for review -
ing ﬁnancial statements and supplementary schedules,  approving audit 
fee in advance, and receiving reports on an audit process and results from an accounting ﬁrm, and demanding an additional review of the compa -
Appointed in March 2013
President & CEO of SK Holdings( 2013 -Present)
CFO, Head of Finance Team and Executive Vice 
President of Risk Mgmt. & Corporate Auditing 
Ofﬁce, SK Holdings( 2012 )
Appointed in March 2012
Executive Vice President, Head of Strategy & Plan -
ning Ofﬁce( 2013 -present)
Executive Vice President, Head of Future Manage -
ment Ofﬁce( 2012 )Committee Name
Independent Director 
Recommendation 
Committee
Audit Committee
Compensation 
Committee 
CapEx Review 
Committee
Corporate Citizenship 
CommitteeResponsibilities 
Nominate outside directors 
 
Internal auditing
Deliberating the executive 
compensation system and levels of 
compensation
Deliberating major investment plans 
and changes
Setting and deliberating CSR strategies Membership
1 executive, 2 
non-executive 
4 non-executive
 
5 non-executive 
1 executive, 4 
non-executive 
1 executive, 4 
non-executiveBoard of Directors and Committee ActivitiesAppointed in March 2004
Chairman of the SK SUPEX Council Strategy 
Committee( 2013 -present)
Member of GSMA's Board of Directors (
2012 -present) 
Chairman of SK Hynix's Board of Directors
(2012 -present) 
President & CEO of SK Telecom( 2011 -present)Ha Sung-Min    |  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Cho Dae-Sik    |  Executive Ofﬁcer
Jee Dong- Seob    |  Executive Ofﬁcer[ Executive Directors  ]
10 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability ReportCEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
ny's major issues. To ensure the credibility of ﬁnancial data, the committee 
requests an internal accounting manager and an external auditor to report 
on the operating status of the company's internal accounting system. To 
audit the company's business, the auditor may attend a Board of Directors meeting or other important meetings for a brieﬁng by a manager or ofﬁ -
cer responsible, access and review documents containing important busi -
ness details. 
Board Activities and Evaluation    
Each year, SK Telecom evaluates Directors' expertise regarding the com -
pany's businesses and technologies and their involvement in Board activi -
ties. The evaluation results are discussed at a Board of Directors meeting. Furthermore, once a Director's term has expired and the director is nom -
inated again by the Independent Director Recommendation  Committee, 
the Director's previous performance is deliberated. Directors' remunera -
tion and pension entitlements are determined by vote at a general share -
holders' meeting, and the remuneration is paid in a fair, transparent way in 
accordance with the remuneration policy. 
Appointed in March 2006
Chairman of the Korean Association for the Study of Political 
Society( 2008 -present)
Professor of sociology at Seoul National University  College of 
Social Sciences( 1983 -present)
Dean of the Seoul National University College of Social Sciences (
2006 ~2010 )Lim Hyun-Chin    |  Chairman  / Independent Non-executive Director
Oh Dae-Shick     |  Independent Non-executive DirectorChung Jay-Young    |  Independent Non-executive DirectorUhm Rak-Yong     |  Independent Non-executive Director
Cho Jae-Ho    |  Independent Non-executive Director[ Non-executive Directors  ]
Appointed in March 2008
Visiting professor at Chungang University( 2011-present) 
Non-executive Director at KOTRA( 2002 -2005 )
Chairman & CEO, Korea Development Bank( 2000 -2001 ) 
Vice Minister of Finance and Economy( 1999 )
Appointed in March 2008
Honorary professor at Sungkyunkwan University 
(2010 -present)
Chairman of Asia-Paciﬁc Economic Association   (
2013 -present)
Appointed in March 2008
Director at Kyunghee Education Foundation( 2007 -present)
Professor of Business Administration at Seoul National 
University Business School( 1995 -present)
Chairman of the Capital Market Subcommittee of the Financial Development (
2009 -2011 ) Appointed in March 2013
Advisor for BKL LLC( 2008 -present)
Commissioner of Seoul Regional Tax Ofﬁce( 2007 -2008 )
Executive Directors 
Non-executive directorsTotalTotal amount
9,285
408
9,693# of directors
35
8Average per person
3,095
82Remuneration Payments (unit: million KRW)11
IMPLEMENTING C ORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT y AS A KEy BUSINESS PRACTICE
Since 2005 , SK Telecom has openly advocated Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development. In order to demonstrate its support 
more efﬁciently and to fulﬁll social responsibility as a key business practice, the company has declared compliance with the global principles, 
formed a top-level decision-making body, and encouraged the continuous engagement of stakeholders.
Supporting International Principles and Initiatives 
SK Telecom has publicly advocated the principles of the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC). The United Nations demands that companies sup -Corporate Citizenship Committee: Top-level decision making 
body for CSR 
SK Telecom clearly deﬁnes its "social responsibility" as a key strategy to 
achieve its vision "Vision 2020 : Partner for New Possibilities" under the 
slogan "Pursuing long-term, sustainable stakeholder happiness," inter -
nalizes the "Vision 2020 " vision, and implements its sustainability strat -
egy. In order to implement corporate social responsibility (CSR) com -
mitments as part of its key business activities, the company formed the Corporate Citizenship Committee under its Board of Directors, whose responsibilities include establishing a long-term strategy for the compa -
ny's sustainability activities and monitoring the results.
In 
2008 , SK Telecom formed the Corporate Citizenship Committee  
as the highest-level body for social responsibility under the Board of 
Directors. The Corporate Citizenship Committee  is the company's top 
decision-making body aimed at practicing social responsibility and 
implementing CSR activities and responsible for coordinating the vary -
ing interests of stakeholders, making decisions from long-term per -
spectives, and contemplating SK Telecom's social responsibility. 
The Corporate Citizenship Committee  consists of 5 members in total, 
4 Non-executive Directors and 1 Executive Director (as of March 
2013 ), sets goals in the 5 sustainability focus areas (Customer Expe -
rience Management, Win-Win Growth, Social Contribution, Ethics 
and Compliance, and Environment) and carries out activities such as 
providing advice on CSR and monitoring major issues and business results.  In 
2012 , the Corporate Citizenship Committee  held four meet -
ings and discussed long-term strategies and key issues in the 5 focus 
areas. In 2013 , the committee will incorporate stricter global stan -
dards and reinforce its CSR commitments, including reporting griev -
ances and actions for major stakeholders in the 5 areas, examining the 
sustainability report topics and assurance process, and the Board of 
Directors' participation in CSR training.CORPORATE 
CITIZENSHIP 
COMMITTEE
Session
1st  
2nd 
 
3rd 
4thKey Agenda Items of the Corporate Citizenship Committee
Date 
April 25, 2012  
June 20, 2012  
 
July 24, 2012  
December 12, 2012  Agenda item 
Appointment of the chair  
2012  SKT social responsibility strategy
2012  SKT ethics and compliance plan  
CEM renovation plan to protect 
customers
Win-Win growth results and plan  
2012  environmental management plan
Monitoring and reporting of CSR results 
Area
Customer 
Experience Management 
Win-Win Growth 
  
Social 
Contribution 
 
Ethics & 
Compliance 
Environmental 
ManagementKey Issues in 5 Areas of Corporate Citizenship Committee
Activity details 
Increase customer satisfaction by resolving customer 
complaints  
Provide innovative services that take into account 
customers' distinctive experience
Reinforce leadership driving growth through cooperation 
with business partners  Lay the foundation for Win-Win growth by improving 
communication
Discover key agenda items/social issues such as revitalizing 
the traditional market  
Develop distinctive social contributions and increase social impact
Establish an ethical corporate climate  
Eliminate risks and inefﬁciency through business auditing/consulting
Proactive response to domestic GHG regulations  
Conduct research on reducing social GHG emissions12 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
With the Corporate Citizenship Committee  in charge, SK Telecom con -
nects its long-term strategy and sustainability activities and pursues sus -
tainable development by implementing CSR as a key business practice.CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
ings into the business decision-making process. The company also 
operates the communication channels for 6 different stakeholder 
types, including the online channel on its website, where stakehold -
ers' opinions, grievances and complaints about CSR are collected and resolved. The online customer center (T World), the websites of busi -
ness partners, and the Labor-Management Council are always avail -
able on the website. Apart from those channels for customers, SK Telecom also runs a CSR-centered online channel to reﬂect stakehold -
ers' opinions and interests. Any comments received or actions taken 
through this channel are reported to the Corporate Citizenship Com -
mittee  if deemed to have a signiﬁcant impact or to be material. 
Furthermore, SK Telecom conducts an annual online survey to set 
business priorities and material issues. This year's annual stakeholder survey was carried out in February, 
2013 , and 271 stakeholders of 
SK Telecom responded. Through the stakeholder survey, SK Telecom 
deﬁned 11 material issues, including the policy on, call/network qual -
ity, and service satisfaction (see page 52 for details). The detailed sur -
vey results were ﬁnally reviewed by the Corporate Citizenship Commit -
tee before being incorporated into this Report.port the UNGC and comply with the 10 principles deﬁned by the UN, 
including human rights, environment, labor, and anti-corruption, and that they support a wide range of the UN's development objectives, 
including the UN Millennium Development Goals. In 
2012 , SK Telecom 
declared its support for the Ruggie Framework endorsed by the UN 
Human Rights Council in June 2011 .
In addition, SK Telecom complies with ISO 26000 , the standard for 
corporate social responsibility, and is actively involved in global ini -
tiatives, such as Integrated Reporting, the Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP), and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). 
At the Rio+ 20 Conference held in Brazil in June 2012 , SK Group gave 
a presentation regarding leading examples of social enterprises. The 
company discussed the necessity of a social enterprise as the most 
effective way for a company to be socially responsible, and provided solutions to global issues through social enterprises, as well as how 
to create an ecosystem and increase partnerships to effectively imple -
ment such solutions.
Stakeholder Engagement (Stakeholder Dialogue)
SK Telecom conducts its business based on communication with 
stakeholders under the principle of increasing stakeholder value. To 
continue to operate and grow, the company works hard to create 
value for stakeholders and make contributions to social, economic growth and happiness towards society. Accordingly, SK Telecom has 
classiﬁed stakeholders into customers, partners, employees, com -
munity/NGOs, shareholders, and government and created different 
channels of communication for different stakeholder types. Through 
effective communication, the company aims to identify stakeholders' 
expectations and needs and incorporate them into its sustainability strategy and business activities.  
SK Telecom operates the CSR Advisory Panel comprised of major 
stakeholders and incorporates the topics discussed at annual meet -Session 
1st (5/25) 
 
 
 
2nd (8/30) 
 
 
3rd (12/20) 
  
  
 Key agenda items for CSR Advisory Panel 
Date
May 25, 2012  
 
 
 
August 30, 2012  
 
 
December 20, 2012   
 
 
  
 Key items 
- SKT's 2012  social responsibility  
   strategy as a result of changes  
   in the CSR environment 
- Solution to support traditional     market revitalization 
- Plan to reduce social GHG  
   emissions from ICT activities - Advice on the 
rRespected  
   Company' strategy 
- Responses to major social issues  
   related to economic democracy 
- Reporting & advice regarding  
   SKT's 2013  CSR strategy 
- Report on SKT's current     assistance in revitalizing the  
   traditional marketSTAKEHOLdER CSR GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION MECHANISM 
Business 
partners
ShareholdersGovernment 
Employees 
Community/NGOsCustomers 13
Making improvements to 
prevent the recurrence of 
similar issuesDisclosing data on 
material issues and 
measures to the public  5Fact-checking through 
due diligence of related 
departments1 Taking measures/
proactive solving of 
issues 
Reporting major 
measures to the Corporate Citizenship Committee under the 
Board of Directors  Channel for grievances 
and complaints relating to 
human rights/labor/social/
environmental issues (on the 
company's website)Operating CSR grievances/
complaints channel
42
314 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
CHUNG JA y-yOUNG
CHAIRMAN  OF CORPORATE  CITIZENSHIP  COMMITTEE  
UNd ER SK T ELECOM 'S BOARd OF  dIRECTORSINTERVIEW
"I believe that SK Telecom should enhance all 
kinds of capabilities in the industry using its ICT 
and contribute to the happiness of mankind."
What are the purpose and objectives of the Corporate 
Citizenship Committee?
SK Telecom's business philosophy is that a business can make money only 
when society exists and must contribute to solving social problems.  
As SK Telecom has become a leading global mobile operator, its social 
responsibility as a corporate citizen has also increased. In order to 
implement CSR activities as required by the global standards, aside from 
community involvement or charity work, a top-level decision-making body 
should be formed to make decisions from long-term perspectives. Since its 
formation in 2008 , the Corporate Citizenship Committee  has examined a 
variety of issues facing SK Telecom and its business performance for the 
past 5 years and worked hard under the company's business strategy so 
that SK Telecom can be respected by its stakeholders.  
How do you think companies specializing in ICT, such as 
SK Telecom, can contribute to solving social problems?
When the government placed emphasis on the creative economy, SK 
Telecom's traditional market revitalization project was singled out as a 
leading example. The creative economy is a combination of technology 
and innovation and the traditional economy. Since last year, SK Telecom has assisted in revitalizing the traditional market using its IT capabilities 
and marketing expertise. For instance, the company provided ICT solutions 
for merchants in the Junggok Jeil Market to run their stores and manage 
sales more efﬁciency and helped them increase distribution channels using 
an online platform such as the 
11th Street. Other than that, SK Telecom 
might as well make a signiﬁcant contribution to improving communication 
among different social classes and generations by launching mobile public 
utilities, donations to an online platform, participating in volunteering, and 
providing lectures on how to use mobile phones.
SK Telecom believes that its fundamental role is to help people use and 
access technology more easily. Advanced technologies should not only be 
outstanding in themselves, but also available to as many people as possible. SK Telecom aims to assist in developing technologies that can contribute to 
society using young talent so that everyone can have access.How does SK Telecom listen to stakeholders and  incor-
porate them into business decision-making?
Maintaining a good relationship with stakeholders, such as shareholders, 
customers, business partners , civic groups, and government is essential to 
business management. SK Telecom has over 27 million customers, which 
is almost half the entire population. This suggests that the company's 
decisions can have an enormous impact and that the company must 
take the opinions of various stakeholder, including shareholders, into its decision-making process. Listening to stakeholders is to understand the 
key issues that are demanded and place our utmost efforts in solving those 
issues. SK Telecom has identiﬁed the demands of stakeholders through 
both customers and new channels, such as the CSR Advisory Panel, the 
Customer Experience Panel, and Monitoring Students, and incorporated them into the decision-making process.  
How are social responsibility activities relevant to busi-
ness? Please tell us your future goals.
SK Telecom is expanding its business globally, and has fulﬁlled its social 
responsibilities as required by the global standards. The company will 
continue to maintain the highest level of CSR by complying with a wide 
range of international standards and guidelines, such as fulﬁllment of social responsibility under the UNGC standards.
Though the traditional mobile telecom business has slowed down, it still 
has a high growth potential as many other industries still require ICT. 
As the information revolution did in the past, these changes are now changing culture and lifestyles in a fundamental way that the ICT industry 
still has unlimited growth potential. SK Telecom aims to keep its ICT 
up-to-date and make it human-friendly so that it can contribute its ICT-
based products or services to our society. I believe that SK Telecom should 
enhance its capabilities in the industry using its ICT and contribute to the happiness of mankind.CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
PARK T AE-GyU 
CHAIRMAN OF SK T ELECOM 'S CSR Ad VISOR y GROUP
"Under the creative economy vision, the ICT indus-
try should aim at seeking innovation in which all 
social classes and generations can participate."
Please tell us briefly about the CSR Advisory Group.
In 2003 , the rCorporate Philanthropy  Advisory Group ' was formed with a 
membership of Outside Directors and became the rCSR Advisory Group ' 
in 2009 . The CSR Advisory Group  was created to encompass various 
responsibilities required of companies as well as social contributions and 
to provide advice on social responsibility activities. Though the panel 
still focuses on philanthropy , the CSR Advisory Group  has played a more 
comprehensive role as a group of advisors.
Indeed, SK Telecom's management and Board of Directors are very open-
minded. For a long time, SK Telecom has contemplated corporate social 
responsibility, and its management has made efforts within the company. The CSR Advisory Group  shares SK Telecom's activities and commitments.
How would you evaluate SK Telecom's CSR activities?
For CSR, a slightly different approach should be taken from other business results. SK Telecom already formed the Corporate Citizenship Committee 
under its Board of Directors in 
2008 . This was a very innovative move, 
compared with other Korean companies, because it means the company 
is willing to fulﬁll corporate social responsibility activities, declare the 
results and have them evaluated publicly. Having such a committee under the Board, the highest decision-making body, indicates that the company 
considers social responsibility a top priority in decision-making.
In 
2012 , SK Telecom conducted a variety of activities, but among them, the 
project of revitalizing the traditional market deﬁnitely stood out the most. 
Since last September, SK Telecom has helped merchants in the Junggok 
Jeil Market computerize their inventory and distribution management using ICT. The project was singled out as part of the creative economy on 
which the government has placed much emphasis. Through this project, 
SK Telecom intended to use its resources and capabilities to contribute to 
society, and I think it worked well at the perfect time. I think other efforts 
to reduce social GHG emissions or resolve the digital divide using ICT also deserve recognition.What do you make of SK Telecom's efforts to listen to 
stakeholders and address problems?
I think the company having the CSR Advisory Group  alone means that it 
is willing to listen to stakeholders and what they want. However, I believe 
that the company should work more on improving communication. 
Though the company, it has a system for management and the Board to listen to stakeholders and incorporate their opinions into the decision-
making process, however it still needs to work on encouraging individual 
employees to internalize CSR. Of course, SK Telecom is not having this 
problem alone. While its major divisions are planning various activities, 
it is employees who should internalize the vision of those divisions and practice it at the workplace.
Furthermore, from the "creative economy" perspective, SK Telecom should 
try to attempt and explore innovation using ICT with all social classes and 
generations involved. Open innovation or participating innovation will 
help collect ideas.
Lastly, please give us advice on what SK Telecom should 
focus on to become an extremely respected company.
Recently, ICT has combined with existing industries such as education 
and healthcare and crossed boundaries. In keeping with such change, SK 
Telecom should extend the scope of CSR.
In addition, SK Telecom should focus more on its own business 
performance as well. In the end, the public gets to know the company 
through the services provided. Unfortunately, customers feel that 
telecommunications operators do not disclose enough information. In the 
Korean market, in particular, information and communications technology has quickly spread with unprecedented speed, and the dynamic nature 
of the market has resulted in a complex web of competing interests. The 
company should work hard to disclose its current activities and results 
and communicate with stakeholders. SK Telecom should be more actively 
involved in solving business problems related to future customers. 15ETHICS & 
COMPLIANCE
CREATING AN INTERNAL C ONTROL SySTEM THROUGH STRICT ETHICS ANd C OMPLIANCE 
As the business environment becomes more complicated, ethical and responsible management becomes an essential factor in evaluating the com -
pany's soundness and sustainability. SK Telecom is committed to building trust and maintaining a long-term relationship with stakeholders, includ -
ing customers and partners, through responsible business activities. In order to achieve its strategic goals, the company considers ethical standards 
a top priority and ensures employees and partners comply with the Code of Ethics and internalize ethics and compliance activities. 
Internalizing and Spreading Ethics & Compliance
SK Telecom's Code of Conduct sets forth the company's responsibility to employees, business partners, customers, shareholders, communities, 
employees' attitudes, and the criteria for applying the Code of Ethics. 
Based on the Code of Ethics, which is central to the Code of Conduct, the company applies detailed guidelines for ethics and compliance, 
which encompass the HR policy, the Compliance Guidelines, the Pri -
vacy Pledge, and the Fair Trade Consent and it clearly speciﬁes the obli -
gations and responsibilities relating to ethics and compliance in accor -
dance with the applicable laws.
In the beginning of each year, all employees at SK Telecom pledge to 
comply with the Code of Ethics and SK Telecom provides ethics training 
to help employees better understand ethics and compliance and inter -
nalize the ethics and compliance standards. In 
2012 , 3,688 employ -
ees, including executive ofﬁcers, new team leaders, group leaders, 
new recruits/experienced employees, completed ethics training. Fur -
thermore, the company posted notices and newsletters (cartoons) to 
emphasize the importance of ethics and compliance and help employ -
ees familiarize themselves with ethical issues.
Moreover, SK Telecom continuously provides subsidiaries and partners 
with ethics and compliance training in the form of either off-line or in-
company programs and improves communication with partners through interviews, while working hard to spread the ethics and compliance 
standards from partners to the subsidiaries.Monitoring and Improvement 
SK Telecom is aware of the importance of prevention and continuously 
monitors the compliance of employees and business partners with the 
Code of Ethics through counseling, monitoring, and investigations. 
While using the ERP system for monitoring purposes, the company fre -
quently conducts interviews with employees and partners about eth -
ical issues. In 2012 , the company developed 11 IT-based monitoring 
scenarios, improved the ability to predict ethical risks, and enhanced 
its capabilities to cope with violations. In order to encourage internal/
external reporting, SK Telecom created a system for direct reporting to the Chairman of the Audit Committee on its website. The system sim -
pliﬁes the process of reporting unfair practices, and protects identity of whistleblowers. Any reported corruption or fraud is subject to strict punishment, and the company reviews the program designed to prevent 
the recurrence of violations and improvements made to the process. 
Ethics Counseling Center 
SK Telecom runs a variety of channels to collect grievances/complaints from 
employees and suggestions from stakeholders about business ethics. Since 
its installation in 2004 , the Ethics Counseling Center  is accessible 
Type 
Monetary bribes  
False reports / budget 
abuse & waste 
Misappropriation of 
company money  
Damage to reputation 
Excessive loaning 
between employees 
Sexual harassment 
TotalNumber of events  
3 
2 
1 
1
1 
19Measures
Measures taken in accordance 
with the policy after a meeting of 
the Disciplinary Committee
Same as above  
Same as above  
Same as above 
Same as above  
Same as above 2012  Code of Ethics Violations 16 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability ReportCEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
through a variety of channels, such as the website, telephone, 
interviews, or mail, and provides a place where employees report 
ethical issues such as dishonesty and corruption as well as counseling 
services regarding ethical problems. Furthermore, channels such as the "My Counselor" and "Letter to HR", female counselors for sexual 
harassment respond to employees' grievances via the Intranet. 
Practicing Fair Trade
There has been an increase in social awareness of fair competition 
among mobile operators as the industry experiences even more 
intense competition. SK Telecom believes that in such circumstances, 
voluntary compliance with the Fair Trade Act leads to the company's long-term competitiveness, and has worked hard to comply with 
all applicable laws at every stage of its business activities. In 
2002 , 
the company adopted the Compliance Program and has reported the results to the Board of Directors each year. SK Telecom encourages 
the use of the Compliance Program by operating a website to improve employees' understanding of the Compliance Program and tries to 
provide employees with self-assessment opportunities by handing out the Compliance Checklist each year and improve compliance among 
employees. The company also provides regular training programs and early responses to prevent violations by suggesting a clear code 
of ethics to ensure compliance with the Fair Trade Act. In 
2013 , the 
company plans on encouraging employees' commitment to compliance by offering on-site, specialized, tailored compliance programs.
Public Policy Cooperation
SK Telecom abides by Korea's Political Fund Act, which prohibits 
companies from making political contributions. It is also an active 
supporter of government policies on anti-corruption, fair competition, 
job creation, gender equality, and low carbon, green growth. 
22 
visits by employees
4%21 
visits by business partners 
4%450 
visits by customers 
91.2%2012  Visits to the Ethics Counselling Center by Stakeholder Type
493
visits in total 2008 -2012  Use of Ethics Counseling 
2008
2009
201020112012Punishments for ethical breachesGrievances received at the Ethics  
Counseling CenterChannel of direct reporting to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
44
350
2
44
578
15
53
576
1221
445
2
78
493
9Code of Conduct Framework
  Commitments
- Universal Declaration of Human Rights( 2004 )    - UNGC 10 Principles( 2008 )    - Ruggie Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights( 2012 )Privacy Policy 
Statement  
- Internal rules relating to  
   privacy applicable to all  
   employees 
- Privacy Pledge CommitmentsFair Trade Consent for 
Business Partners 
-  All business partners 
-  No gifts/privacy protection/  
    SKT social and environmental     
   responsibilities Human Resources 
Policy
- All employees 
- Detailed guidelines for  
   employment, evaluation,  
   compensation, and  
   anti-discrimination Code of Ethics
-  All employees -  Detailed guidelines for  
   ethics, society, environ-  
   ment, human rights, labor,  
   and anti-corruption Compliance 
Guidelines 
-  All employees
-  Money laundering  
   /internal trade-  Anti-monopoly  
   /anti-competition behavior17ICT Convergence & 
New Business   p.23 LTE  
Leadership  
p.20 OUR
CREATEd  
VALUE
SK Telecom opened the doors to the age of the ﬁrst-generation analog mobile phones in Korea and 
has made landmark accomplishments in the information and communications industry, ranging from 
becoming the world's ﬁrst operator to commercializing the CDMA and HSDPA technologies to adopt-
ing 4G LTE successfully. Instead of being merely a pioneer in the global industry, SK Telecom is mak-
ing every effort to become a valuable company with a variety of convergence services that will lead the 
new ICT era. Aside from leading ICT technologies, SK Telecom will improve quality of life and make the 
world a richer and happier place through communication between the world and society . Customer 
Experience 
Management  
p.26 
digital 
Inclusion   p.29 Win-Win Growth
 p.35 Climate Change
 p.38 
CO2 
R&C Social Innovation
 
p.32Talent Attraction & Retention
 p.41 20
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
WHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
Network quality is still a fundamental, essential competitive element. 
Taking a dominant position in the LTE market is an absolute indicator 
of long-term success and future growth for a telecommunications 
operator. Furthermore, building a stronger data platform for a faster 
network also makes an enormous contribution to improving individuals' 
quality of life.
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Completed nationwide LTE deployment         
| Made investment focused on multicarrier deployment 
| Deployed multiple access networks such as 3G and WiBro
The ratio of LTE subscribers is gradually increasing and has reached 28% 
as of late 2012 , and is estimated to be approximately 50% by the end of 
2013 . With LTE deployment, the number of smartphone users is increas-
ing as well. SK Telecom has driven the growth of LTE by becoming the ﬁrst 
Korean operator to commercialize LTE and the world's ﬁrst operator to 
deploy multi-carrier LTE technology and cemented its position as a leader in LTE network deployment, as well as CDMA and WCDMA deployments. 
After its commercialization in May 
2006 , it took WCDMA, SK Telecom's 
3G mobile technology, 2 years and 4 months to surpass the 7-million sub-
scriber mark, LTE has gained 7 million subscribers in only 1 year and 5 
months after the commercialization in July 2011 . This means that the sub-
scriber base has grown approximately 11 times in the span of one year.Faster Network for More People
In 2011 , SK Telecom raised smartphone service quality up a notch by 
commercializing the 4th generation service called LTE (Long Term Evo-
lution). The LTE service is 5 to 7 times as fast as the existing 3G service 
called HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access) and has changed people's lives. Aside from services from high-deﬁnition video streaming 
to large-scale network games, the company became able to provide new services, such as distance medical care, multiparty video conferencing, 
and distance education. In 
2012 , a variety of LTE devices were rolled out 
and the number of subscribers skyrocketed. 
SK Telecom runs the WCDMA, CDMA, LTE, and WiBro networks, and the 
subscriber base has steadily increased. In 2012 , the number of subscrib-
ers nationwide was  approximated 27 million, and 7.53 million of them 
are LTE subscribers.  7.53 millon peopleNumber of LTE  
subscribers nationwide 
59.3 %Percentage of  smartphone users 
33,761  KRWMobile ARPULTE 
LEAdERSHIP 
ENSURING LTE LEAdERSHIP THROUGH LTE NETWORK 
dEPLO yMENT ANd MULTICARRIER TECHNOLOGy 
LTE
WCDMA
CDMATotal2008
0
8.2
14.8
23.02009
0
12.7
11.6
24.32010
0
15.9
9.8
25.72011
0.6
19.0
6.9
26.62012
7.5
14.5
5.0
27.0Subscriber trend by network (unit: million people)"To create the best value for customers, we are working 
hard to provide high-quality network services through 
continuous technological development and secure oper -
ations and to deliver our promise that we will provide SK 
Telecom's customers with the fastest and most advanced 
technology in the world." 
-Kwon Hyok-Sang, Head of Network Division of SK Telecom-(as of December 2012 )2012 KEy FIGURES
ARPU1Q r12
32,2452Q r12
32,9233Q r12
33,1354Q r12
33,761Mobile phone ARPU trend by quarter (unit: KRW)
*Average Revenue Per User21 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Developed in January 2012
Advanced Smart Cloud Access Network (SCAN) 
is an upgraded version of SCAN designed to increase LTE speed and coverage and has increased call quality approximately 
4 times by 
controlling signal interference in boundaries between base stations. 
Developed in June 2012
LTE Femtocell is a base station device installed to receive trafﬁc safely in areas with heavy data trafﬁc.
Used in small base stations with coverage of 
approximately a 
30-meter radius, the device 
improves reception indoors where it is hard 
for signals to reach and receives data 7.53 
million trafﬁc concentrated in small areas. 
Commercialized in July 2012
The multi-carrier technology selects the faster of two frequency ranges over LTE to prevent network loads in a certain frequency range. Unlike existing services that use a single fre-
quency range, the multi-carrier technology is 
expected to reduce concurrent access by half.
Successfully developed and demonstrated 
in July 2012  
Enhanced Inter-Cell Interference Coordina-
tion is a technology that controls interference between large macro stations with large cov-erage and small base stations with small cov-
erage. The technology can eliminate signal 
interference in urban areas with heavy trafﬁc and diffuse trafﬁc effectively.Advanced  
Scan 
 
LTE 
Femtocell
Multi-Carrier 
Enhanced  
Inter-cell 
Interference 
Coordination 
(eICIC) 
Technology SK Telecom's Technology Leadership
No. of  
subscribersr11
63 1Q r12
177 2Q r12
334 3Q r12
567 4Q r12
753 SK Telecom's LTE subscribers by quarter  (unit: 10,000 people)Completion of Nationwide LTE Deployment 
In July 2011 , SK Telecom became the 22nd mobile operator in the world 
to commercialize the 4G LTE service. The company has become a lead-
ing example that successfully attracted the most subscribers in the 
shortest time; it took only 5 months to surpass the 500,000-subscriber 
mark after commercialization. 
Nationwide, the LTE deployment, that began in metropolitan cities 
across the country in January 2012 , extended to 84 other regions, KTX, 
and expressways by March until the LTE network was deployed nation-
wide by June 2012 . SK Telecom's nationwide LTE network differenti-
ates itself from others with the largest coverage from underwater areas to mountains. SK Telecom's LTE network reaches Seorak Mountain, 
Jiri Mountain, the summit of Halla Mountain, the interiors of high-rise buildings, underpasses, subway lines, and even the interior of the Seog-
wipo Submarine, and the LTE service coverage includes approximately 
99% of the entire populated area.
Ensuring Leadership in the LTE-Advanced Environment 
through Core Technologies
In July 2012 , SK Telecom became the world's ﬁrst operator to commer -
cialize the multi-carrier LTE technology and, by the end of the year, suc -
ceeded in expanding the coverage to metropolitan cities. Since the net -
work speed declines as subscribers and trafﬁc grow, SK Telecom needed 
the multi-carrier technology to maintain its market share and competi-
tive LTE speed. The frequency of SK Telecom's nationwide LTE network 
is 800Mhz, and the entire network was deployed based on this stan -
dard. The multi-carrier technology is designed to improve call quality by 
selectively using different networks with a frequency range of 1.8Ghz, 
depending on the trafﬁc trend and activity. The core technologies include transfers that allows continuous changes in frequency range and load 
balancing that distributes trafﬁc across different frequencies, and tech -
nological advancements are owned by SK Telecom.
The multi-beam antenna technology sends out multiple independent 
wireless signals using one antenna installed in a base station and divides 
the same area to increase call capacity. For instance, if the multi-beam 
antenna technology is applied to divide the area serviced by the existing antenna into 
5 sections, a single antenna splits the same area into 5 sec-
tions and transmits wireless signals to increase call capacity as if 5 base 
stations were installed in the same space.  22
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
LTE Leads to Life Value Innovation
One of the most signiﬁcant effects that LTE has had is that it fundamen-
tally changed people's lives through a complete network. In 2012 , SK 
Telecom provided products and services that maximized the strengths of 
fast LTE service and data transmission. Firstly, "Smart Education" is an 
innovative education infrastructure that makes the best use of LTE, which allows high-deﬁnition, two-way communication. SK Telecom offers a rate 
plan (LTE Ting plan) through which the high-quality content of T smart 
learning is available for free, providing teenage customers with inexpen-sive education. The company also rolled out "LTE FUN," an upgraded 
version of the existing rate plan, offering discounts on data and content 
service charges so that users can utilize large, high-deﬁnition multime-dia services. In January 
2013 , the company also launched the Unlimited 
LTE Data plan through which users can employ as much LTE data as they 
want. Additionally, SK Telecom provides LTE Golden Age, a plan that pro-
vides seniors with free HD video calls, and Perfect ANSIM Service, which protects customers from harmful content and prevents phishing.
The shift to LTE is expected to have far-reaching effects on customers' 
lives and revolutionize their life values. SK Telecom's LTE leadership will 
play a pivotal role in passing on new values to customers and helping 
the company maintain a dominant position in the market. 
SK Telecom has introduced the world's best technologies and services 
and made LTE world renowned. In 
2013 , the company will continue to 
develop new technologies and services and change people's lives by 
providing the best services, such as enabling a high-quality network, 
improving quality, and increasing call coverage.CASE
Winner of MWC* 2013  Global Mobile Awards
SK Telecom was awarded Outstanding LTE Contribution for its 4G 
LTE with PETA Solution at the MWC 2013  Global Mobile Awards. 
PETA Solution is a concept that encompasses SK Telecom's out-
standing network operation technology as well as quality, speed, 
stability, and advanced technology. Outstanding LTE Contribution is a new award introduced in 
2013  and awarded to an operator who 
has made the biggest contribution to the growth of LTE in all ICT 
areas, including telecommunications, devices, solutions, and plat-
forms. With the award, SK Telecom was recognized for its commit-
ment to providing the best LTE technology and customer service, 
as well as its accomplishments such as becoming the world's ﬁrst operator to commercialize innovative technologies like multi-car -
rier, LTE femtocell, and HD Voice (VoLTE), increasing the popularity of LTE, and rolling out various LTE services. SK Telecom will continue its technology innovation and lead the global mobile telecom industry 
as the best LTE operator in Korea and in the world.
CASE
Maintaining Superior (S) Grade in 2012  Broadcasting 
and Telecommunications Quality Assessment 
SK Telecom received a Superior (S) grade in every quality assessment 
conducted in 2012  by the Korea Communications Commission (KCC) 
in the categories of LTE, 3G Voice Call, and Data. The telecom service 
quality assessment tests the call success rate (voice call) and transmis-
sion success rate (wireless internet) in areas that required improve-
ment based on the previous assessment results, areas where com-plaints have occurred, and areas with heavy trafﬁc such as subway 
transfer stations and terminals. If both call and transmission success 
rates are at least 
97.5%, the company receives a Superior (S) grade. 
SK Telecom plans on continuing investments and research to improve 
call quality and maintain high-quality data service.
Quality Assessment Results
Voice call (LTE phone)
Superior (S)Data (LTE)
Superior (S)Data ( 3G)
Superior (S) Item 
SKT*MWC(Mobile World Congress) : The world's largest exhibition for the mobile telecom-
munications industry
SK Telecom surpassed 10 million LTE subscribers (as of May 2013 )23
Preparing for the Age of Boundaryless 
The saturation and dejection of the telecommunications market led to the 
slow growth of operators and a decline in market value. SNS and alter -
native phones are threatening operators' traditional business models. To overcome this crisis from a long-term perspective, SK Telecom aims at "telecommunications-free" by combining hardware and software plat-
forms, using its traditional strengths in the mobile business. In 
2011 , 
SK Telecom spun off SK planet to become a content-oriented company and in 
2012 , acquired SK hynix, which provides platforms for hardware 
convergence. The combination of hardware and software platforms will advance SK Telecom expand into non-ICT markets in the long run.
Using its capabilities, SK Telecom intends to combine network, software, 
and hardware to create innovative value. By combining its business expe-"The expanding data market and the growth of smart 
devices have accelerated convergence across all areas. 
SK Telecom will create new value based on collaboration 
between industries and put into practice new possibilities." 
-Yook Tae-Sun, Head of New Business Division of SK Telecom-rience and capabilities in the telecom and platform areas, the company 
will develop a distinctive system semiconductor. Using a roadmap for the 
development of system semiconductors and market insight, the company 
will enhance its telecom and platform service planning skills and create the value of convergence through collaboration across the entire value 
chain, producing "Trivergence" synergy among the three companies.
Becoming a Content-Oriented Company: Launch of SK planet
In October 2011 , SK planet was spun off from SK Telecom to specialize 
in making the world's best platforms and providing customers with new experience and value. Using an open platform, SK planet provides ser -
vices such as T Map, T Store, and 
11th Street. Its subsidiaries include SK 
Communications which runs Cyworld, an SNS service, and Loen Enter -
tainment which operates Melon, a total music service. In the era or LTE, 
the data market is shifting from web to mobile services. This has led to the growth of businesses and services suitable for the mobile eco-
system, including mobile commerce, mobile advertising, and location-
based services. SK planet is working with SK Telecom to create more possibilities and more value by driving this shift to a mobile lifestyle. In 
2010 , SK planet is leading the content ecosystem by opening T Store, 
an app market platform, which can be used regardless of the operator 
users subscribe to, and attracting 3 million subscribers from other oper -
ators in February 2013 .ICT 
CONVERGENCE  
BECOMING A CONTENT-ORIENTEd COMPANy 
ANd ExPANdING SERVICE BOUNd ARy 
THROUGH ICT CONVERGENCE
WHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
As the telecom market enters the maturity stage, operators around 
the world are experiencing slower growth and threats to their future 
growth potential, such as threats related to outside businesses pose to 
telco business models. SK Telecom aims to become a total ICT business that can make customers' lives happier and richer in a variety of areas 
with its well-established infrastructure and human resources. 
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Pursued synergy within the business portfolio (SK hynix and SK planet)
| ICT convergence business             | Explored new ICT areas and market32,346 
subscribers Electronic prescribing 
274 
billion KRWSK Planet's  
revenue 
423.1  
billion KRW R&D investment 
(based on results; 
excluding the cost of 
acquiring hynix)(as of April 2013 , cumulative 
ﬁgure, both of pharmacies and hospitals)2012 KEy FIGURESCEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix24
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Foundation of ICT Convergence: Acquisition of SK hynix
In February 2012 , SK Telecom acquired 21.05% shares of SK hynix to 
ﬁnd new growth opportunities through the convergence of telecom and 
different industries. SK hynix is one of the world's leading chip manu-
facturer, with the second highest share of the global DRAM market and the fourth largest share of the NAND ﬂash market. 
After the acquisition of SK hynix, SK Telecom implemented the three 
strategies, "strong leadership," "strong growth strategy," and "strong 
relationship" to build trust among companies and increase their growth 
potential. In June last year, the company entered into a partnership with IBM to jointly develop PC RAM, a next-generation semiconductor, and 
acquired Idea Flash, an Italian NAND ﬂash developer. The Italian com-
pany became the European Technology Center, one of SK Telecom's R&D centers around the world, including the U.S., Japan, and Taiwan. 
The company also acquired LAMD, an American NAND ﬂash manufac-
turer with unparalleled NAND ﬂash technology and adopted aggressive business approaches, such as establishing the speciﬁc strategy of tar -
geting the NAND ﬂash memory applications market and increasing the investment to 
3,800 billion KRW.
Exploring New Markets e.g., Healthcare and Education
In 2011 , SK Telecom laid the foundation for expansion into the health-
care market, such as investment in NanoEntec, a Point-of-Care Testing 
(POCT) company, and a joint venture agreement with Seoul National 
University Hospital. In March 2012 , the company formed the Health-care Group to internalize healthcare capabilities within its Institute of Technology and began to implement healthcare-ICT convergence and 
bioresearch & development. In September 
2012 , the company started 
research to expand into the Chinese market by investing in Tianlong, a Chinese molecular diagnostic device manufacturer. SK Telecom plans 
on implementing initiatives in the health management (including well-being) and diagnostics areas before entering the prevention/care mar -
ket, which is expected to grow in the future. Aside from the health-care service model, the company is developing a variety of solutions to bring process innovation into hospitals and exploring to export a plat-
form service for chronic disease care, which was developed and tested 
through the "Smart Care Consortium" of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. Furthermore, the company will continuously develop ICT-
based innovative models in the prevention/care areas through invest-
ments in Seoul National University Hospital and in-vitro diagnostic devices. SK Telecom will develop the "Healthcare Hub" where global-
ization is fully realized through cooperation with a variety of medical 
centers, devices and solution providers.
In the education market, SK Telecom is planning/developing a wide 
range of ICT-based smart learning business models. With the Korean 
government's smart learning policy and the similar policies of other countries, digital textbooks, educational devices, and smart class infra-
structure will rapidly increase and SK Telecom will develop solutions 
that effectively enable a smart class environment, perform on-site testing of solutions to verify their effectiveness, and expand the busi-
ness into the global market. Furthermore, SK Telecom will develop new 
empirical education services using ICT to improve students' learning efﬁciency and expand user experience before entering the global smart 
learning service market. In addition, in the early childhood education 
market, where generating children's interest is a top priority, the com-pany aims at market diffusion using hardware materials connected to 
smart devices and global educational content packages.
Moreover, SK Telecom has developed and implemented a variety of 
convergence projects using ICT, such as distance video-based "Smart 
Branch," which efﬁciently assists banks in ofﬂine transactions, and the indoor location technology-based "Indoor Location" service designed 
to increase customers' convenience in using indoor facilities, such as 
airports, hospitals, and supermarkets. 
Creating New Business Models by Opening Big Data
SK Telecom plans on creating new business models such as a creative service, contributing to advanced services, and increasing social utility 
by opening its big data. For instance, using SK Telecom's big data, third-
party businesses will be allowed to create new location-based adver -
tisements through analyzed call data sent to restaurants or customized SK Telecom Trivergence Strategy
Business 
solutions
Individual 
marketingNetwork 
R&DWireless 
networkM2MCable 
network Sensors 
Smart 
devices
R&BDICT  
conver -
genceNFC
LBSMedia 
Memory
SoCChip
Education
Healthcare
New
Possibilitiestelco ICTNon
-ICTCommerce25
CASE
Supporting Mobile e-Prescription   
"Smart Prescription" , a mobile e-Prescription app, is expected to 
assist patients keep track of their prescriptions, medicine, hospitals, 
and pharmacies in order to better care of patients. A mobile e-Pre -
scription allows patients to access their prescription records any-
where, anytime, and keep track of their prescriptions. It also permits 
patients to access drug information to prevent drug abuse/misuse. SK 
Telecom plans on expanding the mobile e-Prescribing business from hospitals and clinics to secondary/tertiary hospitals and dentists. 
- R&BD enabling convergence-based new  
  business
- R&BD in the healthcare area with high  
  growth potential
- R&BD based on emerging ICT  
  technologies R&D Strategies 
- Develop network- and IT  
  convergence-based services
- Differentiate QoE and develop innovative  
   TCO technologies
- Develop next-generation telco  
   infrastructure technologies- Explore technology-based  
  new growth enginesMission
- Strengthen technology  
   leadership 
- Develop services to generate  
  proﬁtBeyond Telco Area 
Telco Industry 
services based on preference statistics. To increase the effect of opening 
big data, SK Telecom has decided to deploy the "Big Data Hub," a free 
market for big data, and will enforce a strict privacy policy as a top pri-
ority to prevent personal data leaks before opening big data.
Future Growth through Aggressive R&D Investment
To ﬁnd new business opportunities, SK Telecom conducts high-level research and development on a variety of technologies and aims at tech-
nology-based growth. To extend the market scope, the company is relent-
lessly searching for opportunities.
At the heart of technology-based growth lies research and development 
(R&D). In 
2012 , SK Telecom spent a total of 423.1 billion KRW on R&D, 
including 117.2 billion KRW on advancements, such as network invest-
ments, and mid-/long-term R&D, investments in growth businesses in 
new business launches, and an operating budget for R&D. To enhance 
technological capabilities in the telco area and beyond, and to imple-ment new growth businesses, SK Telecom has established 
6 major R&D 
strategies.   
In 2013 , as part of our efforts, SK Telecom formed the Strategic Planning 
Division, which combines the future business strategy and ﬁnancial func-
tion, in order to support new businesses and future growth. Furthermore, 
the company split the Institute of Technology, which was responsible for future technology and network technology research, into the Future Tech-
nology Center and the ICT Center and launched the New Business Group 
directly under the CEO's supervision. The split of the Institute of Technol-ogy led to the separation of Growth R&D from Business Assistance R&D, 
and the Strategic Planning Division includes ﬁnancial responsibilities and 
is expected to increase synergy among subsidiaries. Concept of Mobile e-Prescription
Paper-based  
prescription ﬂow
E-prescription 
ﬂow Check 
prescription/drug 
info on mobile
SKT 
e-Prescription Member patient 
Patient 
consent/
request
Member 
hospital 
and clinicMember 
pharmacyEncrypted 
data Encrypted 
data 
Encrypted 
data SKT 
e-Prescription 
Issue No.SKT 
e-Prescription 
Issue No.
Mobile electronic prescription CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix26
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Customer Experience Management (CEM) to Increase 
Positive Experience 
Under the principle that customers are the key to growth, SK Telecom 
makes decisions on all business activities from a customer-oriented per -
spective and reinforces the innovative Customer Satisfaction system. The Customer Satisfaction Division was formed directly under the Gen-eral Manager to oversee all business areas from a customer's perspec-
tive. For the past 
11 years, the Customer Satisfaction Council has held 
a monthly meeting with executive ofﬁcers to discuss the Voice of Cus-tomer and make decisions to practice customer satisfaction starting at 
the top management level.  
In 
2008 , SK Telecom adopted the Customer Experience Management INCREASING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION WITH 
REASONABLE R ATES ANd NEW CUSTOMER 
ExPERIENCE 
CPCB2010
1.402011
2.18Customer Claims per 100,000 people 
2012
3.14(CEM) system to develop and implement improvement projects aimed at 
increasing positive customer experience and reducing negative customer 
experience. This was part of the company's effort to provide the kind of 
service that customers can acknowledge and feel conﬁdent about. This activity helped SK Telecom top the three customer satisfaction indexes 
(NCSI, KS-SQI, and KCSI) in the mobile phone service sector.WHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
The elements of competitive advantage in the industry are shifting from 
traditional elements such as quality to brand power, smartphone tech-
nology, and corporate image. Providing superior customer service and 
experience, therefore, leads to customers' selection and satisfaction. An appropriate privacy policy is also required based on the complexity of a 
rate structure and effective communication required of operators.  
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Customer experience management  
– Improved the 8 major Voices of Customers (VOC)       
| Fulﬁlled the 5 Customer Promises           | Privacy and youth protection 3.14Claims per 100,000 
people(CPCB)
100 %Percentage of  
authorized dealers 
(B2C basis) (901 service network intrusions 
were prevented 100%)0 caseLeak of Customer Information
"We always listen to our customers and work hard to 
become a company that delivers true customer satisfac -
tion. We also provide innovative, specialized services con -
necting to various devices and services using our top-notch IC network and ICT expertise so that we can realize 
customers' smart life." 
-Suh Sung-Won, Head of Service Innovation Division of SK Telecom-
Based on the Korean Communications Commission estimate; the total number increased but 
the major complaints (the 8 major VOCs) declined by 50% in December compared with the 
level in late 2011 ).
* For the National Customer Satisfaction Index, the 2013  result is included.Name 
National Customer  
Satisfaction Index 
Korean Customer  
Satisfaction Index
Korean Standard Service 
Quality Index (KS-SQI)Agency 
Korea Productivity 
Center 
Korea Management 
Association Consultants
Korean Standards 
Association 3 Biggest Customer Satisfaction Index Results
2012  Results 
74.0 (No. 1 for 16 
years straight *)
69.3 (No. 1 for 15 
years straight )
68.5 ( No. 1 for 
13 years straight )NCSI 
KCSI 
KS-SQI (unit: point)CUSTOMER ExPERIENCE
MANAGEMENT
2012 KEy FIGURES27
In 2012 , SK Telecom upgraded the CEM system to the CEO Renova-
tion in order to provide a more distinctive customer experience man-
agement. From the CEO to customer interface and to the service deliv-
ery process, customers' negative experiences are examined to discover and create solutions. As a result, SK Telecom reduced customer com-
plaints (
8 VOCs) by 50% in comparison to late 2011 . In addition, SK 
Telecom's customer-oriented thinking and dedication to CEM resulted in major accomplishments, such as surpassing the 
7.5-million LTE sub-
scriber mark (as of late 2012 ), strengthening distribution competitive-
ness by delivering customer promises, upgrading the counseling pro-cess, and securing 
1 million SNS fans. 
Proactive Customer Damage Prevention before Follow-up
With a growing interest in privacy protection, in 2009 , SK Telecom cre-
ated a master plan for privacy protection and strengthened its inter -
nal information management system under the unit led by the CPO 
(Chief Privacy Ofﬁcer) and the CSO (Chief Security Ofﬁcer). In 2012 , the 
company carried out a variety of activities to prevent privacy risks. For 
the ﬁrst time in Korea, SK Telecom established a company-wide man-
agement system for each area that requires privacy protection and enhanced management capabilities through a follow-up audit of the 
PIMS #
1* certiﬁcate that it received in 2011 . Working with three other 
mobile operators, SK Telecom launched a privacy campaign and raised general users' awareness of privacy protection. In terms of its distribu-
tion network, the company bans the archiving of customer applications and private data through privacy training and personal data protec-
tion. Furthermore, SK Telecom applies the "Paperless Ofﬁce" program 
using the tablet PC-based Electronic Application system to approxi-mately 
2,200 authorized dealers nationwide. The system fundamen-
tally prevents leaks of personal information that may occur through the  
supply chain. 
Aside from protecting customer information, SK Telecom is leading activ-
ities to reduce damage to customers arising from illegal telemarketing, 
through which dealers or stores illegally obtain personal information and allow third parties to use the information without the consent of custom-
ers. While conducting the monitoring of illegal TM year round, SK Telecom 
shares examples of illegal TM through a variety of channels, such as SNS, website, T World, and notices in bills as well as sending customers MMS 
reminders of illegal TM.
*PIMS: Personal Information Management SystemEstimated cost is stated, including cancellation penalties
The contract term is stated (monthly) 
The three mobile operators uniﬁed the form of notiﬁcation 
of mobile installment plans 
The three operators made different bill list items uniform
Classiﬁcation of mobile installment areas: Calling rate/
additional charges ª Calling rate/additional charges/
installment
Adopted the English bill for foreign customers Bill Format 
Redesign  
   
 Major Improvements 
Spam VOC Trends (unit: number of VOC)
122,434
59,264
44,6722010
2011
2012Since the latter half of 2012 , in response to a sharp increase in SMiSh-
ing (a form of activity that attempts to gain illegitimate proﬁts using a 
retail payment system after installing malicious codes in a customer's 
mobile phone via SMS), SK Telecom has continuously notiﬁed the pub-lic of guidelines for preventing SMiShing through major media outlets 
in Korea. The company's continuous efforts to minimize damage to cus-
tomers include entering into an agreement with game and credit card companies to cancel payments if customers have been unfairly charged 
through SMiShing.  
Responsibility for Distribution Content 
SK Telecom implements a variety of programs to establish a healthy 
internet culture. In May 2012 , it began to provide the rT Youth ANSIM 
Service' to ensure the safe use of smartphones by minors without being 
exposed to harmful content. Unlike the existing application services 
that can be deleted after installation, the T Youth ANSIM Service pre-vents exposure to harmful content by fundamentally blocking access to 
such content over the mobile network (
3G and LTE).
In addition, the company also launched a Smartphone Addiction 
Awareness campaign and started offering the Parent Notiﬁcation Ser -
vice to charge teenage customers less and the Teen Rate Plan to pro-
tect teens in the smartphone era so that teenagers can use their smart-
phones safely and effectively. For its accomplishments, SK Telecom was awarded the Best Prize as an outstanding company for raising aware-
ness of Internet ethics at the 
2012  Internet Ethics Awards. 
Redesigning Phone Bill Format
SK Telecom divides a bill into call rates and charges for additional ser -
vices and, in January 2012 , redesigned the bill format for customers 
to easily identify their mobile use patterns. The new bill is categorized largely into calling rates and additional charges and classiﬁes detailed 
items to allow customers to check their expenses based on their mobile lifestyles. CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix28
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Offering Reasonable Rate Plans 
SK Telecom is committed to leading changes in the telecommunications 
environment, such as the evolution of the ALL-IP environment, and to 
increasing customer value by creating reasonable conditions for data 
use. In 2012 , the company rolled out the Tailored LTE Rate Plan, which 
allows customers to choose voice/data/text messages based on their 
usage patterns and helps lower household phone bills. The company 
also sends customers text messages containing their current usage to help predict their spending.  
In 
2013 , SK Telecom works hard to create the best value possible for 
customers by introducing "Good Change" and "Share Data" programs 
and increasing beneﬁts for existing customers. Furthermore, the com-
pany will adopt the "T kkiri rate plan" which offers unlimited voice calls, to provide customers with more options, lower bills, and innova-
tive services that differentiate the company from other mobile opera-
tors. Also, SK Telecom plans on implementing various programs for "Customer Happiness", such as the "Term-based Reward Program" 
designed to offer long-term customers more beneﬁts and a reasonable 
rate plan for customers.   CASE
"5 Customer Promises" to Protect Customers 
In 2012 , SK Telecom announced the 5 Customer Promises. Through 
the promises, the company aimed at creating a reliable system and 
applied solutions, such as transparent price disclosures, a variety of 
devices, and perfect privacy security, to approximately 2,200 ofﬁ-
cial SKT stores in phases. The 5 Customer Promises reﬂect SK Tele-
com's customer-oriented management philosophy that the com-
pany intends to build trust, provide premium services, and take the 
lead in protecting customers' rights.
The 5 Customer Promises are applied in every authorized dealer of 
SK Telecom, and the " 3 Strikeout Program" is enforced under which 
any dealer that violates the promises more than three times loses its 
dealership.
5 Customer Promises  
 2012  Key Rate Plans and Discounts 
LTE Life Value Innovation Plan
Provide distinctive services such as educational content and phishing insur -
ance to improve customers' quality of life using fast LTE data:  
- LTE Ting: 652,000 users
- LTE Golden Age: 15,000 users
- LTE Couple: 83,000 users
LTE Data Cap Plan  
To prevent bill-shock, SK Telecom offers a plan where up to 18,000 KRW is 
charged when more than given data is used so that users can use the service 
as much as they please 
Family Free Plan
- Integrated service released due to the popularity of LTE, which allows use  
 of data services, voice calls and text messages between family members  
 without price concerns  
- 36,000 users
Basic Rate Discounts for National Basic Livelihood Security  
Beneﬁciaries
Basic rate discounts increased from 13,000 KRW to 15,000 KRW for 
national basic livelihood security beneﬁciaries to help low-income house-
holds lower their phone bills    
- Effective since February, 2013
5 Customer Promises  1. We pledge to become the ﬁrst to provide a variety of devices  
    from 2G to 3G and to 4G LTE
2. We pledge to keep your personal information strictly  
    conﬁdential using electronic applications
3. We pledge to offer price transparency so that users can trust  
    and sign up for our services.
4. We pledge to provide highly reliable counseling services using  
    the Smart Planner 
 
5. We pledge to provide beneﬁts in exchange for used devices  
    under the T Echo Phone Program29
dIGITAL
INCLUSION
Providing Opportunities for the Disabled to Enhance IT Skills  
SK Telecom is dedicated to increasing opportunities for students with 
disabilities to socialize so that they do not feel excluded as more 
advanced information technologies are introduced. The company tries 
to give them the help they actually need by offering learning opportuni-ties and assist in gainful employment.
Since 
2010 , SK Telecom has worked with the Ministry of Education, Sci-
ence & Technology to implement the Smart Learning Project for Students 
with Disabilities and introduced the Library with Happiness (audio content 
service available on smartphones for the visually impaired) and the Smart Robot (learning assistance app for students with disabilities). These educa-
tional platforms and applications can provide learning assistance for stu-
dents with various disabilities, including the hearing impaired, hospitalized students, stay-at-home students with disabilities, and the visually impaired. INCREASING SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
By BRIdGING THE dIGITAL dIVIdE 
SK Telecom also holds an annual search competition for teenagers with 
disabilities in Korea titled, "IT Challenge Contest" to bridge the digital 
divide, encourage their involvement in society, and raise awareness of 
disabilities. Since 1999 , 2,779 teens with disabilities participated in the 
competition and 332 received awards. Many IT experts were also once 
participants in this competition; it helps adolescents with disabilities 
become independent using IT. At the 2012  IT Challenge Contest, 125 
students with disabilities aged between 14 and 24 attending 120 spe-
cial education schools participated at their teachers' recommendations. They competed in two categories of Smart Challenge and Smart Sur -
vival contests. At the Smart Challenge Competition, contestants solve 
20 questions, including 15 questions about Internet search at the level 
of Internet Information Searcher Level 2 and 5 questions about how to 
use mobile web, within 50 minutes (additional time given depending on WHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
In this Information Society, the lack of equity in information access and 
the ability to use it have led to long-term economic inequality. The dis-
tribution of smartphones has caused the "smart divide" between 
young and old generations. Another important aspect is bridging the digital divide among the disabled and the disadvantaged including 
North Korean refugees. SK Telecom, a leading ICT company, considers 
it a social responsibility to create an environment where all people can 
access and share a wide range of information. 
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Provided opportunities for 1,005 people with disabilities to enhance  
  their IT skills 
| Mobile phone lessons for seniors      
| Mobile phone lessons for North Korean refugees  1,005 seniors
(beneﬁciaries)Mobile phone  
lessons for seniors
billion KRW217.7Rate discounts for the disadvantaged 
billion KRW17.4Compensate for loss  of universal service  
"The digital divide in ICT in this digital era is an emerging 
social problem. SK Telecom is dedicated to prevent anyone 
from being excluded from the benefits of ICT, improving 
our quality of life, and moving towards positive growth."
-Lee Hyung-Hee, Head of Head of Corporate Relations  
Division of SK Telecom-  
IT Smart Challenge Competition 2012 KEy FIGURESCEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendixthe disability). 12 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place winners are awarded in each 
of the categories such as visual impairment, mentally challenged, and 
hearing loss.
In 2012 , the company introduced the special category for the disabled into 
the 2012  1st-half internship recruitment process to create jobs for students 
with disabilities and provide opportunities to enhance their IT skills.
Improving Communication between Generations by 
Bridging the Digital Divide for Seniors
SK Telecom works hard to resolve the digital divide for seniors through 
mobile phone tutorials and provide opportunities to improve commu-
nication among generations using ICT. Since 2007 , the company has 
worked with the university student volunteer corps "Sunny" on the "Happy Mobile World" program designed to teach seniors how to use 
mobile phones. Students participating in Sunny visit nursing homes across the country and teach seniors how to send text messages or pho-
tos and use other mobile phone features. In 
2012 , SK Telecom took the 
popularity of smartphones into consideration and added the curriculum focused on teaching how to use smartphones.  
In addition, since 
2010 , the company has held the Ieum Festival, a mobile 
phone competition for seniors, to encourage seniors to use mobile phones. 
At the 3rd Ieum Festival held in June 2012 , approximately 200 seniors 
including top-performing graduates of the Happy Mobile World program participated and used the mobile phone skills they learned through the 
program. During the event, a survey was conducted targeting seniors who attended the program, and 
95% of the respondents said the program was 
greatly helpful, showing a high level of satisfaction with the program. 
Programs for North Korean Refugees 
In 2008 , SK Telecom joined Hanawon of the Ministry of Uniﬁcation and 
has since provided tutorials on how to use mobile phones for North Korean 
defectors, who receive education at the Hanawon Center. Through the 
program, they learn how to prevent mobile phone frauds, excessive long distance call rates, and identity thefts, as well as mobile phone etiquette. 
Employees of SK Telecom volunteer in developing textbooks and delivering 
tutorials, which is a great opportunity to involve employees in community 
contributions and increase the quality and expertise of education.
Discount Rates for the Disadvantaged
SK Telecom provides ﬁnancial assistance so that the socially disadvan-
taged, including low-income households, the disabled, and veterans, do 
not get excluded from the beneﬁts of ICT due to ﬁnancial reasons. To 
lower their bills, the company runs a discount rate plan to offer indi-viduals such as low-income households, the disabled, and veterans and 
related organizations such as shelters, childcare providers, and cen-ters for people with disabilities.  The company also offers the Smart Learning, Happy Learning Program, under which the 'T smart' learn-
ing service is provided for free, so that students with disadvantages can improve basic learning skills and attend continuing education using ICT. 
By 
2013 , SK Telecom will provide approximately 350 disadvantaged 
students with expenses worth 400 million KRW for 'T smart' learning, 
such as 175 tablet PCs, data charges, and WiFi charges, as well as Eng-
lish and mathematics content.
Resolving the Digital Divide by Building IT Infrastructure
SK Telecom continues to extend coverage to mountainous, island, or 
remote areas where residents have difﬁculty accessing phone services 
and offers compensation for losses on universal service provisions to 
provide universal service. In 2012 , the cost of universal service division 
supported along with other Korean operators amounted to 48.3 billion 
KRW and SK Telecom covered 17.4 billion KRW. The company is bridg-
ing the digital divide by participating in creating public WiFi zones with 
the KCC and the city of Seoul and creating WiFi zones in approximately 
750 places, such as medical clinics, public libraries, and local resident 
centers, bridging the digital divide. Total amount of rate discounts for the disadvantaged 
220,172
223,457
217,719
147,806
148,811
145,057
62,736
64,825
62,503
9,353
9,589
9,960
27
232
199Sum total
The disabled
Low-income 
class
Veterans
Other
 2010    2011    2012(unit: million KRW)
Type
Mountains, remote areasHiking trails
Islands2010
1,503
205
242011
62
126
1632012
932
332
187Number of base stations or repeaters  
installed in under serviced areas (unit: number)30 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability ReportCASE
T.um, SK Telecom's IT Experience Center, Celebrates 
its 4th Anniversary 
Celebrating its fourth anniversary on October 8, 2012 , T.um under -
went a renovation to feature the LTE Experience Zone equipped 
with SK Telecom's latest LTE technologies and the latest solutions 
for education and healthcare, such as "Smart Health" and "Smart Robot." The LTE Experience Zone displayed the best LTE technolo-
gies and services, such as Multi-Carrier (MC) technology, Carrier-
Aggregation (CA), and HD Voice, a high-quality voice call service, 
which SK Telecom became the world's ﬁrst operator to commercialize.
T.um celebrated its fourth anniversary with the attendance of 
approximately 
38,000 VIP guests from 168 countries, including 
Kings, Presidents, and Prime Ministers, and played a diplomatic role in making the latest Korean information technologies known around 
the world. In 
2012 , T.um had notable visitors, including Liu Yongq-
ing, the wife of the former leader of China, in March, Anne Bouverot, 
Director General of the GSM Association (GSMA) and Frederik Chris-
tian, Prince of Denmark, in May, and Mayor of Shanghai, China, in July. They visited T.um to experience advanced Korean IT.  
Apart from its role as a PR center, T.um also works with centers for 
the disabled, multicultural families, and college students and con-
tributes to resolving the digital divide.From Human to Technology, and Back to Human 
In the rapidly changing digital environment, with advent of new devices 
like the smartphone and tablet PC, SK Telecom has reinforced support 
programs to resolve the digital divide and communicate with the world 
using ICT. In 2011 , SK Telecom launched a smartphone app for the visu-
ally impaired titled, "Happy Audio Library." The Happy Audio Library 
is a service that provides the visually impaired with access to use-
ful information such as newspapers and books. The app provides con-tent from books, news, weekly and monthly magazines, and rehabilita-
tion/welfare news, among over 
140,000 contents under various topics, 
in addition to adding another 40,000 contents in 2012 . SK Telecom's 
Customer Service Center employees volunteers to create some of the contents.
SK Telecom believes that everyone deserves to access convenient ser -
vices enabled by advanced technologies. SK Telecom's ICT is also 
expected to make a signiﬁcant contribution to bridging the digital divide between classes. SK Telecom will allow everyone to access its 
service through universal service provision, while resolving the digital 
divide through training.
"Happy Audio Library," a smartphone app for the visually impaired Adoption of discount rates for seniors and the disabled
4th Anniversary of T.um 
31 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendixR&C SOCIAL  
INNOVATION  
"New Possibilities for the Traditional Market" Using ICT
Traditional markets not only help revitalize local economies, but they 
should also be preserved as part of our culture and tradition. In 2012 , 
SK Telecom launched its traditional market revitalization campaign 
titled, "Possibilities for Traditional Markets" to revitalize traditional 
markets, which are being eclipsed by supermarkets. The 'Possibilities for Traditional Markets' (http://ttogether.sktelecom.com/market/) is a cam-
paign organized by SK Telecom to apply its expertise as an ICT leader to 
traditional markets and revitalize them. Through the campaign, SK Tele-com provides a range of programs to support ICT, business and market-
ing solutions and enhance merchants' capabilities and takes the lead 
in revitalizing traditional markets and improving small businesses' com-petitiveness. "Junggok Jeil Market": Traditional Market Revitalization 
Project No. 1
The Junggok Jeil Market, SK Telecom's market revitalization project # 1, 
is a large traditional market drawing approximately 7,300 people each 
day. Despite the recent sales decline of all traditional markets, the Jung-
gok Jeil Market has seen an increase in sales, merchants in the Junggok 
Jeil Market have worked together to discover ways to revitalize the mar -
ket, such as forming a cooperative and launching its own brand "Ari-
cheongjeong", but soon faced practical, technical difﬁculties overcom-
ing the problems that traditional markets have. In September 2012 , SK 
Telecom entered into a partnership with the Junggok Jeil Market to revi-
talize the market and provides its ICT solutions and integrated consult-
ing on business and marketing, offering new possibilities for traditional markets.
SK Telecom supports the market in a variety of ways, from online market-
ing for "Aricheongjeong," to establishment and training on 
11th Street, 
to mobile coupons using the smart wallet, to "My Shop," the tablet busi-
ness support service, to promoting discount items by location, and to idea 
contests. 
"Aricheongjeong" is a sesame oil brand and its shop on 11th Street gen-
erated the sales of 300 units each month. Aricheongjeong is selected as WHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
Social responsibility and continuous innovation form the basis of SK 
Telecom's business. Since the paradigm of corporate social contribution 
is shifting from the traditional CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 
to CSV (Creating Shared Value), SK Telecom will conduct R&C-based (resources and capabilities) CSR activities to create social value and 
make our society a safer, warmer place. 
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Market revitalization project # 1 "Junggok Jeil Market" 
| Launched donation and volunteering platforms  
| Formed and supported social enterprises  
"A healthy, warm-hearted society is the foundation of a 
company's growth. SK Telecom intends to create larger 
social value by sharing its advanced technologies and 
capabilities with society."
-Kim Jeong-Su, Head of CSR Office of SK Telecom-CREATING SOCIAL V ALUE BASEd ON ICT ANd 
NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE 
2012 KEy FIGURES32 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
1,580 million KRWRevenue of Happiness 
ICT Foundation
1Revitalizing the Tradi-tional Market 
Launching Project # 1136 million KRW GIVE U funds raised   
(46 institutions)a successful example of a quality product made ofﬂine and sold online, 
securing distribution channels nationwide and increased sales by estab-
lishing a brand image.
"My Shop" is a one-stop support service based on tablet PCs that assist 
small businesses with marketing and results management. Aside from 
the POS feature, it can issue coupons to smartphone users nearby. It also helps establish business goals, results management, and the 
results of commercial area analysis.
"Friday Market Together" is held every Friday and offers "
1 Store 1 
Item" special discounts selling items at least 10% cheaper than their 
given prices. SK Telecom helps transform the Junggok Jeil Market into a 
successful smart market by providing signs and carts, sending text mes-
sages notifying events for customers visiting the traditional market, and distributing out mobile smart pamphlets.   "Give U"and "With U": Donation and Social Contribu -
tion Platforms to Increase Participation 
The growth of smart devices has dramatically changed the landscape of donations and charities. In 
2010 , SK Telecom developed the rAngel 
Love Sharing' app, a smartphone app for donations. In 2012 , the com-
pany increased interest and engagement in donations and volunteerism  
through the distinctive, R&C-based social responsibility program, 
including the development of an advanced donation platform "GiveU" and a volunteering matching platform "WithU."
"GiveU" is a two-way donation platform designed for participants to 
easily share the donation campaigns of NGOs and NPOs on their mobile 
phones, and anyone can have access regardless of the service opera-
tor they subscribe to. GiveU is simply operated on a smartphone and allows people who are interested in donating, but had difﬁculty practic-
ing its functionality. Users can donate not only cash but also Rainbow 
points or OK Cashbag points, either with a one-time donation or regular donations. NGOs then issue receipts to increase donators' convenience 
and participation. In 
2012 , 46 organizations donated about 130 million 
KRW through GiveU. Additionally, in 2012 , SK Telecom donated 81 bil-
lion KRW to communities, contributing to community development.
"WithU" is the ﬁrst Korean mobile volunteering platform developed 
by SK Telecom and helps social service centers locate volunteers and 
volunteers searching for volunteer opportunities and organizations. 
WithU not only increases convenience in searching volunteer, but also improves efﬁciency in social services since volunteers can choose the 
services they excel in and social service organizations can select the 
opportunities that they need. 
Moreover, "WithU" is expected to serve as a place where social service 
organizations and volunteers to not just connect, but actually communi-cate with one another. Volunteers and social service organizations who 
meet through WithU can share their opinions and comments on volun-
teer work and learn more about volunteering and understand trends, which will help improve their skills. SK Telecom increased the number of 
organizations participating in WithU, from 
100 to 1,000, while increas-
ing involvement in various events to encourage volunteerism. 
Relay race of possibilities _ Traditional markets Description of support
- Online merchandise  
   strategy (price/design, etc.)  
  & PR concept consulting- Establishment and training     
  on 
11th street  
- Assistance in issuing mobile  
  discount coupons  
 
- Business support service    
  using tablet PC  
- Assistance in promoting  
  1 item 1 store discounts,   
  signs, carts, gifts, etc.
- Exploring ideas to revitalize  
  the market Strategy Private Label  
Launching  
rAricheongjeong'  
 
Smart wallet 
  
My Shop 
 
Friday Market  
 Idea Contest  Project outcomes 
- Increased sales of  
   Aricheongjeong (over 300  
   sets, 5 sets per month)
- Signed a procurement  
   agreement with IBK  
   Service (Oct. 29)
- Sales of traditional  
   market gift certiﬁcates  
   doubled (about 8.5  
   million KRW per month)
- No need to adopt POS  
   machines, increased  
   convenience - Increase in visitors by 
1.5  
   times, increase in sales by  
   30% (projected)
- 8,500 incidents received  
 "Junggok Jeil Market": Traditional Market Revitalization Project No. 1
33 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendixT-together: Social Contribution Portal 
SK Telecom runs a social contribution web portal called "T-together" 
(http://ttogether.sktelecom.com). T-together provides a variety of pro-
grams from which participants can pick and choose according to their 
preferences, including GiveU, WithU, Find Missing Children, Smart Blood Donation, and Youth Mobile Counseling. From individuals who 
are passionate about sharing, but do not know how to make contri-
butions to charity businesses or donating organizations participat-ing in social contribution are available through the portal 'T-together'. 
T-together also classiﬁes fundraising and theme campaigns and dis-
closes fundraising expenditures to increase users' convenience.
Contributing to Job Creation by Increasing ICT-based 
Startup Support 
In May 2013 , SK Telecom plans to appoint approximately 4,300 contract 
employees of subsidiaries responsible for customer service to full-time 
positions and implement the "Happy Startup" project to create ICT-based 
jobs as part of the "Happy Companion" program. Through the "Happy Startup" project, the company will provide assistance worth 
30 billion 
KRW to create ICT-based jobs, including operating "T-happy startup sup-
port center" for systematic startup support, supporting startups for the 
baby boom generation, and supporting ICT-based startup items.CASE
Establishing Social Enterprises
SK Group has continuously worked diligently to provide social ser -
vices and create jobs for the disadvantaged by forming and support-
ing social through the "SK Happiness Foundation." As part of this 
commitment, with the SK Happiness Foundation, SK Telecom co-founded the "Happy ICT Foundation" in 
2011  and the "Happy Echo 
Phone Foundation" in 2013 . 
Happy ICT Foundation specializes in ICT services and conducts diverse, advanced businesses that bring happiness across all social 
classes in need of ICT services by developing an information system 
for the public good. Happy ICT Foundation implements social service and social enterprise ICT infrastructure support projects. In 
2012 , 
the foundation launched the Mobile-based Cleaning Management 
System, which was named the pilot project for "Development of a 
Popular Smart Work Service Model" hosted by the Korea Commu-nications Commission and the National Information Society Agency, 
contributing to increasing efﬁciency and competitiveness for small 
cleaning businesses and workers. 
Happy Echo Phone Foundation is a social enterprise focusing on 
evaluating and commercializing used phones, and aims to provide social values, such as protecting the environment through the reuse 
of used phones and creating quality jobs for the disadvantaged. Fur -
thermore, SK Telecom provides used smart devices and tutorials to 
the disadvantaged and works with civic groups or local govern-
ments to implement a donation program relating to the promotion 
of used phone recycling.
Establishment of the social enterprise Happy Echo Phone Foundation
34 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report9.8  days Payment Period 
(Average)
408 cases Technical assistance and protection
14,809 peopleTraining support (distance/in-company)WIN-WIN       
 GROWTH
Win-Win Growth for Mutual Prosperity 
SK Telecom cannot create future value on its own. Only when it com-
bines the capabilities of its own and its partners can SK Telecom bring 
about creative innovation. Instead of growing alone, SK Telecom cre-
ates an environment where ICT business areas can grow, driving the development of the entire ecosystem. In 
2012 , the company continued 
its efforts to increase understanding and build trust through a variety of 
Win-Win programs and open communication. 
SK Telecom's Win-Win Growth Program consists of ﬁnancial assistance, 
technical assistance and protection, training and HR support, and man-
agement support. Financial assistance is designed to resolve economic imbalances and strengthen the foundations of small business partners GROWING WITH P ARTNERS By 
CREATING A HEALTHy C ORPORATE 
ECOSySTEM 
which may suffer ﬁnancial crises due to the changing economic con-ditions. The Technical Assistance & Protection Program is aimed at the 
development, transfer, and joint development of tangible/intangible 
technologies in the planning, development, and sales processes. Train-ing and HR Support is designed to improve independence through 
enhancing skills, expertise and system support, and hiring support, 
while helping partners continue to exist through negotiated contracts for outstanding partners, performance guarantee exemptions, and the 
Doctor System. In 
2012 , SK Telecom created and operated the Network 
Loan program and the Win-Win Fund (worth 215 billion KRW) to help 
partners ﬁnancially, provided technical assistance worth 46.4 billion 
KRW, protected 71 technologies, and offered distance and in-company 
training for 14,809 employees.
Adding 15 billion KRW to Win-Win Fund and Updating 
Payment Options
In terms of funding, SK Telecom continues to provide indirect assis-
tance (lending and credit through the Network Loan and WinC), but in 
2010 , the company set the target amount of assistance to 70 billion 
KRW. Under an agreement with ﬁnancial service providers, SK Telecom 
created the Win-Win Fund worth 200 billion KRW ( 70 billion deposited 
by SK Telecom) and has since provided assistance in solving suppliers' ﬁnancial problems, such as adding 
15 billion KRW to the fund with a  WHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
Since the launch of the Win-Win Growth Committee, there has been 
growing interest in collaboration among large and small/medium 
enterprises and in Win-Win growth. We need to create a healthy 
industry ecosystem through ultimate Win-Win growth, instead of short-term assistance for small and medium enterprises. SK Telecom will 
create a healthy corporate ecosystem and establish a Win-Win culture 
pursuing the happiness of business partners. 
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Fulﬁlled Win-Win growth for mutual prosperity   
| Provided assistance in expanding the industry ecosystem, including 
   T open lab
| Open communication  2012 KEy FIGURES35 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
"SK Telecom intends to outgrow the old competition sys -
tem among individual companies and create an environ -
ment where the entire ICT industry can compete fairly and 
grow together based on trust and partnerships with sup -
pliers. To enhance partners' competitiveness, the company will provide various Win-Win growth programs and open 
communication."
-Yeo Ho-Choul, Head of SCM Office of SK Telecom-T open lab Support 
 
T open lab 
online service 
users
 
Joint 
development 
projects  
Infrastructure 
usage Technology Protection Assistance and Building an ICT-
based Win-Win Platform through T open lab
In 2012 , SK Telecom supported 337 cases of technology development 
worth 46.4 billion KRW to provide its business partners with economic 
beneﬁts and protected 71 technological items to enhance partners' 
technical capabilities. SK Telecom's technical assistance includes tech-
nology transfers (licenses), joint research and technology development, 
equipment support, the technical data escrow program to protect partners' technologies, and joint patent applications, leading technology protection. In 
2012 , SK Telecom opened "T open lab" to support small and 
medium Enterprise (SME) partners and individual developers who lack 
development and testing environments so that the ICT business can 
grow. The T open lab consists of R&D infrastructure such as the Test Room¹, the Shield Room², the Project Room, and spaces for commu-
nication with SK Telecom's R&D department, such as a seminar room 
and an open café, contributing to increasing SMEs' proﬁt and improv-ing technological capabilities. Aside from facility support, SK Telecom's T 
open lab provides opportunities to share ideas and commercialize them 
through the "Technology and Business Idea Suggestion Program" and "Developers' Forum".
SK Planet's "Open Innovation Center" has increased interest and 
engagement in the ICT industry by encouraging a variety of ideas and 
inventions while creating business opportunities. The Open Innovation 
Center allows any individual customer, planner, developer, and designer as well as an entity or group specializing in the mobile business to freely 
suggest ideas, businesses, and projects. The center provides an objec-
tive assessment of those ideas, monetary rewards for any outstanding ideas, and developing and marketing assistance for any potential busi -
ness, creating growth opportunities. The T Academy, which is connected with the Open Innovation Center, teaches many aspiring developers about the necessary experience and expertise in the mobile industry. All programs 
are available free of charge and the company makes every effort to create 
an environment where as many developers can learn. 
1) Test Room : A space for functional and performance testing of mobile phone services con-
nected to SK Telecom's Network Test Bed .   2) Shield Room: An enclosed space that allows a 
variety of wireless tests by blocking outside signals
Year
2011
2012# of partners
1722Results of Implementation of the Technical Data Escrow Program 
Grant ( 1,000 KRW) 
9,000
10,050New
3019 
Total renewals 
-
29 
Grant
3048# of escrows2012  Goals 
Building system  
- Create a program to establish fair trade  
   practices
- Incorporate Win-Win growth results  
   into executive ofﬁcer evaluation  
 
Financial assistance 
- Increase large company contribution      
   (0.6% of sales) for ﬁnancial assistance 
- 100% cash payments 
- Within 10 days of the payment  
  deadline  
- Provide R&D infrastructure
- Data escrow program    
 
 
Training and Talent Support
- Increase training support
- Talent support  
 
 2012  Win-Win Growth Results 
Results 
 
- Set and operate the SKT Fair Trade  
   Guidelines 
- Incorporate Win-Win growth results   
   (KPI) into procurement ofﬁcer  
   evaluation 
 
- Network Loan and Win-Win Fund  
   (contributions of 76 billion KRW,  
   meeting the goal 100%)
- Average 9.80 days
 
- 337 cases of technical assistance  
   (46.4 billion KRW)
- 71 cases of technology protection  
   (10 million KRW)
- 14.809 employees completed  
   distance/in-company training
- Talent/hiring assistance for 20 people  
   (215 million KRW)36 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
6 billion KRW additional deposit in 2012 . SK Telecom will continue to 
provide its partners with appropriate ﬁnancial assistance.    
In 2012 , SK Telecom made all payments in cash to small and medium 
business partners (since 2005 ) and payments worth 475.2 billion KRW 
in cash to 234 partners, and the period of payment averaged 9.8 days, 
meeting the partnership goal (within 10 days of the payment deadline).
Technical assistance and protection 
Implementation of joint projects -  
2 companies join the lab
5 other companies work frequently in the 
project room458 people from 142 companies 
294 people, 115 companies that do not work 
with SKT
Test Room: 621 hours (usage: 64.7%)
Shield Room: 246 hours (usage: 26.1%)
Test Devices: 4,141 units ( 37 units per day)Distance/In-company Training and Talent Support
It is important to provide appropriate training for the long-term success of 
business partners. SK Telecom opened and operated 110 distance educa-
tion courses in 8 areas of business, technology/IT, leadership, marketing, 
ﬁnance/accounting, languages, and OA, for employees of partners. The 
company also provided in-company courses for partners' employees, tai-
lored for each job title, executive ofﬁcers (Win-Win CEO Seminar), manag-ers (MDP/MBA course), and working ofﬁcers (Smart ICT Practice). 
In addition to education, SK Telecom sent its employees to business part-
ners lacking human resources or helped them hire new recruits. In 
2012 , 
the company sent 387 employees to partners for HR support, 224 employ-
ees to support productivity innovation partnerships, 584 technical experts 
to its branch in China, 12 employees for PMS (Product Management Sys-
tem) to audit productivity management systems, totaling 1,171 employees. 
Win-Win Communication 
SK Telecom has created diverse communication channels and listened to its business partners to provide open communication and build understand-
ing and mutual trust. The company runs the "Voice of Partners" channel 
under the SK Telecom OPEN
2U (http://open 2u.sktelecom.com) system as 
an online communication channel, where approximately 8,500 employ-
ees of those partners share cases of unfair trade, opinions, and sugges-
tions, either anonymously or with their registered names. The company also 
holds meetings with its partners, including one-on-one meetings, Win-Win growth camps, and Partners' Day events. At a one-on-one meeting, in par -
ticular, high-level ofﬁcers and executive ofﬁcers of the company's major units visit one of the partners to listen to their grievances and discuss solu-tions in person. Each year, they visit approximately 
100 partners to improve 
communication.CASE
Responsible Buying and Supply Chain Risk Assessment 
SK Telecom is a company seeing possibilities to work together. Aside from assistance for partners aimed at Win-Win growth, SK Telecom considers 
it a fundamental responsibility to monitor and evaluate the entire supply 
chain concerning ethical business practices. SK Telecom incorporates risk assessment results into the process of selecting buyers and partners to 
prevent bad business practices or unethical behavior from occurring.  
To ensure fair, transparent trade with business partners, SK Telecom 
ensures that every company submits a Fair Trade Consent when signing up 
or applying for a partnership on the Open
2U, a website for procurement 
and partnerships that the company has run since 2008 , and conducts 
assessments of suppliers before registration, including reviews of ﬁnan-
cial information and CSR items, such as payment options for secondary 
partners and human rights/labor/environmental policies. In 2012 , approx-
imately 720 companies were evaluated and registered as new partners.
Compliance Report
In 2012 , SK Telecom was ordered by the Fair Trade Commission and the 
Korean Exchange to pay a penalty of 53.8 billion KRW for 5 legal viola-
tions and complied with the ruling. Through strict monitoring, SK Telecom 
is working hard to comply with applicable laws, fulﬁll its obligations, and 
prevent the recurrence of such violations.
2012 .2.6_ Non-compliance with the response to the Inquired Disclosure in 
November 2011  
Penalty: 3 million KRW / Status: Paid. Preliminary review and efforts to 
prevent recurrence
2012 .3.14_ Breach of Article 23 of the Fair Trade Act concerning the mobile 
phone subsidy payment practice and mobile phone distribution structure  
Penalty: 21,928 million KRW / Status: Administrative litigation in progress
2012 .6.21_ Order for corrective action regarding a breach of the Korea Commu-
nications Commission's privacy policy on location information  
Status: Order implemented. 
2012 .7.4_ Breach of Article 23 of the Fair Trade Act concerning payment for 
system management and operations in the SI ﬁeld 
Penalty: 25,042 million KRW
2012 .12.24_ Corrective action regarding infringement of user beneﬁts relat-
ing to phone subsidies Penalty: 
6,890 million KRW / Status: Stopped attracting new users  
(22 days) and implemented corrective action   Distance
In-company
Total 2011
12,020
568
12,5882012
12,130
2,679
14,809SK Win-Win Growth Distance/ 
In-company Training Participants(unit: people)(unit: score)
Launching the CEO Win-Win Council for Win-Win Growth Business Partner Satisfaction 
2010
74.42011
74.52012
83.9
*In 2012 , the index was renamed "Win-Win Satisfaction Index"37 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendixCO2 CLIMATE 
CHANGE
Research on ICT-based Social Greenhouse Gas Reduction 
SK Telecom is aware of the destructive effects on mankind of climate 
change and global warming and provides full support to achieve the 
vision of low-carbon, green growth. SK Telecom's focus area is, in par -
ticular, "Reducing social GHG using ICT." "Social greenhouse gas" 
refers to GHG emissions (Scope 3) generated as a result of energy con-
sumption when customers use the services/goods provided by a com-
pany, and these emissions cover a wider range and are much greater 
than the direct and indirect GHG emissions generated by SK Telecom during its business process. The UNFCCC (UN Framework Convention 
on Climate Change) is in the process of developing guidelines for reduc-
ing social GHG emissions, and the ITUT (International Telecommunica-tion Union Standard) is also preparing a standard for estimating social 
GHG emissions. reduction 
(using real-time navigation T-map)Studies on reducing social 
greenhouse gas emissions 
Average  12.9 %
tCO2674,000  Greenhouse gas  emissions
5,776 MWhEnergy savings in ofﬁce  
buildingsREdUCING SOCIAL GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS USING GREEN ICT
Since 2011 , SK Telecom has successfully worked with the National 
Radio Research Agency and the Korea Association of Information and 
Telecommunications (KAIT) on how to reduce social greenhouse gas 
emissions using ICT services. In 2012 , they conducted research to 
develop an international standard for estimating social GHG reductions. 
The research predicted that by 2020 , Korea's emissions will reach 800 
million tCO 2e, of which the ICT industry will generate 20 million tCO 2e. 
Using ICT to reduce indirect GHG emissions is expected to result in 118 
million tCO 2e, 5.8 times the emissions generated by the ICT industry.
Comparison of average GHG emissions  
between T map and an ordinary shortest pathWHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
The Korean government has continuously pursued low-carbon, green 
growth and its efforts include the 2011  adoption of the Greenhouse 
Gas Target Management Policy and the adoption of the Emissions 
Trading Scheme by 2015 . Through research on ICT-based energy 
efﬁciency and GHG reduction, SK Telecom will take the lead in preventing global warming and support green growth.
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Conducted research on reducing greenhouse gas emissions using 
  real-time navigation, such as T map
| Developed green technologies like Cloud BEMS and infrastructure 
165.94
183.86Short  
distanceT map Shortest
Medium 
distance243.04
282.78
Long  
distance 544.59
627.95
Total953.61
1094 .59(unit : kgCO 2e)2012 KEy FIGURES38 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
"Coping with climate change is an urgent issue that 
requires specific actions. SK Telecom will not only reduce 
its GHG emissions but also use innovative ICT to help the 
entire country reduce GHG emissions." 
-Lee Hyung-Hee, Head of Corporate Relations Division of SK Telecom-Social greenhouse gas reduction research was conducted using the 
real-time navigation service (T map) among 14 ICT services because it 
is most likely to become an international standard, most suitable for 
the company's business, and has a clear ownership of reduction poten-
tial. T map is the company's real-time navigation service that provides information on optimum routes as well as current trafﬁc information. 
The real-time trafﬁc and route information provided by the service help 
save time and energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To achieve the 
95% conﬁdence level, an empirical test was conducted on the GHG 
reduction effects of T map compared with an ordinary navigation ser -
vice (shortest route information), with car type, fuel, time, and sampled routes set as control variables. The results demonstrated that in 
2012 , 
T map users improved trafﬁc speeds by 9.99km/h, saved fuel by 11.9% 
and reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 12.9%.   
Making the Social Greenhouse Gas Reduction Model an 
International Standard
At the ITU Symposium on the Environment and Climate Change held in 
Geneva, Switzerland, in October 2012 , the "Methodology for Estimat-
ing the Greenhouse Gas Reductions of a Real-Tme Navigation Service" 
implemented by SK Telecom was approved as an international standard 
to be developed. SK Planet released T map 4.0, which allows users to 
directly monitor carbon dioxide emissions reduced by the T map service. 
Using T map alone, users can not only gain beneﬁts, such as saving time 
and fuel, but also end up contributing to protecting the environment. The service is expected to offer the chance to increase participation in 
reducing social greenhouse gas emissions. "Cloud BEMS": Smart Energy Conservation Technology 
Cloud BEMS (Building Energy Management System) is a system for 
building energy management developed by SK Telecom, aimed at 
increasing efﬁciency through real-time collection and analysis of data 
on energy management equipment. For instance, the BEMS controls lighting, air-conditioning, cooling and heating based on the number of 
people within an ofﬁce building when connected to employee access 
information, power, and air-conditioning systems. When employees are working in an ofﬁce, the system can adjust the temperature depend-
ing on the number of people within the building by shutting off lights, 
air-conditioning and heating during lunch hours. In December 
2012 , SK 
Telecom applied this technology to Cheju Halla Hospital and created a 
"heat pump system" which reuses wastewater and waste heat to ana-
lyze the three-year results and provide the system operator with con-sulting on energy conservation. SK Telecom will share with the owner 
of the building the energy costs saved for those three years without the 
initial installation cost. The results of a pre-evaluation found that Cheju Halla Hospital is expected to reduce energy consumption by 
20% and 
save about 200 million KRW once it adopts the Cloud BEMS. 
Hyundai Department Store adopted the BEMS to optimize the operating hours of air-conditioning, heating systems and refrigerators within the building. The department store is expected to reduce energy costs worth 
about 
120 million KRW each year. SK Telecom also applied the BEMS 
to its head ofﬁce building, local ofﬁce buildings, and Network Manage-ment Center, and has reduced annual energy consumption by 
7.2%, 
saving about 160 million KRW.   
In 2013 , SK Telecom and the Seoul Hospitals Association signed an agree-
ment to use the Cloud BEMS to save energy in hospitals, reduce social GHG emissions, and cope with the national energy crisis together. The 
association promised cooperation since it decided that the partnership would help fulﬁll its social responsibilities, such as saving energy in hos-
pitals, which consume a lot of energy due to high-output equipment, and 
coping with climate change and the energy crisis. SK Telecom will provide assistance in reducing national GHG emissions using innovative ICT. Smart grids
Video conferencing
E-commerce
E-petitions
E-transportation management
Real-time navigation Smart government 
Home energy management systemsSmart motors
Electronic informationSmart work 
e-Learning
Bus information systemsElectronic healthcare2020  potential reductions
68,700,471
11,034,549
7,933,273
6,107,242
4,793,451
3,572,940
3,476,005
2,963,390
2,890,014
2,051,228
1,886,755
1,614,410
1,400,033
44,347Greenhouse gas emission reductions through ICT services (unit : tCO 2e)
Signed an agreement on Cloud BEMS with Cheju Halla Hospital 39 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendixCASE
Improving Energy Efﬁciency of T-Tower  
SK Telecom has been committed to reducing greenhouse gas emis-
sions through its independent energy management process. SK Tele-
com replaced LED lights and cut down on standby power at night  
and saved approximately 13 million KRW throughout the year by 
turning off lights (windows and the electrical room) after removing 
lighting circuits.
For its achievements, SK Telecom received an award at the "Gath-
ering Electricity from Energy-Saving Companies" organized by the 
Energy Management Corporation, as well as other awards such as 
the Eco Mileage Outstanding Group and Best Practice of Peak Man-agement.Reducing Environmental Impacts on Business 
Aside from research on reducing social GHG emissions and green energy solutions, SK Telecom works hard to reduce environmental 
impacts during the conduct of business and spread the green corporate 
climate by complying with the GHG/Energy Target Management System.
As mobile service provider, SK Telecom does not directly make products 
and have any process generating pollutants, toxic substances or hazard-ous chemicals and it has no signiﬁcant environmental impact. Through-
out the year 
2012 , the company neither committed any environmental 
law violations nor paid related ﬁnes or penalties.
SK Telecom has a company-wide system in place to deal with global cli-
mate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and all employ-
ees are actively engaged in GHG reduction activities. Furthermore, the 
company conducts real-time monitoring of energy use and GHG emis-sions. SK Telecom sets energy/GHG reduction targets under business-
as-usual (BAU) conditions. In 
2012 , the company generated total emis-
sions of 674,000 tCO2e, less than the target of 678,000 tCO2e. Finally, 
the company provides environmental training for employees to spread the green corporate climate and, in 
2012 , conducted full-time training 
targeting environmental ofﬁcers.       
T-Tower Energy Savings
2010
3,881 Ofﬁce building  
management 20116
,023 20125
,776 2013  (Target)
5,538 (unit : MWh)
40 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability ReportTALENT ATTRACTION  
& RETENTION
Development-based Performance Review and Horizontal, 
Creative Organizational Culture
SK Telecom assesses the performance of all employees. A performance 
review takes into account short- and long-term results and contribu-
tions to the organization, challenges and innovations, and the company 
conducts PR&C (People Review & Coaching) all year round to ensure a fair review. Furthermore, SK Telecom stresses the development aspect of 
employee performance management by offering detailed reviews and 
feedback. Through the development-based performance program, the company can motivate employees and anticipate organizational growth 
and increased efﬁciency. 2.93   million KRW  HR spending per employee
100 hoursAnnual training hours  
per employee HUMAN RESOURCES dEVELOPMENT ANd GOOd W ORK 
ENVIRONMENT THROUGH GOOd PROGRAMS
Annual spending on 
employee beneﬁts 
29.2 billion KRW 
To cope with the rapidly changing industry, SK Telecom abolished the 
job title structure and adopted the manager system in 2006  to establish 
a horizontal, creative organizational climate. All ofﬁcers are therefore 
called "Manager" and the titles are classiﬁed into pay bands, maintain-
ing the duty-based "manager-member" structure. Such a systematic change has not only helped individuals enhance their capabilities, but 
also facilitated decision-making and improved the organization's abil-
ity to execute decisions. To ensure ﬂexibility through restructuring, the company places emphasis on continuity and individual development to 
enhance the organization's skills and increase its experience, driving 
the growth of both the organization and members. WHy THIS IS AN ISSUE TO US
SK Telecom believes that employees' happiness is the company's 
happiness. Therefore, the company runs long-term HR programs to 
enhance employees' skills and increase motivation, provides a variety of 
educational opportunities based on voluntary participation for individual development, and helps employees achieve a work-life balance through 
advanced beneﬁt programs.
WHAT WE'VE dONE
| Created a Results-Oriented Evaluation System         
| Established a HRD system per job title  
| Provided a working environment and beneﬁt/safety programs for 
  a work-life balance  
Growth-
oriented  Enhance performance 
reviewEncourage enthusiasm 2012 KEy FIGURES
No. 1 in the service category of "Best Company to Work 
for" for 5 years straight surveyed by Korea Management 
Association Consulting 
41 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Improve KPI Motivate
Acknowledge  
performance Improve organizational 
efﬁciency "SK Telecom's key task in talent management is to 
enhance employees' skills, produce results through chal -
lenges and innovation, and bring about changes to people and culture to accomplish SKT's vision through appropri
-
ate recognition and compensation. In addition, SK Tele -
com will continue to invest in people to build the ability to overcome crises and new growth engines."
-Lee Taek, Head of Corporate Culture Division of SK Telecom-Talent Development through "SMART" Self-Directed 
Learning Program 
A company can be competitive only when its employees are competi-
tive. Through the Individual Development Plan (IDP), SK Telecom assists 
employees in planning and implementing the development of job capa-
bilities needed to achieve the company's vision and their own career goals. In 
2012 , the company encouraged self-directed learning by 
upgrading the IDP and increasing outside learning support for individ-
uals. In addition, the company provides an education system consisting 
of in-company/outside, in-class/online programs tailored for 14 jobs by 
connecting the Individual Development Plan and the Career Develop-
ment Plan (CDP) to improve employees' specialized skills.
In January 2012 , SK Telecom adopted the Smart Learning System called 
"T-earning" service using mobile devices to develop capabilities any-
where, anytime. The T-earning service contains approximately 260 vari-
eties of educational content, including ICT trends, job specialties, lead-ers' libraries, and English, and half the employees experienced T-earning 
throughout the year of 
2012 . In 2013 , SK Telecom plans on encouraging 
employee participation using Social Learning, such as UCC (User Cre-
ated Content) and social media-based networking, and on establishing 
the Smart Learning system across the entire ﬁeld of education by using T-earning content in at least 
50% of job training programs by 2014 . 
SK Telecom also provides "T-class" where the company's and subsidiar -
ies' employees have the opportunity to improve their skills at the work-place. "T-class" includes a variety of educational content, from insight, 
trends, management, strategies, ﬁnance, marketing, technology, liberal 
arts, psychology, and communication in order to enhance employees' job skills and individual development.
In each area, in-house or outside experts provide lectures and each course 
runs for 
90 minutes at a location near the ofﬁce building or workplace so 
that employees can participate outside of work. The company allows real-
time distance learning using smart devices (PC, smartphones, and tablet computers) for employees' convenience as well as in-company lectures. 
In 2012 , a total of 179 courses were provided, including 110 courses at 
the head ofﬁce (T Class Learning Center) and 69 courses in local branches 
(Namsan and local ofﬁces), and each course had an average of 48 partici-
pants in attendance, totaling 8,532 employees for all classes.
Creating an Open Environment to Share Grievances
SK Telecom makes every effort to solve grievances that employees may have while at work. "Letter to HR" is a program designed for employ-
ees to share their grievances with the HR Division or ofﬁcer and express 
freely regarding performance reviews. SK Telecom runs the Letter to HR menu on e-HR, the company's Intranet, and any grievances reported are 
reported to the HR employee responsible only and kept conﬁdential. 
The company provides phone/one-on-one counseling with experts at 
social service centers through the counseling program for any employ-
ees with personal issues, such as health, personal relationship or fam-ily issues.
Improving Efﬁciency through Work-Life Balance 
In 2012 , SK Telecom adopted the ﬂexible time program to help employ -
ees achieve a work-life balance and increase productivity by determining 
their work schedules. Approximately 70% of all teams use this program, 
which is positively received by employees who have to juggle childcare and work. (However, mandatory work hours from 
10 AM to 3PM)Ratio of T-class attendees 
Ratio of T-class attendees  
by type of participation Percentage of T-class attendees among employees35%65%
82% 8,532  
people8,532  
people
18%82%
5,511
people6,961
people
3,021 
people1,571 
peopleIn-company SK Telecom
DistanceInvestment  
companies HRD System 
SK Values
Leadership
CompetencyBusiness unit
Executive ofﬁcer
Executive ofﬁcerTeam leader
Team leaderTeam member
Team memberIndividual
Business unit
SKMS Practice Workshop
GLDP
Coaching
Executive ofﬁcer
LAHLP
GLP
IDP
Outside processT-Challenger
T-Professional
LIP
T-class
T-earning
Advanced pro-
gram by job title 
Outside IDP 
program  Employees
Values Workshop 
GLDP: Global Leadership Development Program
HLP: Hipo Leadership Program
GLP: Global Leadership Program
LIP: Leadership Intensive ProgramLA: Learning Account
IDP: Individual Development Plan42 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability ReportCASE
MBA and Graduate Programs for Next-Generation 
Leaders and Experts
SK Telecom selects a certain number of employees each year and 
provides them with the opportunity to study in MBA and gradu-
ate programs at leading domestic and international universities. 
Through this policy, SK Telecom develops leaders and experts who will lead the company.
 
CASE
Human Resources Development for Socially 
Disadvantaged and Women
SK Telecom actively recruits new employees among the socially disad-
vantaged, including people with disabilities, pursues social diversity 
and works hard to prevent discrimination for female HRD and mater -
nity protection.2011
17Number of employees sent to MBA programs (unit: people)
2012
182013  Target
35
2012  HRD Results for Socially Disadvantaged and Female 
Employees 
- Hiring of the visually impaired in all categories  
 for "competency-based recruitment' regardless  
 of backgrounds
- Adoption of a special category for the disabled- Setting a 
20 to 25% quota for women recruits   
  each year 
- The HR Division made sure that female employ- 
  ees were not unfairly treated during promotions    or HiPo appointment 
- Conducted monitoring across the SK Group to  
  develop top-performing female employees (dep-   uty manager/manager or higher) into leaders 
- Provided workshops on female leadership  
  development 
- Conducted performance reviews of female  
   employees who took maternity leave on an  
   absolute evaluation basis.Recruitment   
  
   
Fair Performance  
Review  
  
Female Leadership  
  
 
Maternity Protection 
  Labor-Management Council 
 
Quarterly  
Central committee chair, execution branch,  
president, and labor ofﬁcer 
Productivity improvement and allocation of proﬁtImprovement of the HR and Labor programs Appointment and training of employeesOperation of working hours and breaksHandling grievances of employeesImprovement of programs, including payment options, 
system and structure
Improvement of safety, health and the working 
environment, and employee healthcare 
Adoption of new machines/technologies, improvement 
of processes 
Improvement of employee beneﬁtsFrequency of  
Labor-Management 
Council Meetings
Attendees  
 
 
 
 
 
Agenda items  
 SK Telecom also guarantees employees individual development opportu-
nities by offering a 45-day individual development period every 10 years 
of service ("Refresh" leave). Employees are allowed to use the time to 
study or travel abroad or relax and take care of themselves, and fully paid 
during the entire time excluding overtime, lunch, and commute beneﬁts. 
Labor-Management Reconciliation Declaration Ceremony 
Labor-Management Council to Protect Employees' Rights
To protect employees' human rights and create an open working atmo-sphere, SK Telecom has created a variety of channels of communication, 
such as the Member's Square and counseling on grievances and sexual 
harassment. Through quarterly council activities, employees discuss with management how to increase productivity, allocate proﬁts based on per -
formance, and ensure employees' beneﬁts and human rights. 2010
81Employee Satisfaction (unit: score)
2011
842012
8643 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix44 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
FINANCIAL dATA 
Statement of Financial Position (Consolidated, as per K-IFRS)Financial Statements
Total assets
Current assetsNon-current assetsTotal liabilitiesCurrent liabilitiesNon-current liabilitiesTotal equity2010
23,132,389
6,653,992
16,478,397
10,724,890
6,202,170
4,522,219
12,407,9992011
24,366,036
6,117,479
18,248,557
11,633,327
6,673,590
4,959,738
12,732,7092012
25,595,560
5,294,421
20,301,139
12,740,777
6,174,895
6,565,882
12,854,782Remarks(Unit : million KRW)
Income Statement (Consolidated, as per K-IFRS) 
Operating revenueSalesOperating expensesEmployee beneﬁtsCharges & feesDepreciationNetwork connection chargesPrivate line service and spectrum feesAdvertising expenseRent expenseMerchandise and other purchase expenseOther operating expenses
Operating proﬁt
Financial incomeFinancial expensesLoss on investments in subsidiaries and 
associates
Non-operating revenuesNon-operating expensesProﬁt from continuing operations before taxIncome tax expense for continuing 
operations
Consolidated operating proﬁt from 
continuing operations
Income from discontinued operations Consolidated net proﬁt for the yearConsolidated net income attributable toOwners of the parentNon-controlling interestEarnings per shareBasic Earnings per share(KRW)Diluted earnings per share(KRW)2010
15,489,374
15,489,374
12,933,592
1,067,820
5,551,033
2,118,430
1,316,296
437,830
338,447
367,292
640,933
1,095,512
2,555,782
477,217
441,624
3,414 
79,721
294,458
2,373,224
559,385 
1,813,839 
(47,004)
1,766,835
1,841,612
(74,778)
25,598
24,9422011
15,926,469
15,926,469
13,630,855
1,173,247
5,611,325
2,296,479
1,264,109
474,018
374,269
401,706
959,276
1,076,426
2,295,613
442,325
343,776
47,149 
47,428
153,752
2,240,690
608,955 
1,631,734 
(49,660)
1,582,073
1,612,889
(30,816)
22,848
22,2232012
16,300,479
16,300,479
14,540,308
1,283,305
6,025,091
2,432,287
1,057,145
468,785
400,076
424,476
1,297,205
1,151,938
1,760,171
447,210
638,297
24,278 
196,034
189,952
1,550,887
295,887 
1,255,000 
(139,337)
1,115,663
1,151,705
(36,042)
16,525
16,141Remarks
 
 
 (Unit : million KRW)45 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Statement of Financial Position (Separate) 
Total assets
Current assetsNon-current assetsTotal liabilitiesCurrent liabilitiesNon-current liabilitiesTotal equity2010
19,727,126
5,316,977
14,410,150
8,146,169
4,561,014
3,585,155
11,580,9582011
20,520,527
3,948,078
16,572,450
8,554,226
4,467,006
4,087,220
11,966,3022012
22,249,502
2,589,699
19,659,803
9,872,454
4,343,086
5,529,368
12,377,048Remarks(Unit : million KRW)
Income Statement (Separate) 
Operating revenue SalesOperating expensesEmployee beneﬁtsCharges & feesDepreciationNetwork connection chargesPrivate line service and spectrum feesAdvertising expense  Rent expenseMerchandise and other purchase expenseOther operating expenses
Operating proﬁt
Financial incomeFinancial expenses Non-operating revenuesNon-operating expensesGain on sale of investments in subsidiaries 
and associates
Loss on sale of investments in subsidiaries 
and associates
Impairment of investments in associatesIncome before income taxesIncome tax expense
Net proﬁt for the year 
Earnings per shareBasic Earnings per share(KRW)Diluted earnings per share(KRW)2010
12,514,521
12,514,521
9,983,566
565,583
4,966,280
1,505,498
1.030,380
365,951
258,737
302,552
108,870
879,716
2,530,955
452,894
311,166
35,788
211,715
12,169 
5,288 
0
2,503,637
556,629
1,947,008
27,063
17,4062011
12,551,256
12,551,256
10,366,757
528,073
5,226,570
1,658,808
967,046
415,585
241,252
315,281
194,507
819,635
2,184,499
415,912
223,656
23,224
121,073
1,990 
6,473 
0
2,274,422
580,058
1,694,363
24,002
23,3432012
12,332,719
12,332,719
10,657,331
508,226
5,576,763
1,724,707
796,580
431,522
209,803
330,611
295,757
783,361
1,675,388
381,930
533,198
151,756
133,647
80,483 
2,265 
83,728
1,546,720
303,952
1,242,767
17,832
17,406Remarks
 
 (Unit : million KRW)46
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Total number of electronic bill users
Electronic bill subscription rate (or new e-bill  subscription)
Percentage of devices collected    Number of devices sold    Number of devices collected 
Number of used IT devices donated 
 
Number of organizations that donate used IT devices 
 Unit
1,000 people
%
%
1,000 units
1,000 units 
units 
 
locations 2010
10,296
-
12.7
12,683
1,607 
1,000 
 
 8 2011
12,550
-
8.8
12,775
1,127 
600 
 
 
130 2012
16,051
90% or higher 
7.4
11,928
885 
95 
 
 
1 Remarks
 
Laptops in 2010 ; desktop 
computers and laptops 
since 2011 Happy Nanum Foundation 
in 
2012Resource Use
Vehicles owned or leased
Fuel costsLocations with video conferencing systems in KoreaLocations with video conferencing systems abroadNumber of video conferences heldUnit
cars
million KRW 
locationslocations
meetings 2010
584
1,155
113
3
15,6112011
590
1,170113
3
15
,1282012
610
1,350
68
6
16,344RemarksLogistics and Employee Transportation Number of base stations within protected areas
Number of repeaters within protected areas Percentage of eco-friendly radio stations installed
*
Number of new eco-friendly radio stations openedUnit
locations
units
%
Local2010
29
146
-
49,9062011
44
348
-
58,4352012
56
553
40
63,498RemarksBiodiversity
*Eco-friendly radio station: A radio station that uses 10 kinds of standard antenna models, including the small ground-level disguised antenna.
Total environmental costs    Waste treatment cost    Education & training cost    Other costs    Contract recycling cost    Environmental organization support cost    Outside conservation cost    Environmental advertising & report publication cost    Fees & charges 
Green Purchase cost (EcoMark-certiﬁed products)
Energy conservation and climate change costNumber of environmental and resource volunteersNumber of environmental volunteer work Unit
KRWKRWKRWKRWKRWKRW
 KRW
KRWKRW
KRW
million KRW
people
hours2012
694,549,492
110,756,861
9,625,000
77,271,000
24,134,230
0
108,449,622
88,880,622
205,537,779 
10,005,499
265
1,506
1,831Remarks
 2011
923,234,000
92,378,000
25,000,000
68,000,000
4,513,000
0
93,825,000
167,000,000
472,518,000 
297,588,000123
1
,400
-2010
910,369,000
92,378,000
25,000,000
99,283,000
4,513,000
14,000,000
31,354,000
28,000,000
515,841,000 
740,664,000
17.9
450
-
*SK Telecom reports the estimated environmental and green purchase costs in 2012  using its estimation system in accordance with the Environmental Accounting Guidelines of the Ministry of Envi- 
 ronment, although it does not implement environmental accounting.Environmental Protection Expenditures and Investments*Environmental dataOPERATIONAL dAT A
ENVIRONMENTAL/SOCIAL dATA 47 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Waste and Recycling 
(waste generation from ofﬁce buildings)Unit : ton
Total waste generation     
    Amount of waste generated from   
 ofﬁce buildings (A)         Amount of waste recycled from  
 ofﬁce buildings 
(B)
Recycling rate (B/A+B)2010
1,306 
743 
 
563 
43%2011
1,459 
861 
 
598 
41%2012
1,210 
695 
 
515 
44%Remarks
  
 
 Waste and Recycling Unit : ton
2010
2011
20121,306 43%
1,459 41%
1,210 44%
1,203 47%
Target2013
Water Use Unit : m3
 Annual water consumption  
 
    Public water use
    Groundwater use2010 
681,915 
 
588,733
63,1822011 
676,043 
 
590,113
85,9302012 
649,351 
 
583,681
65,670Remarks 
Estimated water use 
from 26 ofﬁce build-
ings; wastewater 
not usedUnit : m3
2010
2011
2012681,915
676,043
649,351
618,430
Target2013Total greenhouse gas emissionsDirect greenhouse gas emissions    Fixed fuels    Mobile fuelsIndirect greenhouse gas emissions    Electricity    Steam2010
576,363
11,334
8,049
3,285
556,029
555,592
4372011
608,055
9,560
6,789
2,771
598,495
598,424
712012
673,742
7,803
5,598
2,205
665,939
665,861
78Remarks
 
   Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit : tCO 2e Unit : tCO 2e
2010
2011
2012576,363
608,055
673,742
722,000
Target*2013
*The 2013  targets are irrelevant to the targets under the 
Greenhouse Gas Target Management System and are based 
on the business growth rate. 
Total energy consumption (TJ)
Direct energy consumption (TJ)
    Natural gas consumption (Nm3)
    Diesel consumption (liter)
    Kerosene consumption (liter)
Indirect energy consumption (TJ)
    Electricity consumption (MWh)
Total amount of electricity saved (MWh)
    Ofﬁce building management (MWh)
    Adoption of natural air- conditioning  
 equipment (MWh)  
 
 
Electricity production by renewable 
energy facilities (MWh)2010
10,946
216
2,772,993
286,524
612,656
10,730
1,192,080
43,456
3,881
39,575 
 
 
1,278 
 2011
11,721
167
2,315,362
236,827
558,379
11,554
1,283,482
45,880
6,023
39,857 
 
 
 
2,729 2012
13,847
134
1,805,327
410,006
509,226
13,713
1,428,119
48,362
5,776
39,857 
 
 
 
2,729 Remarks
Annual quantity 
introduced  X 
Annual amount 
of energy saved 
per unit (actual 
measurement)
 Energy Consumption Energy Consumption Unit : TJ
2010
2011
201210,946
11,721
13,847
13,300
Target*2013
*The 2013  targets are irrelevant to the targets under the 
Greenhouse Gas Target Management System and are based 
on the business growth rate. 
Water48
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Number of employees who have completed ethics trainingUnit
people2010
5,3072011
4,7802012
3,688Remarks
 EthicsNumber of employees who use maternity leave
    Percentage of employees who return to work   
 after a leave    Percentage of employees who return to and stay  
 at work for over 
12 months
    Number of employees who apply for parental leaveUnit
people
% 
% 
people2010
-
- 
- 
-2011
-
- 
- 
-2012
154
100 
100 
48Remarks
Male and female combined
 
 Maternity and Parental LeaveNew employee hires
    Male    Female    
20s
    30s
    40s
    50s and older
Turnover    Male    Female    
20s
    30s
    40s
    50s and olderUnit
peoplepeoplepeoplepeoplepeoplepeoplepeople
%
peoplepeoplepeople
people
peoplepeople2010
452
321131
291
127
34
-
1.1
3612
8
30
552011
482343139
302
142
34
4
1
.8
501815
40
12
12012
425326
99
191165
66
3
0
.8
26
43
1710
-RemarksNew Employee Hires and Employee TurnoverSocial dataENVIRONMENTAL/SOCIAL dATA OPERATIONAL dAT A
Percentage of local managers in major locations*
    Total number of employees abroad    Number of employees sent abroad    Number of locals employed    Number of local managersUnit
%
peoplepeoplepeoplepeople2010
54
217
63
154
202011
50
246
70
176
192012
21.5
155
72
83
6RemarksBreakdown of Overseas Workforce
*The percentage of local managers in major locations refers to the number of local managers among all managers working overseas.Total employees
    Permanent employees    Temporary employees    Female employees    Employees with disabilities    VeteransUnit 
peoplepeoplepeoplepeoplepeoplepeople2010
4,494
4,365
129694
36
-2011
3,877
3,775102560
35
1842012
4,081
3,961120580
37
158Remarks
Executive ofﬁcers excludedBreakdown of Total Workforce
*The total number of employees declined in 2011  due to the separation of SK planet.49 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Percentage of occupational accidents 
 
 
Percentage of workers represented by trade unions
    Number of employees eligible for membership in trade unions    Number of employees represented by trade unions Unit
% 
 
 
%
people
people2010
0.02 
 
 
81.2
3,115
2,5302011
0 
  
80.5
2,657
2,1402012
0.02 
  
81.2
2,612
2,120Remarks 
Ratio of employees represented 
by trade unions to eligible 
employeesLabor Practices
Win-Win growth agreements 
Business partner satisfaction
Cumulative amount borrowed from Win-Win FundEmployees who have completed the Win-Win AcademyTechnological protection (technical data escrow) 
Percentage of cash payments by business partners
Average time taken for business partners to complete paymentsPercentage of electronic bidding implemented 
Business Partner Satisfaction Index (BPSI)
MD TEST CENTERParticipation in the platform test bedUnit
companies  
points (score)
million KRW 
people
cases 
%
days
cases 
points (score)
people
companies2010
- 
-
81,593
-
- 
100
10.75
60.8 
74.36
--2011
349 
-
123,738
12,588
30 
100
12.27
37.3 
74.52
13,644
932012
263 
83.9
160,651
160,651
48 
100
9.8
44 
---Remarks
Secondary business partners  
included
Introduced in 2012
Contract in force and effect   
since 2011
Electronic bidding/  
total competitive bidding
Transferred to SK planet 
Transferred to SK planet Win-Win Growth
Number of spam VOCs tracked
Number of electromagnetic waves measured from base stations  
 
Total amount of discounts for the socially disadvantaged
Amount of discounts for the disabled
Low-incomers (beneﬁciaries of National Basic Livelihood Security)
Low-incomers (second-lowest incomers)
Veterans, etc.
Other (social services centers and other groups)Unit
cases
cases 
 
million KRW 
million KRW 
million KRW million KRW million KRW million KRW 2010
122,434
2,147 
 
220,172
147,806
52,700
10,036
9,353
2772011
59,264
3,782 
 
223,457
148,811
54,780
10,045
9,5892322012
44,672
18,387 
 
217,719
145,057
51,560
10,943
9,960199Remarks
Increased number of EM wave 
measurements as a result of LTE 
network deployment nationwide
    Products and Services
Number of hours of volunteer work per person 
 Unit
hours 
 2010
- 
 2011
7.8 
 2012
6.4 
 Remarks 
Volunteer work is performed at 
the workplaceVolunteerPercentage of employees who receive formal performance review  
 
Annual average number of training hours per employee
Training cost per person Unit
% 
 
hours
10,000 KRW2010
97 
 
--2011
98 
 
74
3252012
95 
 
100
293Remarks
Full-time employees only; 
employees transferred excluded 
from reviews
Ofﬁcers and employees included
 Human Resources Development and TrainingAPPENdIxMateriality Report 52
UN Global Compact 56
Statement on Human Rights 57 
External  Assurance Statement 58
GRI, UNGC Table 61 
 52
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
SK Telecom Materiality Analysis Framework
SK Telecom complies with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI)'s Report Boundary and Technical Protocol relating to deﬁning the content of a sustain-
ability report and selects report topics through its annual materiality analysis process. "Materiality" as deﬁned by SK Telecom refers to "relevance" in 
business and sustainability aspects and the "impact" that the aforementioned topics actually have on SK Telecom's stakeholders. For the quantitative 
analysis of materiality, the company assessed the topics in terms of a corporate vision and internal strategies, other companies in the industry (industry 
competition), international standards, and media exposure, and incorporated the opinions of stakeholders collected from a survey that targeted those 
stakeholders that participate each year.
The report topics identiﬁed through the materiality analysis process are described in both business and sustainability aspects in the "RISKS AND OPPOR-
TUNITIES" section in page 6. The purpose of this materiality report is to provide details on the process of deﬁning topics, technicalities, and further  
analysis results.MATERIALIT y REPORT
Materiality Analysis Process
M-1. 
Evidence of Business & Sustainability Relevance
 - Assessments of a vision and future strategies, industry compe- 
 tition, laws and international standards, and media exposure - Based on document analyses M-2. 
Evidence of Stakeholder Impact
 - Responses from major stakeholders, including employees,   
 customers, shareholders & investors, NGOs, business partners,  
 media, and government
 - Based on a survey
Prioritized Reporting  
Topics Set 1
Customer, 
Products & 
Services
 7
Business 
Model & 
Innovation 2
Supply 
Chain 4
Business 
Ethics 3
Environment
 5
Community 6
EmployeesUniverse of Issues53 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
M-1. Evidence of ‘Relevance'
To identify the relevance of each topic in business and sustainability aspects, the company assessed the relevance of its corporate vision and strat -
egy, industry competition issues, the relevance of topics to international initiatives, and keywords exposed to the media. The assessments were con -
ducted based on document analyses, and report topics were prioritized according to the assessment results.
Vision and Strategy Relevance
In 2012 , SK Telecom declared its new vision "Partner for New 
Possibilities" and selected Telco & New Business, Hardware Expansion, 
and Social Responsibility as three strategies to achieve the vision. Then, 
the company assessed the relevance of each topic in accomplishing its mid- and long-term vision and the strategy of the Corporate Citizenship 
Committee.
Survey details: Relevance of Vision 
2020 , ofﬁcial press releases by the 
Corporate Citizenship Committee, previous sustainability reports 
Relevance to International Initiatives
SK Telecom assessed the relevance of each topic based on the initiatives 
and standards deemed to be credible, including the UNGC (Advanced 
Level) program for which SK Telecom publicly declared support, ISO 
26000 , the global standard for social responsibility, and the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indexes (DJSI), global sustainability benchmarks.
Analysis targets: UNGC Advanced Level, ISO 26000 , DJSI,  
GRI G 4 (Exposure Draft)Industry Competition Issues
The company assessed whether each topic is an issue facing global 
telecommunications companies. It also examined the topics that global 
mobile and cable telecommunications leaders regard as high priority 
issues.
 
 
Target companies: 10 global cable/mobile telecommunications operators
Survey details: Major topics related to sustainability reporting by the 
cable/mobile telecommunications industry
Keywords Exposed to the Media
Topics that appeared in the media in 2012  were surveyed. In 2012 , 
of the 3,506 articles, excluding those on the stock market and human 
resources, 884 were analyzed for the most popular keywords.
 
 
Target period: January 1 through December, 31, 2012
Target outlets: 12 daily newspapers, including The Chosun Ilbo,  
The Joongang Daily, and The Dong-a Ilbo
High Relevance  
to Our Business  
& Sustainability ICT Community Investment  
and Contributions7.78
Talent Attraction and 
Retention  6.67Digital Divide  
(Classes/Disabilities)7.78ICT Social Safety Net  9.50
Ethics and Compliance    8.89
Privacy Policy  7.78Service Satisfaction  8.8954
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
M-2. Evidence of ‘Impact'
To identify the impact of each topic on stakeholders, an online stakeholder survey was conducted. The survey targeted about 540 parties, including 
SK Telecom's 6 biggest stakeholders, the media and the academia, and of all, 271 organizations and individuals responded. The survey consisted of 
questions that asked about the interest and materiality of each major issue perceived by the stakeholders, a rating question about SK Telecom's level 
of sustainability, and other comments.   
Participating Stakeholders 
How Do You Rate SK Telecom's Sustainability?Survey period: February 15 through 27, 2013
Survey method: Online survey
Target and response rate: Of 540, 271 organizations and individuals responded
Not Very HighNo Idea
Fairly High
High Impact 
to Our  
Stakeholdersn= 271 54%
23%23%
Call/ Network Quality  8.68
Privacy Policy  8.34
Good Business Practices  8.14   Business Partners
·  BTB Solution Co., Ltd. 
·  NOW T.N.C Co., Ltd.
·  Seohwa Telecom Co., Ltd. 
·  FeelingK Co., Ltd., etc.  
   Government
·  Korea Communications  
 Commission (KCC) 
·  Korea Information &   
 Communication Industry   Institute
·  ETRI 
·  Prime Minister's Ofﬁce, etc.     NGO
·  World Vision 
·  Kids and Future Foundation 
·  UNICEF 
·  Compassion, etc.    Academia & Experts
·  UN Global Compact Korea  
 Network 
·  Institute for Sustainable  
 Development of Korea   
 Chamber of Commerce &  
 Industry
·  Korea Productivity Center, etc.
CustomersShareholders 
and InvestorsNGOBusiness 
PartnersMedia
Government
Academia and 
Sustainability Experts
Employeesn= 2711%
5%
13%
28%21%8%18%
6%
 What is the Main Reason You  
 Rated It High? 
·  Social enterprise activities and assist- 
 ance for the disadvantaged 
·  Promoting customer delight and empa- 
 thy, marketing
·  Assistance for the digitally disadvan- 
 taged (bridging the digital divide) 
·  Strong brand power and intelligence  What is the Main Reason You  
 Rated It Low? 
·  Lack of diversiﬁed prevention and prac-  
 tice of human rights impact
·  Narrow scope of CSR activities ·  Does not have a very good brand image·  Lack of employees' ethical awareness
·  High structural barriers to collaborative  
 cooperation among large- and small-/ 
 medium- enterprises from the monopo- 
 listic position 
·  Short-term marketing
Ethics and Compliance  8.26
Service Satisfaction  8.06 Reasonable Rates  8.0Talent Attraction and   
Retention8.20(unit : point)55 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Results of defining Report Topics
Material topics in terms of business, relevance to sustainability, and stakeholder impact were prioritized and incorporated into the report. For those 
11 topics that belong to the High Group, including ethics and compliance, in particular, business approaches and key data related to each topic were 
reported in narrative disclosures. Furthermore, most topics in the Middle Group were also reported in narrative disclosures, but for ( 1) health and 
safety and ( 2) labor rights and labor-management relations issues, only related data were disclosed. For the data disclosed, please see the Perfor -
mance Review section and the GRI Data Table.
RELEVANCE LowLow
HighHigh
Ethics and Compliance
Governance > Ethics and Compliance  
p.16Privacy Policy
Created Value > Customer Experience   
p.26        ManagementService Satisfaction
Created Value > Customer Experience   
p.26        Management
ICT Social Safety Net 
Created Value > R&C Social Innovation  
p.32
Innovation and R&d
Created Value > ICT Convergence
p.23Call/Network Quality 
Created Value > LTE Leadership,
p.20 Customer Experience   
 Management
digital divide  
(classes/disabilities) 
Created Value > Digital Inclusionp.
29ICT Community Investment  
and Contributions 
Created Value > R&C Social Innovationp.
32Talent Attraction and 
Retention
Created Value > Talent Attraction and
p.41 Retention
Green ICT/Infrastructure 
Service 
Created Value > Climate Change
p.38ICT Convergence 
Created Value > ICT Convergence
p.23High GroupLow Group Middle Group High Group
(See "RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES" in 
page 6 for details on the business and 
sustainability aspects of each topic)IMPACT Anti-corruption and Ethics Privacy Policy  Call/Network Quality
 Innovation and R&D
 ICT Convergence
 Green ICT/infrastructure Service Talent Attraction and  
 Retention 
 Digital Divide (classes/disabilities) Service Satisfaction 
 ICT Community Investment and Contributions  Good business  
 practices
 Health and safety
 Labor rights and labor-  
 management relations Responsible purchasing/supply chain sustainability
 Consumer communication
 Work-life balance
 Differentiation/ 
 diversity Reasonable rates
 Universal human rights
 Support for business   
 partners  Energy/climate change Mobile ecosystem
 Brand power
 Workplace climate
 Assistance for the disadvantaged
 Waste pollution/generation 
 Content responsibility
 Biodiversity Service safety  Resources/water
 Digital divide (region)56
2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
UN GLOBAL C OMPACT
SK Telecom has worked with the UNGC to spread and develop CSR at the global level. Since 2011 , the company has participated in the UN Global Com-
pact , LEAD group, to develop best practices in accordance with the UNGC Blueprint. The companies participating in the GC LEAD showcase their global 
leadership through the Working Group or Collective Action are actively engaged in regional network activities, and carry out tasks such as publishing 
COP (Communication on Progress) containing their commitments to the Blueprint. SK Telecom practices its global CSR leadership, focusing on the key CSR issues through its active engagement in the UNGC, such as increasing social enterprises.
Implementation of Global Cooperation Activi- 
ties, including the LEAd Taskforce
SK Telecom participates in the operation of a taskforce in social invest -
ment & corporate philanthropy as a LEAD activity and takes the initia -
tive in the social enterprise agenda on the global scene, including its 
presentation regarding "SK's Social Enterprises" at the Rio+ 20 Sustain -
ability Forum in June 2012 . Starting in 2012 , the company also partic -
ipates in the Integrated Reporting Pilot Program of the IIRC (Interna -
tional Integrated Reporting Council) and incorporates the IR framework into its 
2012  Sustainability Report, leading the global CSR trends. In 
November 2012 , the company attended the symposium on the Sustain -
able Development Goals (SDG) held in New York City as part of its CSR 
activities. To carry out more aggressive LEAD activities, in 2013 , SK Tele -
com plans on joining the next Steering Committee and continuing its global CSR leadership and international cooperation through its involve -
ment in the company's CSR-related Taskforce. 
Local Leadership by Participating in UNGC 
Korea Network Activities 
SK Telecom contributes to the expansion of CSR across Korea by join-
ing the UNGC Korea Network as a founding member in 2007 , and par -
ticipating in major CSR events hosted by the Korea Network. In August 
2012 , the company attended the 1st University Student Y-CSR Con-
ference to present SK Telecom's examples of CSR activities using ICT 
to help raise students' awareness of CSR. In September, the company 
attended the Roundtable of Korea, Japan, and China to discuss SK's social enterprises and helped promote cooperation in global CSR activi-
ties by communicating with CSR leaders of the three countries.  
The 1st University Student Y-CSR Conference 
Closing session of Rio+ 20 Sustainability ForumAttending Rio+20 Sustainability Forum 
Hosted by the UNGC, the UN Sustainability Committee, and the GC 
Brazil Network, the Rio+ 20 Sustainability Forum was held in Rio de 
Janeiro from June 15 through 18, 2012 , to discuss the direction of 
sustainable development. The conference was attended by approxi-
mately 2,500 guests, including government delegates, companies, 
civic groups, the press, and local governments, and 120 sessions were 
held in the areas of energy and climate change, agriculture, food, urbanization, water and ecosystem, and economy and ﬁnance.
The SK Group hosted the "Social Enterprise" session at the Confer -
ence and was applauded for its discussion regarding the necessity 
of a social enterprise as the most effective way for a company to be socially responsible, solutions to global issues through social enter -
prises, and how to create an ecosystem and increase partnerships to effectively implement such solutions. During the closing session, the company promised to build a global IT platform for social enterprises and was warmly received by the attendees. In 
2013 , SK Telecom will 
establish a speciﬁc plan to implement a global IT platform and continue 
its social enterprise-related activities.
57
STATEMENT ON 
HUMAN RIGHTS
Under the SKMS principle, "For the company's continuous development, the company creates value for customers, employees, and shareholders, ful-
ﬁlls a key role in social and economic development, and makes contributions to the happiness of mankind", SK Telecom aims to accomplish its business 
goals while fulﬁlling its social responsibilities and codes of conduct. The company's social responsibilities deﬁnes its human rights duties towards cus-
tomers, employees, business partners, and community.  
SK Telecom, as a company that practices a high level of awareness of global citizenship, respects the basic rights of all stakeholders that it encounters 
through products, services, contracts, purchases, and other business activities. 
SK Telecom declares its support for the human rights principles stated in the UN Universal Declaration Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights, and the Ruggie Framework and pledges to fulﬁll its human rights responsibilities. SK Telecom will make every effort to pre-vent human rights abuse involving business and avoid complicity in such abuses. Furthermore, the company will ensure governance with integrity to 
take measures and provide communication regarding an organization responsible, under the UNGC Human Rights/Labor Principles, the operating struc-
ture, the monitoring process, and incidents.     
Speciﬁcally, SK Telecom, as an ICT provider, is aware of potential human rights risks in the following aspects and will do its utmost to prevent any prob-
lems that may occur: 
- Fundamental prevention of wrong labor practices, such as  
 child and forced labor
- Prevention of discrimination by gender, ethnicity,   
 religion, disability, and race
- Political, religious, and physical freedom, and respect of civil rights
- Other labor principles recommended by the International  
 Labor Organization (ILO) and endorsed by the government:   safety/health, working hours, etc.Human Rights of Employees and Business 
Partners (Human Rights in the Workplace) 01- Demanding minimum personal information, recording and  
 saving to comply with laws
- Notiﬁcation prior to saving information, ﬁduciary duty, and  
 ability to freely delete information  
- Optimal security system for preventing leaks, including   
 data encryption 
- Limited and responsible use of personal information for  
 service/marketing purposes Human Rights in Privacy Policies02
- Obligation to ensure equality of access to services     regardless of class/disabilities 
- Efforts to bridge the digital/smart divide: education, rate plans,   
 and systems 
- Responsibility for distributed information to protect minors,   
 including children and adolescents
- Fundamental support for freedom of expressionHuman Rights in Access to Information & 
Freedom of Expression03
- Refusal to use technologies, electronic devices, and data for  
 dual purposes 
- Prevention of misuse of technologies, such as wiretapping,  
 signal interference, or hackingPrevention of Misuse of Technologies, Services, 
and data (Human Rights in Technology) 04
April 2013      SK Telecom President & CEO
Ha Sung-Min
CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
SK Telecom always keeps the channels of stakeholder communication open to prevent any human rights violations. If you have witnessed or experienced 
incidents of such violations, please inform the Company through the appropriate channel. (http://www.sktelecom.com/html/n_social/CSRSand.html)
SK Telecom is committed to fulﬁlling its social responsibilities and pursuing the happiness of stakeholders and pledges to take the lead in advocating 
and complying with the Human Rights principles. Thank you.58 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Introduction
Det Norske Veritas Certiﬁcation Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as rDNV') is com -
missioned to carry out assurance engagement on SK Telecom Inc. (hereinaf -
ter referred to as rSK Telecom') Integrated Report 2013  (hereinafter referred to 
as rthe Report'). This engagement focused on the information provided in the 
Report and the underlying management and reporting processes.
SK Telecom is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and pre -
sentation of all information within the Report. DNV's responsibility in per -
forming the work commissioned is solely to the management of SK Telecom, 
in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. The assur -
ance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufﬁcient and authentic. SK Telecom' stakeholders 
are the intended recipients of the assurance statement.
Scope of Assurance
This Assurance Engagement covered data from the calendar year 2012 . SK Tele -
com's reporting boundaries include only operations under control in Korea. The 
scope of DNV's Assurance Engagement, as agreed with SK Telecom included 
the veriﬁcation of:
Limitations
The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of SK Telecom's suppliers, contractors and any third-par -
ties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Any ﬁnancial information from SK Tele -
com's annual report and company reporting on operations in 
2012  or other 
sources was not included in the scope of the Assurance. Economic perfor -
mances based on the ﬁnancial data were cross-checked with internal docu -
ments and the audited ﬁnancial statements. The aggregation and calculation 
process for building economic performances is reviewed and tested by the veri -
ﬁcation team.Conclusions
In DNV's opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the 
Report provides a reliable and fair representation of SK Telecom's sustainabil -
ity strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2012 . DNV conﬁrms that the 
Report meets GRI G 3.1 Application level rA+'. Further conclusions and observa -
tions on the adoption of reporting principles  and speciﬁc performance informa -
tion are made below.
Stakeholder Inclusivity
SK Telecom has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders regarding sustain -
ability issues via survey and interview. The stakeholder engagement covers a 
wide range of stakeholders. Stakeholder communication channels are stated 
in detail in the Report. 6 Stakeholder groups that are Supplier, Customer, and 
Shareholder, Employees, local community/NGO, Government are identiﬁed. 
Respective business units identify the interest of stakeholders by engaging 
them with various ways. Stakeholder engagement is conducted independently. 
SK Telecom has coordinated concerns and expectations of various stakeholders 
and made strategic decisions through Corporate Citizenship Committee which is SK Telecom's highest governing body. Furthermore, CSR Consultation group 
consisting of major stakeholder representatives provides advices in its regular 
meeting. DNV considers these two organizations are one of the best practices that SK Telecom put in place. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres 
to the principle of Inclusivity is 
rGood'.
Responsiveness
Stakeholders' views, interests and expectations sought from stakeholder com -
munications are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formu -
lation of SK Telecom's sustainability management approach. SK Telecom has 
established targets corresponding to respective material issues and measured 
the performances so that progress of sustainability management can be pre -
sented to the stakeholders. The Report communicates the response on mate -
rial issues with clarity. SK Telecom has announced "Statement of Protection of Human Right" in this report, which reﬂects the signiﬁcant of Human Right 
protection in ICT Sector and supports UN Guiding Principles on Business and Data and activities related to sustainability that refer to the period between January 
2012  and December 2012  as contained in the Report.
Evaluation of the reporting principles for deﬁning the sustainability report content 
and the quality as expressed in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI G 3.1. 
Evaluation of Accountability Principles and Performance Information and evaluation of speciﬁc data and information(Type 
2) with a moderate level of assurance, accord -
ing to AA 1000  Accountability Principles Standard 2008  and AA 1000  Assurance 
Standard 2008 .
Type 2 assurance is applied to the data and information in major issues sections and 
operational data.
Check of GRI Application Level
Our veriﬁcation was carried out during April 2013 . We visited SK Telecom's Head ofﬁceAdherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, as set 
forth in the AA 1000 AS(2008 )
The GRI G 3.1, speciﬁcally with respect to all the requirements for the rA+' applica -
tion level 
The process for determining the materiality of the contents to be included in the Report.
The process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative 
data included in the Report.ExTERNAL ASSURANCE 
STATEMENT
Verification Methodology
We interviewed a group of 10 people within the company who are involved in 
the operational management of matters covered in the Report. This Assurance 
Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV Veriﬁ -
cation Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (V. 4.1) (www.dnv.com/cr) and 
AA1000 AS(2008 ). In accordance with the Protocol, the Report was evaluated 
with regard to the following criteria:As part of the veriﬁcation, we challenged the sustainability-related statements 
and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying 
data management system, information ﬂow and controls. We examined and 
reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV by SK Telecom. We acquired the information and technical data from the certiﬁed 
management systems. We performed sample-based audits of;
We interviewed a group of 
14 people within the company who are involved in 
the operational management of matters covered in the Report.59 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
It is recommended to disclose the corrective and preventive actions taken against non-
compliance issues so that the transparency of sustainability management is improved.
SK Telecom's existing sustainability objectives are rather short-term and medium term 
only. SK Telecom will need to decide the long-term sustainability objectives in order to correctly measure progress in the delivery of its vision and strategy.
Social and Environmental Performance data are disclosed comparably. Some nega -
tive trends in the performance indicators are reported as compared to the previous two 
years. SK Telecom will need to assess the implications of the outcomes and take neces -
sary actions in order to keep its progress on track toward sustainability vision.
Seoul, Korea
May 2013
Kwak Seung-hyeon
Lead VeriﬁerAhn In-kyoon
Country ManagerAntonio Astone
Assurance Engagement Reviewer 
Global Responsible for Sustain-ability Services
Human Right. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle 
of Responsiveness is rGood'.
Materiality
External signiﬁcant issues are identiﬁed by analysing global sustainability stan -
dards and relevant with its Vision and strategy. Analysis of media coverage and 
industry sustainability management issue are the basis of screening signiﬁcant 
issues. In addition, SK Telecom has conducted the stakeholder online survey. SK 
Telecom has mapped out internal and external issues and prioritized sustain -
ability issues that are most material. The output of the process clearly brings 
out material issues encompassing short, medium and long-term impacts. The 
Report generally provides an account of performance on the issues that are 
most signiﬁcant to SK Telecom' activities and which are most relevant to its 
stakeholders. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle 
of Materiality is rGood'.
Completeness
The report clearly identiﬁes the stakeholder groups addressed through the report. The scope and boundary of the Report cover the issues and activities 
that are of most signiﬁcance to SK Telecom and relevance to its stakeholders. 
No material omissions are identiﬁed in data or information veriﬁed. The Report 
discusses the management approach towards companies in which it has inﬂu -
ence. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Com -
pleteness is 
rGood'.
Principle of report quality
The tone in the Report is relatively neutral. All the indicators are factually-based 
and unbiased. No biased information is observed. Provision of detailed infor -
mation with regard to the actions taken against non-compliance issues would increase the transparency of the Report. Data and information presented in the 
report are generally reliable. Presentation through graphics and charts for the 
purpose of comparison is adequate. SK Telecom uses 
rbest practice' in planning 
the Report content and collecting data and information. Such data as GHG and 
some environmental data are collected and compiled with an automated sys -
tem. Data and information owner has demonstrated to understand the data compilation. Re-statements are presented when and where applicable. How -
ever, integrated data management needs to be established by recording the ori -
gin of data and information and storing the original data in the system. Further -
more, internal assessment of data and information need to be implemented in 
order to improve the data quality. Information in the Report is presented in a way to company year-on-year performance. The control of the data and infor -
mation about the sustainability performance should be improved. Some data in the report are found inconsistent with the source data during the veriﬁcation 
and subsequently corrected. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres 
to the principle of Neutrality and Reliability are 
rAcceptable'.
Findings in relation to specific sustainability 
performance information
DNV has evaluated the nature and extent of SK Telecom's adherence to the 
AA1000  Accountability Principles as described above. In addition, the reliabil -
ity of data and information is evaluated for Type 2 Assurance. DNV has inter -
viewed the personnel responsible for the data and information in order to ﬁg -
ure out the generation, aggregation and processing of data and information. The veriﬁcation team has reviewed the relevant documents and records based on which the statements in the Report are addressed. Especially the in-depth 
review is conducted on the reliability of data and information with regard to 
Water consumption, Waste generation, Accident rate and Ethics & Compliance for Type 
2 Assurance. The reporting of the sustainability performance presented 
in the Report make it possible to understand company's impact in economic, 
social and environmental areas, as well as the company's achievements in those 
regards. SK Telecom has developed an effective methodology for gathering the 
speciﬁc information and data to use in the Report. The speciﬁc data and infor -
mation were found to be identiﬁable and traceable. The personnel responsible 
for the data were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data 
in a reliable manner. From our analysis of the data and information, and SK Tele -
com's processes that generate them, we conclude that the data and information 
included in the Report are the results of stable and repeatable activities. In par -
ticular, the team conducted a more detailed Type 2 assurance on water use, 
waste generation, accident rate, and ethics and compliance. 
Opportunities for Improvement
The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to 
SK Telecom's management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the 
Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement.
Statement of Competence and Independence
DNV is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the veriﬁcation of sustain -
ability reports. Our environmental and social assurance specialists operate in over 100 
countries. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete impartial -
ity toward stakeholders interviewed during the veriﬁcation process. DNV expressly dis -
claims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make 
based on this Assurance Statement.Scope of Assurance 
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by 
SK Telecom Co., Ltd. to provide external assurance on the data relat -
ing to SK Telecom's greenhouse gas and energy use as recorded in the 
2012  Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Consumption Report pre -
pared in accordance with SK Telecom's Greenhouse Gas and Energy 
Target Management Policy, and on the GHG emissions of the com -
pany, as shown in Table 1. The data include the company's direct and 
indirect GHG emissions. 
Management Responsibility  
SK Telecom's management is responsible for preparing the Green -
house Gas report and ensuring effective internal management of data and information. The responsibility of LRQA is limited to the assurance 
of the Report under the agreement with SK Telecom.
Ultimately, the Report has been approved by SK Telecom and is the 
responsibility of SK Telecom.
Level and Materiality of Assurance
The level of assurance is Reasonable Assurance and the Assurance Statement was prepared at a materiality level of 
2.5%.
March 28, 2013                                                        
Yoo Sang-geun 
Representing Llyod's Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 
Scope  (as deﬁned in the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Policy)
Direct GHG emissions
Energy indirect GHG emissionsTotal GHG emissionsLRQA Reference No:  SEO 6017128
Table 1. Greenhouse Gas Emissions in SK Telecom's Greenhouse Gas Report
2012   
7,803
665,939
673,742
The data indicated in the metric tons of carbon dioxideAssurance Statement 
This Assurance Statement states the auditor's opinion on the company's GHG Emissions 
and Energy Consumption Report in accordance with its Greenhouse Gas and Energy Tar -
get Management Policy.
Third-Party Liability 
LRQA, its associates, subsidiaries, employees, or representatives are hereinafter both individually and collectively referred to as "Lloyd Register Group." The Lloyd Register 
Group is not responsible for any losses, damages, or other liabilities arising from depen-
dence on advice or information provide in this document or in any other way. Exceptions apply to any agreements entered into by and between a third party and a member of the Lloyd Register Group regarding the provision of the said information or advice, in which 
case all responsibilities and compensation are subject to the terms and conditions set 
forth therein.150-923, 17th ﬂoor, Sinsong Building, 25-4,  
Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu 
Seoul, Republic of KoreaThe Assurance Team visited the major places of business to check the 
equipment and reviewed the company's process of managing GHG emis -
sions and energy use records. 
The team interviewed with the employee responsible for managing and 
keeping the GHG emissions and energy use data.
The team veriﬁed the data and information included in SK Telecom's 2012  
GHG Emissions and Energy Consumption Report.LRQA Assurance Method 
LRQA conducted its assurance engagement in accordance with the 
Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Policy. The agency 
found that the GHG data in SK Telecom's Greenhouse Gas Report 
was prepared in accordance with the company's Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Policy and the level of assurance is rea -
sonable.   
To draw the conclusions, the following activities were performed:
For some small devices whose energy use and bill data are not man -
aged within the ERP system, emissions were estimated based on the 
data of other similar devices, and the impact of such estimation is deemed to be insigniﬁcant.Opinion of LRQA
The results of assurance conducted by LRQA using its method showed 
that there is nothing that may have affected the materiality of the 
GHG data in the company's Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy 
Consumption Report. Thus, the level of assurance is deemed to be moderate. The conclusions drawn here are based on the following:   
60 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
ASSURANCE ON THE 
GREENHOUSE GAS STATEMENTGRI/UNGC INdEx
1.1
1.2
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5 
2.6
2.7 
2.8
2.9
2.10 
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9 
3.10
3.11 
3.12 
3.13 
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4 
4.5 
4.6
4.7 
4.8
4.9 
4.10 
4.11 
4.12 
4.13 
4.14
4.15
4.16
4.17 p. 2-3
p. 6-7
SK Telecom
p. 4-5, Websitee
Business Report
p. 4-5
p. 4-5, Website  
p. 4-5
p. 4-5 
p. 4-5, 44-45
Cover pageCover page
2012 .01.01-2012 .12.31
2012 . 05
1 year
Back coverp. 
6-7, 52-55
Cover pageCover page
Special attention indicated as notes if necessary
Calculations or estimates based on actual measurements  
Special attention indicated as notes if necessarySpecial attention indicated as notes if necessaryRecalculate if any changes based on the 
2013  results  
p. 61-64
Cover page, External Assurance Statement p. 
10-11
p. 10-11
p. 10-11
p. 10-11 
p. 10-11 
p. 10-11
p. 10-11 
p. 8-9
p. 12-13 
p. 12-13 
p. 12-13 
p. 12-13 
Participation in the UNGC LEAD steering committee and 
Integrated Report Pilot Program
p. 52-55
p. 12-13, 52-55
p. 12-13, 52-55
p. 6-7, 52-55 CEO message
Opportunities and challenges
Name of the organization
Tier-1 brands, products, and/or services
Operational structure of the organizationLocation of organization's headquartersNumber of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 
operations 
Nature of ownership and legal form
Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/
beneﬁciaries)
Scale of the reporting organizationSigniﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership
Awards received in the reporting period
Reporting period 
Recent report date
Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents
Process for deﬁning report contentBoundary of the report
Report scope and boundaries  
State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations  
Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statementSigniﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 
applied in the report
Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report
Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report
Governance structure of the organizationIndicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive ofﬁcer
Organizational structure of the board of directors
Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 
governance body
Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 
executives 
Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided 
Process for determining the composition, qualiﬁcations, and expertise of the members of the highest 
governance body and its committees 
Management principles
Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identiﬁcation and 
management of economic, environmental, and social performance
Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to 
economic, environmental, and social performance
Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 
organization
Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 
which the organization subscribes or endorses
Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 
organizations in which the organization
Stakeholder groups that are engaged
Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage
Approaches to stakeholder engagement
Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 
organization has responded to those key topics and concernsProfile
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
 Indicator     | Description Reported | Cross Reference/Direct Answer GRI 3.1  : Fully reported, æ : Partially reported, : Not reported, N/A: Not Applicable, N/M: Not Material  61 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendixDMA
EC1
EC2
EC3 
EC4
EC5 
EC6
EC7 
EC8 
EC9p. 20-22, 23-25
Cover page, p. 44-45
p. 6-7, 38-40
Applied to all full-time employees as Deﬁned Contributions or 
Deﬁned Beneﬁts
Cover page Not Reported  
Overseas purchase accounts for 
1.5% in 2012  (based on sales amount)
p. 48-49 
p. 32-34 
p. 6-7Direct economic value generated and distributed
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change
Coverage of the organization's deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations  
Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from governmentRange of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant 
locations of operation
Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operation
Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signiﬁcant 
locations of operation
Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt 
through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement
Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impactsEconomic
 
  
 
 
 
æ 
  
  
 
DMA
EN1
EN2
EN3
EN4
EN5
EN6 
EN7
EN8
EN9
EN10
EN11 
EN12 
EN13
EN14
EN15 
EN16
EN17
EN18
EN19
EN20
EN21 
EN22
EN23
EN24 
EN25 
EN26
EN27
EN28 
EN29 
EN30p. 38-40
p. 46-47 
p. 46-47
p. 46-47
p. 46-47
p. 40
p. 38-40 
p. 38-40
p. 46-47
Only regular water service is used; no signiﬁcant level of water use
Reused/recycled water is not used
p. 46-47. Base stations/repeaters within protection zones (the 
number of installations disclosed)
No direct impact on protection zones besides the base stations/
repeaters
Same as above
Same as above
Same as above  
p. 38-40, 46-47
p. 38-40, 46-47
p. 38-40
Impact deemed insigniﬁcant. No plan to estimate Impact deemed insigniﬁcant. No plan to estimate The company generates only domestic wastewater, not 
wastewater that has a serious impact
p. 
46-47
No signiﬁcant hazardous material discharges 
No waste generated speciﬁed in the Basel Convention  
The company generates only domestic wastewater, not 
wastewater that has a serious impact
p. 38-40
p. 46-47
No violations of environmental laws  
p. 46-47 
p. 46-47Materials used by weight or volume
Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materialsDirect energy consumption by tier-
1 energy source
Indirect energy consumption by tier- 1 source
Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvementsInitiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in 
energy requirements as a result of these initiatives
Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achievedTotal water withdrawal by sourceWater sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of waterPercentage and total volume of water recycled and reusedLocation and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas
Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and 
areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
Habitats protected or restoredStrategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity
Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by 
operations, by level of extinction risk
Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weightOther relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weightInitiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achievedEmissions of ozone-depleting substances by weightNOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight
Total water discharge by quality and destination  
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method
Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spillsWeight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the 
Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally
Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly 
affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff
Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigationPercentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations
Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the 
organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce
Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by typeEnvironment
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
æ  
N/M 
N/M
N/MN/M 
 
 
 
N/M
N/M
æ  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 62 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Indicator     | Description Reported | Cross Reference/Direct Answer  : Fully reported, æ : Partially reported, : Not reported, N/A: Not Applicable, N/M: Not Material  
Social: Labor Practices and decent Work 
DMA
LA1
LA2p. 41-43, 57
p. 48-49
p. 48-49Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by genderTotal number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 
 LA3 
LA15
LA4
LA5 
LA6 
LA7 
LA8 
LA9 
LA10
LA11 
LA12 
LA13 
LA14 p. 41-43 
p. 48-49
p. 49
Notiﬁcation of signiﬁcant changes without delays speciﬁed in a collective bargaining 
agreement (Article 18)
Not Reported  
p. 48-49 
In-company gyms and medical center, annual health check-ups, vaccinations, medical center installation and operation in each area
Obligations of occupational safety and health and guarantee of safety & health 
activities speciﬁed in a collective bargaining agreement 
e
p. 48-49
Contract out turnover and startup consulting to specialized startup support agencies  
p. 48-49 
p. 41-43, 48-49. The Board does not have guidelines for appointment regarding 
minority groups and diversity
No gender difference in basic wage  Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees, by major operations
Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by genderPercentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreementsMinimum notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant operational changes, including whether it 
is speciﬁed in collective agreements
Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and 
safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs
Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-
related fatalities by region and by gender
Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist 
workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases
Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions  
Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 
employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 
by gender
Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 
according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by 
signiﬁcant locations of operation  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
æ 
  
  
  
DMA
HR1 
 
HR2 
HR3 
HR4 
HR5 
 HR
6 
HR7 
 
HR8 
HR9 
HR10 
HR11 p. 41-43, 57
No human rights protection and review provisions in the present investment/
negotiation process ( 0%) 
p. 35-37 
p. 48-49 
Incidents of discrimination based on gender, ethnic group, religion, education, and origin are reported through the grievance channel, and 
0 reports in 2012
p. 57. Trade union that encompasses all places of business; no areas of business with 
the possibility of serious violations of freedom of association/collective bargaining  
e
p. 57 
p. 57 
 
Not Reported  
Not Reported  
p. 57 
p.42. Data on employee disclosed herein; starting in 2013 , the company plans on 
operating an ofﬁcial complaint management mechanism relating to human rightsPercentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts that 
include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human 
rights screening
Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have 
undergone human rights screening, and actions taken
Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human 
rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained
Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  
Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and actions 
taken to support these rights
Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of 
child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor
Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor
Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures 
concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations
Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and 
actions taken
Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights 
reviews and/or impact assessments
Number of grievances related to human rights ﬁled, addressed and resolved through 
formal grievance mechanismsSocial: Human Rights
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
æ 
æ 63 CEO Message
Business & StrategyGovernance
Our Created Value
Performance ReviewAppendix
Indicator     | Description Reported | Cross Reference/Direct Answer  : Fully reported, æ : Partially reported, : Not reported, N/A: Not Applicable, N/M: Not Material  
Social: Society
DMA
SO1 
SO2
SO3
SO4
SO5 
SO6 
SO7 
SO8 
SO9
SO10 p. 16-17, 32-34, 35-37
No data relating to expansion into new markets; little to no potential/material negative 
impact on community  
p. 16-17
p. 16-17
p. 16-17
SK Telecom maintains a close relationship with the Korean Communications 
Commission and complies with its regulations
0 KRW. No donations to political parties or politicians  
p. 37, Business Report  
p. 37, Business Report  
No potential/material negative impact on community was found e
No potential/material negative impact on community was found Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs
Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruptionPercentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and proceduresActions taken in response to incidents of corruptionPublic policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying  
Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related 
institutions by country
Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices and their outcomes
Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-
compliance with laws and regulations
Operations with signiﬁcant potential or actual negative impacts on local communitiesPrevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with signiﬁcant potential or 
actual negative impacts on local communitiesN/M 
æ
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
N/A DMA
PR1 
 
 
PR2 
PR3 
PR4 
PR5
PR6 
PR7 
PR8 
PR9 p. 26-28
The three mobile operators have contributed 300 million KRW 
since 2007  to conduct research on the impact of radio waves 
on human body (SK Telecom: 150 million per year). Research 
completed in 2012 .
No violations of laws concerning impacts on customer health 
and safety
p. 26-28  
p. 37 
p. 26-28
p. 26-28 
No violations of marketing/advertising communication laws 
during the reporting period
p. 26-28 
p. 35-37 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for 
improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and services categories subject to such procedures  
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes
Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of signiﬁcant products 
and services subject to such information requirements
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product 
and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes
Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfactionPrograms for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 
including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 
marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes
Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data
Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the 
provision and use of products and servicesSocial: Product Responsibility)
æ 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  64 2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report
Fulﬁllment of the UNGC 10 Principles in Strategy and Operation
Criterion 1      Commitment to integrate the UNGC 10 principles into business functions and units
Criterion 2      Practicing the UNGC 10 principles across the value chain
Deﬁnite Human Rights Policy and Procedure
Criterion 3      Human rights commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 4      Effective management system to incorporate the human rights principles into business and   management procedures 
Criterion 5      Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the human rights principles in the  business and   
      management procedures  
Deﬁnite Labor Policy and ProcedureCriterion 
6      Labor commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 7      Effective management system to incorporate the labor principles into business and management  procedures  
 
Criterion 8      Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the labor principles in the business and management  
      procedures  
Deﬁnite Environmental Policy and Procedure
Criterion 9      Environment commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 10      Effective management system to incorporate the environmental principles into business and management  procedures
Criterion 11      Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the environmental principles in the business and   
      management procedures
Deﬁnite Ethics and Compliance Policy and Procedure 
Criterion 12      Ethics commitment, strategy, and policy
Criterion 13      Effective management system to incorporate the ethical principles into business and management procedures
Criterion 14      Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the ethical principles in the business and   
      management procedures
Activities to support the more comprehensive UN objectives and goals
Criterion 15      Contribution through key businesses to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
Criterion 16      Strategic community investment and charity work to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
Criterion 17      Public engagement and communication to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
Criterion 18      Partnerships and outside initiatives to help achieve the UN objectives and goals
Governance and Leadership for SustainabilityCriterion 
19      CEO's sustainability commitment and leadership
Criterion 20      The Board of Directors' selection and oversight of sustainability agenda items
Criterion 21      Stakeholder engagement  
p. 2-3, 56
p. 6-7, 12-13
  
 p. 
57
p. 57
Evaluation mechanisms for human rights/labor/environment operated when evaluating business partners
  
 p. 
57
p. 41-43. Through the trade union and collective 
bargaining, the labor principles are integrated and the labor-management council holds regular meetings
p. 
41-43. The labor-management council holds 
regular meetings and operate the grievance channel 
for employees
  
 
p. 38-40
p. 38-40
p. 38-40 
  
 
p. 16-17
p. 16-17
p. 16-17 
  
 p. 
29-31, 32-34
p. 32-34
p. 12-13, 56
p. 56
  
 p. 
2-3
p. 12-13
p. 12-13, 52-55UNGC Advanced Criteria                    Cross Reference/Direct Answer UNGC INdExIndicator     | Description Reported | Cross Reference/Direct Answer  : Fully reported, æ : Partially reported, : Not reported, N/A: Not Applicable, N/M: Not Material  You can download this Report as a PDF ﬁle from the ofﬁcial website of 
SK Telecom (http://www.sktelecom.com). 
To contribute to resource recycling and environmental protection, SK 
Telecom used Forest Stewardship Council's FSCTM-certiﬁed paper to 
publish the 2012  Sustainability Report and print it using soy-based ink 
certiﬁed with the FSCTM Chain of Custody (Certiﬁcate No.: C110010 ). 
The company also participates in the Carbon Neutral Program run by the Korea Energy Management Corporation to offset greenhouse gas 
emissions generated from the pulp and energy used to print reports. 
Despite the company's varying efforts to reduce environmental impacts, 
since the process of making and printing in paper generates pollutants, this Report is published both in print and as an interactive PDF ﬁle. SK 
Telecom plans on reducing resource and energy use and using more 
interactive PDF ﬁles that contain a lot more information than in the print version due to lack of space. We encourage our readers to access 
this Report as a PDF ﬁle instead of the print edition to save resources 
and protect the environment, while accessing a lot more information 
more conveniently.2012 SK Telecom Integrated Sustainability Report 
If you have any comments or questions about the Report, 
please contact us at:
CSR Division Global Cooperation Team | E-mail: sustainability@sk.com
100-999, SK Telecom Co., Ltd., SK-T Tower, Euljiro 65 (Euljiro 2-ga), 
Jung-gu, Seoul
Publication date_ June 2013  | Published by_ SK Telecom 
Designed by_ Reddot Branding
C110010Partner for New Possibilities