Partner for 
New PossibilitiesSK Telecom Annual Report 2014Partner for 
New PossibilitiesSK Telecom Annual Report 2014SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  |  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix3 2
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement AppendixAs an Integrated Annual Report prepared for the purpose of reporting the annual perfor -
mance to the investors and stakeholders, this Report comprises not only the financial per -
formance records of SK Telecom, but also comprehensive information on value creation in-
cluding non-financial performance, future prospects and efforts to improve company value. Sustainability and annual reports were issued separately by SK Telecom until 2012, but start-
ing in 2013, the two reports have been compiled and issued as a single report. This Report is 
the second integrated report published by SK Telecom, and final approval of this Report from the BOD was given on June 24, 2015.
Integrated Reporting under International Guidelines
The International Integrated Reporting Council provides the International Integrated Report-ing (IR) Framework, a standard framework for the Integrated Reporting (IR) of both financial 
and non-financial performances. This Report was prepared in accordance with the guiding 
principles and report content suggested in the IR Framework 1.0, a standard framework for the Integrated Reporting (IR) of both financial and non-financial performances, and the 
comprehensive requirements of the GRI G4 Guideline, a standards guideline for sustainability 
reports provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As one of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) LEAD companies, SK Telecom has been undertaking management activities con-
forming to the 10 principles of UNGC, and this Report was prepared in accordance with the 
documentation principles prescribed in the Communication on Progress (COP) of UNGC.
Scope and Boundary of the Report
In this Report, the terms, “SK Telecom” and “the company,” refer to SK Telecom, excluding its subsidiaries that are subject to consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Korean version of International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). The financial data is 
based on consolidated financials, while the non-financial data on the environmental perfor -
mance and fulfillment of the corporate social responsibility is based on an individual basis. 
When explaining the performance of SK Telecom’s subsidiaries, the respective names of the 
subsidiaries were used in this Report. The data presented in this Report exclude those for SK 
Telecom’s overseas branches, subsidiaries, invested companies, and supply chains unless otherwise indicated in the generation descriptions and information section. Such data, how-About This Report
ever, were included in case they are likely to have a significant impact on the stakeholders’ decisions, in consideration of SK Telecom’s financial and operational control and the actual 
influence and effects of its business. As for the geographical boundaries, this Report covers 
data for the company’s major places of business, which is the Republic of Korea, while the temporal scope is between January 1 and December 31, 2014. This Report, however, may 
disclose a portion of the qualitative data generated until April 2015. In case of any changes in 
the previously reported data requiring attention, such data were re-calculated based on the 2014 data. The reporting period of this Report is one fiscal year, and the preceding report was the <SK Telecom Annual Report 2013> issued in July 2014.
SK Telecom, an active member of UNGC LEAD, was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices (DJSI) World Index for the seventh consecutive year since 2008, and has been des-
ignated as a Telecommunication Industry Leader for 5 years in a row since 2010. In addition, 
SK Telecom has been participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the business network program of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).
5 4
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement AppendixAbout This Report
About Us
New Possibilities2
4
6
18
2226
26
30
32
3638
42
4246
48
4850
52
52
58
6266
70
74808082
88
92
92
9496
96
102
110
116
118128
130
134
138
142
144
145
146154Inside This Year’s Report
1. Overview CEO’s Message
 Business Model                         
 The Year 2014
	 1) Financial Performance and Outlook 
 2) Key Operating Performance
 3) Performance of Major Subsidiaries
 4) Economic Value Generated and Distributed
 5) Review of the Year 2014
2. Business & Strategy Value Creation Strategies 
  1) Vision & Mission    
 2) Next-Generation Platform Strategy
 Market Context & Issues
  1) Where We Operate    
 2) Our Target & Goals
  Business Cases
   1) Customer Experience Innovation
 2) Next-Generation Network Leadership
 3) Convergence
 4) Creation of Shared Value Using ICT
 5) Solutions to Climate Change
 6) HR Recruitment & Investment3. Governance & Leadership Governance Report  
 1) Board of Directors Profiles   
 2) Governance Model    
 3) Corporate Citizenship Committee
 Risk Report  
 1) Risk Governance    
 2) Risk Profile and Strategy
 Ethical Management
 1) Code of Ethics
4. Financial & Non-Financial Statement
 Financial Statements
 Financial MD&A 
 Non-financial Statements
 Non-financial MD&A
 Report of External Auditor
 Third Party Assurance Statement
 Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
5. Appendix
 Materiality Report  
 CEO Statement on Human Rights
 UN Global Compact  
 SASB Index   
 GRI Index
 Non-Consolidated Financial StatementAbout Us
SK Telecom, as of December 31, 2014, accounted for about 50% share of the domestic sub-
scribers of mobile communication services companies in South Korea is the world’s ‘best’ 
and  Korean ‘first’ leading technology and services in the ICT ecosystem. 
Highlights of SK Telecom  As of December 31, 2014
Shareholder Status
Shareholders Return (Non-Consolidated Basis)                   Unit: KRWNumber of Subscribers          About 28.61 million 
Number of Executives & Employees      4,253 
Number of Subsidiary Companies         40 
Stock Exchange Registration Status Korea Stock Exchange
 New York Stock Exchange
 London Stock Exchange
Net Income 1,028.5 billion
Earnings per Share 14,262
Total Dividend 666.8 billion
Dividend Payout Ratio 64.8% 
Dividend per Share  9,400SK Corp.
Citibank ADR
National Pension
Fund7 6
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
New
PossibilitiesConnectivity
SK Telecom’s core competitiveness is network quality. 
SK Telecom is innovating its products and services for the sole purpose of raising its customer’s values, and creating a new ICT environment that is based ona high-speed data network.
Expandability
SK Telecom is evolving towards becoming a Next-GenerationPlatform provider by surpassing the telecommunicationsindustry’s limitations, eliminating boundaries between industriesand through confident convergence and innovation. SK Telecom’s new transformation will mark a new turning
point in the history of Korean ICT development.
Sustainability
SK Telecom is the market leader in the ICT industry. 
As market leader, SK Telecom is responsible for oursociety's sustainability, an obligation we fulfill with pride. 
SK Telecom will strive to reduce the digital devide between 
regions and generations and create social values that can bring happiness to all members of society. For the past 30 years, SK Telecom has connected people and evolved towards a new 
tomorrow. SK Telecom has rewritten the history of Korea’s telecommunication industry by inventing new services and introducing advanced technology, and is now fearlessly preparing to evolve into the Next-Generation Platform provider. SK Telecom continuesto journey into "New Possibilities", for a future more happier and plentiful than today.
7 69 8
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Accelerating the introduction of 5G, 
proudly and fearlessly pioneering the market.Connectivity
Provided nationwide service of 
Broadband LTE-A, which is
three times faster than LTE June 2014First in the world to develop 
a  2FA(frequency assignment) Giga 
WiFi  technology that doubles 
the data capacity October 2014
Displayed possibilities of 5Gtechnology, which is 1.000 times 
after than LTE. Demonstrated 
the 7.55 Gbps data transmission 
speed at the 2015 MWC 
March 2015LTE-A 1st
Expanded the 3band 
LTE-A service to 85 cities 
nationwide January 201585 cities Commercialized 3band LTE-A, 
which downloads 1GB contents in 
only 28 seconds December 20141G-28sCustomer satisfaction is more important than competition for speed. 
SK Telecom is leading the network competition by enhancing customer valuesand providing endless technical innovations, in order to bring more happinessto 28.61 million subscribers. SK Telecom, with its proud and fearless pioneeringspirit, is now making preparations to welcome the age of 5G, which will open a new world of ICT.
9 8X 1,00011 10
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Striving to be a Next-Generation
Platform provider beyond boundaries based on collaboration.Expandability
Communication platform 
that combines calls with data. 
Secured 4.6 million subscribers
within one year of service launch
January 2015
Launched a smart home servicethat controls various devices, 
including dehumidifiers, door locks 
and boilers with Mobius Platform
May 2015Entered the customer-focused IoT market by introducing various smart 
hardware products, including “Smart 
Beam” and “Air Cube”
December 2014Wearable device designed exclusively for children. 
Provides location verification 
features and emergency alerts. 
Currently has 170,000 subscribers
April 2015Offers voice call and data services
that can be used without a smart
phone when on the go. Currently
has 100,000 subscribers via
wearable devices
April 2015
Introduced “Mobius”, the world
first open-source IoT platform 
that conforms to global standards
December 2014IoTT Kids Phone T Outdoor T Phone
Smart Home Lifeware
SK Telecom will evolve into a “Next-Generation Platform” provider that satisfies 
customer’s needs and offers innovative products and services, in order to overcome the barrier that hinders the growth of the telecommunications industry. We will create a new ecosystem by engaging in borderless cooperation with diverse business partners. SK Telecom will propel future growth with our “Lifestyle Enhancement Platform”, “Advanced Media Platform” and “IoT Service Platform”, and create a new chapter in the development of Korea’s ICT. 
11 1013 12
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
The first to take the challenge
with passion towardsa sustainable future.Sustainability
Ranked as the service provider 
with the highest brand value by
‘Best Korea Brand 2015’ 
(3rd consecutive year) 
March 2015KRW 4,535.7 billion
Nurtured venture companies through“BRAVO! Restart”, a program created 
to support ICT based startups34 teams
First Asian telecommunications
company to be included in DJSI
for 7 consecutive years
September  20157 yearsRanked 1st place in the National
Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI)for the 18 consecutive years 
March 201518 years
Contributed to reducing 
greenhouse gas with T Map, 
a communication type navigation 
that uses real-time traffic information12.6%SK Telecom connects individuals with society, people with objects and 
the present with the future. This valuable connection also makes the world a better place. SK Telecom is creating a healthy ICT ecosystem with the principle of openness and sharing and supporting the growth of various venture companies and startups to build a Creative Economy. SK Telecom’s goal and responsibility towards our future generation is to raise the values in the society and environment, and drive sustainable growth and development in society through ICT innovation.
13 1215 14
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
New Possibilities
for the Next 30 Years
SK Telecom declared “Vision 2020” initiative under the slogan of 
“Partner for New Possibilities” and is making great strides to achieve the goal of becoming one of the world’s top 100 companies with a corporate value of 100 trillion by 2020. As Korea’s leading telecommunications company that has continuously provided world-class services and technology for the past three decades, SK Telecom strives 
to create new value for the future by surpassing market limitations and 
eliminating boundaries between industries. As a Next-Generation Platform provider, SK Telecom will maximize customer value and navigate new growth engines by creating a new ICT ecosystem with various partners. SK Telecom possesses infinite possibilities that can create a ‘Better World’, where its corporate vision acts as a blueprint for the imminent future and innovations in its products and services provide new values in its customers’ lives. 
15 1417 16
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement AppendixCEO’s Message  
Business Model 
The Year 20141.
OverviewSK Telecom
Annual Report 2014
Partner for 
New Possibilities18 19
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
Distinguished Stakeholders,
SK Telecom celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2014, a year that presented directions 
for future development of the ICT industry.
The ICT industry faced new changes, with the explosive introduction of data services, 
intensified competition over LTE, and as second devices·wearable devices·internet of things became the topic of the year.
Amidst these changes, SK Telecom led the data-centered market by innovating its products 
and services, with top priority in “customer values”. Visible achievements were made in growth businesses including IPTV, healthcare and B2B solutions, and new growth engines were added 
to the company’s global and convergence businesses. With the expansion of LTE services 
and growth in solution-related sales, SK Telecom was able to record KRW 17,163.8 billion in revenue in 2014, a year-over-year growth of 3.4%. SK Telecom also recorded KRW 1,825.1 
billion in operating profit by innovating its products and services and placing customer values 
at the center of all operations, and achieved KRW 1,799.3 billion in net profit (11.8% year-over-year growth). 
In addition to financial achievements, SK Telecom also gained domestic and international 
recognition for efforts to raise the company’s corporate value. SK Telecom was an active par -
ticipant of the LEAD program, which consists of an exclusive group of selected United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) companies, became the first Asian telecommunications company to 
be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World for the seventh consecutive 
years, maintained the “Excellent” grade (the highest level granted) from the Win-Win Index given by the National Commission on Cooperative Partnership, and ranked first place in the 
National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) for 18 years in a row. Letter to Stakeholders
Securing leadership in LTE by strengthening the core competitiveness 
of telecommunications business
SK Telecom strengthened the core competitiveness of telecommunications business in 2014 
by innovating products·services, and continuously pushed forward to bring a paradigm shift in the competitive environment. The company offered differentiated network competitiveness and 
specialized services that focused on customer values, and these efforts led to an increase in 
LTE subscribers. To create a paradigm shift in the competition, SK Telecom also played a lead-ing role in stabilizing the market in a rapidly changing regulatory environment that included the implementation of the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act. New services that aimed 
at optimizing customer needs, including “T Phone”, the “Unlimited Membership” plan and “T 
Kids Phone”, were also introduced. By using these services, customers became more aware of data efficiency. The company also further solidified its position as the LTE market leader by 
commercializing 3band LTE-A. SK Telecom’s efforts were well rewarded as it saw continuous 
increase in the number of LTE subscribers. By the end of 2014, 16.74 million or 58.5% of total subscribers were using LTE services. CEO’s Message   |   Business Model   |   The Year 2014
20 21
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
Dong-Hyun Jang
President and CEO
SK Telecom
June, 2015Creating new ICT history in 2015 by innovating corporate values
SK Telecom announced “Vision 2020” initiative in 2012 under the slogan of “Partner for New 
Possibilities”. Under the Vision 2020 initiative, SK Telecom set a long-term goal of becoming one of world’s top 100 companies with a corporate value of 100 trillion by 2020. In order to achieve these goals in advance, SK Telecom will transform its businesses into new areas and 
take the first step towards innovating corporate value.
World-class efficiency and competitiveness should be secured to overcome the barriers faced by the telecommunication industry today. Efficiency and competitiveness can be acquired 
through structural change and innovation, reform, and by improving the way work is done. 
SK Telecom will transform into a “Next-Generation Platform” provider in order to maximize customer values and discover new growth engines to create a turning point in the history of 
Korean ICT development.
SK Telecom aims to provide “Next-Generation Platform”, a new platform that builds an open ecosystem that is based on telecommunications and provides innovative products and 
services that satisfies customers’ innermost needs. The company has changed its perspec-
tive from a service provider’s perspective to the user’s perspective, and formed cooperative relationships with many partners including venture companies, startups and small-and-medium sized businesses under the principle of “openness and sharing”.SK Telecom will create innovation that does not draw a line between industry boundaries 
and will expand the ICT ecosystem. The company will also lead a healthy competitive culture 
that is based on core competitiveness and customer confidence. In 2015, SK Telecom will innovate corporate values through strong performance. Through such innovation, SK Telecom 
will continue to play a pioneering role in implementing the Creative Economy and ICTnomics, 
create new possibilities with stakeholders and become a company that is respected through-out society. 
I look forward to your unwavering interest and support.  Sincerely, Preparing a foundation for the future by expanding growth businesses
SK Telecom strengthened its foundation for growth by expanding business models and 
boosting synergy around the three major growth areas of IPTV, healthcare and B2B solutions. The company also achieved qualitative growth by increasing the size of business operations. The IPTV division had secured 5.2 million fixed line and wireless subscribers by late 2014, 
solidifying the company’s position as the main paid broadcasting service provider and creating 
a foundation to expand its business model into the media sector. The company’s healthcare division acquired US FDA approval for an external diagnostic device and opened a medical 
center in Shenzhen, China, which will be function as a basecamp for future strategic growth. 
The company’s B2B solution business, which achieved a year-over-year increase of 20% in sales, is expected to record steady sales growth as SK Telecom continuously develops B2B 
solutions and platforms that are centered on Internet of Things (IoT), energy saving green 
solutions and security solutions. Also in 2014, SK Telecom successfully acquired iriver and NSOK. The company also laid down 
a sturdy foundation for future growth and made continuous and noteworthy achievements in 
the global market, including SK Planet’s entry into international markets of Turkey, the United States of America and Indonesia, as well as SK Hynix’s remarkable growth. 
Pursuing social values through ‘Creative Economy’ innovations
SK Telecom dreams of “changing society for the better” with the evolution and development 
of ICT. SK Telecom has promoted pilot projects to construct Daejeon Center for Creative Economy and Innovation(DCCEI) and Sejong Changjo (Creative) Village since 2014 in cooper -
ation with the public and private sectors. These efforts were made to implement the “Creative Economy”, the new growth engine for the Korean economy. SK Telecom has played an unspar -
ing role in DCCEI by providing startup companies with support in developing their business 
models and products, securing markets and making entries into global markets. SK Telecom’s 
work attracted the government’s cooperation and visible results were produced when DCCEI’s business model was exported to Saudi Arabia.  
Furthermore, SK Telecom contributed in the development of the ICT ecosystem. Through 
the “BRAVO! Restart” program, the company supported small-sized startups which all have innovative technologies in the area of Internet of Things and big data. The project succeeded in commercializing 21 teams, and as a result, partners saw solid growth in sales. SK Tele-
com’s efforts continued with the “Upright ICT Class”, which was held to create a healthy ICT 
culture by providing correct understanding of technology and preventing internet addiction. The “Good ICT” project was conducted to reduce digital divide and resolve side effects from 
technical developments, such as personal information protection issues.
 22 23
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
Discovering New Business Models
to Lead the Platform Era
For permanent and sustainable growth of the entire society rather than short-term and partial persistence as an enterprise, 
SK Telecom is expanding its capital impact within its business model, shifting its focus from mobile communications, convergence and growth businesses to the Next-Generation Platforms. In the process, efforts are being made to optimize value for stakeholders and contribute to the long-term value improvement for the entire society. CEO’s Message   |   Business Model   |   The Year 2014
Input Capital Device & Network Contents & Platform Customer & Consumer Community & Society
Business Value ChainSK Telecom is listed on the Korea Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange, and 
London Stock Exchange. Reliant on the financial capital provided by shareholders and investors, SK Telecom strives to maximize shareholder value based on the shareholder 
return policy. 
In recognition of the fact that human capital is a pivotal part of SK Telecom’s business 
model and that competent individuals contribute to innovation and excellent business per -
formance, policies are implemented to attract and retain excellent employees and due diligence is performed to respect and uphold the human rights in the business processes.
Technology patents are one of the key capital components in the ICT business. The 
ICT ecosystem promotion policy encompassing open innovation and big data hub is an 
approach to share the capacity of SK Telecom and enhance the value and efficiency of the use of joint intellectual properties of society.
SK Telecom’s businesses are dependent on physical infrastructural assets such as net-
works, the stability and sustainability of which are maintained through efficient invest-
ment.
While establishing cooperative relationships with various stakeholders including business 
partners and the government based on customer trust, SK Telecom is striving to earn 
more trust and respect by fulfilling its CSR and making efforts to contribute to society and create shared value.
The operation of nationwide networks and data centers requires large amounts of elec-
tric power, and such use of energy leads to GHG emissions. Despite efforts to reduce GHG emissions by enhancing operation efficiency, SK Telecom has been facing chal-lenges due to dramatic advances in the telecommunications technology and surge in data traffic. Accordingly, efforts are being made to improve the environmental capital 
through use of ICT solutions and to reduce social GHG emissions.Financial 
Capital
Human
Capital
Intellectual
Capital
Manufactur -
ing Capital
Social and 
Relationship 
Capital
Natural 
CapitalNext-Generation Platforms
· Lifestyle Enhancement Platform
   (e.g. contents-based commerce, 
   community service)
· Advanced Media Platform
   (e.g. expanded scope of IPTV and    new media platforms)
· IoT Service Platform
   (e.g. linking with Smart Home, etc.)Device
· Smartphones· Smart cars· Smart glass· Wearable devices· Home electronics
Network· 2G· 3G· 4G LTE· 5GMobile Network Operator · Voice telecommunications services· Data services· Contents and application services
Growth Businesses· Healthcare· LifewareProduct/Service Responsibility· Customer experience innovation· Responsible marketing· Customer information protection· Supply chain innovation
Corporate Social Responsibility· UNGC LEAD · Ethical management· Human rights management· Environmental managementCreative Economy/ICTnomics· BRAVO! Restart  · Creative Economy Innovation Center· Reducing the digital divide· Good ICT ClassroomShareholder return
Direct and 
indirect job creation
Procurement from
and mutual growth 
with business partners
Establishment of 
local infrastructures
Creation of economic
value and opportunities 
in the ICT ecosystem
Donations and 
investment into 
local communities
*IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) reporting framework applied.Payment of taxes24 25
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesMobile Telecommunications Services
SK Telecom provides competitive mobile telecommunications services based on its primary 
products and services such as end-user devices, service plans, network and contents. Despite 
the dramatic changes in the telecommunications market environment resulting from the com-mercialization of LTE technology, SK Telecom has remained an unparalleled premium network 
operator with its advanced telecommunications and network operating technologies. Following 
the commercialization of LTE-A technology in June 2013, SK Telecom successfully commer -
cialized broadband LTE-A (225Mbps) services in June 2014 and 3band LTE-A, which is about 4 times faster than conventional LTE, attesting to its status as a leader in technology. In addition, 
SK Telecom has launched unlimited LTE data plans, and introduced innovative service plans 
such as time, place and occasion (TPO) based unlimited option plan, offering unlimited data during commuting hours or on the subway. In 2014, high-utility products including T Outdoor 
and T Kids Phone were introduced in pace with growing use of secondary devices. SK Telecom 
plans to enhance profitability by reinforcing customer retention policy based on core compet-itiveness as a telecommunications service provider in accordance with the trends of data ser -
vices, and lead the advances in the network technology and the mobile communications market, centering on products and services that provide differentiated experiences to customers.
Broadband Internet and Fixed-Mobile Convergence Services
SK Telecom provides a wide range of integrated fixed-line and wireless services, including a 
home Internet service called B Service, primarily through a major subsidiary, SK Broadband. In 
the case of IPTV services, 5.2 million subscribers were recorded as of end of 2014. In addition, the number of subscribers to B TV Mobile, a mobile service for IPTV that was launched in Oc-
tober 2012, surpassed 1 million as of March 2014 and accumulated 2.37 million subscribers by end of 2014. In March 2015, for the purpose of enhancing the synergic effect of the integrated 
fixed-line and wireless services, SK Telecom reached a resolution for 100% subsidization of SK 
Broadband, SKB is expected to serve as a stepping stone for the full-fledged operation of the 
media business, and also take leadership stand in the arena of new media platforms.
Contents and Application Services 
Providing innovative contents through mobile devices has become a business area with high growth potential due to rapid shift in focus toward data services in the telecommunications mar -
ket. The number of smartphone users reaching over 30 million, and the launch of diverse mobile 
devices are exhibits of such changes. Accordingly, SK Telecom is forging synergy with SK Planet 
based on openness and expandability through T Store, a digital contents platform, and T Map, a location-based service. SK Planet is continuing its efforts to secure a leading position in the next 
commerce business at home and abroad. It commenced its full-fledged efforts to expand into 
North America by acquiring Shopkick, a leading online to offline (O2O) company in the U.S., and expanded the open market business in Turkey, Indonesia and Malaysia.
Corporate Client Services 
In the B2B area, which is one of the growth businesses, efforts have been made to increase the proportion of sales for solutions in addition to the existing circuit-centered services. The Internet of Things (IoT) platform and solutions, green management, payment, cloud and big data among 
others have been set as the areas of solution services. Through these efforts, there are plans to 
restructure the business areas, shifting from the circuit-centered business to the solution busi-ness, and lay the foundation for sustainable growth.
Service Area : Individual Customer Services Service Area: B2B Customer Services
Network Business
Solution BusinessVoice·Messaging·Data Network and Hosting for Corporations
Smart store 
operation solution- MyshopMobility-centered corporateICT infrastructure- Smart office- T biz groupwareICT-based disaster prevention and environmental and security management solutions- Cloud BEMS and FEMS- Smart eco-driving   (vehicle control)Mobile-based corporate advertising and payment methods- Integrated and targeted ads- Smart billingServer computing and cloud solutions- Cloud server hosting- Geovision (analysis   commercial district)
Contents and Application Services
T store (digital contents)
11st (e-commerce)OK Cashbag (loyalty marketing)T map (location-based service)
hoppin (media)
Nate and NateOn (portal sites)Mobile Telecommunications Services
4G LTE
T roaming
T phone (platform for phones)
Broadband Internet and 
Fixed-Mobile Convergence Services
B (broadband internet) B box (home network)
TB (bundled service) IPTV, mobile IPTVIoT Solution IoT Platform Green Payment Cloud and Big Data
Voice
·Messaging·Data 
Integrated 
Service26 27
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
Competition Paradigm Based on 
Innovative Products and Services
In 2014, SK Telecom led the innovation of products and services, thereby strengthening 
competitiveness in the telecommunications industry, and attempted to shift the paradigm of market competition at the same time. Tangible results were also achieved in the three growth areas: IPTV, healthcare and B2B solutions. 
Financial Performance 
In 2014, SK Telecom recorded annual revenue of KRW 17,163.8 billion, operating profit of KRW 
1,825.1 billion and net profit of KRW 1,799.3 billion according to the consolidated financial state-
ments in accordance to K-IFRS.
LTE Leadership and Discovery of Opportunities in the Convergence Market 
SK Telecom secured its LTE leadership status by enhancing customer value through the launch of new services catering to the market needs such as unlimited membership plan, T Phone and T Kids Phone, and commercializing 3band LTE-A. Total annual revenue reached KRW 17,163.8 
billion, a 3.4% YOY increase. B2B solution business recorded KRW 502.6 billion in revenue, a 
21% YOY increase, gaining full momentum for mid-term growth. Based on LTE leadership, SK Telecom had approximately 16.74 million LTE subscribers (as of the end of 2014), accounting 
for 58.5% of the total subscribers. In addition, tangible results were achieved in three areas of 
growth by expanding the scale of the B2B solution and IPTV businesses and reinforcing the Financial Performance and Outlook     Key Operating Performance     Performance of Major Subsidiaries     Economic Value Generated and Distributed     
Review of the Year 2014
Performance Based on Consolidated Financial Statements Unit: KRW billion
Operating Revenue Operating Profit EBITDA CAPEX
(Non-Consolidated) (Non-Consolidated)Operating Revenue (Consolidated) Operating Profit (Consolidated)Performance Based on Non-Consolidated Financial Statements                                           Unit: KRW billion
Net and Operating Profits of 
SK Telecom in 2014
Increase in net profit
Decrease in operating profit 1,7302,011
1,82516,141
2013 2014 201217,164
16,602The customer is the protagonist, the customer value is the top priority of SK Telecom’s declaration 
of  “creative customer value innovation” 
foundation for the healthcare business. Moreover, additional growth opportunities were discov-
ered in the global and convergence businesses by opening Shenzhen VISTA-SK Medical Center 
in Shenzhen, China, and acquiring NSOK and iriver.
Reduced Operating Profit Due to Overheated Market 
Operating profit in 2014 was KRW 1,825.1 billion, a 9.2% YOY decrease resulting from over -
heated competition early in the year, despite improved profitability from reducing the churn rate 
by providing more benefits to long-term subscribers and the efforts toward market stabilization. Net profit was recorded at KRW 1,799.3 billion, an 11.8% YOY increase. This was due to the 
favorable performance of investments such as SK Hynix. Capital expenditures (CAPEX) of SK 
Telecom were KRW 2,144.7 billion, a 7.4% YOY decrease. There are plans to achieve downward stabilization through technical advances and improved investment efficiency. 
CEO’s Message   |   Business Model   |   The Year 2014
18,000
17,000
16,000
4,000
2,00028 29
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesFuture Outlook 
With top priority in maximizing corporate value, SK Telecom plans to enhance operating efficien-
cy by improving business operation methods and fundamental characteristics, and discover and 
develop various business portfolios to achieve further growth in the future. In 2015, SK Telecom will dedicate its efforts to achieving revenue target of KRW 17.9 trillion, a 4.3% YOY growth, by 
continually expanding the LTE subscriber base and the scope of its products and services, and 
realizing tangible results in the growth business areas such as media solutions.Growth Rate of the B2B Solution 
Business in 2014               
· Revenue target of KRW 17.9 trillion, to be achieved through the accelerated growth of the new businesses
· Downward stabilization of CAPEX to continue from 2014· Increased profitability from expanding LTE and multimedia contents services is expected· Tangible performance to be achieved in growth businesses by expanding B2B solution and platform services· Convergence growth businesses such as IPTV, healthcare and IoT services, etc. to be discoveredBilling-based ARPU Trend
Growth for 2 consecutive years
Leading the Market by Shifting the Customer Value Paradigm
In 2015, SK Telecom will launch more innovative and differentiated products to focus on custom-
er value and further strengthen its primary competitiveness to firmly establish itself as a leader 
in the industry. As a result of ongoing expansion of LTE services and the improved environment for data usage, ARPU grew by over 4.5% for the second consecutive year. An efforts are being 
made to boost ARPU at a similar rate in 2015 with more benefits for customers, widespread use 
of diverse multimedia contents, and launch of high-quality products and services that utilize the evolving network environment. Also, in response to changes in the internal and external environ-ments and the beginning of the era of IoT, preemptive structural changes and innovations will be 
made to achieve world-class competitiveness and efficiency.
Implementing New Business Models Including IoT
In addition to reinforcing performance in the existing growth businesses, SK Telecom will at-
tempt to implement new business models and achieve success by using as leverage current strengths such as existing subscriptions, big data and supply chain. These growth businesses 
will be subject to strict and objective reviews from the perspective of corporate value, and be 
fostered to the level of telecommunications business through selection and concentration. First and foremost, customers will be valued differently and treated accordingly. SK Telecom will work 
towards providing customers with more than just a "lump sum amount" on handset purchases.
SK Telecom will transform into a Next-Generation Platform provider, offering innovative products and services satisfying customer needs to maximize customer value, and achieve growth by 
cooperating with diverse partners including small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Accordingly, 
there are plans to achieve corporate value of KRW 55 trillion by 2018, which is 2 years earlier than the previous target. IoT platform business, based on M2M business and IoT-based B2B solutions, will be fostered intensively, while revenue in other key areas such as security, energy 
saving and cloud is expected to double from last year.
Prepared the foundation for Advanced Media Platform
IPTV subscribers of fixed-line and mobile services reached 5.2 million by the end of 2014, mak-
ing SK Telecom one of the major paid broadcasting service providers. Also, in 2014, the number of subscribers to the mobile TV service, in particular, increased to 2.37 million, with 1.56 million 
new subscribers. In 2015, there are plans to make efforts to reach the target fixed-line and wire-
less IPTV subscribers of 7 million, and to pave the foundation for SK Telecom to emerge as an integrated media platform provider.Tangible Performance of Healthcare Business Including Global ExpansionSK Telecom plans to continually reinforce its capabilities related to healthcare business, in which 
tangible results were achieved last year such as the U.S. FDA approval of external diagnostic 
devices, expansion into the Chinese market and export of hospital solutions. In addition, global business operation will be pursued, centering on the external diagnostic devices, as a means to enhance corporate value, and a new business model will be implemented in the device and 
platform areas based on current IoT trend.
In the case of iriver, which was acquired last year, it has firmly established itself in the high-end sound system market, and is expanding business areas to include accessories. In 2014, 
SK Planet launched Syrup and acquired U.S.-based Shopkick, while its open market “11st” 
achieved continuous growth and global expansion. As such, the company brought forth various tangible results in Korea and overseas, and laid the foundation for next commerce, bridging 
online and offline platforms. Of particular note, 11st achieved 128% YOY growth in its mobile 
transaction amount, while successfully expanding into Turkey, Indonesia and Malaysia with its open market platform. 
SK Planet will continue its efforts to grow as a global leading company in the e-commerce sector 
and as a global platform provider by reinforcing synergy with SK Telecom in businesses such as T Store and T Map.In 2014, SK Telecom launched innovative products and services, thereby strengthening the core competitiveness as a mobile communications service provider, and reaffirmed its sustainable 
growth potential. With differentiated network competitiveness and specialized services for cus-
tomer value, SK Telecom will firmly secure its leadership stand in the era of data services, and make advances as a Next-Generation Platform provider.
Aggressive Shareholder Return Policy
For the past 8 years SK Telecom has maintained a DPS(dividend per share) policy of 9400 KRW. 
Indirect investment return was achieved through the repurchase of shares on four occasions in 
the past 8 years. The dividends for 2015 will be determined more flexibly, considering the invest-ment capacity for growth, cash flow and other factors. Efforts will be made to increase corporate 
value by maintaining balance between investment and shareholder returns.
Annual Scale of Shareholder Returns  Unit: KRW billion
Cash Dividends Repurchase of Shares Payout Ratio 
200400600800100042%53% 53%
34%39%53%73%65%
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014880801774
680 655 666 667119210 2089286430 31
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
The SK Management System (SKMS) is the management principle, which has served as the 
basis for SK’s existence and growth, and a business management system implemented by SK 
Telecom as well as its affiliates. SUPEX, which stands for “Super Excellent,” is the goal pursued 
in SK Telecom’s management activities, and it is a means to practice the Group’s management principle, SKMS. Through the pursuit of SUPEX, SK Telecom is striving to realize the vision be-
hind SKMS, which is to “create value for customers, employees and shareholders by ensuring 
its permanent existence and ceaseless development, thereby playing a key role in social and economic development and contributing to the happiness of mankind.” The key performance indicators (KPI) in 2014 including financial performance are as follows:Sustainability Metrics
2012
2013201486Point86Point85PointTarget achieved
Despite the slight drop, 
high standards were 
maintained by specifying 
the roles of leaders, re-establishing the criteria 
for the ideal member of 
SK Telecom, and improvingthe systems and institutions.SKMS Engagement Rate
The SKMS Engagement Rate means the level of participation 
among the executives and 
employees, and it reflects the loyalty of the organization mem-
bers and the motivation rate.
2012
2013
201474Point
74Point76PointTarget achieved
SK Telecom was ranked 
No.1 for 18 consecutive
years thanks to its 
differentiated products and services and custom-
er-centered management.Customer Satisfaction Rate
SK Telecom refers to customer 
satisfaction survey results 
provided by an external survey 
agency as a performance indicator.2012
201320147,53013,49016,740Target achieved
The increase in LTE 
subscribers, currently 
accounting for 59% of all 
subscribers, has solidified the company’s leadership 
in the LTE market.  LTE Subscribers Unit: thousand persons
LTE subscribers, including MVNO subscribers, indicate  
market share and service scale of the company.
2012
2013201433,01634,55136,100Target achieved
The billing-based ARPU 
has been increasing 
at a rate of over 4% 
for 2 consecutive years thanks to the increase 
in LTE subscribers and 
excellent products. Billing-based ARPU Unit: KRW
The billing-based ARPU is 
a key indicator representing 
the growth potential of mobile telecommunications 
business. 
2012
2013201454.63 tCO 2e/ KRW billion
55.05 tCO 2e/ KRW billion
57.09 tCO 2e/ KRW billionShort of target
The intensity of GHG 
emissions has been 
increasing slightly due to 
network advances despite the efforts to improve 
the operation efficiency. Intensity of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)
The intensity of GHG emissions 
is the ratio of the total amount 
of GHG emitted by SK Telecom 
to its sales, and indicates the environmental and energy oper -
ation management efficiency.Operational Metrics
5.2%
6.6%7.4%Target achieved
The B2B business is in 
favorable condition, with 
its revenue contribution 
increasing continuously.Revenue Contribution by New Businesses
The solution and B2B business is an indicator representing 
the potential growth of SK 
Telecom.2012
2013
2014
Financial Metrics
2.3%2.9%3.4%
Continuous growth 
in service revenue 
has been achieved.Operating Profit Growth Rate (consolidated)
Operating profit is a KPI 
achieved by expanding 
the customer base and 
improving service quality.Target achieved 2012
20132014
10.7%12.1%10.6%Short of target
It declined slightly
compared to the previous 
year due to the overheated 
competition in LTE.Operating Margin (consolidated)
Operating margin is the ratio of operating income 
divided by net sales, and 
an indicator demonstrating the influence of sales growth
and profitability.2012
2013
2014
Target achieved 2012
2013
201412,314
18,57221,640Corporate value is
enhanced by achieving 
the target financial 
performance amid fierce market competition and 
qualitative growth in the 
growth businesses.  Corporate Value (Total Market Value) Unit: KRW billion
Calculated by multiplying 
the total number of listed 
shares with the share price at the end of the year,
this figure indicates 
the actual corporate value in the market. CEO’s Message   |   Business Model   |   The Year 2014
Performance Improvement 
Through the Pursuit of SUPEX
SK Telecom endeavors to play a key role in social and economic development 
by creating value for customers, employees and shareholders by ensuring its perma-nent existence and ceaseless development. This objective will be met through the pursuit of SUPEX based on SKMS. Financial Performance and Outlook     Key Operating Performance     Performance of Major Subsidiaries     Economic Value Generated and Distributed     
Review of the Year 201432 33
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
SK Hynix 
SK Telecom acquired SK Hynix and secured its management rights in 2012 in order to discover 
new growth opportunities through the convergence of telecommunications and other industries. 
Following the acquisition, SK Telecom implemented three “strong” management policies, which 
were “strong leadership,” “strong growth strategies,” and “strong intimacy,” in order to build sol-idarity and a win-win relationship between the two companies. SK Hynix achieved record-break-
ing management performances for two consecutive years in 2013 and 2014 after the acquisition. 
For instance, in 2014, SK Hynix recorded KRW 17,126 billion in revenue (20.9% year-over-year growth) and KRW 5,109 billion in operating profit (51.2% year-over-year growth, 29.8% increase in operating margin), which were the highest figures achieved in its history of 31 years. Despite 
the slight decrease in mobile DRAM prices amid price stabilization of computing products, a hike 
in revenue resulted from increased production as well as the efforts to surpass target shipment volume increase by actively responding to the increasing demand for servers and PCs.SK Planet
SK Planet, founded as a subsidiary of SK Telecom in October 2011, is leading the evolution of online and mobile platform services through integrated commerce, digital contents, and ad-
vertising and marketing businesses. In 2014, SK Planet launched smart offering service (SOS), 
centering on a next commerce platform called Syrup, and accumulated 13.28 million subscrib-ers by the end of 2014, attesting to its successful establishment in the industry. SK Planet plans 
to build its global leadership through open market business in Turkey (www.n11.com), Malaysia 
and Indonesia. With the accelerated breakdown of the boundaries in the business areas and value chains in the ICT sector, SK Telecom and SK Planet will cooperate more closely and create synergy.
* K-IFRS consolidated basis 
* Increment stemming from the merger with SK M&C in Feb. 2003 has been addedSK Hynix Performance       Unit: KRW billion
* K-IFRS consolidated basisSK Planet Performance                                     Unit: KRW billion
2012
2013
201410,162
-227
3,38014,165
5,10917,12620122013
20141,37826
13
91,035
1,513CEO’s Message   |   Business Model   |   The Year 2014
Creating ICT Synergy Through
Network Hardware Platforms
All of the subsidiaries are regarded as strategic partners in SK Telecom’s evolution 
into a Next-Generation Platform provider. SK Telecom will implement strategies to link contents, community and commerce platforms, and achieve a corporate value of KRW 100 trillion early on by generating tangible results.
Revenue Operating Profit Revenue Operating ProfitFinancial Performance and Outlook     Key Operating Performance     Performance of Major Subsidiaries     Economic Value Generated and Distributed     
Review of the Year 201434 35
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesRevenue Operating Profit Revenue Operating ProfitSK Broadband
SK Broadband gained 4.81 million B Internet subscribers by end of 2014 based on the expan-
sion of IPTV subscriber base and continuous growth of broadband business. It is providing a 
variety of convergence services including fixed-line services based on high-speed Internet amid 
the convergence of broadcasting and communications services, a natural evolution process of the telecommunications market. The reinforced competitiveness of integrated fixed-line and 
wireless services, in particular, has resulted in net increase rate of subscribers to the combined 
high-speed Internet and mobile phone services to double compared to 2013. By the end of 2014, the number of subscribers to the bundled fixed-line and wireless services increased to 2.77 million. Customer experience was improved with launch of B Giga Internet, which is 10 
times faster than the conventional optical LAN, and the bundled services with improved afford-
ability for home users, while differentiated services such as B Home CCTV were launched for leadership in the home service market. On the other hand, SK Telecom reached a resolution for 
the 100% subsidiarization of SK Broadband on March 20, 2015 for the purpose of maximiz-
ing synergy and securing competitiveness through integration of fixed-line and wireless service businesses.SK Telink 
SK Telink provides international calling services that are affordable yet high in quality as well as MVNO and other high-quality services to meet the diverse demands in the ICT communications 
market. In 2014, the number of subscribers to “7 Mobile,” an MVNO brand, reached 750,000 (as 
of the end of 2014), attesting to the company’s emergence as a key player in the domestic mo-bile communications market. SK International Call 00700, an international call business division, 
launched innovative products and services to further benefit the customers such as the 10 Plus 
plan, which provides 10 additional free minutes for international calls lasting over 10 minutes. SK Telink plans to dedicate its efforts to creating an economical and practical communications culture in 2015.
SK Broadband Performance Unit: KRW billion
2012
2013
201482
73
582,492
2,539
2,654
Subscribers  Unit: thousand persons (cumulative)
2013 2013 2014 2014B Internet B TV
4,810 2,819SK Telink Performance Unit: KRW billion
43
27
20341
433
46620122013
2014
MVNO Subscribers Unit: thousand persons (cumulative)
2013 2014751
3722,081 4,56936 37
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernment
Distribution
Shareholder
& Investor
Distribution
Executive
& Employee
DistributionCommunity
Distribution
Business
PartnerDistribution
& Other
Operating
CostsOther
Operating
RevenueFinancial Investment
RevenueEconomic Value Generated
SK Telecom generated a total economic value of KRW 18,276 billion, which includes the oper -
ating profit of KRW 17,164 billion, returns on financial investments and profit from the disposal 
of assets and other profits.Distribution to Executives and Employees SK Telecom executed expenses of KRW 1,660 billion in total for executive and employee wages, 
benefits and welfare as well as the reserve for retirement allowances..  Distribution to Shareholders and Investors
SK Telecom distributed KRW 684 billion in dividends and in interest payments.
Distribution to the Government
SK Telecom distributed KRW 888 billion as payment of corporate taxes among other taxes and 
frequency usage fees applied. On the other hand, a total of KRW 37 billion in tax deductions were in 2014 for investing in human resources development for research, productivity improve-
ment and energy saving as well as creating jobs.
Distribution to the Local Communities
SK Telecom donated KRW 68 billion to local communities. This figure does not include any 
indirect impact resulting from business investments and infrastructure support such as the op-eration of the Creative Economy Innovation Center and the promotion of traditional markets based on ICT.
SK Telecom added to its total equity KRW 1,081 billion, which was the remainder after distribu-
tions to stakeholders.
Economic Value Retained
Economic Value Retained in 2014
* All data associated with the creation and distribution of economic value are K-IFRS consolidated standardEconomic Value Distributed to Stakeholders
Distribution to Business Partners and Other Operating Expenses
SK Telecom executed expenses of KRW 13,895 billion in total for economic value distribution to 
its business partners and other operating expenses such as cost of goods sold, commissions 
paid, R&D and network investment.Economic Value Generated Unit: KRW billionEconomic Value Distributed                                            Unit: KRW billion
KRW 1,081 billionCEO’s Message   |   Business Model   |   The Year 2014
Creation and Distribution of Economic 
Value Based on Improved Efficiency 
SK Telecom generated a total economic value of KRW 18,276 billion despite 
the fluctuating market conditions and various regulations applied in 2014. The value created was distributed economically and reasonably, taking into consideration the future value of the company and investment efficiency.
18,27617 ,195Financial Performance and Outlook     Key Operating Performance     Performance of Major Subsidiaries     Economic Value Generated and Distributed     
Review of the Year 201438
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
Completed the first session of 
“BRAVO! Restart,” an ICT-based start-up support program Initiated the SK Telecom Smart Lighting Control Solution business for the metropolitan and local government agencies nationwideParticipated in the Digitization Support Program for the Education Sector supervised by the Ministry of Education 
Provided home Wi-Fi services 
to low-income families 
Hosted the completion 
ceremony for the leadership program, “2014 SK Telecom Win-Win Growth Academy”Announced the “2014 Win-Win Growth Implementation Plan” 
Launched the second session 
of “BRAVO! Restart”
Hosted the “SK Telecom ICT 
Vision Contest for University Students”
Hosted the starting ceremony 
for “Sharing the Happiness of Creation in Education and Welfare Using Robots”
Launched the “Smart Green 
Button” service for emergency calls with Child Fund KoreaPublished the first edition of “Win-Win Growth” webzine
 
Started the open recruitment for solution partners for Happy Companionship Hosted the “2014 SK Telecom IT Challenge Competition for Disabled Youth”Hosted the “Upright ICT Youth Camp”
Launched the “Visiting ICT 
Interactive Center Project” 
Hosted the “Upright ICT Ads 
and UCC Contest” Hosted the “2014 SK Telecom Daejeon Venture Start-up and Company Support Contest” 
The 13th SK Telecom Cup: 
National Wheelchair Basketball Competition 
Held the “Upright ICT Class for 
Kids”Hosted the ICT experienceevent with war veterans wounded in war (UN forces)
Participated in the “2015 
Digitization Support Programfor Elementary, Middle andHigh School Education” 
Donated 10,000 “Smart Green 
Button” devices for emergency calls to Child Fund Korea
 
Opened the Daejeon Center for Creative Economy and Innovation and Sejong Changjo (Creative) Village Signed an agreement with the Ministry of Industry Indonesia to supply the “Smart Class Package” to schools under their jurisdiction Hosted the “Big Data Competition” to discover competent individuals who can lead the big data era
Hosting an event, “2014 
Partners Day” for excellent partner award and mutual growth cooperation reinforcement
Social
ResponsibilityMarketingLaunchd “T Car,” IoT-based real-time total car care service Launched the new ad campaign “Good Creation, LTE-A”
Launched All-IP-based Next 
Generation Call Platform “T Phone” and Home Hub Device “B Box” Launched “T Sports,” an all-in-one sports app Launched three types of “unlimited LTE data plan”
Started providing the 
“all-in-one plan,” the one and only roaming service package offered by Korean telecommunications service providers, for those traveling to the U.S.  Launched 4 types of Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) “Beacon” and “Wizturn,” a platform for the development of related services 
Launched “Smart Mirroring,”
a mirroring device for cell phonesExclusive launch of “Galaxy W”, an affordable “Phone-blet” with a 7.0-inch screen 
Launched “free Wi-Fi on 
subway plan” 
Launched “T Benefit,” an app 
providing information on telecommunications benefits 
“T Phone” subscription breaks 
the 1-million barrier  Launched the “LTE Point Cam,” Korea’s first LTE wireless CCTV 
Launched “T Membership 
Global,” providing subscribers with membership benefits overseas 
Commercialized “T-AR,” a 
mobile virtual reality platformLaunched “Club T,” an all-in-one mobile, plan and specialized service package 
Launched “G3 A,” G3 with a 
larger screen and special featuresLaunched campaign “100 Years of Letters,” world first mobile letter services 
Opened a corporate PR 
center at the Incheon Asiad Main Stadium
Launched “Food & Box,” an 
end-user device for food ingredient order placement Hosted the “Table 2014 – Taste the Stars of Michelin,” a program for VIP customers 
Launched “Smart Gathering,” 
a web conference service for corporations based on high-quality voice calls 
Started promotion, “Let’s Seek 
It! T Membership” Launched “Master Dual,” a 2G phone for seniors 
Launched “T Outdoor,” a 
customized wearable device 
Launched “Smart USB,” 
app-cessoryLaunched “T Youth,” service tailored to smartphone users among seniors
NetworkSuccessfully developed 3band LTE-A technology
World first to demonstrate
the “virtualized Radio Access Network (vRAN),” a Next-Generation base station technology Provided “T roaming One Pass” Service for unlimited data services in 123 countries 
Unveiled the 3band LTE-A 
technology with up to 450Mbps speed at “MWC 2014”Started offering the 1.8GHz broadband LTE service to all metropolitan cities nationwide Opened the LTE-A network for 386 university campus tourist attractions nationwide  including Ulleungdo and Dokdo islands Rolled out 2.1GHz broadband LTE network to provide the 3band LTE-A service World first to develop 2-channel Giga Wi-Fi technology
 
World first to commercialize “225Mbps broadband LTE-A” technology, is 3-times faster than LTE 
Started offering nationwide “broadband LTE-A” service, is 
3-times faster than LTE.
Demonstrated the “LTE 
large-capacity in-building solution” with Samsung 
Electronics
World first to demonstrate 
“Elastic Cell,” a prior technology for the era of 5G with Ericsson Provided “All-in-oneT roaming,” a roaming service package for 7 countries Developed low-delay live mobile-based broadcasting technology and world first to demonstrate the common LTE network 
Korea’s first to publish “5G 
White Paper,” proposing the direction for evolution into 5G World first to develop the “2G·3G over LTE” technology and apply it to the common network
 
World first to develop “Orchestration” and “Cloud vRAN,” key technologies for virtualization of the 5G networkInitiated the “3band LTE-A” service, 4-times faster than LTE 
External
ExtensionsSigned an LTE network consulting agreement with China Telecom,a telecommunications service provider in China 
Launched the “Bridge M2M 
Alliance” with 10 telecommu-nications service providers in the Asia Pacific region Acquired Neos Networks (NSOK), a security company Signed a business agreement with NCSOFT for promoting mobile contents and providing differentiated services 
SKTA establishes Inno 
Partners, a start-up incubating centerInitiated the “Comprehensive Asset Control Service” business with LG Hitachi
Signed an MOU on 
cooperation in IoT with ETRI Signed a strategic alliance agreement for  the mobile game platform with NHN Entertainment
 
Signed a mutual cooperation agreement for “Smart Store” with Fujitsu Korea 
Signed an MOU on the 
development of “Smart Shop” with DSMESigned an MOU on development of technologies for the 5G era with Nokia 
Signed a contract to acquire 
iriver 
Signed a strategic alliance 
agreement with Expedia 
Signed n MOU on joint 
execution of the Smart Learning business in the U.S. and Middle East with FishtreeEstablished the “SK Telecom Healthcare R&D Center” and “Shenzhen VISTA-SK Medical Center” in Shenzhen, China
 
Signed an MOU on joint research on 5G-related technologies with Ericsson
 
Signed an MOU on cooperation in the IoT business and technology with Telecom New Zealand Signed a mobile ICT and big data business agreement with LINA
Signed an IoT-based traffic 
and logistics control business agreement with KRRISigned a business agreement for the development of “LTE-based IoT telecare solution” with QualcommSigned an MOU with Samsung Electronics in relation to the Next-Generation 5G telecommunications field
Started providing consulting 
services to “Taiwan Mobile” on 3G and LTE networks 
World first to develop the 
“Smart Wake-up” technology for enhancing the efficiency of telecommunications base stations with Ericsson 
Signed a Smart Home business alliance agreement
 
Korea’s first to commercialize ICT-convergence “Smart Furniture” with Hyundai Livart World first to unveil the open-type IoT platform with application of the global standards
 
Launched “Air Cube,” a portable air quality measuring device 
Signed an agreement with 
Chung-Ang University Hospital to establish a smart hospital 
Honors and
AwardsAcquired the App Accessibility Certification Mark for “Mobile T World” (first in the domestic telecommunications industry)
Won “Outstanding LTE 
Contribution” at the Global Mobile AwardsSelected for Grand Prize in 2014 Customer Satisfaction Management Service Sector’s Hall of Fame
Awarded with Grand Prize for 
2014 the most trusted brand chosen by customersRanked No. 1 in the telecommunications service category (NCSI) for 17 consecutive years
Published the “Everyday 
Mobile Experiences,” a book of essays on customer experience“The methodology for estimating social GHG emissions reduction amount using T Map” approved as the UN ITU International Recommendation Standard Won “Best Mobile Carrier” at the Telecom Asia Awards 
Announced “ICTnomics” as 
the direction for development in the next 30 yearsWon an award in “Innovation in Commercial Deployment” category at the Small Cell Industry Awards (SCIA) for 3 consecutive years 
Received the “top score” in 
the win-win growth index evaluation for 2 consecutive years (supervised by KCCP and FTC) Ranked No. 1 in the telecommunications categoryin the KSQI evaluation for 15 consecutive years  First telecommunications service provider in Asia to be included in the DJSI World Index for 7 consecutive years
Won an award at the “LTE 
Asia Awards 2014” of the LTE Asia Conference Won the “Best Next Generation Hotspot Initiative” in the Wi-Fi Industry Awards
Won the “Healthcare 
Telecommunication Companyof the Year” at the 2014 Asia Pacific Best Practice Awards 
Ranked No. 1 in the 
telecommunications sector in the KCSI survey for 17 consecutive years (supervised by KMAC) Won Excellent Technical Cooperation Investor Award and Project Discovery Award (supervised by MOTIE)1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
2014 Major Business Activities 
For SK Telecom, 2014 was a year of crossing industry boundaries and discovering 
new growth engines. Here are examples of our major business activities we performed in 2014 to enhance our future corporate value and grow hand in hand with our partners.CEO's Message   |   Business Model   |   The Year 2014
Financial Performance and Outlook     Key Operating Performance     Performance of Major Subsidiaries     Economic Value Generated and Distributed     
Review of the Year 201441 40
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Value Creation Strategies  
Market Context & Issues Business Cases2.
Business & StrategySK Telecom
Annual Report 2014
Partner for 
New Possibilities43 42
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Aim of SK Telecom: Vision 2020
The ICT industry has been undergoing chang-
es characterized by the linking and conver -
gence of technologies and services. Accord-
ingly, SK Telecom declared its Vision 2020 
“Partner for New Possibilities,” and is making 
powerful strides to emerge as a comprehen-sive ICT company. Vision 2020 “Partner for New Possibilities” encompasses the goals to 
establish an ecosystem for all stakeholders 
to create value beyond the industrial bound-aries, to deliver happiness to the customers Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Vision & Mission     Next-Generation Platform Strategy
SK Telecom Goal & Strategy
of SK Telecom in various areas of society and 
enrich their lives, and to emerge as a global 
ICT company. For this purpose, SK Telecom 
is endeavoring to reinforce the capacity of its telecommunications business and pioneer 
new business areas based on IT convergence 
and technology. During this process, the com-pany plans to fulfill its social responsibility to achieve mutual growth with all of the stake-
holders including its executives, employees, 
customers and business partners and con-tribute to national development. PresentPartner for New Possibilities 
(Corporate Value of KRW 100 trillion &Global Top 100)
Happy Companion (Happiness with Customers andCompanion with Society) 
Strategies to become 
a "Better Company"in the mid to long term
ICTnomics
(Creation, Delivery and Sharing of Value)2020
4th To-be5th To-be + αVision 2020
Core Value
Long-term MissionPartner for
New Possibilities
Corporate Value of KRW 100 trillion & Global Top 100
SK Telecom will create new value across industries to make the world a happier and 
more prosperous place by practicing innovation on a daily basis 
based on its well-established business infrastructure and human capital.Vision 2020
Portfolio
Strategic Focus
Mission StatementAchieve new growth of 
the telecommunications business throughtransformationGenerate comprehensive value through technology innovation andconvergenceDedicate efforts to creating customer value and fulfilling corporate social responsibilityStrengthen the 
Telecommunications
BusinessExtend 
Business
BoundariesSocial
ResponsibilitySK TelecomTelco & 
New
Business
Hardware PlatformAchieve 
Vision 2020The Value Creation Strategy System 
of SK Telecom
SK Telecom will strive to achieve its Vision 2020 goals of realizing corporate value of 
KRW 100 trillion and reaching Global Top 100 by executing ICTnomics to create value for the next 30 years and uphold its core value of “Happy Companion.”45 44
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
“Happy Companion,” the Core Value 
for Vision Realization 
The fundamental purpose of “Happy Com-
panion” is to equip all members of SK Tele-com with the same view and philosophy in 
conducting business activities. This value 
can be summed up as “Happiness with Cus-tomers,” which involves delivering the best customer value to win over customers, and 
“Companion with Society,” which involves 
discovering business opportunities by fos-tering the ICT ecosystem and promoting new 
businesses. 
In the aspect of “Happiness with Customers,” attention is paid to the key needs of customers 
to ensure reasonable prices, excellent quality, 
diverse services and differentiated customer experiences, thereby enhancing the funda-Creation, Delivery and Sharing of Value through ICTnomics
In May 2014, in celebration of the 30
th anniver -
sary of its foundation, SK Telecom proposed ICTnomics as the direction of corporate de-
velopment for the next 30 years. ICTnomics refers to a new type of economy that allows 
ICT to serve as a catalyst for production and 
consumption as well as revolutionary chang-es across society. Unlike the past landscape of industrial development, where innovative 
technologies underwent continuous emer -
gence and decline, in the era of ICTnomics, 
there will be infinite possibilities resulting from 
the continuous linking, optimization and con-
vergence of the results of digital innovations across the entire industrial sector. The era of ICTnomics will be characterized by the “mat-mental competitiveness of the company with 
the aim to deliver happiness to the customers. 
In the aspect of “Companion with Society,” support is provided for the creative economy 
through the means of promoting the growth of 
the ICT ecosystem by leading the future-ori-ented convergence businesses, running a 
tailored venture start-up assistance program 
such as “BRAVO! Restart”, and invigorating the traditional markets using ICT, and mea-sures are sought to create social value. 
SK Telecom will continue its efforts to pro-
vide differentiated customer value based on its fundamental competitiveness, create new 
jobs by promoting scientific technology and 
the ICT industry, and actively meet the social demands such as mutual growth as a means to grow together with its customers and society.uration of technologies that understand and 
resemble human beings,” and “connection 
of everything including people, equipment, imagination and reality.”
In anticipation of the arrival of the ICTnomics 
era, SK Telecom has proposed the following aims for the future: Value Creation, Value De-
livery and Value Sharing. To this end, efforts 
will be made to become world first telecom-munications service provider to open the 5G era by 2020. Also, for the successful realiza-
tion of ICTnomics, there are plans to specify 
the new solutions based on IoT in the early stages. In order to grow together with various 
players, the new, future-oriented values will 
be realized by taking on an active role in pro-moting the ICTnomics ecosystem.
Directions for ICTnomics The Values of “Happy Companion”
Happiness 
with CustomersCompanion
with Society
· Reorganization through 
 convergence of ICT and 
 the existing industries 
· Job creation in new areas of  the industrial sector
 (e.g. ICT + existing industries >  
 enhanced energy efficiency,  
 future healthcare, etc.)· Delivery of optimized values for   each customer based on big  
 data and artificial intelligence
· Opportunities to choose custom-tailored options by  
 lifestyle and situation 
 (e.g. big data and artificial 
 intelligence + physical security
 > preventive security system)· A good ICT project 
· Promotion of the ICT 
 ecosystem 
· Resolution of social issues
 using ICTProvide top-quality and 
differentiated services at affordable prices
Reasonable Prices
Top network quality
Excellent Quality
Limitless services through alliances
Diverse Services
Value Creation
 Value Delivery
 Value Sharing
Happy 
CompanionICT nomics
Differentiated customer experience through enhanced data service quality 
Differentiated 
ExperienceCreation of value through ICT by supporting creative economy, creating a mutual growth ecosystem, minimizing the ICT gap, supporting creative economy
Creation of
 Social ValueLead the ICTconvergence businessPromotion of 
Convergence and 
Innovation47 46
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Next-Generation Platform Strategy 
for Overcoming the Crisis 
in the Telecommunications Industry 
SK Telecom is pursuing a new platform strat-egy of creating Next-Generation Platforms 
to build an open ecosystem based on the 
telecommunications technology and provide innovative products and services that meet customer needs. SK Telecom will endeavor 
to maximize customer value and at the same 
time, form an open ecosystem with its various business partners and discover new growth 
engines, thereby creating a new turning point 
in the ICT advancements in Korea. The domestic telecommunications industry, 
which has played a pivotal role in national 
economic development for the past 30 years, has recently been facing challenges such as 
stagnant market growth and intensified com-
petition. Based on an objective review of this situation, SK Telecom is attempting to turn 3C (Contents, Community, Commerce)-linked 
Lifestyle Enhancement Platform 
SK Telecom’s first Next-Generation Platform innovation strategy is to develop a “Lifestyle 
Enhancement Platform” to provide custom-
ers with new values in all areas of their daily lives that they have not experienced before. 
To this end, SK Telecom plans to develop new 
business models, linking contents, commu-nity and commerce, and continually launch products and services catering to the various 
needs of customers in each segment. 
Evolution of the Advanced Media Platform 
The Next-Generation Platform strategy leads 
to the evolution of the Advanced Media Plat-form. While ceaselessly reinforcing its com-
petitiveness in the fixed-line and wireless me-
dia services that maximum user convenience, SK Telecom is also seeking new media ser -
vices to preemptively respond to the changes in the media industry trends that are shifting toward personalization. Through these efforts, SK Telecom will evolve into a leading Ad-
vanced Media Platform  operator, and secure 
15 million customers by 2018. this crisis into an opportunity for growth, tak-ing into consideration the customers, market 
and ecosystem.
SK Telecom plans to achieve growth by chang-ing its perspective from that of a business 
operator to the customers, and engaging in 
boundless collaborations with diverse partners including venture companies, start-ups and SMEs under the principles of openness and 
sharing. 
SK Telecom has presented three strategies to be implemented in full swing for the Next-Gen-
eration Platform innovation: Development of 
the “3C-linked Lifestyle Enhancement Plat-form,” Evolution of the “Advanced Media Plat-
form,” and Fostering of the “IoT Service Plat-
form.” By realizing the new values dreamed by its customers, the industry and society through 
the Next-Generation Platform innovation, SK 
Telecom plans to achieve KRW 100 trillion in corporate value. Fostering of the IoT Service Platform
Incl. Smart Home and Lifeware, etc. 
SK Telecom’s third Next-Generation Platform strategy is to foster the IoT service platforms. 
The plan is to develop diverse businesses that 
enhance user convenience and economic val-ue through IoT (Internet of Things) and to pro-
mote an open ecosystem with homogenous 
and heterogeneous partnerships. As part of these efforts, the Smart Home Service using the “Mobius” Platform for controlling various 
home devices such as the humidifier, door 
lock and boiler and the Total Home Care Ser -
vice linked with NSOK’s security solution will 
be offered. In addition, efforts will be made to 
expand the “Lifeware” business area such as launching new IoT-based products that satisfy 
customer needs in the entertainment area to-
gether with iriver. Lifestyle Enhancement 
PlatformAdvanced 
Media Platform
· Reinforcement based on 
 fixed-line IPTV subscriptions 
· Restructuring of mobile PoC
· New attempts in the media 
 sector (new media platform) · Differentiated products and
 services for each customer  
 segment set as the new  
 purchasing standards 
· Expansion into commerce 
 and community based on
 contents with fandoms IoT Service Platform
· Development of products and services based on diverse IoT  
 scenarios 
· Linking with existing growth  
 businesses such as Smart Home
 and Lifeware, etc. Next-Generation 
Platforms
based
Telecommunica-
tionsVision & Mission     Next-Generation Platform Strategy
Next-Generation Platform Strategy
for Full-fledged Growth in the Future
SK Telecom plans to overcome the limitations to growth in the telecommunications 
industry through the Next-Generation Platform strategy of providing innovative values and services that surpass the customer expectations.Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases49 48
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Elaborate Market
Maturation of the LTE Market and
Full-fledged Data Era  
With 57.21 million mobile phone subscribers in Korea as of the end of 2014, the market penetration rate was found to be exceed-
ing 110% of the total population, and this 
indicated the entry into the maturity phase for the mobile telecommunications market. However, it is expected that the penetration 
rate will continue to increase as a result of 
the increasing penetration of the LTE service, the growth of the smartphone market, use of 
mobile phones for business purposes such as 
the mobile office, and increasing use of data using tablet PC and other devices. 
Accordingly, the domestic mobile telecommu-nications market is expected to grow to an es-
timated size of KRW 44.9 trillion in 2015, which is approximately a 1.9% increase from 2014.
The telecommunications market of Korea 
has been undergoing qualitative growth and development thanks to the advances in the 
network technology, emergence of secondary 
devices such as wearables, as well as conver -
gence services such as advanced multimedia 
services, mobile commerce, telematics, and 
digital home services enabled by high-perfor -
mance devices. 
In addition, the improved data service quality 
resulting from the expansion of the LTE and LTE-A networks is expected to accelerate the 
growth of the B2B businesses that can directly 
contribute to the improvement of productivity.Mobile Phone Market Penetration Rate to 
Total Population (as of the end of 2014)
Size of the Domestic Eelecommunications 
Market (projection for 2015)
Major Regulatory Changes in 2014
Mobile Device
Distribution
Improvement Act
Rate Discounts
Increased Demand 
for MVNO  
Fee Approval
System Improvement Overview Response
- Effective as of Oct. 2014
- Prohibition of differential subsidization and notice of conditions for  
 subsidization for the purpose of inhibiting overheated competition  
 and fair distribution structure aimed at consumer protection
 
- Operation of a government-wide task force incl. KCC, MOSF , FTC, etc. 
- Increased policy demands for reducing the burden on households  
 caused by telecommunications costs by abolishment of subscription  
 fees, reduction in the base fees, etc. 
- Introduction of MVNO to reduce the burden on households caused by  
 telecommunications costs through market competition 
- Government policies to encourage the sale of MVNO by reducing  
 the wholesale prices and providing deductions on radio wave usage  
 charges, etc.
- Multiple bills proposed and discussed by the National assembly 
- The service plans of the No. 1 service provider in the telecommunications  
 market are subject to approval by the government prior to their launch, 
 but there are currently discussions to convert this to a notification-based 
 system to promote competition  - Actively participate in preventing differential treatment to users in line  
 with the purpose of the Act 
- Continuously monitor the discussions on legal restrictions such as the  
 abolishment of maximum subsidy, etc.  
 - Make a preemptive response to policies such as the abolishment of  
 the subscription fees and fee discounts in 2014 and plans to introduce  
 data-centered phone plans in 2015
- Seek measures to reduce the telecommunications costs by providing  
 innovative services instead of arbitrarily reducing the fees 
- SK Telecom, obligated to provide MNVO, is leading the MVNO market  
 through SK Telink
- Cooperate with MVNO manufacturers and provide diverse products  
 and services, taking into account that the MVNO business accounts  
 for 7.9% of the telecommunications market (as of the end of 2014)
- SK Telecom is subject to the fee approval system as a service provider  
 with No. 1 market share 
- Actively participate in the government policies to promote free com 
 petition in the market and seek measures to improve competitiveness  
 by providing creative services Where We Operate     Our Target & Goals
Seeking New Opportunities 
Amid Market and Regulation Changes
There is a need to create opportunities by responding to the changes in the market, 
regulatory amendments and demands of the stakeholders. SK Telecom will seek measures according to the market changes and bring forth excellent outcomes as a means to achieve its target corporate value and create value for the future. 
Size of the Telecommunications Market       Unit: KRW trillion
50
40
30
20
10
4.84.123.56.15.5
4.24.223.76.35.7
3.84.324.56.65.70.3%1.9%
2014 2013 2015(E)Fixed-line Phones Ultra-high-speed 
Internet
OtherMobile Communications
Size of The
Telecommunications MarketInternet (accessorycommunication)Regulation Changes
Regulation Changes Centering 
on User Protection 
In October 2014, the Mobile Device Distribu-
tion Improvement Act was enacted with the aim to suppress the overheated competition 
in the telecommunications market through the 
means of offering subsidies and to establish order in the distribution of mobile devices for improved transparency and reasonableness. 
This Act introduces reinforced regulations for 
the purpose of prohibiting differential subsi-dization and ensuring the soundness of the 
distribution system. With the introduction of 
this Act, there have been changes in the as-pects of benefits for users, transparency of 
the distribution system and promotion of de-
vice changes.As a leading telecommunications service pro-
vider, SK Telecom will actively implement de-
sirable policies, reflecting the opinions of di-verse stakeholders including the government, 
National Assembly, business operators and 
NGOs, and preemptively manage the risks re-lated to regulation changes. Also, SK Telecom will take an active role in preventing user dis-
crimination under the applicable regulations, 
and further enhance customer value through product- and service-centered competition.
With the introduction of data-centered calling 
plans, it is expected that there will be new policies for running a high-speed mobile data 
service environment without customer incon-
veniences and for service providers to sup-port this objective. Also, the role of service providers will become increasingly important in reinforcing national competitiveness based 
on ICT, and there will be concentrated policy 
efforts to nurture and support such service providers.
Social Responsibility
Increasing Demands for Corporate SocialResponsibility
With the growing CSR demand in addition 
to the market and regulation changes, SK Telecom has been prompted to create com-
prehensive value in the economic, social and 
environmental aspects, and has been offering services that create sustainable value. At the same time, responsible management practic-
es meeting the expectations of the stakehold-
ers are being implemented for the creation of shared value through ICT and environmental management. Also, with the implementation 
of responsible management practices world-
wide centering on pension funds, SK Telecom has been reinforcing its responsible invest-
ment practices centering on its governance 
structure.By reflecting the market and regulation changes and social demands in the aspects 
of management strategies and core values, 
SK Telecom is making the necessary respons-es and dedicating its efforts to achieving the 
target corporate value. Through these efforts, 
SK Telecom will strive to maximize value for all of its stakeholders by preparing for the po-
tential risks in the business environment and 
creating new opportunities.
(Projection)Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Source: Korea Communication CommissionKRW
trillion51 50
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Vision 2020
Partner for New Possibilities
Corporate Value of KRW 100 Trillion 
& Global Top 100
· Changes in the mobile telecommu  
 nications market caused by market   
 maturity and regulation changes 
· Pursuit of customer happiness by
 creating the highest customer value
· Introduction of innovative service plans   and services 
· Quality- and service-based marketing
· Reinforcement of customer protection   and security services
·  Average annual churn rate: below 2.0%
·  Customer information leakage cases: 0
·  No. 1 in three major customer  satisfaction surveys
· Average annual churn rate: maintain at 2.0% (by 2018)
· Maintain zero customer information leakage· Maintain the No. 1 position in three major customer satisfaction surveys
· Business Cases 1 (p.52)· Non Financial MD&A (p.121)· Increased need to secure a subscriber  base due to the maturation of 
 the LTE-based market 
· Provision of the top quality network
 and telecommunications services
· Improvement of LTE network quality· Management of the network traffic 
 and frequencies 
· Persistent efforts toward technological innovation 
· LTE penetration rate: 59%
· Commercialization of 3band LTE-A  
· LTE penetration rate: 65% (by 2015)   
 and 80% (by 2018)
· Commercialization of 5G service  (by 2020)
· Business Cases 2 (p.58)· Changes in the information and com-   munications environment such as IoT  
 and device diversification 
· Presentation and realization of new 
 potentials through ICT in the conver-
 gence environment
· Increased revenue from IoT and    Green Solutions, etc.
· Expansion of business based on
 contents    
· Expansion of the healthcare business
· 20% growth in revenue in the B2B
  solution business 
· 5.2 million fixed-line and wireless IPTV  
 subscribers· Export the Hospital Information System  (HIS) to Saudi Arabia 
  
· Revenue from the solution business:   
 KRW 697 billion (by 2015)
· Fixed-line and wireless IPTV subscribers: 15 million (by 2018)
· Revenue from the healthcare business:  
 KRW 1 trillion (by 2020)
· Business Cases 3 (p.62)Why This is Material
Where We Focus
2014 Performance
Target & Goals
Link In this ReportStrategic PillarsCore ValueVision
Market Driven Priorities
A shift in paradigm toward competition centering on products and services‘Happiness’ with Customers 
Chosen by more customers by creating the highest customer value ‘Companion’ with Society 
Creating new opportunities through the growth of the industry and ecosystem
· Creation of shared values for 
 the company and society and the 
 company through the ICT ecosystem 
· Maximization of the economic value of
 ICT and role as the contact point of 
 the realization of creative economy, 
 the top priority of the government 
· Support for ventures and start-ups  for the expansion of the ICT ecosystem 
· Development and provision of 
 ICT solutions based on social needs 
· mutual growth with SMEs
· 23 cases of venture start-up support
 through “BRAVO! Restart”
· 10 venture incubating cases through
 the Center for Creative Economy and
 Innovation· Development of Smart Solutions for Agriculture and Fisheries 
 · ‘Happy Venture’, ICT solution based    startup program (BRAVO! Restart)   
 leading to 34 accumulated business   
 case creation (by 2015) 
· Business Cases 4 (p.66) · Non-Financial MD&A (p.122)· Accelerated changes in the renewable   energy-based industries and regulations  
 such as the greenhouse gas emission  
 trading scheme
· Creation of opportunities for innovation   and contribution to the prevention of   
 climate change through ICT technology  
 and platform
· Creation of platforms for social GHG   
 emission reductions
· Development of energy and GHG   
 solutions · Reduction of GHG emissions and im-  provement of environmental efficiency
· GHG emissions increase rate: less than 5%
· Cloud BEMS and FEMS solutions   
 applied to 30 business sites
· GHG emissions increase rate: less than 5%; Achieve the absolute target for 
 GHG emissions (by 2015) 
· Certified Emission Reduction (CER) for the amount of GHG emissions reduced
 using T Map
· Business Cases 5 (p.70) · Non-Financial MD&A (p.123)· The future competitiveness of the ICT   industry will be based on intangible   
 assets such as knowledge and human  
 capital, etc. 
· Development of global ICT experts within the company with top competency 
 in the market
· Investment into human capital develop-
 ment through education and training
· Reasonable performance evaluations
· Enhancement of the efficiency of human capital return on investment (ROI) 
· 100% completion of the ‘Anywhere, 
 Anytime Smart Learning’ environment 
· Human capital development expenses  
 per employee: KRW 3.46 million
· Ratio of employee performance  evaluation: 96%
· Fostering of 500 global Next-Generation leaders (by 2015)
· Business Cases 6 (p.74) · Non-Financial MD&A (p.119)Value Driven Possibilities
Improving the future value by realizing creative economy and ICTnomincs
Improved Customer Retention 
through Innovative Plans  
and ProductsImproved LTE Leadership 
through 
Top Network TechnologyInnovative Solutions 
based on ConvergenceCreation of Shared Value in 
ICT through Venture and 
Start-up SupportDevelopment of Platforms 
for Social GHG Emission 
ReductionSecuring a Base for Future 
Competition by Improving 
Human CapitalWhere We Operate     Our Target & GoalsValue Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases53 52
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
2013
2014Average Billing-based ARPU Unit: KRW Increase in ARPU with LTE Business Growth
In 2014, wireless Internet service business in 
the domestic telecommunications market saw 
continuous growth, prompted by the increase in smartphone users and advances in the 
LTE-A service. Amid the rapid changes in the 
industry centering on the increased data traf-fic, SK Telecom successfully commercialized the 3band LTE-A service in December 2014, 
thereby firmly securing its status as a leading 
LTE service provider.By the end of 2014, the ratio of LTE subscrib-ers to the total number of subscribers reached 
58.5%, and this is expected to rise even fur -
ther with the increased use of data among 
customers. The growing number of LTE sub-
scribers and heightened data consumption 
resulting in an up-selling effect have contrib-uted to the continuous growth of billing-based ARPU. Accordingly, ARPU in 2014 was KRW 
36,103, a 4.5% increase from KRW 34,560 re-
corded in 2013.Customer Retention Strategy’s Impact on Financial Performance 
Deviating from its strategy to attract new sub-
scribers through subsidization, an effort was made to shift the marketing paradigm toward 
products and services for mid- and long-term 
benefits. These efforts have resulted in a high customer retention rate.To be more specific, the average monthly 
churn rate was recorded at 2.0% in 2014, a 
0.3% decrease from the previous year, and this is the lowest churn rate recorded since 
2006. 
SK Telecom’s marketing expenses for new subscriber attraction purposes in 2014 were 
about KRW 2.186 trillion based on the custom-
er attraction commissions, and the marketing expenses per wireless service subscriber were approximately KRW 270 thousand. The 0.3% decline in the monthly churn rate has the same 
effect as maintaining over 1,007 thousand sub-
bers annually, and this is equivalent to saving about KRW 281 billion in expenses for attract-
ing new subscribers.
Enhanced Customer Satisfaction 
through Positive Customer Experience
Since the establishment of the “CE Innovation Master Plan” in 2013, SK Telecom has been 
systematically practicing Customer Experi-
ence Management (CEM). The main principles were established based on the core value of 
customer experience, which is “Happiness 
for Customers,” and they are “Happy Trust,” gained through customer protection, “Hap-py Benefits” for long-term customers, and 
“Happy Experiences” for the first users of in-
novative new products. These principles were chosen to meet the customer needs that have been changing with the advent of the massive use of data and rapid development of tech-
nology. In addition, the products and services 
delivered to the customers are systematically inspected and improved with respect to cus-
tomer experience. Moreover, a semi-annual 
internal customer satisfaction survey is con-ducted in the first and second hales of the year with the customers of SK Telecom and 
its competitors. 
SK Telecom thoroughly analyzes the results of customer evaluation of the company’s 
competitiveness in the aspect of custom-
er satisfaction, and reflects the results in its management activities including the improve-
ment of products and services. As a result, 
SK Telecom was ranked No. 1 in the national customer satisfaction survey in 2015 for the 18 consecutive years. While enhancing customer satisfaction 
through CE innovation, SK Telecom has also 
been dedicating its efforts to reducing cus-tomer claims. For prompt and active reso-
lution of customer claims received through 
the external institutions, there are dedicated organizations in operation at the head office 
and in each region. The improved system for 
dealing with customer complaints has result-ed in the decline of claim per customer on 
board (CPCB) per 100,000 customers since 
2012. Also, claims are to be dealt with with-in 48 hours, in principle, and this is reflected 
in the organization evaluation to reinforce the 
execution of this policy. SK Telecom will con-tinue to improve and manage the processes for customer claims in order to provide its 
customers with positive experiences.Annual Customer Retention Effect
Annual Reduced Subscriber Attraction Costs 
Average Monthly Churn Rate
3.0%
2.0%1.0%
2010 2011 2012 2013 20142.7% 2.7% 2.6%
2.3%
2%LTE Subscribers Trend Unit: million persons 
Subscribers Penetration Rate 
2011 2012 2013 2014 1Q 2014 2Q 2014 3Q 2014 4Q2.7%49.3%
27.8%53.2%55.2% 57.0%58.5%
0.67.513.5 14.815.4 16.2 16.7
Billing-based ARPU Trend  Unit: KRW thousand
YOY Growth ARPUCreative Customer Value Innovation 
for “Happiness with Customers”
SK Telecom is concentrating on its fundamental competitiveness to improve customer 
value amid the overheated competition. By reinforcing the competitiveness of the products and services that meet customer needs and ensuring systematicinformation protection and positive customer experiences, SK Telecom will realize its corporate value of “Happiness for Customers.”Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Customer Experience Innovation     Next-Generation Network Leadership     Convergence     Creation of Shared Value Using ICT     Solutions to Climate Change
HR Recruitment & Investment
KRW billionThousand Person About 
About 
34,560
36,10355 54
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities2011 1H 2011 2H 2012 1H 2012 3H 2013 1H 2013 2H 2014 1H 2014 2H7072747676
75 7576
7475
7475
74
73 73
71 717273
7273
7274
Reinforcement of Customer Protection,
the First Steps to Enhancing Customer Value 
The accelerated delivery of information 
through diversification media and Internet development has been accompanied by ad-
vances in hacking skills and changing security 
trends. As a result, there has been an increas-ing emphasis on the importance of analyzing massive amounts of big data and personal 
information protection in IoT, SNS and mo-
bile app services. The evolution of phishing, smishing and pharming techniques have 
had a negative consequence on the finan-
cial well-being of the general public. For  SK Telecom in particular, there have been 31,808 
voice phishing cases in the past 5 years, 
causing KRW 369.3 billion in total damages and KRW 11.6 million in damages per case 
on average.  
To mitigate this issue, SK Telecom has orga-nized a companywide information protection 
organization under the responsibility of MNO, 
and began managing about 58 million cus-tomer information cases by safeguarding its distribution networks and contact channels. 
Also, Korea’s first Security Operation Center  
(SOC) and Personal Information Management System (PIMS) were established to further 
advance the security solutions and thorough-
ly mitigate the risks of customer information leakage. In 2014, the scope of internal system 
inspection and direct management of the sys-tems was expanded to include the investment 
companies. Other security measures include 
remote deletion of files containing customer 
information in the PCs at retailers and impo-sition of penalties on stores violating the cus-
tomer information management standards, 
inclusion of agreement terms and conditions on the importance of customer information, and transmission of SMS to the employees in 
the distribution networks. 
Meanwhile, the Personal Information Guard Campaign was conducted and the aware-
ness to “take the service contract papers 
home” was raised from 29.8% to 57.2% af-ter the campaign. In fact, the contract paper 
recovery rate has actually increased from 
81.5% to 86.1% following the campaign. Also, additional services such as SMS Spam 
Filtering
1), Spam SMS Blocking2), No Spam 
services among others are offered. The Voice Recognition System was introduced at the 
customer service center, and the e-invoice services are being provided to customers. As 
a result of such changes and efforts, SK Tele-
com ranked No. 1 in terms of intelligent spam blocking accuracy in the second half of 2014 and achieved the expected performances in 
the major security indices such as 0.10% in 
terms of the rate of small-amount payment complaints
3), 0.27% in terms of the rate of 
VoC on roaming4), and 0 cases of customer 
information leakage. SK Telecom complies with the relevant laws and regulations including the Personal Infor -
mation Protection Act, Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection, etc., 
Telecommunications Business Act and Pro-
tection of Communications Secrets Act. In accordance with the Personal Information Protection Act, which was amended in August 
2014, the company stopped collecting the 
resident registration numbers and removed 
Innovation of the Distribution System 
for Reinforce Retail Competitiveness 
Amid the shift of focus in the competition paradigm from price competition to custom-
er value, SK Telecom has been innovating its 
distribution system since 2013 to gain supe-riority by providing improved customer value with exceptional distribution competitiveness. 
In 2014, in order to strengthen its retail com-
petiveness, SK Telecom attempted to achieve quantitative growth of its infrastructures, at-
tested by the net growth of its distribution 
networks by 480 more than the previous 
1) A service for blocking spams based on 
 analyses of the SMS sent to customers 
2) A service for blocking spam SMS with 
 voice information service sent from a caller
3) Rate of small-amount payment complaints: 
 the ratio of the number of cases of small-amount 
 payment complaints reported to the number of
  small-amount payment transactions per year
4) Rate of VoC on roaming: the ratio of the number
 of VoC on roaming to the number of consulting
 cases about roaming The Personal Information Guard Campaign for reinforced personal information protectionResults of Three Major Customer Satisfaction Surveys in Korea
Customer Satisfaction Survey  Supervising Organization  2014 Results
National Customer Satisfaction  Korea Productivity Center 76 (No. 1 for 18 consecutive years, 
Index (NCSI)  as of 2015)
Korean Customer Satisfaction  Korea Management  75.4 (No. 1 for 17 consecutive years)
Index (KCSI) Association Consultants
Korean Standard Service Quality  Korean Standards  70.6 (No. 1 for 15 consecutive years)
Index (KS-SQI) Association the space in the subscription contracts for the resident registration number. 
As for the resident registration numbers col-
lected prior to the amendment of the Act, there are plans to delete the information with-
in 2 years using means that will prevent the 
recovery thereof. As such, SK Telecom will continue to reinforce its customer information protection policies and practices by ceaseless-
ly improving its systems, communicating with 
the stakeholders and complying with the laws.
Major Activities  Outcomes
Safe Message Service System  Blocking of 19.1 million smishing cases per year
3-Stage Smishing Defense Technology  Blocking of more than 300 types of 
 spam messages per day
Expanded scope of monitoring (2,000 targets > 10,000 targets) Blocking of more than 50 types of spam images 
Real-time spam blocking system per month
Development of the image spam blocking technology
Convenient spam reporting feature on devies
T Guard, a mobile vaccine program for blocking 
malicious app virusesMajor Activities for Blocking and Preventing Smishing and Spam and the Outcomes
year. At the same time, qualitative growth of 
infrastructures was achieved by strategically 
opening stores in commercial districts with 
low retail competition based on data analy-sis, and the future-oriented distribution infra-
structures were expanded by benchmarking 
premium stores. Also, the customer service manual was reorganized, taking into account the diverse customer needs, and education 
and training were provided for the internaliza-
tion thereof in order to reinforce the custom-er service capacity at the customer contact 
points. Furthermore, efforts are being made to Rate of Small-amount Payment Complaints
Rate of VoC on Roaming
* SK Telecom’s internal CSI survey is based on the Ameri-
can Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) model developed by Dr. Clases Fornell (National Quality Research Center, University of Michigan, U.S.).Trends in the Results of SK Telecom’s Internal CSI Survey Unit: Point
SK Telecom Company A Company B57 56
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesSK Telecom’s Brands make revolutionary changes in the business 
practices and provide differentiated services, 
centering on T Broadcasting, a channel for 
education and promotional videos on the dis-tribution network, T World Direct, the official 
online channel for device shopping and provi-
sion of various benefits, and T Premium Store, a future-oriented distribution network.
Data-centered Calling Plans and Specialized 
Calling Plan Innovation The data-centered calling plans and other 
calling plan innovations maximizing data util-
ity will serve as the basis for future growth, thereby enhancing customer value and con-
tributing to the growth of SK Telecom. Com-
petitiveness will be reinforced by diversifying calling plans based on the existing strengths such as the payment system, networks, sub-scribers and big data. 
SK Telecom has been leading the era of un-
limited voice calling plans with the launch of the T Kkiri and National Unlimited Calling 
Plan, and in 2014, a new lineup of unlimited 
LTE data calling plans was made available, with provision of contents benefits such as mobile TV and music services and member -
ship benefits in addition to the data benefits. 
Of particular note, in order to bring forth cre-
ative customer value, SK Telecom is providing tailored products and services such as the 
TPO calling plans catering to customer needs 
based on time, place and occasion as well as their age groups, thereby providing practical benefits to a wide range of customers. In the 
case of “T Kids Phone JooN,” a wearable 
device specifically designed for children, the number of subscribers reached 170,000 as 
of April 2015, while 100,000 customers sub-
scribed to “T Outdoor,” a wearable tailored to those who engage in frequent outdoor activ-
ities, in just 5 months of its launch, and the 
number of subscribers to the related products has been continually on the rise. In addition, since 2010, SK Telecom has been consistently launching integrated products 
such as “T Family Combination” and “Free 
Family Calling Plan,” and providing discounts on the basic data fees and addition data 
among other benefits as a means to enhance 
customer value through its fixed-line and wireless combination products. Launch of T Kids Phone JooN 2
Specialized Calling Plans
Category   Main calling plans 
TPO calling plans Time  Commuting calling plan: Unlimited calling and data usage during
  commuting hours
 Place  Subway calling plan: Unlimited calling and data usage on the subway  
 Occasion T Outdoor - Use of a wearable device  
  T Kids Phone JooN - A device for preschool children with calling, 
  location check and emergency calling features 
Contents–Service Bundle calling plans A third party partnership calling plan such as B TV Pack, T Sports Pack, etc.
Sponsor and B2B calling plans Calling plans linked with home shopping (GS Home Shopping) and
  IoT solutions (under development) T Outdoor, a tailored wearable product
Mobile Telecommunications 
Services
band LTE T store
11st
SyrupNATETB bundle T map Smart Insight
hoppinGeovision
T cloud biz
T cloudT bizpoint
myshopT membership
T roamingFixed-Mobile 
Convergence ServicesUbiquitous·Convergence 
ServicesB2B ServicesSevices for 
Individual 
CustomersServices for 
B2B
Customers
Reinforced T Membership Program for Improved Customer Retention
Since the introduction of the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act, SK Telecom has been reinforcing its 
membership benefits by launching the unlimited membership plan among other services. As such, various efforts 
will be made to obtain a competitive edge and provide actual benefits through the membership program. Using its 
alliances and membership base, membership discounts, integrated payment service and Lifestyle information cura-tion service among other services will be provided for convenient and rich mobile life experience for the customers, 
and the alliance platform will be further expanded to provide more business opportunities for the related industries. 
Continuous 
expansion of unlimited membership programRegularization of big promotions
New membership programs incl. "Nae Mamdaero T Membership"VIP programsUpward adjustment of max. discount for all membership levelsReinforced customer invitationpromotions
Operation of exclusive email for T membersExpanded scope of alliances for the membership program
Reinforced global services in the U.S., Japan, Hong Kong and Europe, etc.Membership 
Benefits
SK Telecom will continue to secure its supe-
rior position in the market by actively utilizing 
its top global standard payment system, op-
timized networks, subscriptions and big data capacity. 
SK Telecom’s Brand Power for Creation 
of Customer Value SK Telecom has service brands called “T” 
for individual customers, “Smart” for corpo-
rate customers, and “United Object (UO),” a lifeware family brand. “T,” which was launched 
in 2006 and underwent a brand renewal 
in 2008, has continually been on the rise in terms of brand value, and it has positioned 
itself as the representative brand of the in-
dustry and as “Top of Mind (TOM),” indicating high brand awareness. “Smart,” SK Telecom’s ICT convergence solution brand for B2B busi-ness, has been expanding its business scope 
from fixed and mobile networks to include 
IoT-related solution fields and undertaking a role in the new growth businesses. On the 
other hand, “UO” is a family brand launched in 
2015 to offer diverse lifeware products includ-ing smart beams and speakers. SK Telecom has established a permanent or -
ganization called the “Enterprise Brand Strat-egy Committee,” which conducts the annual Brand Power Index Research with participa-
tion of consumers in Seoul and six metropol-
itan cities.SK Telecom was ranked No. 1 among ser -
vice providers in the Best Korea Brand 2015 survey conducted by Interbrand, a global brand consulting firm. In the multi-faceted 
evaluation of the brand value from the per -
spectives of financial performance, trend-set-
ting power and quality among other factors, SK Telecom’s brand value was assessed to 
be KRW 4,535.7 billion, which was a 1.9% 
increase from 2013, and it was the one and only telecommunications and service provider in Korea to reach the top 4. In addition, SK 
Telecom was chosen as the No. 1 company in 
the mobile telecommunications sector based on the Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) ad-
ministered by the Korean Management Asso-
ciation Consulting, which attests to the fact that it is gaining recognition externally for its efforts to create the best customer value and 
make differentiated technological innovations.
Events59 58
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
2013 2014100%
80%60%
40%
20%
2012Differentiated Network Technology 
Leadership and 5G Technology 
After commercializing 3band LTE-A, SK Tele-
com continued to dedicate its efforts to tech-nological development and became world first 
to commercialize the enhanced Inter-Cell In-
terference Coordination (eICIC) technology for controlling frequency interference through an MOU with Nokia, in January 2015. This tech-
nology, which will serve as a key cornerstone 
for the 5G era, mitigated frequency interference by about 15% in regions where small and large 
base stations are present, and this is expected 
to improve service quality for customers. SK Telecom also strove to develop new tech-
nologies to utilize super-high-frequency bands 
as the existing frequency bandsof 6GHz and lower are exhausted quickly. As a result, the 
world’s fastest super-high-frequency band of 
7.5Gbps speed using the 5G technology was demonstrated at the 2015 Mobile World Con-Trends in the Subscriptions to the Networks gress. Also, the “5G White Paper,” containing the vision for the 5G era, results of the analyses 
of key technologies, services, requirements, 
frequencies, and directions for development, was published.
In addition, SK Telecom developed essential 
technologies for the 5G network including the Orchestration technology for network virtu-alization, and Cloud virtualized Radio Access 
Network (vRAN) technology in December 
2014. Moreover, SK telecom became world first to commercialize the Carrier Aggregation 
(CA) technology for network evolution and the 
Coordinated MultiPoint (CoMP) technology, a coordinated communications system for base 
stations, and successfully commercialized eIC-
IC technology recently. Based on such diverse approaches and attempts, SK Telecom will 
firmly secure its global leadership in the 5G era.“band LTE”, the Next-GenerationNetwork Service
Based on its differentiated technological prowess, SK Telecom has been leading the 
development and commercialization of vari-
ous network services including LTE. Also, ef-forts have been made to enhance customer 
value by providing high-quality network ser -
vices through stable network operation and to 
develop new technologies. “band LTE” refers to the Next-Generation network services of 
SK Telecom encompassing the 4band, 5band, 
5band LTE-A and 5G services that will con-nect 4 and 5 frequency bands in addition to 
the 3band LTE-A, which was commercialized by the company. SK Telecom became world first to commercialize LTE-A in June 2013 and 
broadband LTE-A service in June 2014, and successfully commercialized 3band LTE-A 
just 6 months later in December 2014. This 
served as an impetus for the company to pro-vide network communications services that 
are 4 times faster than LTE and about 21 times 
faster than 3G. In March 2015, SK Telecom built Twenty six thousand 2.1GHz base sta-tions, which is the largest of its kind in Korea, 
and this has enabled the company to provide 
services in 85 city centers across the country in addition to the Seoul National Capital Area 
and in the subway. 
LTE                       WCDMA                      CDMA
Providing LTE networks LTE penetration rate 59% (10% YOY increase)
Improving network quality  LTE quality survey  No. 1 in broadband LTE-A and 3G (MSIP , 2014) 
Securing technological  Commercialization of  World's first commercialization of broadband LTE-A
competitiveness new technologies (225Mbps) (June 2014)
  Commercialization of 3band LTE-A (300Mbps) (Dec. 2014)
  Successfully demonstrated the 5G technology (July 2014) 
  and signed MOUs with Ericsson and NokiaSecuring Network CompetitivenessSK Telecom & Nokia, conclude an MOU on 
the development of 5G technology
Publication of “5G White Paper,” with a rough sketch of 
the 5G communications era in 2020
· Aggregation of multiple LTE   frequencies for simultaneous  
 transmission to a mobile   
 device · Successful demonstration in   February 2012 and commer 
 cialization in June 2013· Improved service quality at   boundaries of base stations  
 by automatically controlling  
 signal interference between  
 adjacent cells
· Commercialization in January  2012· Expansion of small cell  coverage by macro and 
 small cell coordination and 
 speed improvement on   
 boundaries · Successful demonstration  in June 2012
· Commercialization in January 2015SK Telecom’s Network Roadmap
Broadband LTE-A
Servicing metropolitan cities since March 2014Nationwide network established in July 2014LTE-A
84 city centers in Koreaas of the end of 2013
3band LTE-A
Commercialization with the launch of mobile devices as of the end of 2014
Max
225MbpsMax
150Mbps
Max
300Mbps
1.8G
1.8G X 21.8G X 2
2.1G
800M
800M
800M
CA
Carrier Aggregation
CoMP
Coordinated Multiple PointeICIC
Enhanced Inter-cell Interface 
Coordination
Frequency Aggregation 
 Control of Inter-Cell Interference 
 Transmission Scheduling Investment toward Differentiated 
Network Quality
SK Telecom will be committed to meeting customer expectations with the world’s 
most advanced technology and improving its calling and data quality and network competitiveness. 
Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Customer Experience Innovation     Next-Generation Network Leadership     Convergence     Creation of Shared Value Using ICT     Solutions to Climate Change
HR Recruitment & Investment61 60
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities18
17
16
1517.4
16.917.9
LTE Asia
Conference
Sept. 2014
An award at the LTE Asia Awards 
2014 2013 2014 2012Equally Exceptional Technological Power 
in Wi-Fi 
In order to provide fast and stable Wi-Fi ser -
vice, SK Telecom incorporated the optimized 
AP access technology with “T wifi zone” to 
improve the quality of experience for its Wi-Fi 
customers. It is also leading the technical in-novation by developing ad solutions based on Wi-Fi and “Hotspot 2.0,” a Next-Generation 
Wi-Fi-based automatic roaming technology. 
In recognition of these efforts, SK Telecom received the “Best Wi-Fi Service Innovation 
Award” at the Wi-Fi Industry Awards in 2013 
and the “Top Prize” in the Next-Generation Wi-Fi Service Provider category in 2014. 
Network Evolution and Lifestyle Changes 
The introduction of the ultra-high-speed LTE-A technology and the 5G technology, which is expected to be commercialized in 
2020, will bring considerable changes in our 
lives. The fast network speed has enabled seamless multimedia services in real time, 
and invigorated the provision of SK Telecom’s 
services such as “B tv mobile,” “Group Vid-eo Confrences,” and the Free Lossless Audio 
Codec (FLAC) for digital music files on Melon. 
Of particular note, the introduction of the 5G technology, which will be able to replace all 
other telecommunication services, will be ac-
companied by numerous changes. For instance, fixed-line products and services 
will disappear, and all of the devices will be 
able to be linked wireless. Also, wireless video services using ultra-high-resolution and su-per-big-screen displays requiring large data 
transmissions will become common, and this 
technology will also enable a wide range of services such as hologram and 3D videos that 
do not require the use of 3D glasses. In prepa-
ration for this era, SK Telecom will make an effort to pave the foundation for the creation 
of convergence services, combining devices, 
networks and software based on its advanced mobile network infrastructures, and establish-
ment of partnerships with the ICT industry. Narrowing the Information Gap
with IT Infrastructure 
SK Telecom recorded the highest success 
rate in voice call and wireless Internet services in the telecommunications service quality as-
sessment carried out by the Ministry of Sci-
ence, ICT and Future Planning (MSIP) in 2014. With the aim to make advances in technol-ogy for its own growth and for society as a 
whole, SK Telecom has opened “T.um Mo-
bile,” a mobile ICT interactive center, and has been operating the “Visiting Branch Service.” 
Also, SK Telecom became the first domestic 
telecommunications service provider to open an LTE-A network for Ulleungdo and Dokdo 
Islands, while expanding the band LTE cov-
erage for the island area in the West Sea in-cluding Yeonpyeongdo and hiking trails and installing LTE relay stations in remote areas in the mountains in 2014. 
Moreover, the quality of the telecommunica-
Compensations for Losses 
on Universal Service Provision Unit: KRW billionPreparing for Future Competition 
by Securing Frequencies
As the most basic resource for telecommu-
nications services, frequency is one of the crucial determinants of the network competi-
tiveness of a telecommunications service pro-
vider. Unlike 3G, the bandwidth of sequential frequencies determines the maximum speed of LTE, which means that securing more fre-
quencies has become highly important for 
telecommunications service providers. Under these conditions, SK Telecom is building an 
optimized network infrastructure tailored to 
the data usage of its customers as a means to efficiently manage its frequencies. It plans 
to secure 1,190MHz of frequencies, which 
are schedule to be supplied by 2023 in ac-cordance with the Mobile Gwanggaeto Plan 2.0, in a timely manner, and it is expanding its data capacity based on its technological lead-
ership. In addition, a system has been devel-
oped to respond to heavy data traffic in areas of concentrated data usage, which will be de-
termined by measuring data usage based on 
big data analysis and predicting the demand in advance. Based on the current data traffic 
trends, it is expected that the demand will be 
sufficiently met with the LTE frequency of SK Telecom. Nevertheless, active and efficient 
measures will be taken in the future, taking 
into account the potential increase in LTE traf-fic and decline in 3G users. Frequency Status
Category   Frequency  Band in use (duplex basis)
2G 800MHz 10M
3G 2.1GHz 40M
LTE 800MHz 20M
 1.8GHz 35M
 2.1GHz 20M
WiBro 2.3GHz 27MInstallations in Areas with Poor Access to 
Telecommunications Services in 2014tions services was improved for all the coastal 
roads to enable emergency communication 
in the event of accidents in the offshore and 
island areas. Service quality was measured in areas with poor reception such as hiking trails 
and islands, and the quality was improved 
based on the results. As such, SK Telecom has been expanding its coverage for those residing in the mountains, island areas and 
other regions where the access to telecom-
munications services is difficult. SK Telecom has also been providing com-
pensations for losses on universal service 
provision in order to offer basic telecommuni-cations services to the low-income class and 
the residents of regions with low population 
density. The total cost of the general services provided together with other domestic service providers amounted to KRW 48.5 billion in 2014, and the amount borne by SK Telecom, 
in particular, was KRW 17.9 billion. 
“T.um Mobile”, a mobile ICT interactive centerRemote areas 
in the mountains
IslandsHiking trails
Major Awards Related to Network Technology
Wi-Fi Industry
Awards
Oct. 2014
Top Prize in the Best Next Genera-
tion Hotspot Initiative Wi-Fi service provider category Small Cell Industry 
Awards (SCIA)
June 2014 (3 consecutive years)
Small Cell Network Innovation 
Award in the small cell tool design and technology innovation categoryTelecom Asia
Awards
April 2014 (3 consecutive years)
Best Mobile Carrier AwardGlobal MobileAwards
Feb. 2014
Outstanding LTE Contribution & 
Best Mobile Technology Break-through
63 62
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Full-fledged Emergence 
of Ultra-High-Speed Mobile Networks and IoT 
The emergence of new service-converged 
hardware will lead to massive amounts of data generation and consumption, and this in 
turn will lead to ICTnomics, which will cause 
revolutionary changes industrywide. With the introduction of wearable devices and other diversified Internet-connection devices, the 
related markets expected to increase signifi-
cantly. It is inevitable that there will be a need for pro-
cessing of diverse information for generation 
and consumption with the emergence of IoT. For this purpose, there needs to be revolu-
tionary changes across the economic sectors 
such as advances in computing intelligence for information generation and processing. 
Expansion of the Value Chain 
Convergence brings forth numerous changes 
in the aspects of device, network, platform 
and content, which are part of the value chain of the telecommunications industry. There will be changes in not only the standardized 
devices centering on smartphones, but also 
automobiles, watches and glasses among others, emergence of ultra-high-speed net-
work for processing of massive data, a shift 
from simple, individual applications to ad-vanced solution platforms, and a shift from 
music- and move-centered contents to big 
data contents integrating location and health information. Such changes will occur through-
out the value chain. The formation of an ICT ecosystem, enabling 
diverse forms of production and consump-
tion, may lead to new business opportunities 
such as processing and delivery of big data, solution development and new hardware in-
tegrated with services. In other words, it will 
present the possibility of creating opportuni-ties in all directions based on “Connectivity.” 
“Lifeware” for the Expansion of Consumer IoT 
SK Telecom created new opportunities and made meaningful accomplishments in 2014 
such as reinforcing the foundation for its solu-
tion and healthcare businesses and building a strong base for the convergence business 
targeting individual customers. 
With the advent of the IoT era, SK Telecom forged its growth businesses in addition to 
establishing a policy to create new business 
models using the strengths of its existing businesses and achieve success. According-
ly, there are plans to concentrate the efforts to 
promoting the IoT platform business in con-nection with the machine to machine (M2M) and B2B solutions, and to diversify business 
models based on the media such as com-
merce. In order to strengthen its technological leadership through alliances with competent 
global partners, SK Telecom formed a strate-
gic alliance with Intel and other partners, and dedicated its efforts to the promotion of the 
IoT industry and joint development of new 
products and services. In the case of individual customer services, 
there are plans to create personalized ser -vice value using the data collected from 
smart devices for analysis through sensors, processors and “Connectivity.” Defining this business area as the “Lifeware” business, SK 
Telecom will provide the related hardware and 
software based on customer needs. The value of Lifeware business as a new growth busi-
ness will be proven in 2015 for global expan-
sion, and efforts will be made to achieve KRW 3 trillion in corporate value by 2018 by improv-
ing customer value based on such services. 
Meaningful Performance 
in the Healthcare Business 
In 2014, SK Telecom made notable achieve-ments in its healthcare business, obtaining 
FDA approval for Friend TSH, a diagnostic 
device for thyroid cancer, expanding into the healthcare market of China with the opening of the Shenzhen VISTA-SK Medical Center in 
China, and commencing the export of HIS to 
Saudi Arabia. In the case of the external diagnostic device 
business, SK Telecom successfully became 
the majority shareholder of NanoEntek by pur -
chasing additional shares in April 2014, with 
plans to enter and accelerate its growth in theAmerican healthcare market. Also, advance 
bases were secured in the Chinese market with the opening of an R&D center and a medical center in Shenzhen, China. As for the 
export of hospital solutions to Saudi Arabia, 
the consortium formed by Seoul National Uni-versity Hospital in Bundang and SK Telecom 
signed a hospital information system supply 
agreement, with a contract price of around KRW 70 billion. If the export to Saudi Arabic 
and other Middle East regions continues to 
rise, it is expected that more than KRW 300 billion in revenue will be generated over the 
course of the next 5 years.
Promotion of the IoT and Convergence 
Business Solutions 
The solution business presents a new role for ICT in satisfying the economic, environmen-tal and social needs in reflection of the new 
trends arising from the changes in the busi-
ness environment and lifestyles. By generat-ing profits stably using the ICT-based busi-
ness structure and model, the value of such 
platforms for mid-term growth will be proven. In the solution business, selection and con-
centration of businesses were performed and 
Opening of the Shenzhen VISTA-SK Medical Center in 
Shenzhen, China
Telecommunications Service Provider of the Year in 
the Healthcare Sector at the Asia Pacific Best Practice Awards
ICT nomics to create new values and 
an outstanding economy 
through the connectivity of things.
Wearable Devices 
 Home Appliances
CarExpansion
AgricultureDistributionMobile / Tablet
Healthcare
ICTnomics
Increased 
connectivityProcessing and
 handling of informationBusiness Model Expansion Leading 
the Fusion and Convergence Era
Internet of Things and the new fusion hardware uprising will create an ICTnomics that 
will bring forth revolutionary changes in data manufacture and utilization and connec-tion in the entire field of Industry. New value will be created together with the business expansion efforts based on ICTnomics. 
Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Customer Experience Innovation     Next-Generation Network Leadership     Convergence     Creation of Shared Value Using ICT     Solutions to Climate Change
HR Recruitment & Investment65 64
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilitiessustainable growth was achieved through 
business model expansion in 2014.
The solution business grew 20.6% compared
to 2013, while the growth rate in the green business area dramatically increased to 215%.  
SK Telecom will continue expanding its busi-
ness areas and seek measures for sustainable growth by pursuing ICTnomics and developing and providing innovative services in the era of 
IoT.Development of Self-Contained Technologies 
by Conducting R&D Projects in Each Area 
SK Telecom restructured its organization in 
2013 to concentrate its marketing capacity and enhance its R&D execution power for the 
future growth businesses by conducting R&D 
projects that are in balance with its existing mobile telecommunications and growth busi-nesses. Accordingly, the ICT R&D projects 
and future growth R&D projects were separat-ed, and investments were actively made into 
the R&D field for innovating technologies in the ICT convergence and adjacent industrial 
fields in addition to the existing ICT industry 
and securing business opportunities.Through these efforts, SK Telecom continual-
ly secured its leadership position in fixed-line 
and wireless network, platform and service technology fields, while creating new value by integrating the concepts of customers, prod-ucts, networks and devices and discovering new growth engines based on technology. SK 
Telecom will be committed to the develop-
ment of key technologies to emerge as a lead-er in new business areas in the future through 
technological innovation and reinforcement of 
new technology-based businesses.
Concept 2014 Highlights 2015 PlansOutcomes in the Solution Businesses and Future Plans
A solution business 
providing infrastructure for improving productivity and cost effectiveness in reflection of the process characteristics and the value chain of the industrial sector of the customer 
Payment services such as the Direct Carrier Billing (DCB) business for set-tlement of small-amount phone payments and contents purchasing 
Providing Cloud in relation 
to specific infrastruc-ture-type products such as security, stability and mobile optimization, etc. Overall services for 
integrating sensors, communications and IT technologies for buildings and spaces to check and control the information between people-things and things-things.
Providing, building and 
operating ICT-based solutions such s energy efficiency enhancement and smart power plant, etc. for all areas including buildings, factories, public organization offices and other facilities Increased revenue generated from solutions in major areas (smart & care: caretaker for people with severe disabilities, e-vouchers, Gyeonggi bus, taxi control, direct trade of food ingredients, etc.)
Prepared the foundation for sustainable growth by winning contracts for projects to build energy management systems for diverse buildings and companies  Improved access to the platform business by building an open IoT platform, and pursuing business centering on the three major areas: safety, asset management and human care 
Expand the energy 
management system business through strategic targeting and differentiation of targeting measures according to the type of industry, and achieve full-fledged outcomes such as construction of smart power plant facilities Launched industry-specific products and secured services for various business areas (selection of the pilot operator of the e-Call service, smart furniture as a new form of ICT convergence) 
Specified and executed 
the mid- and long-term payment business growth model (T Smart Pay) and pursued short-term agen-das such as improvement of usage limit and profit structure, etc. 
Expanded the solution 
lineup such as global cloud and Webddle, etc. and the business areas for major customer groups such as games, commerce and finance, etc.  Secure additional suc-cessful business models for the repeated sales of representative products for each industry and industry-specific products, and pursue convergence and conglomeration of business models such as commerce linked with re-gional commercial districts and ad service integration 
Launch “T Smart Pay” and 
pursue market expansion, and expand the solution business based on the USIM platform 
Develop Cloud 2.0 to 
improve the price and product competitiveness of the cloud infrastructure 
IoT solutions
IoT platforms
Green
Payment
CloudIoT Platforms IoT Solutions
Green Cloud
Payment Network Solutions
Business Data New SolutionsRevenue from        
the Solution Business         Unit: KRW billion R&D Expenditure and Personnel KRW billion, person
ICT area Network World first to develop the commercial technology for 20+10M
   broadband CA and 3band MC/CA 
  LTE-A evolution technology (SUPER Cell, FDD-TD CA technology, etc.) 
  Virtualization-based network structural innovation technology 
  (vRAN, vSOFT Core, etc.)
  Next-Generation transmission network and Wi-Fi technologies
  (T-SDN, Carrier Wi-Fi, etc.)
  High-efficiency, large-capacity network infrastructure (DU, IMS/HLR, etc.)
 IT Open-type platform technologies (t-API, T Developers Platform, etc.)
  Open Stack-based Software Defined Data Center (SDDC)
  OS EMD Next-Generation infrastructure evolution technology
  Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)-based offline payment technology and 
  key technology for personalization services 
Growth areas Convergence Convergence products with business model innovation 
 Technology (Location, IoT platforms, etc.) 
  System on Chip (SoC) solution for IoT
  NAND Flash-specific products 
  Quantum cryptography communications system 
  Virtual experience technology such as context awareness, augment-
  ed reality, virtual reality, etc.
  Laser Pico Projector and Smart Earset
 Growth technology Comprehensive video control solutions such as video control, 
  intrusion detection, moving object tracking, etc. 
  Voice recognition (Korean) and natural language processing technology
  Big data platform and SQL-on-Hadoop-based data warehouse (DW) solution 
  Molecular and immunology diagnosis technology and technology for
  improving antibody performance in specific areasMajor R&D Activities
416.8502.6697
21%39%R&D Expenditure      R&D Personnel
2013 2014 2012423.1
8381,0941,153434.7525.5600
500400300200
1001,800
1,6001,4001,2001,000
800
2013 2014 2015 Goal67 66
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Center for Creative Economy and Innova-
tion, Leading the Regional Creative Economy 
The Center for Creative Economy and Innova-
tion was established with the aim to support the growth of SMEs in the strategic industries 
of the region by linking diverse economic units 
including SMEs and individuals. Its role is to discover business models for region-specific industries, support technological develop-
ment and develop human resources.
With the participation of SK Group in the Dae-jeon and Sejong Center for Creative Economy 
and Innovation Project serving as the impe-
tus, SK Telecom has been using the creative economy experience and capacity it gained 
from the traditional market promotion and ICT 
convergence agriculture and fisheries industry projects among others in the regional creative 
economy projects.
The Achievements of SK Center for Creative 
Economy and Innovation in the Past Year  
The SK Center for Creative Economy and 
Innovation has been operating the “Dream Venture Star program,” providing assistance 
throughout all processes of business, the 
“Global Venture Star,” discovering compet-itive ICT companies and assisting in their 
global expansion, and the “Win-Win Growth 
Partnership” program, linking promising com-panies for improved growth.
In 2014, 10 companies were selected for the 
first Dream Venture Star program for provision of business spaces at the center and  initial funding for technology development, assign-
ment of dedicated mentors and assistance 
in global expansion. For start-up and initial costs, KRW 1.02 billion in investment was at-
tracted from investment agencies, and also, 
KRW 45 billion fund was raised for the expan-sion of the creative economy ecosystem. Of particular note, CMES, one of the tenant com-
panies, developed a 3D scanner system for 
industrial uses and generated KRW 1.29 bil-lion in annual revenue, while TEGway gained 
global recognition when its wearable power 
generation technology using body tempera-ture received the Grand Prize for the “top 10 
emerging technologies that would change the 
world” by UNESCO in February 2015, and it is now planning to expand into Silicon Valley.
Export of the Business Model of the Center 
for Creative Economy and Innovation
In March 2015, an MOU was signed with 
Saudi Telecom on the export of the business model of the SK Center for Creative Econo-my and Innovation and mutual cooperation 
in the new growth business areas. Through 
the MOU, a private-government-corporate cooperation model for creative economy will 
be developed for Saudi Arabia, with plans to 
seek new business opportunities in the new growth areas such as smart city, healthcare, 
smart learning and IoT in Saudi Arabia and the 
Middle East. SK Innovation Center for Creative Economy 
"Global Venture Star” team selection CeremonyDemonstration of “Bignote” in the second round of “BRA-VO! Restart”
Starting ceremony of the third round of “BRAVO! Restart” Signing of MOU between SK Telecom and Saudi TelecomBusiness Item Description 
Wearable smart watch Wearable braille smart watch for the visually impaired
High-speed eye-tracking input system Inputting text by tracking eye movements  
Portable smart multi-cam A smart beam-type portable camera 
Smartwear wearable evice  Surrounding air detection technology linked with a smartphone 
“Collavo,” a mobile video production tool  An app allowing video filming and editing in the user’s distinct style 
“Brandy,” an SNS-based brand platform SNS service for consumers with preferences for famous   
companies and brands
Region-based SNS service for mothers SNS service linked with commerce and allows sharing of   
information on child-rearing 
New provision solution based on A solution for providing visualized information based on  the big 
data technology internal analyses of big data 
3D photo booth system A 3D scanner with a camera using software that converts 2D  
 images into 3D image 
Smart wireless control system for  A technology for smart wireless control system for buildings  
low-cost indoor lighting without any wiring work 
Portable music composition and editing device  Compact composition, editing and DJing equipment and   
distribution platformBusiness Start-Up Items in the Third Round of “BRAVO! Restart”Creating Shared Value through the 
Expansion of the ICT Ecosystem
As a leading ICT company, SK Telecom is towing the industry toward the era 
of convergence, and attempting to create shared value through ICT in various industriessuch as venture start-ups, the agriculture, livestock and fisheries, healthcare and environmental industries.
“BRAVO! Restart” Program for Assistance 
in ICT Business Start-up Processes
“BRAVO! Restart” is an ICT convergence 
start-up support project for seniors, who have brilliant ideas but require assistance in start-
ing a business using their ideas and who lack 
start-up opportunities. It is a comprehensive support system, through which joint devel-opment projects are conducted with the ven-
tures in question to contribute to the discov-
ery of new growth engines for SK Telecom, and it also helps create high-added-value for 
venture start-ups and resolve the social issue 
of low employment rate of young adults.Contests are held to discover entrepreneurs, 
and there is a comprehensive support sys-
tem for financial assistance for start-ups, investment in joint development projects, as-sistance in pioneering new markets, and op-eration of an entrepreneur care program and 
one-on-one mentoring services. In addition to 
the 23 teams chosen in 2014, 11 more teams were selected in 2015 for a total of 34 startup
ventures, and they have been provided with 
assistance for successful establishment of their start-up companies. This project resulted 
in revenue generation through product launch-
es, applications for 7 patents and global ex-pansion of the startup companies as well as 
many other notable achievements including social and economic value creation, invigorat-
ed ecosystem based on the established infra-
structures, and creation of high-value-added 
start-up model and success stories.
"BRAVO! Restart" for Market Pioneering 
and Creating Value through CooperationISL Korea Co., Ltd., chosen in the second round of “BRAVO! Restart,” has been active-
ly cooperating with SK Telecom such as the 
joint establishment of a business model, joint global expansion, joint participation in exhibi-
tions. ILS Korea is a company that developed 
“Bignote,” a virtual touch screen that utilizes video coordinate analysis technology. In order 
to assist its entry into the Chinese and Japa-
nese markets where there has been a boom of smart learning, SK Telecom arranged for their joint participation in Mobile Asia Expo (MAE) held in Shanghai, China, bearing the entire ex-
penses, in June 2014. Following this, SK Tele-
com has been providing local market analysis data and assisting in proposal activities tar -
geting local companies for successful global expansion. In addition, ILS Korea has estab-lished an exclusive distributorship system for 
the corporate customers and signed a KRW 
460 million supply contract with SK Telecom in October 2014. At present, it is seeking to 
expand into Japan and Indonesia.Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Customer Experience Innovation     Next-Generation Network Leadership     Convergence     Creation of Shared Value Using ICT     Solutions to Climate Change
HR Recruitment & Investment69 68
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities2013 2014Development of the ICT Convergence 
Business through T Open Lab 
BD Inc., which ranked first in an IoT contest of 
T Open Lab in December 2013, was chosen as a business partner. Together, SK Telecom and 
BD developed the “IoT Fish Farm Monitoring 
System," Korea’s first wireless network-based system for the real-time monitoring of the wa-ter temperature, pH level and oxygen concen-
tration of water tanks. It also has other features 
such as feed amount and shipping amount checks. 
Together with BD, SK Telecom commenced
system planning and development in April 2014 after completing the sensor discovery research 
and field survey, and this project was given the 
final approval as a private-government joint in-vestment R&D project in July 2014. As a result, a pilot system was run at an eel farm in Gochang, Jeollabuk-do Province in Au-
gust 2014. The IoT Fish Farm Monitoring Sys-
tem is expected to help increase productivity in the domestic fisheries industry by reducing 
management costs and fish mortality rate.
Value Creation through Social Enterprises 
SK Telecom is striving to create social val-
ue with its social enterprises, the Happy ICT Foundation established in 2011 and the Hap-
py Ecophone Foundation established in 2013. 
Their social impact on the income for the marginalized classes, job creation, public 
services and web accessibility is converted 
into numerical values for evaluation and tar -
get management. In this aspect, Happy ICT Smart Technology for Revitalizing Traditional Markets and Innovating 
Farming Villages 
SK Telecom signed business agreements to revitalize Jeil Market in Seoul in 2012 and Sin-
gi Market in Incheon in May 2013. Since then, 
smart technology has been applied to the tra-ditional markets with the application of vari-ous ICT solutions. Optimized ICT solutions 
such as MYSHOP , a tablet PC-based solu-
tion for small business owners, and Mobile e-Wallet reveal the future outlook of traditional 
markets. Of particular note, sales increased 
by 20 to 50% thanks to “Smart Flyers” and the number of visitors increased by 50% and 
sales by 30% through the “Friday Market To-
gether.”  Also, about 3,700 new customers were attracted to Singi Market through the introduction of a membership system.Foundation created KRW 580 million in social value, a 41% increase from KRW 410 million 
in 2013. In recognition of the fact that 32.3% 
of its employees are from marginalized class-es, it was certified as a Job-Creating Social 
Enterprise.
Also, SK Telecom is creating social value through the “Mobile Cleaning Business Man-agement System” and the “Smart Local Food 
Business Support System” by establishing 
and operating social enterprises in connec-tion with its speciality.
Pursuing Social Value through the Spread 
of Desirable ICT Culture 
While encouraging employees to use their 
talent and skills in the ICT area to help the marginalized classes, SK Telecom made oth-er efforts to spread desirable ICT culture. It provided education to those with difficulties 
accessing information on how to use a smart-
phone and avoid the related risks. Ongoing efforts have also been made to reduce the 
smart technology gap by conducting “Happy 
Mobile World,” a smartphone education pro-gram for the elderly together with a group of 
university student volunteers called Sunny, in 
addition to holding “Ieum Festival,” providing mobile phone education to North Korean de-
fectors and multicultural families, and hosting 
the IT Challenge Competition for Disabled Youth. As a result, the ICT-related volunteer 
rate more than doubled compared to 2013, 
while costs incurring from resource and man-power input were minimized.
Category  Solution Description 
Traditional  Management Myshop Management support solution for small business
market  system  owners
innovation   - Sales, business and customer management 
   using tablet PC
 Enhanced  Traditional market Traditional market membership system
 customer value membership card - Attract new customers and retain customers
  ICT experience ICT solution experience center with
  center displays of education robots such as
   Albert and Arti at traditional markets
 Reinforced Ari-cheongjeong Exclusive traditional market brand
 marketing capacity  - Online marketing on 11st
 Shipping support Miyou Box  Shopping and shipping system for
  (unmanned  traditional market products
  courier system)
Rural area Improved Smart Fish Farm Management of information such as
innovation productivity  oxygen saturation and pH levels of the
   fish tanks using smartphone  
 Direct trade Smart Local Food A support system for direct trade of
   agricultural and fisheries productsICT Convergence Solutions for Creation of Shared Value
IoT-based Fish Farm Management SystemAs such, SK Telecom is contributing to the revitalization of traditional markets by helping 
the merchants generate more sales and gain 
improved self-sufficiency. SK Telecom is also using its smart technology 
to contribute to the economy of farming and 
fishing villages. Following the introduction of “Smart Farm,” an IoT-based environment control system for controlled horticulture and 
Korea’s first local food direct trade system 
with Happy ICT, a pilot project for “Smart Fish Farm,” which allows comprehensive manage-
ment of fish farms using smartphones based 
on measurements of oxygen and carbon di-oxide concentrations in the water tanks, was 
implemented in August 2014. As such, a wide 
range of ICT convergence technologies are being used to revitalize the rural areas and their local economies. Marginalized Class Employment Rate
at the Happy ICT Foundation 
KRW
millionSocial Value Created by 
the Happy ICT Foundation (as of 2014)
‘Happy Ecophone’ Revenue     Unit: KRW billion
2013 20143.5
Calculation Model for the Social Value of “Happy ICT Foundation”
Application of Social Value Calculation Model
(Estimation in terms of the financial effect of each zone)
Boosting income for 
marginalized classes 
(non-disabled)Job creation for
marginalized classes 
(non-disabled)
Employment of the 
disabledEstablishment andoperation of public services
Improvedweb accessibility Charity and donations 
(Donations, NGO websites 
free production, IT training 
to the Disadvantaged, etc.) Estimation of the social value of
“Happy ICT Foundation” to the financial value.
KRW 
580 million Approx. 41% increase from 
the previous year
KRW 
410 millionEvaluation of Social 
Value Created by 
The Business Activities 
of “Happy ICT
Foundation”1
3
52
4
6
1.9871 70
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Domestic Regulations Related to Climate 
Change and SK Telecom’s Active Response 
Since the initiation of the GHG and Energy Tar -
get Management Scheme (TMS) in 2010, the 
government has been imposing restrictions on 
GHG emissions by enterprises through various 
policy approaches. In 2015, Korea became the first nation in Asia to implement the Emissions Trading System (ETS). 
SK Telecom relies on electric power for 95% of 
its energy consumption, and the telecommuni-cations network equipment located nationwide 
is the main source of power consumption. Ac-
cordingly, a wide range of efforts were made to meet the reduction target such as the devel-
opment and application of high-efficiency tele-
communications equipment (e.g. low-power relay stations), reduction of electric power use 
for cooling purposes by upward adjustment of 
base station temperature levels, office ener -
gy management using Cloud Building Energy 
Management System (Cloud BEMS) and in-
stallation of an electric meter for each device. Despite these efforts, however, SK Telecom emitted a total of 743,000 tons of GHG, ex-
ceeding the GHG allowance (668,000 tons) for 
2014 by 75,000 tons. With the implementation of ETS starting in 2015 for more aggressive 
GHG reduction efforts at a national level, it is 
expected that the reduction target will be set at a higher level. 
Due to the nature of the industry, 24/7 oper -
ation of networks for advances in quality and 
continuous network facility investment are es-Efforts to Reduce Social GHG Emissions and Secure Emissions Rights Using ICT SK Telecom is attempting to reduce the social 
GHG emissions that fall under Scope 3, which 
encompasses indirect GHGs that are gen-erated during the process of using products 
and services, in addition to reducing the GHG 
emissions independently utilizing its core ca-pacity, which is ICT. Efforts were made to re-duce GHG centering on Scope 1 and Scope 2 
starting in the 1990s, but due to the limitations 
caused by cost and quantitative factors, there has been increasing interest in the reduction 
of social GHGs that account for more than 
40% of the global GHG emissions. Accord-ingly, SK Telecom became the first in Korea 
to determine the potential amount of social 
GHG reduction by 2020 (118.4 million tons, 
Potential Amount of Social GHG Emissions Reduction Using ICT (IUT International Report) Unit: MtCO 2esential. Accordingly, this has caused a steady increase in the GHG emissions caused by the 
extension of network facilities, making it diffi-
cult for SK Telecom to achieve the GHG reduc-tion target independently. It is projected that 
SK Telecom will be short of about 448,000 tons 
of GHG allowance during the first stage peri-od of ETS (Jan. 2015 to Dec. 2017), meaning that it will be required to conducted large-scale 
reduction activities and purchase emissions 
rights. This is perceived as a major risk related to climate change. 
In order to mitigate this issue, SK Telecom 
is participating in the joint efforts to counter climate change such as ETS and the Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM) and actively 
conducting eco-friendly businesses as well as research to secure emissions rights using 
ICT. Estimation of the potential social GHG re-
duction amount by ICT and research on social GHG emissions reduction using T Map were 
performed as a means to reduce such poten-
tial risks. SK Telecom will continue to make a preemptive response to the regulations related to climate change, and actively secure carbon 
emissions rights and expand the scope of its 
renewable energy supply and storage solu-tions.5.8 times higher than the ICT direct footprint) using its ICT services. This was used as a do-mestic social GHG reduction measure, and officially adopted in 2013 as a report for the 
International Telecommunication Union (ITU). 
In addition to the development of technol-ogies such as “T Map,” “Smart City,” and 
“Smart Home,” SK Telecom has been con-
tinuing its research on social GHG reduction measures and reduction amount approval 
using ICT, leading the government policy re-
search through academic-industry-govern-ment stakeholder advisory meeting. Through 
these efforts, SK Telecom is seeking offsetting 
measures for the domestic ETS and striving to lead the creation of sustainable value and the enhanced competitiveness of all enterprises.
Total Emissions                ICT Footprint                Potential ReductionGHG Emissions Expected Allowance   
80
70
60
50
2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 201616.1GHG Emissions and Expected Allowance  Unit: 10,000 tCO 2e
Innovative ICT Solutions for
Climate Change Smart Response
Climate change is a macro risk that has an impact on people’s everyday lives as well as 
industries and regulations, yet it is also an opportunity factor that leads to the creation of a new green industry and market. Based on unique innovative ICT competenciesSK Telecom will not only restrain his impact on the business area but far beyond it will lead to the solution to the "Climate change" of the entire community. Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Customer Experience Innovation     Next-Generation Network Leadership     Convergence     Creation of Shared Value Using ICT     Solutions to Climate Change
HR Recruitment & Investment
2007
2020
BAU
(Business as usual)
2020
Potential reduction68
67.470.874.376.579.682.8
72.1
66.869.4 6866.773 72
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesLeading Social GHG Emissions Reduction 
Using T Map 
SK Telecom’s “T Map” is a new type of nav-
igation service, providing information on the fastest route to the requested destination 
point using real-time traffic information. This 
helps the users save time and reduce the GHG emissions. In 2012, SK Telecom collaborated with National Radio Research Agency (RRA) 
to develop the methodology for estimating 
social GHG emissions reduction amount us-ing T Map, and this was given the final ap-
proval as the ITU International Recommenda-
tion Standard at the Environment and Climate Change Standardization Meeting of the UN 
International Telecommunication Union that 
was held in Peru in December 2013. In April 2014, it was officially recognized as the inter -
national standard methodology following a review by 200 member countries. 
This is the first international standard recom-
mended for estimating GHG emissions reduc-tion amount using ICT services such as navi-
gation systems. It is mainly a systematic and 
consistent method to calculate the amount of GHG emissions reduced by the users of 
real-time navigation systems bypassing the 
areas of traffic congestion. Based on this, SK Telecom conducted a study (confidence 
level of 95%) in 2012 to examine the GHG 
emissions reduction effects of the general navigation systems (providing information on 
the shortest route) and T Map with car mod-
el, fuel, time and sampled street route as controlled variables. The results of the study showed that the driving speed was faster by 
9.99km/hr, fuel consumption was lower by 
11.9% and GHG emissions were lower by 12.6% for T Map users. 
SK Telecom is currently developing the busi-
ness methodology to secure carbon emis-sions rights using T Map, and preparing to 
receive approval as a Clean Development 
Mechanism (CDM) business from the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change 
(UNFCCC). This will allow SK Telecom to 
gain recognition for the ICT-based social 
GHG emissions reduction and seek offsetting 
measures. Moreover, a government-initiated research project was conducted to promote 
the eco-friendly lifecycle using ICT services 
in 2014, and other research efforts have been made to pave the foundation for countering climate change. Expansion of the ICT-based Energy Saving Solution Business 
SK Telecom is providing and operating Smart 
Power Plant (SPP) solutions and energy effi-ciency enhancement solutions for buildings, 
factories, public institutions and facilities. In 
2014, the reference by Energy Management System (EMS) customer type was further expanded, and qualitative and quantitative 
growth was pursued by improving profitabil-
ity. As a result, there was a 215% growth in revenue compared to the previous year, and 
a target has been set to increase the revenue 
by 98% in 2015. Cloud BEMS and Cloud Factory Energy Man-
agement System (Cloud FEMS) are the key 
solutions for the energy efficiency enhance-ment business, which involves cloud-based management and analysis of data on cutomer energy consumption collected in real time 
to derive matters for improvement in facility 
operation and optimization of operating mea-sures. In 2014, SK Telecom upgraded the 
existing systems and launched Cloud BEMS 
2.0, enabling real-time management of en-ergy consumption and facility performance 
data using mobile phones and tablets. Also, 
the “Collective Management Feature” for comprehensive management of energy use 
in dispersed business operation sites, the 
“Target Management Feature” for systemat-ically managing the target energy consump-
tion level, and the “Peak Power Consumption 
Management Feature” for managing the peak energy consumption amount of business op-eration sites were added for more effective 
energy saving efforts. 
In 2014, SK Telecom applied the ICT-based BEMS and FEMS solutions to some 30 busi-
ness sites including buildings and factories to 
help its customers reduce their energy con-sumption. In addition, we have established 
"cloud FEMS 'solutions in chemical plants, 
and  working actively to expand FEMS busi-ness centered on sectors like petrochemical, 
food, electricity and electronics, non-ferrous 
metals etc. SK Telecom will continue the con-
sistent zooming on customers and on the 
other hand, work to expand widely through Renewable energy supply and Storage Solu-
tion and contribute as well to: Reduce main-
tenance and repair costs, government envi-ronmental regulation countermeasures, new revenue generation and maximization of long-
term effects.GHG Emissions Reduction Effect of the T map
Assuming that your car travels a round-trip distance of 
15km every day, through the T map you can shorten the 
travel time up to 10 minutes. By doing that in one year 
you would have saved 110 liters of oil, 10% of oil price and spared 274 kg of CO
2 GHG emissions. This is literally 
comparable to planting 91 trees a year. Self-Reduction Efforts
to Minimize Environmental Impact 
In addition to reducing social GHG emis-
sions, providing environmental solutions and introducing the Eco Card, SK Telecom is en-
deavoring to minimize its environmental im-
pact throughout its business operations and spread eco-friendly culture by actively taking part in the TMS and ETS. To improve the ener -
gy efficiency of its operation processes, it has installed high-efficiency lighting fixtures, tim-ers and automated temperature adjustment 
devise, reduced the operation time of the 
heating and cooling systems in the non-work-ing hours, and installed and began operat-
ing turbo coolant pump inverters, thereby 
reducing its energy consumption by about 3,143MWh/year. As a telecommunications 
service provider, SK Telecom does not directly 
engage in product manufacturing processes that generate air pollutants, toxic substanc-
es and harmful chemicals, which can have a 
serious environmental impact. Also, in 2014, SK telecom did not violate any environmental laws or regulations and was not imposed any 
related penalties and fines. Cloud BEMS 2.0 released
T Map navigation systemProject Description Amount of  Annual 
  energy reduction cost savings
SK Innovation  Adjustment of the boiler  42,000Nm3 (LNG) Approx. 
Seorin Building operation method  KRW 64 million
 Optimized starting and  270MWh (electricity)
 stopping of A/C operation  
 and adjustment of coolant 
 temperature
Hyundai Department Improvement of the cold 1,290MWh (electricity) Approx.  
Store in Ulsan water and coolant system  KRW 176 million
Cheju Halla Improvement of the heat  98,000Nm3 (LNG) Approx. 
Geneal Hospital source system  KRW 179 million
Sihwa General  Improvement of 41,000Nm3 (LNG) KRW 82 million
Hospital heating and cooling 240MWh (electricity)
 systems and lightingReduction Outcomes of Cloud BEMS Application
Resource Reduction
through Eco-friendly Mobile Membership 
SK Telecom began issuing mobile eco-cards 
instead of plastic cards to new T members starting in August 2013. The issuance of T 
Membership mobile eco-cards is expected to 
result in the reduction of plastic use by 4.88g and carbon emissions by 12g per user. This is equivalent to conserving four pieces of A4 
paper, and the amount of respiration by 40 
pine trees. SK telecom has issued more than 5 million 
plastic membership cards on average every 
year for the T Membership program, and if these were entirely converted into mobile 
cards, it would result in the conservation of 
more than 24 tons of plastic and reduction of 55 tons of carbon emissions annually. As 
such, SK Telecom is leading the efforts in en-
vironmental protection and encouraging the use of mobile membership cards through di-
verse benefits and promotions. 
15km75 74
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
2,8003,0003,2003,400
2012 2013 2014An Education System Tailored to 
the Organization's Characteristics 
SK Telecom has divided the education and 
development programs into SK Values, lead-ership, job competency and global competen-
cy according to the organization and job rank. 
In the case of the Mobile Network Operator (MNO) and Growth Organization, differentiat-ed education programs are provided based on 
their distinct business structure and member 
characteristics. As for the MNO, the educa-tion program focuses on marketing, network 
and B2B solutions to reinforce the members’ 
execution power based on basic knowledge and skills and induce upper standardization of 
the members’ competency. As for the Growth 
Organization, on the other hand, the skills and knowledge in the common areas were rein-
forced and the inter-member skill transfer was 
enabled in order for the members to continu-ally upgrade their competency. 
SK Telecom re-established its education and 
training method so that each unit organization can create excellent results independently. The unit organizations autonomously organize 
and execute their independent skill develop-
ment programs, leaving the central organi-zation to concentrate on the companywide 
programs.Accordingly, a skill development 
strategy was established for each division to inspect the programs in operation, and the 
human capital development systems for the 
B2C, B2B solutions, network and R&D organi-zation members were improved. Furthermore, 
the SKMS practice level was diagnosed in the first and second halves of the year, and the 
ownership of the independent development 
plans (IDP) was transferred to the field for im-
proved execution power.
Strengthening of Leadership and 
Job Competency by Band SK Telecom is operating leadership and job competency development programs for each 
band such as executives and team managers, 
for instance, in accordance with the leader -
ship pipeline. The programs for the execu-
tives include the Executing Coaching System 
for improved role awareness and organization management competency, the Learning Ac-
count System, providing financial assistance 
for education in areas deemed necessary for improved by the executives themselves, and 
the Advanced Management Program (AMP) 
conducted in collaboration with universities. In the case of team managers, regular compa-
nywide team manager workshops and “Auso 
(Communication among Team Managers Starting the Morning Hours)” are in operation for discussions of current management issues 
and practice measures.
In order to secure Next-Generation leaders, individuals with high potential (HiPo) are se-
lected from each band as a preemptive hu-
man capital development measure. Special-ized education programs are also in operation 
such as the “Leadership Intensive Program 
(LIP)” for the fostering of team manager can-didates to allow immediate appointment as 
well as “T-Professional” and “T-Challenger.” Member Development System by Organization
As a result of these efforts, the goal to foster 
500 Next-Generation leaders by 2015 was 
achieved earlier, with 565 Next-Generation 
leaders trained as of the end of 2014. Further -
more, 659 executives and employees were 
trained through the first and fourth year pro-
grams to gain a field- and customer-orient-ed mindset and understand the role and key competency of the members in each band.
With steady increase in investment into hu-
man capital development, the education ex-penses per person were recorded at KRW 
3.43 million in 2014, a 1.57% YOY increase.
Education Program Business Benefit
Executive Coaching Reinforcement of leadership and organization management 
 competency of executives
Company wide Team Manager Development of a clear understanding of the direction of 
Workshop and “Auso” companywide changes and the role of team managers 
HiPo Individual Education Securing of a pool of future leaders through preemptive education of 
 HiPo individuals
T-Class Reinforcement of the job competencies and gaining of broader 
 thinking and experiences through the introduction of new topics 
T-University Enhanced synergy in reinforcing job-specific competencies by sharing
 of educational programs among the divisions of SK Telecom, 
 investors and affiliates 
T-earning Effective learning of ICT trends, specialized knowledge and languages, 
 etc. through a mobile learning platform
1st and 4th Year Programs for Improved awareness of the band’s role nd acquisition and
Each Band development of key competencies for the band Major Competency Development Programs for Executives and EmployeesEducation Expenses per Person  Unit: KRW thousand
3,380
2,9303,433
Required 
competencies
Common job 
competenciesMNO Growth Organization
Marketing
AcademyTech.
AcademyB2B
AcademyGrowth
Academy  
Marketing MTE
Network MTE
B2B MTEIntegrated Media Platform
· Marketing Intelligence 
· Micro Segment Marketing, etc.
· Reinforcing the fixed IPTV   subscriber base · Restructuring of mobile PoC · New attempts in the media sector
  (new media platform) · Database system management
· Multi OS management, etc.
· Designing solutions   based on customer needs · Total sales competency   based on solutions, etc.Accelerating Future Growth through 
Human Capital Management
SK Telecom will innovate its human capital and culture through systematic member 
development programs and management to fulfill its members’ self-realization and develop their competency as the future growth and further strengthen the framework for its progress.  Value Creation Strategies   |   Market Context & Issues   |   Business Cases
Customer Experience Innovation     Next-Generation Network Leadership     Convergence     Creation of Shared Value Using ICT     Solutions to Climate Change
HR Recruitment & Investment77 76
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities
Increasing the Diversity of Human Capital 
through Diverse Systems and Channels 
SK Telecom has been striving to increase the 
diversity of its personnel by recruiting indi-viduals with global competency, women and 
local people. In order to secure global individ-
uals, the Global Recruiting Professional and the Global Tech Leader Summit among oth-er events are held annually, and efforts have 
been made to improve the brand image of SK 
Telecom as an employer in the U.S. and to create a human network. 
Since 2011, the “W-Network,” an executive 
consultative group of SK Group, was orga-nized to foster female leaders, and mentoring, 
workshop and other activities were conduct-
ed. Also, an automatic parental leave system was implemented for the employees on ma-ternity and parental leaves to promote fair -
ness in evaluation and promotion, and create 
a balance between work and family life. As 
such, the essential agendas for the fostering of female workers have been derived on a 
yearly basis to improve their welfare and en-
courage career development. As part of these efforts, 61 female counselors, who have been 
out of the workforce for some time, were re-
cruited as permanent employees in 2014. Meanwhile, additional points were given to the 
marginalized classes including those from the 
low-income class as well as war veterans and people with disabilities during the applicant 
screening process, and special recruitment 
screening process is implemented to hire more applicants from the marginalized class-es. Also, SK Telecom receives recommenda-
tions from the career centers of universities 
and support centers for the disabled in addi-tion to making ceaseless efforts to discover 
new job areas that people with disabilities can 
undertake. In order to hire new recruits based on their skills and competencies, rather than 
whether they fulfill the requirements in writing, 
blind examination was performed in all of the screening processes. Furthermore, a wide va-
riety of open recruitment processes are being implemented such as story reviews, the “Vi-
king Challenge audition”, “Talent Festival” and 
“It’s You Camp”.
Performance Evaluation Centering 
on Development
SK Telecom performs performance eval-
uations on all of employees, and the rate of performance evaluation has been main-
tained at over 95% from 2011 to 2014. The 
evaluation takes into account the aspects of short-, mid- and long-term performances as 
well as contribution to the organization and 
individual competency and execution power among other factors in a balanced manner. 
“Progress Review & Coaching” is performed 
by the leaders throughout the year in order to enhance fairness of the evaluation results and induce behavioral changes of the organization members. In addition, clear performance re-
views, results and feedback are provided so 
that such performance management efforts can lead to the development of employees. 
Through this evaluation system centering on 
human capital development, employees can gain more motivation, and progressive devel-
opment and efficiency enhancement can be 
expected for the organization. On the other hand, SK Telecom has never discriminated women in any possible way. 
The same payment system is applied to all 
the personnel. But, accordingly to the length of service, the position or the outcomes of 
work, differentiation in the aspect of payment 
might occur. Also, SK Telecom abolished the job position system in 2006 in response to the 
rapidly changing environment of the industry, 
and introduced the manager system for a more horizontal and creative working environ-
ment. Accordingly, the job titles were unified 
as “manager,” while the job positions were classified based on the pay bands for a HR 
management system that focuses more on 
the job duties and responsibilities rather than 
the job position. Human Capital Development through CDP 
SK Telecom implements the Career Develop-
ment Plan (CDP) to enhance job expertise and 
put the right person in the right place. The plan presents directions for job transitions and de-velopment of expertise to improve individual 
competencies based on the principles of au-
tonomy and responsibility.
Recruitment of Out-of-work Female Counselors as Per -
manent Employees
“It’s You Camp”, an Open Recruitment Process
 2012 2013 2014
Implementation Launch and establishment Monthly themes Diversification of format and  
overview   increase in participants  
Status -153 programs  -118 programs -108 programs
 -7,482 participants in total -10,426 participants in total -14,368 participants in total  
Major programs -Evening T-Class -Evening T-Class -Evening T-Class
 -Visiting T-Class -Division-led T-Class -Visiting T-Class
   -Luncheon T-Class
   -Intensive T-ClassT Class Growth Process
Number of Participants in the T Class Education Programs  Unit: person
4,000 0 8,000 12,000 16,000201420132012
10,426
14,3687,482Preparation of a Curriculum Vitae Setting a Career GoalIn Case of 
a Career Goal ChangeCareer Goal Confirmation 
· Pre- and post-recruitment job
 experiences
· Primary and secondary specialties
· Global experiences· Desired job type  · Three job duties
 within desired 
 job type· Final confirmation by  the individual, taking into
 account feedback and
 consultation resultsFeedback on 
suitability  
Consultation with the 
team manager
Competency Management System 
· Selection of suitable candidates 
· Companywide competency 
 managementMobile System Integration 
Person
Match-up
Jop
T-Class, the Representative Education
Program of SK Telecom
T-Class, a field education program, has grown 
in size and employee awareness since 2012 when it was diversified into Luncheon T-Class, 
Intensive T-Class and others to meet the di-
verse needs of employees. As a result, the number of participants increased dramatical-
Luncheon T-Class during lunch hourly in 2014, and a total of 14,368 employees took part in 108 programs, which was about a 
64.4% increase in average participant per pro-
gram compared to 2013. SK Telecom will con-tinue to solidify the link between its education 
programs and businesses, and make efforts 
to further advance the T Class programs and contribute to human capital development. 
79 78
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix3.
Governance & 
LeadershipSK Telecom
Annual Report 2014
Partner for 
New Possibilities
Governance Report
Risk ReportEthical Management81 80
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Board of Directors 
To secure transparency in the decision-making process and achieve efficiency in
everyday business operations via checks and balances, SK Telecom has establishedin independent corporate governance structure.
Jay-Young Chung
Chairman of the Board 
Independent Director (March 2008)
Honorary professor at Sungkyunkwan University 
(2010-present) 
Chairman of Asia Pacific Economic Association 
(2013-2014) 
Vice President of Sungkyunkwan University 
Humanities & Social Science Campus (2003-2006)
· Member of the Compensation Committee 
· Member of the CAPEX Review Committee 
· Member of the Corporate Citizenship CommitteeDong-Hyun Jang
CEO & Executive Director (March 2015)President & CEO of SK Telecom (2015-present) 
COO of SK Planet (2013-2014)
CMO of SK Telecom (2011-2013)
· Member of the Independent Director 
 Recommendation CommitteeDae-Shick Oh
Independent Director (March 2013)Advisor for BKL LLC (2008-present)
Commissioner of the Seoul Regional Tax Office 
(2007-2008)
Director of the Investigation Bureau of 
the National Tax Service (2006-2007)
· Member of the Audit Committee 
· Member of the Corporate Citizenship Committee · Member of the CAPEX Review CommitteeSK Telecom’s Board of Directors (BOD) consists of two executive directors and four independent 
directors for a total of six directors. To achieve transparency in decision-making processes and 
to establish an independent governance structure, the positions of the Chairman of the Board 
and the CEO are assumed by different individuals. At the 31st General Shareholders’ Meeting 
on March 20, 2015, CEO Dong-Hyun Jang was newly appointed as an executive director, while 
the Chairman of the Board is an independent director, Jay-Young Chung. SK Telecom’s Board 
consists of directors specializing in various areas including economics, social affairs and IT. 
Dae-Sik Cho
Executive Director (March 2013)
President & CEO of SK Holdings (2013-present)
Financial Affairs Team Manager at SK and 
the Chairman of the Autonomous Responsibility Management Support Group (2012) Jay-Hyeon Ahn
Independent Director (March 2014)
Dean of the External Affairs Dept. at KAIST 
College of Business (2013-present)
Dean of KAIST Graduate School of Information & 
Media Management (2011-2013)
Chairman of the Korean Media Management 
Association (2011)
· Member of the Audit Committee
· Member of the CAPEX Review Committee
· Member of Corporate Citizenship Committee
· Member of the Independent Director 
 Recommendation CommitteeJay-Hoon Lee
Independent Director (March 2014)President of Korea Polytechnic University 
(2014-present)
Second Vice Minister of Knowledge Economy 
(2008-2009)
Second Vice Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy  
(2007-2008)
· Member of the Independent Director 
 Recommendation Committee
· Member of the Compensation Committee 
· Member of the CAPEX Review Committee Governance Report    |   Risk Report   |   Ethical Management
Board of Directors     Governance Model     Corporate Citizenship Committee
83 82
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Reinforced Efficiency and Independence of 
the Board
Recently, SK Telecom made some changes 
in the composition of the board to enhance operational efficiency and transparency. At 
the General Shareholders’ Meeting in March 
2015, it was voted to reduce the Board size from 8 members (5 independent directors and 3 executive directors) to 6 members (4 inde
-
pendent directors and 2 executive directors), and the percentage of independent directors 
was increased to 66.7%, which is higher than 
that of the listed large corporations  on average (49.6%; Fair Trade Commission data reported 
in Nov. 2014). SK Telecom board operates a 
total of five committees: Independent Director Recommendation Committee, Audit Commit
-
tee, Compensation Review Committee, CAPEX Review Committee, and Corporate Citizenship 
Committee. To ensure fairness and transpar
-
ency, all of the committees, except for the 
Independent Director Recommendation Com -
mittee, are entirely comprised of independent directors.
Separation of the Chairman of the Board and 
CEO Positions
In 2012, SK Telecom separated the Chairman 
of the Board and CEO positions to reinforce the independence of governance structure. Based on the nomination by the Independent Director 
Recommendation Committee and the resolu
-
tion of the Board, the personal information of 
the independent director candidate, Dong-
Hyun Jang, and the Audit Committee member candidate, Jay-Hoon Lee, was included in the 
notice to convoke the 31st General Sharehold -
ers’ Meeting, February 25 in 2015. Then, at the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on March 
20, new director and Audit Committee member 
were appointed. 
Transparent Director Election Process
Independent directors account for more than the majority of the Independent Director Rec
-
ommendation Committee at SK Telecom. In -
dependent directors are elected taking into account their expertise and independence. 
The statement for independence of indepen
-
dent directors are in accordance with the re -
quirements of the Korean Commercial Act and 
relevant guidelines such as the Model Rules for 
Corporate Governance in Korea. Also, nomi -
nated for directorial positions are experts with 
vast experience and expertise in management, 
economics, accounting, law and/or relevant 
technologies who can contribute to the devel -
opment of the company and the protection of the rights and interests of shareholders.
Independent director appointment procedure 
is as follows: The Independent Director Rec
-
ommendation Committee nominates a can -
didate for an independent director position, who is then appointed by a majority vote of 
the Committee members in attendance. In the 
nomination process, the Committee takes into consideration the candidate’s individual com
-
petency and tries to maintain diversity within SK Telecom’s the Board to carry out a wide 
range of specialized duties. Once a candidate Governance Report    |   Risk Report   |   Ethical Management
Board of Directors     Governance Model     Corporate Citizenship Committee
Governance Structure for Transparent 
and Responsible Management
SK Telecom has established a BOD-centered corporate governance structure based 
on the principles of transparency and responsible management to maximize value for shareholders and boost corporate value.is selected, his or her appointment is deter -
mined through a transparent and lawful voting process at a General Shareholders’ Meeting.
Independent Director Election Process
The issue of diversity within 
the Board to carry out various 
specialized duties is considered 
during the nomination processIndependence
ExpertisePool of Outside 
Experts 
Individuals falling under
Article 32 (3) of 
SK Telecom’s Articles 
of IncorporationNomination
 of Candidates 
by the Independent
Director
Recommendation
CommitteeResolution 
on the Appointment 
at the General 
Shareholders’
Meeting
Majority of the quorum members attending 
and appointment by a majority voteDirectors with special interests are prohibited from 
exercising their voting rightsThe Independence Statement of SK Telecom
Disqualification 1. Current executives, executive officers and employees involved in the business affairs of 
criteria  the company, or former executives, executive officers and employees who were involved in  
  the business affairs of the company in the past 2 years 
 2. The largest shareholder of the company, and his/her spouse and lineal descendants and 
  ascendants
 3. In case the largest shareholder is a corporate body, its directors, auditors, executive officers 
  and employees
 4. Spouses and lineal descendants and ascendants of the directors, auditors and 
  executive officers of the company 
 5. The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of the parent company or
  subsidiaries 
 6. The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of corporate bodies that are major 
  stakeholders
 7. The directors, auditors, executive officers and employees of other companies at which 
  a director, executive officer or employee of the company is serving as a director 
  or executive officer
Conflict 1. Person who controls a company having competitive relationship with the Company, as   
of interest  specified in the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law(FTL) or any person relating to
  such a person 
 2. Person who is, or has been within last two years, an officer or an employee of a company 
  having competitive relationship with the Company, or a company which belongs to the same 
  enterprise group as such competitor under the Fair Trade Law(FTL)
 3. Person who is, or has been within last two years, an officer or an employee of a corporation
  which is the largest Shareholder or the 2nd largest Shareholder of a company having
  competitive relationship with the Company, or a company which belongs to the same
  enterprise group as such corporation under the Fair Trade Law(FTL)Independent Director Composition of the Board
Independence of the Audit Committee  
At SK Telecom, the organization, operation, 
authority and responsibility of the Audit Com-
mittee, comprised entirely of independent directors, conform to the Commercial Act, 
other applicable laws related to capital mar -
ket and financial investment, and the Articles 
of Incorporation of SK Telecom. The Audit Committee overseas accounting and audits the financial statements and supplementary 
schedules (the procedure and results of the 
audits performed by independent accounting firms), reviews company’s major issues and 
the operating status of the company’s internal 
accounting system as reported by an internal accounting manager and an external auditor. 85 84
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesSession Date Main Agendas Director Attendance Rate
361st  Feb. 6, 2014 30th fiscal year financial statements (plan) 100%
  30th fiscal year business report (plan)
  Operating status of the internal accounting management system
  2013 Q4 follow-up report
362nd Feb. 20, 2014 Goods, services and asset transactions  with SK Planet for 2014 (plan) 100%
  Participation in capital increase of PSN Marketing (plan)  
  Convoking the 30th General Shareholders’ Meeting (plan)
  Results of evaluating the operating status of the internal accounting management system
363rd March 21, 2014 Appointment of the CEO (plan) 100%
  Appointment of the Chairman of the Board (plan)
  Appointment of the committee members (plan)
  Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm , SK Securities (plan)
  Payment for the operating expenses of the SUPEX Pursuance Association for 2014 (plan)
364th April 24, 2014 Asset transactions related to B Box with SK Broadband (plan) 100%
  Bond issuance (plan)
  Financial transaction with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities (plan)
  2014 Q1 follow-up report
365th June 26, 2014  Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities (plan) 100%
366th July 24, 2014 Interim dividends (plan) 100%
  2014 first-half settlement report 
  2014 Q2 follow-up report 
367th Sept. 24, 2014 Service deal with SK China Investment Management Company Limited (plan) 100%
  Bond issuance (plan)
  Company bond transaction with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities (plan)
  Fund management deal  with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities (plan)
368th Oct. 23, 2014 Investment into a subsidiary in Hong Kong to contribute to the growth fund of Tianlong (plan) 100%
  2014 Q3 follow-up report 
369th Nov. 27, 2014 Transaction with SK Forest for 2015 (plan)  100%
  Lease transaction for SUPEX Center  in Indeungsan Mountain 
  Customer contact point channel operation service for 2015 (plan)
  Joint management agreement for business-purpose aircraft (plan) 
  Results of inspecting law-abidingness and evaluating effectiveness 
370th Dec. 19, 2014 2015 Management Plan (plan) 100%
  Investment for the growth of iriver (plan)
  Goods, services and asset transactions with SK Planet for 2015 (plan) 
  Resale of fixed-line products with SK Broadband in 2015 (plan)
  Maintenance and repair service for base stations in 2015 (plan) 
  Extension of the SK brand usage contact (plan) 
  Fund management deal with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities (plan)
  Company bond transactions with the affiliated financial firm, SK Securities (plan)
Board Activities and Evaluation
Each year, SK Telecom evaluates the directors 
based on their expertise in the company’s 
businesses and technologies and their active involvement in Board activities. Evaluation 
results are then discussed at a Board meet-
ing. Also, when a director is re-nominated by the Independent Director Recommendation Committee after the end of his/her term, his/
her previous performance as a Board mem-
ber is considered. In 2014, a total of 10 Board meetings were held, and the attendance rate 
was 100%. The maximum remuneration for 
directors is determined by vote at a General Committee Composition Authority and Responsibility
Independent Director Executive director 1 · Recommend candidates for independent directors for the General Shareholders’ Meeting for appointment purposes
Recommendation Independent directors 2
Committee 
Audit Committee Independent directors 3 · Right to audit the directors’ job execution, request business report and investigate work performance and financial status
  · Right to investigate the Board in accordance with the Commercial Act
  · Right to the injunction of violated actions in accordance with the Commercial   Act
  · Right to represent the directors in a lawsuit between the directors and the company in accordance with the Commercial Act
  · Right to convene an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with the Commercial Act
  · Right to obtain advice from outside specialists at the company’s expense
  · Appoint auditors
  · Review and approve the transactions between related affiliates or for such companies held during the quarter to provide
    goods and services over the larger part of 5/100 of the company’s total shareholders’  equity or capital stock or for amounts
    of over KRW 5 billion
  · In case of optional contracts with specified affiliates, review and approve the transactions of goods and services for amounts of  
    KRW 10 billion or more per transaction 
  · In case of continuous transaction with specific affiliates through optional contracts, review and approve the transactions of goods
     and services, the estimated transaction of which is KRW 10 billion or more in the same fiscal year
Compensation Review Independent directors 3  · Review the remuneration system and level for the CEO
Committee  CAPEX Review  Independent directors 4 · Review the CAPEX plan in the business plan for the following year
Committee  · Review the CAPEX plan when comprehensively changing the business plan for the current year
  · Change the major CAPEX (exceeding 10% of CAPEX)
  · Review the quarterly or semi-annual CAPEX execution performance
Corporate Citizenship Independent directors 3 · Set and review the CSR initiative direction 
Committe  · Handle stakeholder communication and resolve their difficulties
  · Report CSR initiatives to the BoardComposition and Responsibilities of the Committees within the Board (2015) 
* The CAPEX Review Committee and the Corporate Citizenship Committee began to be entirely comprised of 
independent directors in 2015. 
Shareholders’ Meeting, and the remuneration 
is paid in a fair, transparent manner in accor -
dance with the remuneration policy. In addi-tion, the Board is delegated by shareholders the top decision-making authority related to 
management strategies in accordance with 
relevant laws and the Articles of Incorporation of SK Telecom. Accordingly, the Board fulfills various responsibilities and roles including 
the remuneration of Top Management, nom-
ination of candidates for director positions, and audits on accounting and performance 
disclosures.Board Activities (2014) Prevention of Conflict of Interest
The independent directors of SK Telecom 
cannot engage in business transactions with-
out approval of the board, and cannot be employed by other companies within the in-dustry. In addition, independent directors and 
auditors can hold only two concurrent posi-
tions.87 86
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesCommittee Members Date Main Agenda Items Director Attendance Rate
Corporate Citizenship Jay-Young Chung April 23, 2014 Chairman appointment (plan) – Jay-Young Chung 100%
Committee Hyun-Chin Lim  Report on the 2014 CSV initiative plan
 Jay-Hyeon Ahn June 25, 2014 Key issues of the 2013 comprehensive report
 Dong-Seob Jee
  2014 mutual growth initiative plan
   Measures to reinforce customer information protection in 2014   
  Oct. 22, 2014 Environmental management activities in 2014
   Ethical management initiative performance / plan in 2014
  Nov. 26, 2014 UNGC LEAD CSR educationCommittee Activities
Activities of Audit Committee (2014)
Committee Members Date Main Agendas Director Attendance Rate
Audit Committee Dae-Shick Oh Feb. 5, 2014 Auditor’s opinion on the internal monitoring system (plan) 100%
 Hyun-Chin Lim  2013 second-half management diagnosis and audit results/
 Jay-Hyeon Ahn  2014 management diagnosis and audit plan    
   Operating status of the internal accounting management system   
  Feb. 19, 2014 Results of the accounting audit for the 2013 fiscal year
   Results of reviewing the internal accounting management system
   for the 2013 fiscal year
   Evaluation of the operating status of the internal accounting
   management system (plan)
   Confirmation of the bill for the 30th General Shareholders’ Meeting and
   the opinion on the document examination (plan)
   30th audit report (plan)
   Renewal of IT SM agreement (plan)
   Service transaction with SK Wyverns for 2014 (plan)
   SKTCH service agreement (plan)
   Construction of fixed and wireless communications network in 2014 (plan)
  March 20, 2014 2014 Q2 SK C&C transactions (plan)
  April 23, 2014 Appointment of the Chairman of the Committee (plan)
   Purchase of consumable materials from Happynarae (plan)
   Construction of fixed and wireless communications network in 2014 (plan)
   Remuneration for outside auditors in 2014 (plan)
   Comprehensive approval of service provision by outside auditors in 2014 (plan)
   2014 accounting audit plan
  June 25, 2014 Transaction with SK C&C in 2014 Q3 (plan)
   Energy-saving project agreement with SK Broadband (plan)
  July 23, 2014 Construction of fixed and wireless communications network in 2014 (plan)
   2014 first-half management diagnosis and audit results, 
   and plan for the second-half 
   Results of the semi-annual IFRS review  for the 2014 fiscal year  
  Sept. 23, 2014 Transaction with SK C&C in 2014 Q4 (plan)
  Nov. 26, 2014 Construction of fixed and wireless communications network in 2014 (plan)
   Maintenance and repair service for the optical cable for 2015 (plan)
   Lease transaction for electrical communication equipment for 2014 (plan)
   Commissioned fixed-line communication services for 2015 (plan)
  Dec. 18, 2014 Transaction with SK C&C in 2015 Q1 (plan)
   Service transaction with SKY Wyverns in 2015 (plan)
   2015 accounts receivables collection delegation (plan)
Committee Members Date Main Agendas Director Attendance Rate
Independent Seong-Min Ha Feb. 20, 2014 Nomination of independent director candidates 100%
Director Dae-Shick Oh  for the 30th General Shareholders’ Meeting 
Recommendation  Jay-Hoon Lee  (Jay-Hoon Lee and Jay-Hyeon Ahn)
Committee  April 23, 2014 Chairman appointment (plan) – Seong-Min HaActivities of Independent Director Recommendation Committee (2014)
Committee Members Date Main Agends Director Attendance Rate
CAPEX  Jay-Hoon Lee April 23, 2014 Chairman appointment (plan) – Jay-Hoon Lee 100%
Review Jay-Young Chung Oct. 22, 2014 Report on the status of major investee companies
Committee Dae-Shick Oh Nov. 26, 2014 Report on the status of major investee companies
 Jay-Hyeon Ahn
 Dec. 18, 2014 2015 CAPEX plan (plan) Dong-Seob JeeActivities of CAPEX Review Committee (2014)Committee Members Date Main Agends Director Attendance Rate
Compensation Hyun-Chin Lim April 23, 2014 Chairman appointment (plan) – Director Hyun-Chin Lim 100%
Review Committee Jay-Young Chung Dec. 18, 2014 Remuneration system for executives and improvement matters
 Jay-Hoon LeeActivities of Compensation Review Committee (2014)
Activities of Corporate Citizenship Committee (2014)
 Number of  Total Average
 Directors Payment Remuner-  
   ation
Executive 3 3,102 1,034
director
Independent 2 160 80
director
Audit 3 240 80
Committee
member 
Total 8 3,502 -Remuneration Payments 
The maximum remuneration for Board mem-
bers in 2014 was reviewed by the Board in 
accordance to relevant laws and regulations, and finalized through the General Sharehold-
ers’ Meeting. The confirmed amount ap-
proved at the General Shareholders’ Meeting was KRW 12 billion, and total remunerations paid in 2014 amounted to KRW 3.52 billion. 
In the case of directors and auditors whose 
remunerations were above KRW 500 million, their individual remunerations have been dis-
closed in the business reports since 2014 as 
part of the effort to promote increased trans-parency in remuneration to Board members. 
Remuneration Assessment Criteria 
and Method
The salaries for directors are calculated based 
on their respective position grades, reflecting also the value of their duties, and the salary 
must be within the maximum remuneration 
range set for directors. Net annual salary is di-vided into 12 months for equal monthly install-ments. SK Telecom operates Target Incentive 
system which consists of traditional bonuses from corporate profit sharing and individual 
performance bonuses based on personal per -
formance. Target Incentive system promotes better individual performance and provides incentives for employees. Director's perfor -
mance-based compensation of up to 200% of the annual salary is determined by a com-prehensive evaluation of measurable indices such as financial performances including rev-
enue, operating profit and the non-measur -
able indices such as leadership, achievement 
of strategic goals, expertise, and contribution 
to the company’s management performance. 
For the management, additional factors are considered in the evaluation. External percep-
tion indices include the 3 major customer sat-
isfaction survey results and DJSI evaluation results. Environmental and social indices in-
clude reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, 
revenue in environmentally-friendly ICT solu-tions, employee and executive turnover rate, 
achievements in production of social values 
as socially responsible ICT-based corpora-tion, revenue in society-contributing solu-tions, and others.Remuneration Payments
for Directors Unit: KRW million
 CEO remuneration (total)* Employee Remuneration  Ratio YOY increase rate**
  (mean)*    
2014 KRW 1,458 million KRW 102 million 14.29 18.55%The Ratio of the Highest Remuneration to the Mean Employee Remuneration
*The remunerations for the highest paid individual and the employees include the annual salary and incentive bonus
** Based on the ratio of the highest remuneration to the mean employee remuneration (12.06-fold) in 201389 88
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
- Online Customer Center, “T World” 
- CRM questionnaires
- Customer satisfaction survey
- SK Telecom blog
- Social media pages such as blog,
 Facebook, etc. 
- Meetings and events across the yearSustainable Management Governance
In May 2008, SK Telecom established the Cor -
porate Citizenship Committee (CCC) under the Board with the aim to implement CSR activities as part of core management activities. CCC 
is responsible for setting forth mid- and long-
term strategies for sustainable management activities and evaluating the outcomes there-of in order to ensure the efficiency of the CSR 
activities. As the top decision-making body 
for CSR and Creating Shared Value (CSV) ac-tivities of SK Telecom, CCC makes decisions 
related to CSR from long-term CSR perspec-
tives, taking into account various stakes in the company. 
CCC consists of 3 independent directors, 
whose roles include setting the direction of im-plementation in the 5 major sustainable man-
agement areas including customer-centered 
management, mutual growth, CSV and social contribution, transparent ethical management 
and eco-friendly management as well as advis-
ing on CSV initiative activities and monitoring the key issues and outcomes. In accordance with the increasing demand for reinforcing 
CSR participation of the top decision-mak-
ing body by the GRI Guidelines (GRI G4), UN Global Compact (UNGC), and Communication 
on Progress (COP), SK Telecom has further 
forged the roles of CCC. A review procedure for comprehensive reports of the top deci-
sion-making body has been introduced in or -
der for stakeholders to take part in this process 
and for key issues to be reported to CCC of the 
Board. In addition, CCC decided to operate an integrated channel on the company’s website 
to receive complaints and grievances related 
to labor, human rights and environmental and 
ethical management practices from the stake-holders. Furthermore, in order to enhance the 
expertise of the Board in regard to the sus-
tainability of the economic, environmental and social matters, SK Telecom invited external specialists with the assistance of UNGC in 
2013 and in November 2014 to provide CSR 
education to the Board.
Stakeholder Engagement
Through subsistence and development, SK Telecom aspires to create value for stakehold-
ers and contribute to socioeconomic devel-
opment and happiness of mankind. To this end, the company has established distinct 
communication channels for different types of 
stakeholders, which include customers, busi-ness partners, employees, local communities, 
NGOs, shareholders and the government. 
Through these channels, the company is im-plementing communication-oriented manage-ment practices. There are six distinct commu-
nication channels in total, and they include 
an online channel, an online customer center (“T World”), a portal site for partners, and a 
Labor-Management Council. These channels 
help the company receive feedback, griev-ances and complaints from stakeholders, and 
monitor their demands on an ongoing basis.
In addition, SK Telecom operates an online communication channel to faithfully reflect 
the opinions and interests of the stakehold-ers from the responsible management per -
spective in areas of social and environmental 
affairs, human rights and labor. Of the issues 
received through these channels, those that 
are deemed to have a substantial impact or considered important are reported to CCC. In 
2014, a total of 46 major issues were submit-
ted by stakeholders through official commu-nication channels, and response measures 
were taken for all of these issues.  
In order to identify the top priorities and key issues on a yearly basis, SK Telecom also conducts annual online surveys. The 2015 
survey in March, and opinions were collect-
ed from 357 respondents. The survey partic-ipants were individuals and corporate bodies with direct stakes in SK Telecom including executives, employees and shareholders as 
well as customers, government agencies and 
NGOs. Through the survey, SK Telecom was able to identify 11 key issues including quali-
ty, customer satisfaction, customer retention, 
responsible marketing and talent recruitment, and the matters derived from the survey were 
reflected in this report after a final review and 
approval of CCC. 
Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Channels
CSR Grievances/Complaints Channel
The resolution process of grievances/complaints
on human rights, labor, social and environmental , customer information protection issues. Online CSR 
Grievances/ 
Complaints 
Channel
01
Fact check 
with due diligence 
by relevant 
department(s)02
 Take action 
issues and actively
resolve them03
Report 
major measures 
taken to CCC
under the Board04
Drive 
improvement
to prevent 
similar issues05
Disclose major 
issues measures 
taken, and external 
informationBusiness 
partners
Employees ShareholdersGovernments- Policy proposal by participating 
 in meetings and discussions  
 supervised by the government 
- Ministry of Science, ICT and 
 Future Planning
- Korea Communications Comission- Fair Trade Commission
- National Commission for Corporate 
- Partnership Community
- Investor meetings 
 (conferences, NDR, etc.)
- Seminars on business status- Information to investors (homepage)
- Public disclosure 
 (FSS, KRX, SEC, LSE, etc.)
- Shareholders’ meeting- VoP reception channel- Portal site for business partners  
 (Open2U)
- Win-Win Conference
- Partner’s Day
- One-on-One Meeting
- Win-Win Innovation Center website
- Labor union (labor union website)
- Labor-Management Council
- Letter to the HR (intranet)
- Company newsletter and 
 in-house broadcasting, and 
 communication media- Semi-annual meetings with NGOs
- Online volunteer platform
- Online donation platform
- Local Residents’ Council 
 (participating in community 
 development)- Social contribution programs 
- CSV Advisory BodyCommunitiesCustomersGovernance Report    |   Risk Report   |   Ethical Management
Board of Directors     Governance Model     Corporate Citizenship Committee
World-Class CSR Capacity through 
the Corporate Citizenship Committee 
SK Telecom operates a top-level decision-making body for its social 
contribution activities, with the aim to fulfill its corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a global company and undertake sustainable CSR activities. 91 90
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesSince 2003, the CSR Advisory Panel com-
prised of major stakeholders has been meet-ing regularly to discuss the issues of CSV, 
social welfare and creation of value for society 
based on ICT. Major issues discussed at the meetings relayed to the management.
Launch of the Customer Advisory Panel
Involved in Product and Service Planning to Distribution
In May 2014, SK Telecom became the first 
in the industry to launch a customer adviso-ry panel to get customers involved in R&D of 
service areas that the company is developing 
or attempting to discover by participating in the entire processes from product and service 
planning, development to distribution. The ad-
visory panel, comprised of customers of both genders and various ages and occupations, take part in discovering customer needs and 
developing specialized projects to enhance 
customer satisfaction. The ideas and opinions of the panel are reflected in the service devel-
opment and improvement processes. 
Advocating for and Complying with 
the International Principles and Initiatives
SK Telecom became the first of the four major conglomerates in Korea to join the UN Global 
Compact (UNGC) and Korea’s first to be des-
ignated as a LEAD company in May 2007. As a UNGC LEAD company, SK Telecom is adher -
ing to the 10 principles in 4 sectors including human rights, environment, labor and anti-cor -
ruption, and advocating for a wide range of the UN’s development plans including the UN Mil-
lennium Development Goals in January 2011. 
SK Telecom declared its support for the Pro-tect, Respect and Remedy Framework, pro-
posed by John Ruggie that has been endorsed Key Agenda Items for CSR Advisory Panel
Session Date Major agenda items
1st June 12, 2014 CSV Advisory Panel operation plan
  2014 CSV initiative plan
  Review of “Happy Companion”
  (1 year since launch) and directions 
  for change
2nd Aug. 22, 2014 ICT trends and outlook
  CSV evolution process and future directions  
  Review of “BRAVO! Restart”
  Environmental analysis related to 
  the 6th agricultural industry revitalization efforts
3rd Dec. 30, 2014 Report on the 2014 CSV results
UNGC Activities
Associations/Initiatives Joining date Purpose/Remarks
UNGC Headquarters May 2007 Involvement in the global CSR initiative activities helped advance 
UNGC Korea Sept. 2007 the internal CSR system and gain better reputation in the area of
UNGC LEAD Jan. 2011 CSR at home and abroadby the UN Human Rights Council in June 2011. 
The company complies with ISO 26000, the standard for corporate social responsibility 
management system, and is actively involved 
in the Integrated Reporting (IR) Business Net-work. Gaining recognition for its efforts to im-prove sustainability at home and abroad, SK 
Telecom has been included in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for seven consecutive years since 2008, and it has 
also been taking an active part in global initia-
tives including the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 
Enhancing the Expertise of Directors of
the Corporate Citizenship Committee 
SK Telecom has conducted the UNGC LEAD 
Board Program for CCC in November 2014 for the purpose of enhancing the competency of the top governance body in sustainable man-
agement areas. 
The UNGC LEAD Board program is a CSR educational program designed specifically for 
the Board of Directors by the UN Global Com-
pact, Boston Consulting Group (BCG), and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), an 
international non-profit organization. 
The major trends in CSR and the Board’s role as a CSR driving engine were present-
ed through this program, which consisted of 
two modules: The Importance of Sustainable Management and The Roles of the Board. 
This program helped the directors reinforce 
their competencies. SK Telecom will continue its efforts to reinforce the CSR capacity of its top decision-making 
body by conducting the education program 
for CCC on a yearly basis and reinforcing the post-program performance assessment.UN Global Compact (UNGC)Since joining the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007, SK Telecom has undertaken various 
activities in an effort to resolve domestic and 
international social issues and to spread the global CSR trend. As Korea’s first company to 
participate in LEAD, a leading company coun-
cil under UNGC, SK Telecom has offered the Board Program (a CSR education program for 
board members) to the Corporate Citizenship 
Committee and took the initiative to apply the global CSR best practices to Korea. SK Telecom is also a founding member of UNGC 
Korea, a local association of UNGC, and has 
Reinforced Management of Human Rights,
Labor, Environmental and Ethical Issuesin the Supply Chain 
As a UNGC LEAD company, SK Telecom 
complies with its principles in relation to hu-man rights, labor, environmental and ethical 
issues, and fulfills its duty and responsibility 
to ensure that related risks do not occur within the company as well as in the supply chain including its business partners. 
In April 2013 SK Telecom publically advocat-
ed for the human rights principles prescribed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights: Ruggie Framework, and an-nounced its plans to fulfill the responsibility in 
relation to human rights under the name of the 
CEO. It should be noted that the company ad-heres to all of the recommendations made by 
the International Labor Organization (ILO) in-
cluding those related to child labor and forced labor. In addition, SK Telecom has prescribed 
the standards in its Code of Ethics and Eth-
ical Practice Guidelines to ensure that they are clearly understood by business partners, and efforts have been made to ensure that the 
same principles apply in countries where the 
related laws and regulations are generally of low standards compared to those of Korea. participated as a steering committee member since 2007, contributing to the establishment and dissemination of the CSR culture among 
Korean companies. In 2014, SK Telecom ac-
tively participated in major events hosted by the UNGC Korea such as the Y-CSR Confer -
ence and Korea-China-Japan Round Table Talks. By undertaking such diverse activities, SK Telecom is gaining recognition as a lead-
ing company in CSR. 
By establishing independent evaluation crite-
ria, the targets of management have been set according to the level of priority determined 
based on the transaction scale and severity of 
business risks. Risk assessment is performed starting in the purchasing and business part-
ner selection phases and the results are re-
flected immediately to prevent the occurrenc-es and recurrences of wrongful and unethical practices. When reviewing a supplier for the 
first time for registration purposes, an evalua-
tion is carried out, taking into account not only its financial structure, but also its payment 
practices and the standards of policies related 
to human rights, labor and the environment. SK Telecom is well-aware that because the 
supply chain for its network equipment and 
end-user devices is positioned throughout the globe, there are concerns of risks that can 
potentially have an impact on other regions 
in addition to the main region of business, Korea. SK Telecom is committed to fulfilling 
its responsibilities to ensure that its policies 
are properly implemented by reinforcing its due diligence, monitoring and tracking in all regions, especially in areas requiring special 
attention.
SK Telecom's Customer Advisory Panel Induction
Ceremony93 92
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Reinforcing the Risk Management System 
for Major Risk Issues
Areas necessitating risk management have 
recently extended beyond the conventional scope of risk management, including dis-
tribution channels and supply chain, which 
were more controllable. Due to concentration and expansion of networks and facilities, the scale of damage caused by accidents such 
as customer information leakage and natural 
disasters and its consequent impact on busi-ness have grown more considerably compared 
to the past. Accordingly, in 2014, SK Telecom 
enhanced its basic compliance to prevent rec-ognized risks, continually discovered potential 
risks that were present, raised awareness of 
risks among its subsidiaries and companies in the distribution network, expanded the scope 
of risk management, and specified risk judg-
ment standards such as service failure criteria, thereby reinforcing its overall risk management 
system.Support for Risk Management Systems
of subsidiaries
SK Telecom ran a company wide risk man-
agement working group, which included rep-resentatives of its subsidiaries, for the pur -
pose of strengthening its company wide risk management system and enhancing its man-agement stability based on close cooperation with subsidiaries. In addition, a risk reporting 
and management system, also applicable to 
subsidiaries, was established. Of particulate note, by clarifying the inter-company situation 
reporting standards for each major risk types, 
SK Telecom attempted to establish a multi-lat-eral risk responding system for subsidiaries to 
share information in the event of unexpected 
emergency situations and to cope with crises through prompt decisions. Furthermore, the 
company formalized risk management meet-
ings, in which subsidiaries are to participate, in order to continually seek out potential risks 
going forward.Governance Report    |   Risk Report   |   Ethical Management
Risk Governance     Risk Profile and Strategy
Specialized and Independent 
Risk Management Governance  
SK Telecom is building a company-wide risk management system as a means 
to preemptively keep potential risks in check and to establish a clear set of response measures and procedures. Through systematic and effective risk management, we will enhance stability and achieve continuous growth.
Major Risk Management System Improvements in 2014
In-depth diagnosis on 
B2B, growth businesses, 
distribution network, 
insider transaction status, customer information 
and checking compliance 
statusChecking potential risks by organization and 
discovering risk issues 
through company-wide Risk Management Working 
Group (6 sessions)Running Risk Management 
Working Groups with sub-
sidiaries and supporting 
each subsidiary in estab-lishing a risk management 
systemStandardizing the criteria for 
judging risk response to 50 
or more voice of customer 
(VoC) complaints, regardless of failure, and post-failure 
recovery and external com-
munication standards to be based on VoCEnhanced 
ComplianceFinding Potential 
RisksSupport Subsidiaries’ 
Risk Management 
SystemReinforce Service
Failure Judgment 
CriteriaOperating a Company wide 
Crisis Response Center
Since 2014, SK Telecom has been strengthening its risk management system to operate a com
-
panywide crisis response center for prompt re -
sponse to serious crisis situations. The personnel of the Companywide Crisis Response Situation 
Room is called upon during serious crisis situ
-
ations necessitating urgent responses as is in 
the case of situations expected to cause serious 
damage to customer value and the company’s 
reputation, situations necessitating a company -
wide response as the risk may affect various or -
ganizations within the company, drastic increases in customer complaints or more than 1,000 re
-ports of the same type of customer complaints (e.g. Voice of Customer complaints), and dramatic 
increase or spread of traditional and social media 
reports of a certain situation. Such companywide crisis situations include a nationwide network 
failure (incl. failures caused by natural disasters), 
leakage of customer information, investigation and media coverage of unethical behaviors of ex
-
ecutives and employees of the company. In such cases,  Management Support Office determines 
the degree of impact of the situation concerned 
and reports to the CEO thereof before summon
-
ing the personnel of the Companywide Crisis Re -
sponse Situation Room, supervised by MNO, to take the necessary response measure.
Head of Network Division Analysis of the cause of N/W failure   
  and troubleshooting
Head of Marketing Division Distribution network comm., and review B2C  
  compensation
Head of B2B Solutions Division B2B client comm., and review compensation
Head of CR Division  Product and service impact analysis   
  (incl. system troubleshooting)
Head of Strategic Planning  Strategic and financial impact analysis, legal 
Division  review and follow-up response strategiesSituation Room Operation System in the Event of Company wide Crisis
BOD
 CEOExecutive  
Vice President 
of MNOSenior Vice President 
of Management Support Officer
Periodic situation report
Head of Customer-oriented Customer and social media comm., response
Management Office  to customer complaints and compensation
Head of PR Office  Media comm, and public opinion trend   
  analysisRM Working Group
MNC/Solution TeamHead of N/W 
Management 
Div.
RM Working Group
Security Tech LabHead of ICT 
Technical 
CenterN/W Failure Restoration Team
 Customer Information Leakage 
Restoration Team
Level A risk
· Major service failure  
  of 11st, T store, etc. 
· Customer information    
  leakage, etc.Level Red Risk
· Nationwide service 
  failure
· Surge in ultra-high-   
  speed IPTV VoC, etc.Company-wide 
Emergency Risk
· Occurrence of  
  environmental issues   
  such as waste water 
  discharge, etc.· Plant fire, power failure
· Plummeting yield, etc.Critical Risk
· Nationwide telecom-  munications service     
  failure· Surge in customer     complaints
· Customer information 
  leakage, etc.
Subsidiaries’ Major Risks and Management System
CEOSK Telecom
Management 
Support Office
Major
risklevelsCEO Reporting Principles
· Judging on whether to report: SKT Management Support Office
· Reporting: SKT and subsidiaries’ corresponding organization
· Post check: Management Support Office and affiliates’ RM general  
  management
Major Risk Level B Level Orange General Risk
Minor Risk Level C Level YellowSK Telecom
Management Support OfficeSK Planet
Vision Practice GroupSK Broadband
SKMS TeamSK Hynix
Management Support Office95 94
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
·  SK Telecom, a telecommunications service provider whose business has been approved by 
the government, adheres to the domestic IT regulations and policies, and thus is affected 
by government policies related to frequency allocation, sales, and marketing, etc.
·  There are potential risks of regulatory risks such as rate discount issue, widespread use 
of MVNO, emergence of a fourth telecommunications service provider and restrictions against dominant business operators resulting from the policy efforts to reduce the tele-
communications costs for households and promote the welfare of service users.·  In Oct. 2014, the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act was enacted to establish 
order in the mobile device distribution market with transparent and reasonable distribution 
practices, and inhibit any overheated competition among service providers. According-
ly, the number of new and transferring subscribers has decreased, while the number of subscribers changing their devices has grown, necessitating preemptive responses to the 
changing market conditions.
·   SK Telecom is under additional restrictions due to its dominant position in the mobile com-
munications market, and this may lower its profitability and competitiveness.·  SK Telecom is operating an organization to respond to changes in government policies. The 
organization responds to regulatory changes according to planned scenarios for major reg-ulatory risks. 
·  SK Telecom endeavors to minimize impact by participating in discussions organized by the 
government and public institutions such as MSIP and KCC, and proposing new policies, etc. 
·  SK Telecom is attempting to uproot user discrimination in accordance with the purpose of 
the regulations including the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act, and improve prof-
itability by reinforcing its competitiveness based on products and services within the scope 
of the regulations. 
·   If marketing competition focused on MNP continues, it will have a negative impact on the 
profitability of SK Telecom.
·  The emergence of a fourth telecommunications service provider as a new competitor and 
overheated competition among current competitors can hinder the business and manage-
ment performance of SK Telecom.·  SK Telecom is shifting the paradigm of competition to focus on its products and services 
instead of engaging in exhaustive marketing competition. 
·  SK Telecom has been managing the quality of the service contact points including those 
in the distribution network, and improving customer satisfaction by reinforcing customer 
retention programs such as membership programs and providing differentiated customer 
benefits through combined products in order to secure superiority in the market. 
·   In March 2015, SK Telecom exercised its authority to terminate prepaid mobile phone sub-
scriptions with long-term inactivity, causing its market share to drop below 50%. Efforts will be made to recover the market share by focusing on marketing efficiency and profitability and engaging in sound competition based on fundamental competitiveness.
·  With increased demand for personal information protection, the Information Protection 
Planning Team was launched in 2014 and multi-faceted efforts are being made to protect 
customer information. 
·  Services such as Safe Message and T Silver Service are provided to prevent spam and 
smishing and protect customer information. 
·  SK Telecom established an integrated security control center, which oversees major subsidiar -
ies as well, in order to control and respond to security risks in an integrated manner. ·  Subscribers to the fixed-line and wireless communications services of SK Telecom use 
the company’s network when accessing the Internet. In case of dissemination of spam mails, personal information hacking tools, viruses, warms and destructive software, etc., 
damages can be caused to SK Telecom and/or its subscribers. Such events can result in reduced network service quality, increased calls made to the call center, and damages to 
the customers’ equipment and data. Serious accidents can increase service and network 
security costs, churn rate and cause decrease in sales.
·  The emissions trading system began to be implemented in Korea on Jan. 1, 2015. The 
Korean government set a national target of reducing GHG emissions by 30% compared to BAU by 2020. 
·  The low GHG allocation compared to projected emissions amount and the uncertainty of 
emissions trading market may have a negative impact on the future business of SK Tele-com due to environmental liabilities and other factors. ·   The amount of energy consumption is managed as a major indicator, and the establishment 
of a low-power network is under review. 
·   The GHG emissions reduction calculation method using T-map Navigation was recognized 
as an international standard, and this resulted from company’s efforts to conduct research on reducing social GHG emissions using ICT and providing related infrastructures to mini-mize related risks in the future. ·  Despite government policies to prevent overheating of the market such as restrictions on 
subsidies and the growth of the smartphone market, competition among service providers 
has become intensified due to limitations in absolute market size. 
·  There is possibility of stagnant subscriber growth rate due to saturation of mobile telecom-
munications services, and this may have a negative impact on management performance. 
·  Protection of personal information is a precondition to maintaining customer trust.
·  Spamming, personal information hacking, viruses, etc. may cause damages to the SK 
Telecom subscribers, and failure to adequately protect the customers may have a negative business impact. 
·  Personal information of SK Telecom subscribers is stored for billing purposes, and efforts 
are necessary to protect the information from hacking and other risks of leakage.
·   An enormous amount of electric power is consumed by the data centers and networks for 
operation of network and base stations. 
·  Risks associated with climate change have emerged as a major agenda in global gover -
nance: as a result, related regulations such as GHG target management and emissions 
trading systems, etc. have been changing with increasing uncertainty.Regulatory changes
Mature telecommunications market and intensified competition 
among service providers
Evolution of network technology and ensuring the quality of network 
operation according to the shift toward data-centered usage patterns 
Increased demand for personal information protection 
Increased demand to respond to non-business regulatory risks 
such as environmental issues, etc.Emerging Risks Nature of Risks Trends & Potential Impacts What are we doing about it?
·  The implementation of network technology requires a considerable amount of capital ex-
penditure and other expenses, and SK Telecom will continue executing its CAPEX plan in a stable manner according to future projections and the network roadmap for timely 
introduction of technologies for the purpose of developing and reinforcing its LTE services including 3band LTE-A service. 
·  In order to lead the 5G era, SK Telecom is working with global leading business operators 
to develop advanced technologies and implementing research and CAPEX plan to secure technological leadership in the market. ·  The telecommunications industry is characterized by continuous technical improvement 
and progression. SK Telecom began offering LTE services in July 2011 and gained lead-
ership as an LTE service provider, but there is ongoing competition with respect to the 
quality of the next-generation networks. If one of the competitors shows superiority in LTE services, this may have a negative impact on LTE service and other businesses. ·  Failure to introduce or apply the latest technology in pace with its rapid evolution will lower 
the competitiveness of SK Telecom.   
·   A surge in data traffic will necessitate the securing of frequencies and network capacity and 
efficient use of broadband as failure to do so may have a negative impact on management performance. Governance Report    |   Risk Report   |   Ethical Management
Risk Governance     Risk Profile and Strategy
SK Telecom’s Risks and Opportunities
SK Telecom is making an effort to thoroughly analyze emerging risks, and turn 
such risks into opportunities by making strategic responses accordingly.  97 96
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Internalization and Dispersion 
of Ethical Management 
SK Telecom has reestablished the former Code 
of Ethics System into Code of Ethics and Prac-tice Guidelines to prevent any confusion that 
may arise from discrepant interpretation from 
individual to individual. The Practice Guide-lines for Code of Ethics (FAQ) present specific judgment criteria for different types of situation 
for clearer understanding and improved adher -ence. The Code of Conduct sets forth the over -
all ethical management observances including 
the company’s responsibility to its employees, 
business partners, customers, shareholders 
and local communities as well as the desirable attitude of employees and the criteria for the 
application of the Code of Ethics. Along with 
the Code of Conduct, the detailed guidelines on HR Policy, Autonomous Fair Trade Com-
pliance Guidelines, Pledge for Customer In-formation Protection, and Consent Form for 
Fair and Transparent Trade, etc. specify the 
ethical management system of SK Telecom. 
Moreover, for the purpose of re-cognizing and enhancing the willpower to voluntarily practice 
the basic ethical compliances, all employees 
are required to sign an Ethics Practice Pledge on a yearly basis. 
Meanwhile, SK Telecom regularly provides 
education on ethical practices in order to en-hance the employees’ understanding of ethi-cal management and to internalize the ethical management system for improved adherence. In 2014, a total of 4,298 employees completed 
the ethical management education (incl. online 
education), and a total of 71 executives and employees of the business partners complet-
ed the education. Furthermore, SK Telecom is 
reinforcing communication through in-house notices and interviews with the business part-
ners in order to contribute to the internalization 
and dissemination of the ethical management system.
Ethical Management Education Employees (2014)
Fair Trade
Consent Form 
and CSR 
Guidelines 
for Partners
Autonomous Fair 
Trade Compliance 
Guidelines
Customer 
Information 
Protection Policy
HR Policy
Code of Ethics
SK Telecom’s Code of Conduct Framework
Employees Employees Employees Employees Business partners
SKT Statement on Human Rights (2013)
Universal Declaration of Human Rights (2004)
UNGC 10 Principles (2008)
Ruggie Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights (2012)· Code of Ethics
· Practice guidelines· Ethical management    practice guide· Practice pledge· Employment, evalu-
  ation and compen-
  sation regulations
· Detailed regulations
  on anti-discrimination· Detailed pledge for 
  customer information   
  protection and practice   guidelines 
· Personal Information 
  Protection Policy· Prevention of money 
  laundering and insider   trading· Anti-monopoly and   anti-competition  behavior prevention· Anti-bribery and   customer information   protection· Compliance with   SK Telecom’s standard   social and environmental     responsibilities
* VLS: Virtual Learning SystemSession 2012 2013 2014
Anti-corruption, ethical management 3,688 4,000 (VLS) 4,052 (VLS)
education employees  1,117 (collective 175 (collective 
   education) education)
Ethical management education for partners - - 71 (collective
   education)
Distribution network - 152 (corporate  -
  business) Anti-Corruption Education Unit: Person
Reestablishment of the Code of Ethics System
Code of Ethics
Code of Ethics
(Declaration of the Ethical 
Management Ideology)
Ethical Management Practice Guide (FAQ)Pledge of Practice
(signed annually)Ethical
 Management
Counseling 
Center 
Regulations
Practice Guidelines
(Employee Conduct 
Standards and
Operation Procedures)Ethical 
Management
Practice 
ResolutionsPractice PledgeEthical 
Management
Q&AInternal
policy
Internal
policy
Ethical 
Management
Philosophy
Pronounce-
ment
Employee 
Code
of Conduct
Operation
and 
Procedures
CounselingGovernance Report    |   Risk Report   |   Ethical Management
Fair and Transparent Management
through Ethical Management System
With a transparent, BoD-centered management system, SK Telecom will embrace 
ethical management to its core and perform its duties as a socially responsible corporation.Code of Ethics99 98
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesCreation of Fair Competition 
and Transparent Transaction Culture
SK Telecom operates an autonomous fair 
trade compliance program for the purpose of promoting fair competition. Of particular note, in 2015, “leadership in fair and trans-parent trade” was selected as one of the key 
agendas as part of the plan to pursue win-win 
growth in order for the company to lead the creation of a sound corporate ecosystem in 
the ICT industry. 
Transparency and fairness have been further emphasized in the entire business life cycle 
and for business partners such as in partner 
selection and post-transaction evaluation processes. Competitive bidding is conducted 
to find suitable partners based on the princi-
ple of objectivity in accordance with Supplier Management Policy, and the Procurement Review Committee, consisting of 7 executives 
in charge of procurement, has been launched 
with the aim to deliberate on the appropriate-ness of the partner selection procedure. It is 
compulsory for trade partners and suppliers 
to comply with matters related to fair trade, and this is further reinforced through the CSR 
practice consent form in regard to fair and 
transparent trade. Failure to provide consent or comply with matters will result in non-ap-
proval for registration as a business partner 
of SK Telecom or termination of existing con-tract. These regulations are applied to every 
supplier and trade partner, regardless of the 
country or region where it is located. At the time of transaction, relevant employees are required to strictly adhere to the autono-
mous fair trade compliance program, and an 
internal audit with respect to this practice is performed on a non-regular basis. Of partic-
ular note, the 4 Observances and 4 Avoid-
ances Campaign is conducted to observe the 4 practices prescribed by the Fair Trade 
Commission, while refraining from the 4 un-fair practices. The 4 practices  touch upon the 
topics of contract conclusion, partner selec-
tion and management, internal review board 
establishment and management and written records issuance and retention, while the 4 unfair practices include wrongful unit price reductions, misuses of technology, wrongful 
order cancellations and wrongful returns. 
In addition, in order to strengthen compliance among executives and employees, SK Tele-
com established the Compliance Manage-
ment Policy in January 2013 and has been strictly adhering to the policy ever since. In 
2014, a mandatory company-wide training 
program on fair trade was provided online for executives, employees and additional edu-
cation programs were conducted for new re-
cruits and subsidiaries. Moreover, SK Group established the SK Compliance System Guideline and has been distributing it to affili-
ates since 2008 as part of its efforts to ensure 
fair trade. SK Telecom was not involved in any anti-trust 
investigations or paid a fine for a violation 
related to fair trade in 2014. SK Telecom will continue to endeavor to spread the fair trade 
culture and at the same time, lead the growth 
of the entire ICT industry by cooperating with its partners. 
Public Policy Cooperation
SK Telecom abides by Korea’s Political Fund 
Act, which prohibits companies from making 
political contributions. The company also pro-vides full cooperation in the public policies implemented by the government such as job 
creation, gender equality and creative econo-
my and attempts to meet the social demands such as anti-corruption and fair competition. Operation Status of Ethics Counseling Center
Type Cases Action
Entertainment and other special treatment - 
False reporting and budget abuse - 
Misappropriation of company money - 
Reputation damage 1 
Excessive loans - 
Sexual harassment 3 
Violation of the work policy 2 
Management responsibility 1
Breaches on Antitrust Policy -
Total 7Actions Taken Against Violations of the Code of Ethics in 2014
Personnel actions such as 
reprehension, pay cut, suspension 
and dismissal were taken for 
each of the violation cases.Ethics Counseling Operation by Channel  Unit: Case
 2012 2013 2014
Direct reporting channel connected to 78 146 105
the Chairman of the Audit Committee
Received by Ethics Counseling Center 493 713 629
*Number of cases reported to Ethics Counseling Center incl. VoCsViolations of Ethical Regulations                 Unit: Case
16
12
8
416
2013 20147Ethics Counseling Center
SK Telecom provides a variety of channels for 
internal and external stakeholders including 
employees, customers and business partners to consult on issues related to ethical man-
agement of the company and its subsidiaries. 
In order to keep the identities of service users and consulted matters strictly confidential, the counseling and reporter protection pro-
gram is operated in conjunction with these 
channels. Since its establishment in 2004, the Ethics Counseling Center has been collecting reports on wrongful conduct and corruption 
of employees and offering consultation and 
counseling services on ethical issues. These services are accessible through a variety of 
channels such as corporate website, tele-
phone, interviews and mail. In addition, “My Counselor” and “Letter to the HR,” are also in operation, and female counselors are avail-
able for sexual harassment cases through 
Intranet.
Business partners
Employees
Customers101 100
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix4.
Financial &Non-FinancialStatement SK Telecom
Annual Report 2014
Partner for 
New Possibilities
Financial Statements
Financial MD&A  Non-financial StatementsNon-financial MD&AReport of External AuditorThird Party Assurance StatementGreenhouse Gas Assurance Statement 103 102
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Financial Statements   |   Financial MD&A   |   Non-financial Statements   |   Non-financial MD&A
Report of the External Auditor   |   Third Party Assurance Statement   |   Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 
 31st 30th 29th
Assets 
  Current Assets 5,083,148 5,123,415 5,294,421
    Cash and cash equivalents  834,429 1,398,639 920,125
    Short-term financial instruments  313,068 311,474 514,417
    Short-term investment securities  280,161 106,068 60,127    
    Accounts receivable  —trade, net 2,392,150 2,257,316 1,954,920
    Short-term loans, net  74,512 79,395 84,908
    Accounts receivable—other, net 690,527 643,603 582,098
    Accrued revenue 10,134 11,941 8,714
    Advance payment 70,772 20,966 35,628
    Prepaid expenses 134,404 108,909 102,572
    Derivative financial assets - 10 9,656
    Inventories, net 267,667 177,120 242,146
    Advanced payments and other  4,814 4,307 3,554
    Assets classified as held for sale 10,510 3,667 775,556
  Non-current Assets 22,858,085 21,453,100 20,301,138
    Long-term financial instruments  631 8,142 144
    Long-term investment securities 956,280 968,527 953,712
    Investments in associates and joint ventures 6,298,088 5,325,297 4,632,477
    Property and equipment, net 10,567,701 10,196,607 9,712,719
    Investment property, net 14,997 15,811 27,479
    Goodwill 1,917,595 1,733,261 1,744,483
    Intangible assets, net 2,483,994 2,750,782 2,689,658
    Long-term loans, net 55,728 57,442 69,299
    Long-term account receivable 3,596 - -
    Long-term prepaid expenses  51,961 32,008 31,341
    Guarantee deposits 285,144 249,600 236,242
    Long-term derivative financial assets  70,035 41,712 52,992
    Deferred tax assets  25,083 26,322 124,098
    Other non-current assets  127,252 47,589 26,494
  Total Assets  27,941,233 26,576,515 25,595,559SK Telecom Co., LTD and Subsidiaries                         Unit: KRW million 31st 30th 29th
Liabilities and Equity   Current Liabilities 5,420,310 6,069,220 6,174,895
    Accounts payable—trade 275,495 214,716 253,884
    Accrued payables—other 1,381,850 1,864,024 1,811,038
    Unearned revenue 129,255 102,931 106,239
    Withholdings 1,053,063 728,936 717,170
    Accrued expenses 952,418 988,193 890,863
    Income tax payable  99,236 112,316 60,253
    Unearned income 327,003 441,731 258,691
    Derivative financial liabilities  - 21,171 -
    Current liabilities 51,075 66,775 287,307
    Short-term borrowings  366,600 260,000 600,245
    Current portion of bonds payable and long-term borrowings 590,714 1,042,276 714,997
    Current portion of capital lease Liabilities 3,804 19,351 19,904
    Long-term non-trade payable 189,389 206,800 157,966
    Other current liabilities  - - 2,033
    Liabilities classified as held for sale 408 - 294,305
  Non-current liabilities  7,272,653 6,340,738 6,565,882
    Debentures 5,649,158 4,905,579 4,979,220
    Long-term borrowings 149,720 104,808 369,237
    Long-term payables—other 684,567 838,585 715,508
    Long-term unearned revenue 19,659 50,894 160,821
    Finance lease liabilities  26 3,867 22,036
    Defined benefit obligations  91,587 74,201 86,521
    Derivative financial liabilities  130,889 103,168 63,599
    Other non-current liabilities  36,013 28,106 106,561
    Deferred tax liabilities  444,211 168,825 -
    Other non-current liabilities  66,823 62,705 62,379
  Total Liabilities  12,692,963 12,409,958 12,740,777
Equity   Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company  14,506,739 13,452,372 11,854,777
  Share capital 44,639 44,639 44,639
  Other paid up capital 277,998 317,508 (288,883)
  Retained earnings  14,188,591 13,102,495 12,124,657
  Reserves (4,489) (12,270) (25,636)
  Non-controlling interests  741,531 714,185 1,000,005
  Total Equity 15,248,270 14,166,557 12,854,782
Total Liabilities and Equity  27,941,233 26,576,515 25,595,559                     Unit: KRW million105 104
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities 31st 30th 29th
Operating revenue 17,163,798 16,602,054 16,141,409
  Revenue 17,163,798 16,602,054 16,141,409
Operating expense (15,338,693) (14,590,945) (14,411,360)
  Labor cost 1,659,777 1,561,358 1,267,928
  Commissions paid 5,692,680 5,498,695 5,949,542
  Depreciation and amortization 2,714,730 2,661,623 2,421,128
  Network interconnection 997,319 1,043,733 1,057,145
  Leased line 399,014 448,833 468,785
  Advertising 415,857 394,066 384,353
  Rent 460,309 443,639 422,388
  Cost of products that have been resold 1,680,110 1,300,375 1,292,304
  Other operating expense 1,318,897 1,238,623 1,147,787
Operating income  1,825,105 2,011,109 1,730,049
  Finance income 126,337 113,392 444,558
  Finance cost 386,673 571,203 638,285
  Other non-operating income  56,279 74,467 195,910
  Other non-operating expense 273,558 507,173 188,304
  Gain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, net   906,338  706,509  (24,560)
Profit before income tax 2,253,828 1,827,101 1,519,368
Income tax expense from continuing operations  454,508 400,797 288,207
Profit from continuing operations  1,799,320 1,426,304 1,231,161
Discontinued operation income - 183,245 (115,498)
Net of income continued operations 1,799,320 1,609,549 1,115,663
Attributable to
  Owners of the Parent Company 1,801,178 1,638,964 1,151,705
  Non-controlling interests (1,858) (29,415) (36,042)
Earnings per share  Basic earnings per share (in won) 25,154 20,708 18,015
  Diluted earnings per share (in won) 25,154 23,211 16,525 31st 30th 29th
Net of income continued operations 1,799,320 1,609,549 1,115,663
Other continued comprehensive income (28,486) 18,497 (319,542)
  Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: (32,942) 5,946 (15,048)
    Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations after income tax (32,942) 5,946 (15,048)
  Items that maybe be reclassified to profit or loss:  4,456 12,551 (304,494)
    Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale financial assets  27,267 2,009 (149,082)
    Net change in other comprehensive income of investments in associates and joint ventures  8,187  3,034  (82,513)
    Net change in unrealized fair value or derivatives  (45,942) 11,222 (23,361)
    Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations  14,944 (3,714) (49,538)
Total comprehensive income  1,770,834 1,628,046 796,121
Total comprehensive income attributable to
  Owners of the Parent Company 1,777,519 1,655,570 851,565
  Non-controlling interests (6,685) (27,524) (55,444)Consolidated Statements of Income 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 
SK Telecom Co., LTD and Subsidiaries                        Unit: KRW million SK Telecom Co., LTD and Subsidiaries                         Unit: KRW millionConsolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 107 106
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities Share Other Paid up  Retained  Reserves  Elements of    
 Capital Capital   Parent Company
Balance, January 1, 2014  44,639 317,508 13,102,495 (12,270) 13,452,372 714,185 14,166,557
Total comprehe-  Net income  - - 1,801,178 - 1,801,178 (1,858) 1,799,320
nsive income Other comprehensive income  - - (31,440) 7,781 (23,659) (4,827) (28,486)
Cash dividends - - (666,802) - (666,802) (170) (666,972)
Issuance of hybrid bond - - - - - - -
Interest on hybrid bond - - (16,840) - (16,840)  (16,840)
Sale of treasury stock  - - - - - - -
Change of connection range  - - - - - 23,667 23,667
Business combination under common control  - (28,641)  - - (28,641)  - (28,641)
Changes in ownership in subsidiaries - (10,869) - - (10,869) 10,534 (335)
Balance, December 31, 2014  44,639 277,998 14,188,591 (4,489) 14,506,739 741,531 15,248,270 Share Other Paid up  Retained  Reserves  Elements of     
 Capital Capital Earning  Parent Company
Balance, January 1, 2012  44,639 (285,347) 11,642,525 260,064 11,661,881 1,070,828 12,732,709
Total comprehe-  Net income  - - 1,151,705 - 1,151,705 (36,042) 1,115,663
nsive income Other comprehensive income  - - (14,440) (285,700) (300,140) (19,402) (319,542)
Cash dividends - - (655,133) - (655,133) (2,133) (657,266)
Issuance of hybrid bond - - - - - - -
Interest on hybrid bond - - - - - - -
Sale of treasury stock  - - - - - - -
Change of connection range - - - - - - -
Business combination under common control  - - - - - - -
Changes in ownership in subsidiaries  - (3,536) - - (3,536) (13,246) (16,782)
Balance, December 31, 2012  44,639 (288,883) 12,124,657 (25,636) 11,854,777 1,000,005 12,854,782
Balance, January 1, 2013  44,639 (288,883) 12,124,657 (25,636) 11,854,777 1,000,005 12,854,782
Total comprehe-  Net income  - - 1,638,964 - 1,638,964 (29,415) 1,609,549
nsive income Other comprehensive income  - - 3,240 13,366 16,606 1,891 18,497
Cash dividends - - (655,946) - (655,946) (2,242) (658,188)
Issuance of hybrid bond - 398,518 - - 398,518 - 398,518
Interest on hybrid bond - - (8,420) - (8,420) - (8,420)
Sale of treasury stock   271,536 - - 271,536 - 271,536
Change of connection range  - - - - - - -
Business combination under common control  - (61,854) - - (61,854) - (61,854)
Changes in ownership in subsidiaries  - (1,809) - - (1,809) (256,054) (257,863)
Balance, December 31, 2013  44,639  317,508 13,102,495 (12,270) 13,452,372 714,185 14,166,557Non-controlling 
InterestTotal Equity Controlling Interest of Parent CompanyEquitySK Telecom Co., LTD and Subsidiaries                         Unit: KRW million                   Unit: KRW millionConsolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 
Non-controlling 
InterestTotal Equity Controlling Interest of Parent CompanyEquity109 108
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities 31st 30th 29th
Cash flows from operating activities 3,677,385 3,558,570 3,999,664
  Cash generated from operating activities  4,070,982 3,915,055 4,609,832
    Net income of continued operation  1,799,320 1,609,549 1,115,663
    Adjustment for income and expenses 2,978,995 3,275,376 3,289,861
    Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating activities (707,333) (969,870) 204,308
  Interest received  56,706 64,078 88,711
  Dividends received  13,048 10,197 27,732
  Interest paid (280,847) (300,104) (363,685)
  Income tax paid  (182,504) (130,656) (362,926)
Cash flows from investing activities (3,683,165) (2,506,477) (5,309,584)
  Cash inflows from investing activities 341,387 1,251,786 1,831,226
    Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net  5,627 186,425 464,531
    Decrease in short-term investment securities, net  - - 65,000
    Collection of short-term loans 207,439 290,856 282,658
    Decrease in long-term financial instruments   2,535 16 23
    Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities  65,287 287,777 511,417
    Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures  7,333 43,249 1,518
    Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment  25,143 12,579 271,122
    Proceeds from disposal of investment property - - 43,093
    Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets  10,917 2,256 21,048
    Net proceeds from the disposition of non-current assets held for sale 3,667 190,393 -
    Collection of long-term loans 4,454 13,104 11,525
    Decrease of deposits 8,891 8,509 41,785
    Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets  94 683 1,853
    Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries  - 215,939 89,002
    Increase in cash due to acquisition of a subsidiary  - - 26,651
 Cash outflows for investing activities (4,024,552) (3,758,263) (7,140,810)
    Increase in short-term investment securities, net  174,209 45,032 -
    Increase in short-term loans 202,501 279,926 245,465
    Increase in long-term loans 4,341 4,050 3,464
    Increase in long-term financial instruments  2,522 7,510 16 31st 30th 29th
    Acquisition of long-term investment securities  41,305 22,141 92,929
    Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures  60,020 97,366 3,098,833
    Acquisition of property and equipment  3,008,026 2,879,126 3,394,349
    Acquisition of investment property - - 129
    Acquisition of intangible assets  130,667 243,163 146,249
    Increase in assets held for sale  552 - 51,831
    Increase in deposits  6,903 83,314 43,534
    Increase in other non-current assets  18,233 1,830 8,619
    Cash outflows due to business overtake 124,486 - 12,003
    Acquisition of subsidiary business, net of cash acquired 250,787 94,805 43,389
Cash flows from financing activities (559,399) (573,157) 585,267
  Cash inflows from financing activities 1,421,088 1,852,237 4,245,254
    Proceeds from short-term borrowings  102,868 - -
    Issuance of debentures  1,255,468 1,328,694 2,098,351
    Proceeds from long-term borrowings 62,552 105,055 2,059,004
    Issuance of hybrid bond - 398,518 -
    Cash inflows from derivative transactions  200 19,970 87,899
  Cash outflows for financing activities (1,980,487) (2,425,394) (3,659,987)
    Repayment in short-term borrowings, net - 340,245 61,401
    Repayment of long-term non-trade payables 207,791 161,575 102,672
    Repayment of debentures  1,039,938 771,976 1,145,691
    Repayment of long-term borrowings 23,284 467,217 1,660,509
    Cash outflows from derivative transactions  6,444 - 5,415
    Decrease in finance lease liabilities  19,388 20,342 20,794
    Payment of dividends  666,802 655,946 655,133
    Interest on hybrid bond  16,840 - -
    Decrease in cash from the consolidated capital transaction  - 8,093 8,372
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  (565,179) 478,936 (724,653)
Cash and cash equivalent at beginning of the year  1,398,639 920,125 1,650,794
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents  969 (422) (6,016)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  834,429 1,398,639 920,125Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 
SK Telecom Co., LTD and Subsidiaries         Unit: KRW million          Unit: KRW million111 110
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Financial Statements   |   Financial MD&A   |   Non-financial Statements   |   Non-financial MD&A
Report of the External Auditor   |   Third Party Assurance Statement   |   Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
Financial MD&A
(Management's Discussion and Analysis)
FINANCIAL MD&A
This Management’s Discussion & Analysis (MD&A) is provided to en-
able readers to assess our results of operations and financial condition 
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, compared to the preced-ing year. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts are presented on a 
consolidated basis and are based on our audited consolidated financial 
statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Report-
ing Standards, as adopted by Korea. All amounts are in Korean Won 
(KRW). All references to “we”, “us” or “our” shall mean SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and, unless the context otherwise requires, its consolidated 
subsidiaries. References to “SK Telecom” shall mean SK Telecom Co., 
Ltd., but shall not include its consolidated subsidiaries.This MD&A section contains “forward-looking statements,” as defined 
in the U.S Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are based 
on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry. The forward-looking statements are subject 
to various risks and uncertainties. We caution you that reliance on any 
forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties, and that al-though we believe that the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions could 
prove to be inaccurate, and, as a result, the forward-looking statements 
based on those assumptions could be incorrect. Risks and uncertain-ties associated with our business are more fully described in our latest 
annual report on Form 20-F and other filings with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission. In light of these and other uncertainties, you should not conclude that we will necessarily achieve any plans 
and objectives or projected financial results referred to in any of the for -
ward-looking statements. We do not undertake to release the results of 
any revisions of these forward-looking statements to reflect future events 
or circumstances.
1. 2014 OVERVIEW  
In the midst of an industry environment defined by fast-paced changes 
centered around increased data usage leveraging the long-term evo-lution (LTE) network, we have strengthened the competitiveness of our wireless telecommunications business and pursued a shift in the com-
petitive paradigm by launching innovative products and services such 
as the T Phone and introduced various rate plans that we believe are tailored to meet the increased data usage of our subscribers. We have 
further solidified our leadership in LTE technology by commercializing 
our tri-band LTE-Advanced (LTE-A) service in December 2014. We have also achieved visible success in the growth areas of B2B solutions, 
IPTV and healthcare. Wireless and Fixed-line Businesses
We maintained our leadership position in the wireless business in 2014. 
At the end of 2014, we had 28.61 million subscribers (including sub-
scribers of mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) that lease our networks), of which 16.74 million subscribed to our LTE service and 
19.49 million used smartphones. Our share of the Korean wireless mar -
ket based on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MV -
NOs) was approximately 50.02% as of December 31, 2014, which has 
not changed from our market share as of December 31, 2013.In 2014, the Korean telecommunication industry experienced con-
tinued strong growth in wireless Internet services with the continued 
expansion and upgrade of LTE-A services as well as the continued in-crease in number of smartphone users. We solidified our leadership 
by becoming the first telecommunications service operator globally to 
commercialize LTE-A services, providing reliable and fast LTE service, securing a competitive device line-up and providing differentiated ser -
vices. In December 2014, we also began offering tri-band LTE-A ser -
vice, which bundles three different bandwidths to allow faster network service at speeds of up to 300 Mbps.In addition, we continue to generate synergies with SK Broadband to 
maximize customer convenience and benefits by developing new ser -
vices and products, such as bundled services combining mobile phone, 
fixed-line phone, broadband Internet, VoIP and IPTV services in various 
combinations. We intend to maximize such synergies and strengthen our 
competitiveness by acquiring all of the shares of SK Broadband that we do not otherwise own in exchange for our treasury shares such that SK 
Broadband will become our wholly-owned subsidiary through a share 
exchange transaction that is currently expected to be consummated in June 2015, subject to certain approvals.
New Businesses
The principal new business that we are engaged in are the platform 
business, the B2B solutions business and the healthcare business as 
well as other businesses that we continue to develop as potential new growth engines. Our key platform businesses, including T Store (an online open market-
place for mobile applications), T-Map Navigation (an interactive naviga-
tion system using GPS technology) and 11th Street (an online shopping mall that links wired and wireless shopping services), operated by SK 
Planet, all showed strong growth in 2014. We have grown our platform 
business by sharing our telecommunication infrastructure with other service providers and application developers. We will continue to iden-
tify and foster new platform businesses to create new growth engines 
for us in the future. Our B2B solutions business also achieved size-able growth in 2014. In April 2014, we acquired controlling interests in Neosnetworks, a provider of residential and small business electronic and other related alarm monitoring services. We expect that this ac-quisition will enable us to create synergies and provide cross-over ser -
vices between our network services and home security and monitoring services. In 2014, we also achieved various milestones in our health-care business. In July 2014, we established the SK Telecom Healthcare R&D Center in Shenzhen, China and the Shenzhen VISTA-SK Medical 
Center, which we believe will provide us with a strong foothold in ex-
panding our healthcare business in China. We believe that there are opportunities to create synergies among these centers and our medical 
device business in expanding our healthcare business in China. We 
also entered into a contract to provide medical information systems to six Saudi Arabian hospitals through a consortium with Seoul National 
University Bundang Hospital. We expect to further expand our health-
care business in Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries in the future.
As part of our growth strategy, we have selectively sought attractive 
opportunities both domestically and abroad.  In 2014, we acquired eq-
uity interests in Iriver, a manufacturer of digital audio players and other 
portable media devices. We expect that the “Internet of Things” (IoT) business, which refers to the network of physical electronic devices 
embedded with various software and connectivity, among other things, 
will continue to grow and that various smart devices offering advanced features utilizing wireless data networks will continue to be developed 
and commercialized. We believe the IoT business is one of the main 
features of the changing ICT business environment and with our ac-quisition of Iriver, we believe we have established a strong foundation 
to further engage in the smart device business and develop products 
such as smart beams, smart speakers, smart robots and other audio/video products which leverage our expertise in telecommunications 
and healthcare technology.
 2. EXECUTIVE SUMMARYWe earn revenue principally from monthly plan-based fees, usage 
charges for outgoing voice calls, usage charges for wireless data ser -
vices and value-added service fees paid by subscribers to our wireless 
telecommunications services, as well as interconnection fees paid to 
us by other telecommunications operators for use of our network by 
their customers and subscribers. Our revenue amount depends princi-pally upon the number of our wireless subscribers, the rates we charge 
for our services, the frequency and volume of subscriber usage of our 
services and the terms of our interconnection with other telecommu-nications operators. We also derive revenue from businesses operated 
by our consolidated subsidiaries, including broadband Internet (in-
cluding IPTV services) and fixed-line telephone services offered by SK 
Broadband, various platform businesses conducted by SK Planet and 
handset sales made by PS&Marketing. The following selected consolidated financial information has been de-
rived from audited consolidated financial statements included in this 
annual report.Our operating revenue increased by 3.4% to KRW 17.16 trillion in 2014 from KRW 16.60 trillion in 2013, primarily as a result of improved revenues 
from our consolidated subsidiaries, including an increase in digital hand-
set sales principally due to the acquisition by PS&Marketing of the retail distribution business of SK Networks in April 2014, strong growth of SK 
Planet’s commerce service businesses such as 11th Street and increased Selected Financial Information (Consolidated basis) Unit: KRW billions
  2014 2013 Change
Statement of Income
Operating revenue 17,163.8 16,602.1 3.4%
EBITDA(1)  4,716.7 4,830.9 -2.4%
Operating expense 15,338.7 14,590.9 5.1%
Operating income 1,825.1 2,011.1 -9.2%
Profit for the year 1,799.3 1,609.5 11.8%
Statement of Financial Positiona
Total assets  27,941.2 26,576.5 5.1%
  Cash & marketable securities(2) 1,427.7 1,816.2 -21.4%
Total liabilities  12,693.0 12,410.0 2.3%
  Interest-bearing financial debt(3) 6,756.2 6,312.7 7.0%
Total equity  15,248.3 14,166.6 7.6%
Financial Ratio (%)   
EBITDA margin  27.5 29.1 -1.6%p
Operating margin 10.6 12.1 -1.5%p
Net margin  10.5 9.7 0.8%p
Debt-to-equity ratio(4) 44.3 44.6 -0.3%p
(1) EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related deprecia-
tion within R&D expense(2) Cash & marketable securities = Cash & cash equivalents + Short-term investment secu-rities + Short-term financial instruments (3) Interest-bearing financial debt = Short-term borrowings + Current installments of long-term debt + Debentures (less present value discount and current  installments) + Long-term borrowings (less present value discount and current installments) (4) Debt-to-equity ratio = Interest-bearing financial debt/Total equity
revenue from SK Broadband’s IPTV services, as well as growth in the num-
ber of new subscribers to our LTE service and increase in data usage.
Our operating expense in 2014 increased by 5.1% to KRW 15.34 trillion 
from 14.59 trillion in 2013, primarily due to increases in cost of products that have been resold, commissions paid and labor costs.  As the increase 
in our operating expense exceeded the increase in our operating revenue 
in 2014, our operating income decreased by 9.2% to KRW 1.83 trillion in 2014 from KRW 2.01 trillion in 2013 and our operating margin decreased by 1.5%p to 10.6% in 2014 and EBITDA margin decreased by 1.6%p to 
27.5% in 2013.  Our profit for the year increased by 11.8% to KRW 1.80 
trillion in 2014 from KRW 1.61 trillion in 2013. Our total assets increased by 5.1% to KRW 27.94 trillion as of Decem-
ber 31, 2014, compared to KRW 26.58 trillion as of December 31, 2013, 
primarily due to an increase in investments in associates resulting from an increase in the carrying amount of our 20.07% stake in SK Hynix and 
an increase in property and equipment related to our investments in our 
LTE network. Total liabilities increased by 2.3% to KRW 12.69 trillion as of December 31, 2014 from KRW 12.41 trillion as of December 31, 2013, 
primarily due to an increase in debentures issued during 2014 for invest-
ments to develop new growth engines, including acquisitions such as Neosnetworks, Iriver and Shopkick, and for investments to enhance the 
competitiveness of our broadband Internet and IPTV services. Total equity 
increased by 7.6% to KRW 15.25 trillion as of December 31, 2014 from KRW 14.17 trillion as of December 31, 2013, primarily due to an increase in retained earnings. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2014 was 
44.3%, compared to 44.6% as of December 31, 2013. 113 112
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesSubscribers & Market Share
The total number of wireless subscribers in Korea was approximately 
57.2 million as of December 31, 2014 with a wireless telecommunica-
tions service penetration rate of 111.5%. Despite the saturated wire-less market in Korea, SK Telecom continued to add new subscribers 
throughout the year, and ended the year 2014 with approximately 
28.61 million subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs that lease SK Telecom’s networks). SK Telecom’s Korean wireless market share based on the number of subscribers (including subscribers of MVNOs) 
remained stable at 50.02%, which has not changed from our market 
share as of December 31, 2013.The number of SK Telecom’s LTE subscribers increased to 16.74 million 
as of December 31, 2014 from 13.46 million as of December 31, 2013. Subsidiaries
The consolidated revenue of SK Broadband consists of (i) revenue from broadband Internet service, (ii) revenue from corporate data services, (iii) 
revenue from fixed-line telephone service, (iv) revenue from IPTV services and (v) other revenues. The consolidated revenue of SK Broadband in-
creased by 4.5% to KRW 2.65 trillion in 2014 from KRW 2.54 trillion in 
2013, primarily as a result of an increase in revenue from IPTV services at-tributable to an increase in the number of IPTV subscribers. As of Decem-ber 31, 2014, SK Broadband had approximately 4.8 million broadband 
Internet access subscribers, 4.5 million fixed-line telephone subscribers 
(including subscribers to VoIP services) and 2.8 million IPTV subscribers, with a market share in Korea of 25.1%, 15.4% and 26.6%, respectively, 
based on the number of subscribers.
PS&Marketing’s revenue, which is mostly derived from sales of handsets, increased by 47.2% to KRW 1.62 trillion in 2014 from KRW 1.10 trillion in 
2013, primarily due to the acquisition by PS&Marketing of 190 retail stores 
as part of its acquisition of the retail distribution business of SK Networks in April 2014.
SK Planet’s revenue, which is mostly derived from its principal platform 
businesses, T Store, T-Map Navigation and 11th Street, increased by 9.7% to KRW 1.51 trillion in 2014 from KRW 1.38 trillion in 2013.Billing ARPU 
SK Telecom’s total billing ARPU increased by 4.5% to KRW 36,103 
in 2014 from KRW 34,560 in 2013. This increase was primarily due to increases in LTE subscribers who subscribe to data plans with high-er monthly basic charges than our other wireless services and data 
service usage attributable to increases in the number of smartphone 
users.
 2014 % of  2013 % of 
  Revenue  Revenue
Continuing operations        
Operating revenue 17,163.8 100.0% 16,602.1 100.0%
Operating expense 15,338.7 89.4% 14,590.9 87.9%
  Labor cost(1)  1,659.8  9.7% 1,561.4  9.4%
  Commissions paid(2)  5,692.7  33.2% 5,498.7  33.1%
  Depreciation and 2,714.7  15.8% 2,661.6  16.0%
  amortization(3)
  Network 997.3  5.8% 1,043.7  6.3%
  interconnection
  Leased line  399.0  2.3% 448.8  2.7%
  Advertising 415.9  2.4% 394.1  2.4%
  Rent 460.3  2.7% 443.6  2.7%
  Cost of products that 1,680.1  9.8% 1,300.4  7.8%
  have been resold
  Other operating 1,318.9  7.7% 1,238.6  7.5%
  expenses
Operating income 1,825.1 10.6% 2,011.1 12.1%
  Finance income 126.3  0.7% 113.4  0.7%
  Finance costs (386.7) (2.3%) (571.2) (3.4%)
  Gain (losses) related 906.3 5.3% 706.5 4.3%
  to investments in 
  subsidiaries and   associates, net
  Other non-operating 56.3 0.3% 74.5  0.7%
  income
  Other non-operating  (273.6) (1.6%) (507.2) (3.1%)
  expenses
Profit before  2,253.8  13.1% 1,827.1  11.0%
income tax  Income tax expense 454.5 2.6% 400.8  2.4%
  from continuing
  operations
Profit from continuing   1,799.3  10.5% 1,426.3  8.6%
operations
Discontinued operations        
Profit (loss) from  - -  183.2 1.1%
discontinued operations, 
net of income taxes
Profit for the year  1,799.3  10.5% 1,609.5  9.7%
EBITDA
(4) 4,716.7 27.5% 4,830.9 29.1%4. PROFITABILITY
Statement of Income Data (Consolidated) Unit: KRW billion
(1) Labor cost = Salaries + Provisions for defined benefit liabilities
(2) Includes marketing commissions and other commissions(3) Excludes R&D-related depreciation(4) EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization + R&D-related depreci-ation within R&D expenseTotal Billing ARPU in 2014                       Unit: KRW
Labor Cost
Commissions
Paid
Depreciation
and
Amortization
Network
Interconnection
Leased Line
Advertising
Rent
Cost of
Productis that
have been resold
Other Operating
ExpensesOperating Expense  Unit: KRW billion
2014  Total: 15,338.7 2013  Total: 14,590.9Operating Revenue (Consolidated) Unit: KRW billion
15,60016,00016,40016,80017,200
2014 2013 201216,602.117,163.8
16,141.4Operating Expense
Our operating expense for 2014 amounted to KRW 15.34 trillion, repre-
senting a 5.1% increase from KRW 14.59 trillion in 2013.  The increase 
in operating expense was primarily due to a 29.2% increase in cost of products that have been resold, a 3.5% increase in commissions paid and 
a 6.3% increase in labor costs.  
Our cost of products that have been resold increased by 29.2% to KRW 1,680.1 billion in 2014 from KRW 1,300.4 billion in 2013, primarily due to the acquisition by PS&Marketing of the retail distribution business of SK 
Networks in April 2014.  Our commissions paid increased by 3.5% to KRW 
5,692.7 billion in 2014 from KRW 5,498.7 billion in 2013, primarily due to an increase in marketing expenses to acquire new LTE subscribers in the 
first half of 2014 amidst intensified competition among us, KT and LG U+. 
Our labor costs increased by 6.3% to KRW 1,659.8 billion in 2014 from KRW 1,561.4 billion in 2013, primarily due to the significant increase in the 
number of employees in connection with several acquisitions in 2014, in-
cluding the acquisition by PS&Marketing of the retail distribution business of SK Networks in April 2014, the acquisitions by SK Telecom of Neosnet-works in April 2014 and Iriver in August 2014.3.  REVENUE  
Our operating revenue in 2014 amounted to KRW 17.16 trillion, an in-crease of KRW 561.7 billion, or 3.4%, from KRW 16.60 trillion in 2013. This increase was primarily attributable to improved revenues from our 
consolidated subsidiaries, including an increase in digital handset sales 
principally due to the acquisition by PS&Marketing of the retail distribution business of SK Networks in April 2014, strong growth of SK Planet’s com-
merce service businesses such as 11th Street and increased revenue from 
SK Broadband’s IPTV services, as well as growth in the number of new subscribers to our LTE service and increase in data usage.
Subscribers and Market Share in 2014  Unit: Thousand person, %
27,40027,60027,80028,00028,20028,40028,60028,800 
1Q27,814
2Q27,889
3Q28,403
4Q28,613Subscribers Market Share
50.42%50.10%50.05% 50.02%1Q 2014 
Overall2013 
Overall2Q 3Q 4Q34,56036,103
35,30936,01336,41736,673
33,00034,00035,00036,00037,000115 114
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesEquity
Our total equity as of December 31, 2014 amounted to KRW 15.25 
trillion, representing an increase of 7.6% from KRW 14.17 trillion as 
of December 31, 2013. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in retained earnings to KRW 14.19 trillion as of December 31, 
2014 from KRW 13.10 trillion as of December 31, 2013.  
6. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (SEPARATE BASIS)
SK Telecom spent approximately KRW 2.1 trillion for capital expendi-
tures in 2014 compared to KRW 2.3 trillion spent in 2013, each on a 
separate basis. Of the amount spent in 2014, we spent approximately KRW 1,357 billion, or 63.3%, on capital expenditures related to ex-
panding and enhancing the quality of our LTE network and KRW 412 
billion on other non-network related capital expenditures primarily re-lated to developing new products and maintenance and upgrades to 
our information technology systems. Liabilities 
We had KRW 12.69 trillion of total liabilities as of December 31, 2014, 
a 2.3% increase from KRW 12.41 trillion as of December 31, 2013, 
mainly due an increase in debentures issued during 2014 for invest-ments to develop new growth engines, including acquisitions such as 
Neosnetworks, Iriver and Shopkick, and for investments to enhance 
the competitiveness of our broadband Internet and IPTV services. Our total interest-bearing financial debt increased by 7.0% to KRW 6.76 
trillion as of December 31, 2014 from KRW 6.31 trillion as of Decem-
ber 31, 2013. Our debt-to-equity ratio as of December 31, 2014 was 44.3%, compared to 44.6% as of December 31, 2013.
Invest-Bearing Financial Debt.    Unit: KRW billion
2014 Total: 6,756.2 2013 Total: 6,312.7Short-term
BorrowingsCurrent Portion of
Long-term DebtDebentures
(excluding current 
portion)Long-term Borrowings
(excluding current 
portion)Operating Income and EBITDAOur operating income decreased by 9.2% to KRW 1.83 trillion in 2014 
from KRW 2.01 trillion in 2013 and our operating margin decreased 
to 10.6% in 2014 from 12.1% in 2013, as our operating expense in-creased at a rate higher than that of our operating revenue. Our EBIT -
DA decreased by 2.4% to KRW 4.72 trillion in 2014 from KRW 4.83 trillion in 2013.
Non-Operating Income and Expenses
Our finance income increased by 11.4% to KRW 126.3 billion in 2014 
from KRW 113.4 billion in 2013, primarily due to gain on valuation of derivatives compared to no such gain in 2013 and increases in gain 
on foreign currency transactions and gain on disposal of long-term in-
vestment securities. Such increases were partially offset by a decrease in interest income, which was mainly due to a general decrease in in-
terest rates, and no gain on valuation of financial asset at fair value 
through profit or loss in 2014 compared to a gain in 2013 related to the valuation of convertible bonds of NanoEnTek in 2013, which were sub-sequently converted into equity in 2014. Our finance costs decreased by 32.3% to KRW 386.7 billion in 2014 from KRW 571.2 billion in 2013 
primarily due to a decrease in loss relating to financial liability at fair 
value through profit or loss due to the valuation loss on our exchange-able bonds due to rising stock prices in 2013 and loss on redemption 
of debentures upon the exercise of exchange claims in 2013. Gains 
related to investments in subsidiaries and associates increased 28.3% to KRW 906.3 billion in 2014 from KRW 706.5 billion in 2013, primarily 
due to a KRW 916.5 billion gain attributable to our investment in SK 
Hynix, in which we have a 20.07% interest. Our other non-operating income decreased by 24.4% to KRW 56.3 billion in 2014 from KRW 
74.5 billion in 2013, primarily due to a decrease in value-added tax re-
funds and other income recognized in 2013 but not in 2014 relating to one-off items. Our other non-operating expenses decreased by 46.1% 
to KRW 273.6 billion in 2014 from KRW 507.2 billion in 2013, primarily 
due to a decrease in loss on disposal of property and equipment and intangible assets.
Income Tax
Our income tax expense from continuing operations increased by 13.4% to KRW 454.5 billion in 2014 from KRW 400.8 billion in 2013, 
primarily due to a 23.4% increase in profit before income tax. Our ef-
fective tax rate decreased by 1.7%p to 20.2% in 2014 from 21.9% in 2013. 
Profit for the Year
Principally as a result of the factors discussed above, our profit for the 
year increased by 11.8% to KRW 1.80 trillion in 2014 from KRW 1.61 
trillion in 2013. Net margin was 10.5% in 2014 compared to 9.7% in 
2013. 5.  FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Current AssetsWe had current assets of KRW 5.08 trillion as of December 31, 2014, 
a 0.8% decrease from KRW 5.12 trillion as of December 31, 2013. Our 
cash and marketable securities (including short-term financial instru-ments) decreased by 21.4% to KRW 1.43 trillion as of December 31, 
2014, from KRW 1.82 trillion as of December 31, 2013, primarily due 
to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from cash expen-ditures used to fund our various acquisitions in 2014. As of December 
31, 2014, our total accounts receivable (trade and other) amounted to 
KRW 3.08 trillion, a 6.3% increase from KRW 2.90 trillion as of December 31, 2013, primarily due to the acquisition by PS&Marketing of the retail 
distribution business of SK Networks in April 2014.
Non-current Assets    Unit: KRW billion
2014 Total: 22,858.1 2013 Total: 21,453.1Property and
EquipmentIntangible Assets Investment Assets Other Non-current 
AssetsEquity  Unit: KRW billion
2014 Total: 14,506.7 2013 Total: 13,452.3Share Capital Capital Surplus 
(Deficit) and other 
Capital AdjustmentsRetained
EarningsReservesCurrent Assets    Unit: KRW billion
2014 Total: 5,083.1 2013 Total: 5,123.4Cash &
Marketable
SecuritiesAccounts
Receivable
(trade and other)Short-term
LoansInventories Other Current
Assets
Non-current Assets 
We had non-current assets of KRW 22.86 trillion as of December 31, 
2014, a 6.5% increase from KRW 21.45 trillion as of December 31, 
2013. Our investment assets, consisting of long-term financial instru-ments, long-term investment securities and investments in associates 
and joint ventures, increased by 15.1% to KRW 7.25 trillion as of De-
cember 31, 2014 from KRW 6.30 trillion as of December 31, 2013. This increase was mainly attributable to an increase in the carrying amount of our 20.07% stake in SK Hynix. Our property and equipment 
increased by 3.6% to KRW 10.57 trillion as of December 31, 2014 from 
KRW 10.20 trillion as of December 31, 2013, primarily due to an in-crease in investments in our LTE network.117 116
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Section MD&A  2012 2013 2014
Human Capital 1.1 Total Employment (Person) 
  Total Number of Employees  4,081 4,203 4,253
  Special Employment & Minority  203 200 215
  Number of Employees in Overseas Operation  155 103 99
 1.2 Recruitment and Turnover (Person)  
  Total New Employees 425 418 396
  Total Turnover 242 238 265
 1.3 Maternity and Parental Leave (Person)
  Employees on Maternity Leave 152 (Male 122) 161 (Male 124) 147 (Male 110) 
  Employees on Parental Leave   35 (Male 2) 25 (Male 2) 71 (Male 9)
 - Performance Evaluation (%)
  Rate of Employees Subject to Performance Evaluation   95 96 96
 1.4 Executive and Employee Training  
  Annual Training Hours per Person   100 83.7 91
 1.5 Labor Practice (%)
  Rate of Labor Union Membership  81.2 84.3 83.4
  Rate of Occupational Accidents 0.02 0.02 0
Social Capital 2.1 Product and Service 
  Churn Rate (%) 2.6 2.3 2.0
  Customer Information Leakage (Case) 0 0 0
 2.2 Mutual Growth with Partners 
  Mutual Growth Partnership (Organization)  263 205 291
  Total Mutual Growth Fund loan (KRW billion) 161 183 208
 2.3 Sustainability of Supply Chain (Organization)  
  Total Number of New Registered Partners   - 677 712
  Number of Registered Partners on Human Rights,    - 346 235
  Evironment, Ethics, and Social Issues Evaluation     
 - Total Discount Offers for Vulnerable Population 
  (KRW million)
  Disabled 145,057 138,443 128,422 
  Low Income Families  62,503 62,891 58,299 
  National Merit Holders  9,960 10,105 9,931
  Others  199 178 154
  Total  217,719 211,617 196,806
 2.4 Employee Volunteer Activities 
  Hours of Volunteer Activities  24,524 16,190 19,689Section MD&A  2012 2013 2014
Natural Capital 3.1 Greenhouse Gas Emission  
  Total Emission (tCO 2e) 673,742 707,963 742,884
  Intensity (tCO 2e/KRW billion)  54.63 55.05 57.09
 3.2 Energy Consumption
  Total Energy Consumption (TJ) 13,847 14,589 15,271
  Total Electricity Saved (MWh) 48,362 46,487 45,729
  New Renewable Energy Generation Facilities (MWh) 2,729  2,729  2,729
  Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)   1.12 1.13 1.17
 3.3 Water Consumption 
  Annual Water Consumption (m3)  649,351 683,387 695,725
  Intensity (m3/KRW billion) 52.65 53.14 53.46
 3.4 Waste and Recycling 
  Total Waste (Ton) 1,726 1,646 1,763
  Intensity (Ton/KRW billion) 0.140 0.126 0.135
 3.5 Resources (%)
  Rate of New Electronic Bill Subscribers 61.5 69.4 77.0
  Device Retrieval Rate 7.4 8.0 4.5
 3.6 Biodiversity 
  Base Stations within Protected Areas  56 91 650
  Relay Stations within Protected Areas  553 184 5,105
 3.7 Environmental Investment and Cost 
  Total (excl. Green Purchase) (KRW million) 542 324 268
  Green Purchase Cost (KRW million)  984 6,084 7,368Non-Financial StatementsFinancial Statements   |   Financial MD&A   |   Non-financial Statements   |   Non-financial MD&A
Report of the External Auditor   |   Third Party Assurance Statement   |   Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement119 118
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Non-Financial MD&A
(Management's Discussion and Analysis)
Basis of Preparation
Reporting Standards and Principles 
The Non-Financial Statement of Social & Environmental Performances 
is prepared to present our management’s analytical opinions on the 
key non-financial performances of the company in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption among others. SK Tele-
com is committed to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary pol-
icy initiative implemented by UN organizations and businesses for the purpose of improving the internal environment and social ethical prac-tices as well as to the GC LEAD for the development and promotion of 
exemplary cases conforming to the UN Global Compact Blueprint. As 
a member of the UN Global Compact, we submit Communication on Progress (COP), highlighting our business performance in line with the 
Ten Principles every year and this Non-Financial Statement of Social & 
Environmental Performances meets the COP requirements of GC Ad-vanced Level. In addition, this statement complies with international 
reporting principles as follows:
01_Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guide-
lines G4
The GRI provides information on the aspects and indicators of report-ing from the economic, social and environmental perspectives so that 
stakeholders can cognize the organization’s performance. It defines the 
subject according to the correlation of each aspect from the impact on stakeholders and from the economic, social and environmental per -
spectives. Please refer to page 138 for the results of the materiality 
assessment conducted in accordance with the GRI requirements.
02_Accountability AA1000
The AA1000 series identifies and prioritizes the sustainability issues in 
relation to the organization and defines its framework and principles. The information on this report is verified by third parties according to 
the Assurance Standard (AA1000AS). Please refer to page 130 for the 
result of the third party verification performed by a verification institu-tion. 
03_International Integrated Reporting Framework (<IR> Framework)
The <IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) requires a concise report on how an organization’s strategies, 
governance, performance and future outlook are connected to its 
short-, mid-, and long-term value creation in the economic, social, and environmental context. Please refer to page 22 for the capital model 
implemented to adhere to the integrated reporting principles of IIRC, 1.1 Total Employment
The total number of employees includes those who are permanent em-
ployees, who have signed employment contract directly with SK Tele-
com, and temporary (contract-based) employees. This figure does not include the employees and executives of its subsidiaries.With continuous growth in business, the total number of employees 
reached 4,253 in 2014, a 1.1% increase from the previous year. Per -
centage of female employees remained stable in 2014 at 13.9%. In 
terms of age group, the vast majority of the employees are in their 30s 
to 40s, accounting for 87.6% of the total employees. The percentage 
of permanent employees was 97.5%, a 0.4% increase from the previ-ous year. As for the minority groups, 6 employees with disabilities and 
9 veterans were additionally recruited. As for the overseas personnel, 
due to the stagnancy of the Indonesia and Singapore business and the increased number of expatriates returning, the size of the overseas personnel decreased.Section 1. Human Capital
and page 138 for the assessment of importance to define key subjects according to the impact on value creation.
References
01_UNGC COP(UN Global Compact Communication on Progress) 
(p.144)
A guideline for reporting the compliances to the Ten Principles of 
UNGC by a member of UNGC
02_ISO26000 An international CSR standards presented in November 2010 by an 
international standard institution 
03_SASB(Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) - Telecommuni-cation Standards (p.145)  
Key performance indicators in the telecommunications sector released 
in April 2014 by the U.S. SASB
Scope of Data
The scope of the Non-Financial Statement of Social & Environmental Performances is limited to the data of SK Telecom without the inclusion of the data of its subsidiaries and supply chain, unless stated other -
wise. This coincides with the scope of unclassified sales ofSK Telecom, which is a holding company according to K-IFRS. The environmental data on energy, greenhouse gas(GHG), waste, and wa-
ter is estimated based on 26 domestic business sites* (including data 
centers and networks). More than 95% of SK Telecom’s sales are gen-erated in South Korea, and accordingly, the data coverage meets the 
95% requirement against the sales. 
*26 business sites: T-Tower, Namsan, Guro, Jangan, Seoul National Uni-
versity, FMI, Yongin, Boramae, Seongsu, Suyu, Incheon, Bundang, Dun-
san (Old & New), Busan, Cheongju, Wonju, Taepyeong, Bolli, Sincheon, Buam, Data Center, Anrak, Wusan, Songjeong, Jeonju, Jeju  2012 2013 2014
Expatriates Employees  72 31 26
Local Employees  83 72 73
Total number of employees 155 103 99
Total Number of Managers 28 28 19
Local Managers  6 5 6
Percentage of Local Managers (%) 21.5% 17.9% 31.6%Overseas Employment  Unit: Person
Total Employment  Unit: Person
  2012 2013 2014
Employment Type  Permanent 3,961 4,081 4,147
 Temporary 120 122 106
Gender Male 3,502 3,616 3,662
 Female 579 587 591
Age  20s 363 328 290
 30s 1,359 1,340 1,277
 40s 2,220 2,372 2,450
 50s and older 139 163 236
Total number of employees 4,081 4,203 4,253Total Number of Employees Unit: Person
4,0814,2034,253
20123,9504,0004,0504,1004,1504,2004,2504,300
2014 2013Financial Statements   |   Financial MD&A   |   Non-financial Statements   |   Non-financial MD&A
Report of the External Auditor   |   Third Party Assurance Statement   |   Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
1.2 Recruitment and TurnoverThe number of new recruits and the turnover rate (resignations) by age 
and gender are calculated based on permanent employees who have 
directly signed employment contracts with SK Telecom and temporary (contract-based) employees. These figures do not include employees 
and executives of its subsidiaries.
In 2014, the total number of new recruits was 396, which is a slight decrease from the previous year. The ratio of female recruits to total number of recruits was 23.9%, which is nearly equivalent to the ratio 
reported in the previous year. The current target of this particular ratio 
is 25-30%, and we plan to increase it to 30% by 2015. In terms of age groups, 79.8% of the new recruits were in their 20s and 30s, but the 
percentage of new recruits in their 40s and 50s increased by 3.7%p 
compared to the previous year. 
Total New Employees  Unit: Person
418
396
2012380390400410420430
2014 2013425Special Employment and Minority  Unit: Person
Disabled Veterans
04080120160
45158
2012 201354146
201460155
* Number of disabled employees includes individuals newly categorized as disabled em-
ployees and this number may differ from last year's report.121 120
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities1.3 Maternity and Parental Leave
SK Telecom is providing assistance and special facilities for pregnant em -
ployees such as rest areas for women and congratulatory allowances for 
childbirths as a means to retain its female employees. Also, a wide range 
of maternity and childcare programs are being operated such as financial 
assistance for personal development, scholarships for children, operation of an in-house daycare center, maternity leave system, flexible time sys
-
tem, and camps for children. In addition, healthcare assistance is provided through the family care vacation system and family health examinations. 
Maternity leaves are paid leaves (for up to 90 days), and five paid leave days 
are given to male employees upon childbirth. The option to take parental leave is available for both the female and male employees for a maximum of 
1 year per child. As such, with the increased number of support programs 
and by encouraging the employees to take advantage of parental leaves, 71 employees took parental leaves in 2014, which was a 184% increase from the previous year, and parental leave taken by male employees also 
increased from 8% to 12.7%. 
1.5 Labor Practices
The labor union membership rate is the ratio of current members of the 
labor union to total number of members eligible for membership. For 
the purpose of improving labor conditions for organization members and promoting a win-win relationship between labor and management, 
SK Telecom became the first within the SK Group to apply the legal 
standard wages in 2014 and preemptively resolve this wage issue. The company also extended the retirement age and newly introduced the wage peak system to contribute to employment stability. In 2014, the 
labor union membership rate decreased by 0.9%p compared to the 
previous year, but it was still maintained at over 80%. As for the occupational accident rate in 2014, there were no cases clas-
sified as an occupational accident as all cases were resolved through 
the financial assistance provided by the company for medical costs. Fire drills (2 floors every month), CPR, fire extinguisher and gas mask 
usage practices, and other disaster and emergency response training 
were provided in order to maintain the disaster and accident rate at a low level. 2.1 Product and Service
By providing more benefits to long-term subscribers, SK Telecom has 
steadily reduced the churn rate. In 2014, the average monthly churn rate was 2.0%, 0.3%p lower than in 2013. The rate of micropayment frauds and the VoC rate on roaming charges, which are indicators of customer 
damage, are the ratio of the number of micropayment fraud cases to the 
number of micropayments made and the ratio of the number of VoC com-plaints on roaming charges to the number of roaming consultation cases, 
respectively. These indicators have been managed since 2013, and they 
were maintained at a low rate of less than 1%. As for customer information leakage, it refers to leakage of personal information of customers due to 
penetration and infringement of SK Telecom’s customer information stor -
age system through hacking. Risk factors related to customer information 
protection were eliminated in advance, and the data system was inspect-ed on a regularly basis. As a result, there was not a single case of customer information leakage at SK Telecom from 2012 to 2014. 
In the case of electromagnetic waves, SK Telecom has been faithfully im-
plementing the electromagnetic wave measurement policy since its ob-Section 2. Social Capital
servance became compulsory in June 2007. In 2014, the targets of the measurement were increased substantially by 62% compared to the pre-
vious year, and a total of 30,606 measurements were taken of the base 
stations. The results showed that the electromagnetic wave intensity of SK Telecom’s base stations was merely one-tenth of the standard intensity 
that ensures the protection of the human body. Moreover, in August 2014, 
a newly introduced electromagnetic wave grade system was applied, and results showed that more than 99.9% of the base stations received Grade 1, which is the highest grade. Also, since August 2014,  SK Telecom has 
been assisting the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and 
Science in a 5-year research project, examining the impact of electromag-netic waves on the human body and annually 50% of the research costs 
of KRW 1.5 billion.In 2014, the individual development plan (IDP) expenses were used as a 
financial indicator of a means to encourage voluntary participation in the 
education and training programs. In the job competency satisfaction survey 
for the growth organization, with questionnaires filled out by the head of each of the growth organization, a perfect score of 5 out of 5 was given.
1.4 Executive and Employee Training
Education expenses per employee in 2014 was KRW 3.43 million, which was a 2.3% increase from the previous year. Sales volume per employ
-
ee was 885-times higher than education expenses per employee in 2014, which was a slight decrease from the previous year. However, this resulted 
from a steady increase in education costs caused by an increase in and 
improvement of the education and training programs. Also, in order to further reinforce the qualitative and quantitative manage
-
ment of human capital development, indicators are continually being devel -
oped to assess the application to the current job in order to measure the qualitative level of education in addition to other indicators such as expens
-
es and training hours per employee.Maternity Leave    Unit: Person
  2012 2013 2014
Employees on Maternity Leave  152 (male: 122)  161 (male: 124) 147(male: 110)
Rate of Return (%) 98.7 99.4 100
Employees on Parental Leave 35 (male: 2) 25 (male: 2) 71 (male: 9)
Rate of Return (%) 100 100 99
Rate of Retirement within  5.7 4 5.6
12 Months after Return (%)   Average Monthly Churn Rate and Customer Safety Indicators Unit: %
  2012 2013 2014
Average Monthly Churn Rate 2.60 2.30 2.00
Rate of Micropayment Fraud - 0.12 0.10
Rate of Roaming Charge VoC - 0.28 0.27
  2012 2013 2014
Number of Occupational  1 1 0
Accidents (Person)
Occupational Accidents Rate (%) 0.02 0.02 0Occupational Accident RateLabor Union Membership  
  2012 2013 2014
Number of Employees Eligible for 2,612  2,513  2,497
Labor Union Membership (Person)Labor Union Members (Person) 2,120  2,118  2,082
Rate of Labor Union Membership (%)  81.2 84.3* 83.4
* This figure has been corrected due to an error in last year’s report 2013 201480
6040
2016
12
8
4
20123525716813Parental leave Percentage of Male EmployeesParental Leave	 Unit: Person, %In 2014, the total turnover rate was 6.2%, a 0.57%p increase from the pre -
vious year. While the turnover rate for age groups of 30s to 50s decreased 
by 12.3%p, it increased for employees in their 20s by 0.9%p. 
In the case of the marginalized classes, additional credits were given 
during the recruitment process, and in the case of the disabled, a spec -
ified number of employees were recruited through the special screening system. Moreover, the Health-On Program, Refresh Vacation Program for 
long-term workers, housing provisions, increased number of clubs and 
the newly introduced Family Congratulatory Vacation Program (leave for employees whose grandparents turned 80) were implemented. As such, a 
wide range of welfare systems and programs are in place to increase the 
diversity of the personnel and promote work efficiency and productivity.   2012 2013 2014
Gender Male 326 317 302
 Female 99 101 94
 Age 20s 191 189 220
 30s 165 161 97
 40s 66 64 66
 50s and older 3 4 13
Total number of new recruits 425 418 396Recruitment   Unit: Person
  2012 2013 2014
Gender Male 166 141 181
 Female 76 97 84
Age  20s 112 116 157
 30s 67 57 62
 40s 51 52 37
 50s and older 12 13 9
Involuntary Turnover  3 6 2
(Dismissal)
Total Turnover  242 238 265Turnover Unit: PersonTotal Number of Turnover Employees  Unit: Person
238
2012230240250260270
2014 2013242265Executive and Employee Training	 Unit: Hours, KRW thousand
Training Hours per Employee Training Cost per Employee
100
91
201280859095100
2014 2013
Number of Measuring Electromagnetic Fields at Base Station Unit: Cases
20,00040,000
26,405
201218,928
2013 201430,606123 122
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities2.2 Mutual Growth with Partners
In 2003, SK Telecom became the first in the industry to launch a ded-
icated team to Mutual Growth called Business Relations Team. Since 
then, the company has been committed to achieving Mutual Growth with its partners, attested by the Top Excellence grade obtained for 
two years in a row in the Win-Win Index Assessment (mutual growth 
agreement execution assessment by the Fair Trade Commission and the partner experience survey assessment by the Korean Commission for Corporate Partnership) in 2013.
In 2014, SK Telecom signed Mutual Growth agreements with 291 com-
panies, which were 86 more than the previous year, and faithfully im-plemented the 4 practices (contract conclusion, partner selection and 
management, internal review board establishment and management 
and written records issuance and retention) by funding SMEs, increas-ing revenue, and providing technical education and HR support. Under 
the Mutual Growth objective to “create a sound corporate system in the 
ICT industry and pursue happiness with partners,” SK Telecom began operating a welfare and support program for the executives and em-ployees of its partners in 2014, and expanded the scope of its support such as increasing its participating in the private-government tech-
nology R&D program. The electronic bidding rate increased by 1.8%p 
compared to the previous year, which reduced unnecessary costs of partners incurring from the conventional offline bidding system and en-
hanced the transparency of the transactions. 
 2013  2014  Target number  
   for 2015 
Number of Newly Registered Suppliers 346 712 -
Performance Evaluations Conducted*  346 235 -
Rate of Newly Registered Suppliers  Assessed 100% 100% 100%
Level of Achievement Achieved Achieved
* Performed on all suppliers on (assessment items: N/W equipment, R&D, operation, 
maintenance & repair, marketing, etc.)Evaluations Conducted on Human Rights, Environment,
Ethics, and Social Issues Unit: Company
 2013  2014  Target number  
   for 2015 
Total Registered Suppliers  (Annual)  1,496 1,510 -
Suppliers  Audited in Writing*  974 815 900
Suppliers  Audited on Site**  162 205 237
Level of Achievement Achieved Achieved
* Written and in-person audits (one-on-one-meeting) performed in combination 
** The number of suppliers audited on site is the number of mutual growth partners in the beginning of 2014, and they are separately managed in Mutual Growth Team. Sustainability Assessment Status Unit: Company 2013 2014 Target number  
   for 2015 
Suppliers Warned for Correction* 2 2   -
Banned Temporarily (2-year suspension) 1 1   -
Banned Permanently (Permanent suspension) 1 1   -
* Resolved by the Procurement Review CommitteeNumber of Suppliers Taken Corrective Action for ESG factors Unit: Company
ery year. SK Telecom's network equipment suppliers and partners are 
notified of annual demand estimates in advance, in order to improve 
delivery schedules. 
SK Telecom adds more diversity to the supply chain throughout the market by providing opportunities to the SMEs. In addition, efforts are 
continually made to expand the ICT ecosystem through the technical 
development infrastructure support through the T Open Lab, forums for developers, T Developers and Big Data Hub Program.
2.3 Sustainability of Supply ChainOf the 1,510 major partners with whom transactions were made in 2014, 
basic written evaluations were conducted on 815 partners (54%) and 
detailed supplier evaluations were conducted on 207 partners (13.7%). Also ongoing monitoring was performed on the potential risks in the 
supply chain by visiting or engaging in face-to-face communication 
with 205 Mutual Growth partners in 2014. Through the Procurement Review Committee, SK Telecom strives to prevent internal risk factors 
in advance by carrying out internal evaluation for adequacy on supplier 
selection of major supply network and criteria for price determination.SK Telecom strives to create competitive environment in the market 
by applying the principle of “competitive procurement” when selecting 
its suppliers. It also grants rewards and bonus points to partners who achieve excellent performance scores in aspects of quality and delivery in the comprehensive supplier evaluation conducted at the end of ev-Type Execution  
Education/training A total of 6,000 entrusted people for 
and HR/ education and training 
recruitment  · Training at the SK Win-Win Growth 
support  Academy, differentiated class-based  
  training, dispatch of specialists, and 
  support recruitment of specialized 
  high school graduates, etc. 
Other support · KPI allocated to organization specializing 
  in Mutual Growth, entrusted information
  notification system, continuous ethical
  management activities, autonomous
  fair trade compliance program, etc.
Other voluntary Direct/indirect support related to 
practices management of partners 
 · Support the welfare of partners, private  
  contracts with excellent partners, 
  management consulting, green purchases, etcAchieve-
ment rate 
100%
100%
100%
Achieve-
ment rate 
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%Type Execution  
Adjustment of Increased the unit cost upon being requested   
unit cost (due to changes in prices of raw materials and 
 other costs) 
 · 100% reflection of the requests 
Support for Scale of transactions with partners increased
partners increased by 44.7%
to generate · Supported revenue increase in 74 cases
increased revenue  (exhibition support and pioneering of 
  sales channels)
Funding Directly invested in private-government  
(financing) technology R&D program, operated a network  
 loan system, and created a Mutual Growth  
 fund of KRW 165 billion 
 · More than KRW 2.9 bil. invested into  
  the private-government technology R&D  
  program and a deposit of KRW 78 bil. 
  in the Mutual Growth fund 
  (increase of KRW 2 bil. compared to 
  the previous year), etc. 
Improvement of 100% cash payment, 1.6 days faster payment  
payment method compared to previous year 
and date · 100% cash payment policy (continuous)  
  and payment date is within 10 days of  
  deliver (SME payment priority program)
Technical support Active implementation of technical support  
and protection and protection 
 · Technology transfers, joint R&D, 
  open collaboration, infrastructure support,  
  creative economy innovation center, technical  
  data loans, patent application and registration  
  assistance, etc. Major Performances of the Mutual Growth Agreements in 20142.4 Employee Volunteer Activities
The executive and employee volunteer hours refer to the amount of time 
executives and employees spent on volunteer activities. 
In 2014, the executive and employee volunteer hours increased by 21.6% compared to the previous year, while the average volunteer 
hours per person increased by 0.7 hours to 4.6 hours. The specialized 
volunteer rate is calculated by dividing the volunteer hours of ICT and pro bono volunteers by the total volunteer hours. This is an indicator that was introduced in 2014, and it was retroactively applied from 2012. 
SK Telecom significantly reduced labor-type volunteer work in 2013, 
and instead reinforced the specialized volunteer programs such as the ICT-based volunteer program and volunteer work requiring the use of 
one’s specialty and talent. As a result, the participation rate in ICT and 
other talent sharing activities accounted for 51% of the total volunteer participation rate, and this was a 49%p increase compared to the year 
2012.
Furthermore, SK Telecom created a public interest platform using its mobile technology, and began operating a mobile donation program 
in 2004, thereby providing opportunities for users to donate in an eas-
ier manner and promoting donation and charity activities. A donation platform called GiveU and a volunteer work matching platform WithU 
were launched in 2012 and 2013, respectively. As of the end of 2014, 
the cumulative donations and registered volunteer cases reached KRW 889 million ad 40,755 cases, respectively.Specialized Volunteer Rate  Unit: % 
2012 2014 2013204060
22451
2.5 Main Beneficiaries
The following is a list of main beneficiaries of SK Telecom in 2014:
Organization Program 
Korea Differently Abled Federation Hosted the Disabled Youth IT Challenge
Korea Blind Union  Operated audio book application “Happy Library”,
 an app for the visually impaired
Korea Handball Federation Support the reinforcement of trainer and 
 athlete competency and provided training 
 for the Asian Games and Olympic Games
Korean Academic Society of  Awarded the Best Essay Award
Business Administration
Community Chest of Korea  Helped the people in need at the end of the year, etc. 
Copion  Global CSR projects incl. smart running support  
 in Indonesia, etc. 
Yeongdeungpo-gu Multicultural Taught multicultural families how to use
Family Support Center smartphones
Wangju Local Food Cooperatives Built and developed the local food system 
Young Men's Christian Association Counseling office for youth from 
 marginalized classes
Busrugy  Support for English learning at regional children’s 
 centers (Challenge! English Up!)
Platon Academy  Domestic and international scholarship programs 
 and academic conferences and international 
 forums for humanities and social natural sciences
Korea Wheelchair National Wheelchair Basketball Championships
Basketball FederationGreen Consumer Network in Korea Eco-Camp and education for youth 
 from marginalized classes
Korea Food for  Supported the volunteer activities of 
the Hungry International the Hantol Youth Volunteer Corps
Smile for Children  Assistance provided to children with 
 facial deformities in Vietnam to receive surgery 
UN Global Compact UNGC LEAD annual membership fee payment 
 and assistance in the Global CSR Conference
Happy ICT Support for low-income farmers to pioneer 
 new sales channels 
Korea Association of  Guide senior citizens on how to use a mobile phone
Senior Welfare CentersKJChoi Foundation  Scholarships for college/univ. students from 
 low-income families 
Korea Foundation for Education and scholarships 
Advanced StudiesSK Happiness  Provided meals (Happy Dosirak) for malnourished  
 children during school vacations, invigorate 
 the social company ecosystem and 
 foster social entrepreneurs
SESNET Operation of a pro bono volunteer team and  
 management systemTotal Hours of Volunteer
ActivitiesAverage Volunteer Hoursper EmployeeEmployee Volunteer Activities  
Unit: Hours 
6
3.94.624,524
16,19019,689
10,00020,00030,000
2012 2014 2013369125 124
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities15,318
2014 target3.3 Water Consumption
Water consumption is estimated based on 26 company buildings of SK 
Telecom, according to invoices for water usage, and does not include 
consumption by subsidiaries and supply chains. The intensity of water consumption is calculated by dividing the total water consumption by 
SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (equals the data coverage).
Water consumption in 2014 was 695,725m
3, a 1.8% increase from the 
previous year. Main causes of increase were increase in drinking water 
consumption, and increased demand for cooling water in the coolers 
resulting from the expansion of telecommunications facilities. We ad-justed the amount of water draining at the cooling tower in the Seongsu 
Office while making changes to the water supply for the cooling tower 
in the Wonju Office.3.2 Energy ConsumptionEnergy consumption is estimated based on the 26 company buildings 
of SK Telecom including data centers. The scope of this estimation 
includes emissions from all of the network facilities (base stations and 
equipment), but it does not include emissions from subsidiaries and 
supply chains. Energy consumption is managed in compliance with  guidelines on preparing and managing the statements for the emis-
sions trading system, and the numerical figures are aggregated by 
entering billing invoices from energy suppliers into the system. The in-tensity of energy consumption is calculated by dividing the total energy 
consumption by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (equals the data 
coverage).The amount of energy saved by using natural air-conditioning systems and new renewable energy sources is calculated using actual data 
measured from previous years (2012~2013). Total energy consumption 
in 2014 was 15,245TJ, was a 4.6% increase from the previous year, and the target of consuming less than 15,318TJ was achieved. The use of 
energy source for heating and cooling systems of company buildings 
was reduced, but due to increased electricity consumption by new and extended equipment and concentrated base station equipment, total 
energy consumption has been increasing steadily every year. For SK 
Telecom, indirect energy consumption resulting from the use of electric-ity accounts for 99.3% of the total consumption. Accordingly, SK Tele-
com is endeavoring to achieve improved energy efficiency by replacing 
low-efficiency and old equipment and generating electricity through re-newable energy facilities. Section 3. Environmental Capital 
3.1 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission  SK Telecom established a GHG inventory system in 2010 and has been 
operating the system to record and keep track of the companywide 
GHG emissions. At present, mid- and long-term strategies related to climate change are being established (set to be completed by June 
2015). 
GHG emissions are estimated based on the 26 company buildings of SK Telecom including data centers. It also includes emissions from network facilities based on guidelines on preparing and managing the 
statements for the emissions trading system. The scope of this estima-
tion includes emissions from all of the network facilities (base stations and equipment), but it does not include emissions from subsidiaries 
and supply chains. The intensity of greenhouse gas, on the other hand, 
is calculated by dividing the total emissions of greenhouse gas by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (equals the data coverage).In 2014, total GHG emissions of SK Telecom were 743,000 tons, a 
4.9% increase from the previous year, and this figure exceeded the 
management target set for 2014 despite implementation of diverse GHG emissions reduction activities. The main contributor to the in-crease was new installations and extensions of network equipment 
resulting from widespread use of the LTE services and concentration 
of base station equipment. At present, it is expected that SK Telecom will be short of about 448,000 tons in carbon emissions credit between 
2015 and 2017. Based on this estimate, there are plans to discover and 
implement independent reduction activities such as use of high-effi-ciency relay station and integrated management of base stations. In 
addition, by securing offsetting carbon emissions credit through coop-
eration with partners and SMEs, SK Telecom will actively participate in the emissions trading scheme and achieve its targets. 
SK Telecom has set a GHG emission target of 782,000 tCO
2e, a 5% 
increase from the previous year. In the case of other indirect GHG gas-es (Scope 3), the scope of management has been gradually expand-
ed through research on social GHG reduction and participation in the emissions trading scheme.
  2012 2013 2014
Waterworks Usage  583,681 623,429 632,304
Groundwater Usage  65,670 59,908 63,421
Annual Water Consumption 649,351 683,387 695,725
Intensity (m3/KRW billion) 52.65 53.14 53.46Water Consumption  Unit: m3Annual Volume of Water Consumption  Unit: m3
649,351683,387695,725
2012620,000640,000680,000
660,000700,000
2014 2013Energy Consumption  Unit: TJTotal Greenhouse Gas Emission Unit: tCO 2e
743,000
2014 target  2012 2013 2014
Direct Emissions  7,803 7,375 7,134
  Stationary Combustion  5,598 5,236 4,871
  Mobile Combustion  2,205 2,139 2,263
Indirect Emissions  665,939 700,588 735,750
  Electricity  665,862 700,484 735,664
  Steam  78 104 86
Total Emissions  673,742 707,963 742,884
Intensity (tCO 2e/KRW billion) 54.63 55.05 57.09Greenhouse Gas Emission  Unit: tCO 2e
  2012 2013 2014
Direct Consumption (TJ)  134 163 121
  Natural gas (Nm3)  1,805,327 1,610,880 1,561,961
  Diesel (Liter)  410,006 116,984 66,000
  Kerosene (Liter)  509,226 509,323 439,182
Indirect Consumption (TJ) 13,713 14,426 15,150
  Electricity (MWh)  1,428,119 1,502,377  1,577,830
  Steam consumption (GJ) 2,608 3,318 3,192
Total Energy Consumption (TJ) 13,847 14,589 15,271
Building Management (MWh) 5,776 3,901 3,143
INatural Air-conditioning System (MWh)  39,857 39,857 39,857
Total power consumption reduction (MWh) 48,362  46,487  45,729
New Renewable Energy Generation 2,729 2,729 2,729
Facilities (MWh)
Intensity (TJ/KRW billion)  1.12 1.13 1.17Energy Consumption 3.4 Waste and Recycling  
Waste discharge volume is estimated based on 26 company buildings 
of SK Telecom, and does not include consumption by subsidiaries and 
supply chains. The intensity of waste discharge is calculated by dividing 
the total waste discharge volume by SK Telecom’s parent-only revenues (equals the data coverage). As of 2013, waste production is classified into 
domestic, food, large-size, recyclable and designated wastes. 
Wastes are discharged monthly through an outsourced service provid-
er, and the discharge volume is managed using the Facility Manage-
ment System (FMS) on a monthly basis. In 2014, the waste discharge 
volume was recorded at 1,763 tons, a 7% increase compared to the previous year.
Total Volume of Discharged Waste  Unit: Ton
1,726
1,6461,763
20121,5501,6001,700
1,6501,750
2014 2013
  2012 2013 2014
Domestic Waste   695 556 685
Large sized Waste   126 85 79
Recyclable Waste (B)  515 583 548
Food Waste   355 373 416
Designated Waste  36 29 33
Total Waste (A)  1,726 1,646 1,763
Recycling Rate (B/A) (%)  30 36 31
Intensity (Ton/KRW billion)   0.140 0.126 0.135Wastes and Recycling   Unit: Ton
3.5 ResourcesThe total number of electronic bill subscribers include customers who 
receive their bills via smart phone, email or MMS. The rate of new sub-
scription indicates customers who subscribe to electronic billing ser -
vice.
Since the introduction of MMS billing service in 2007 followed by the 
smart billing service in 2010, the number of people subscribing to electronic billing service has increased at a steady pace. By the end of 2014, the total number of electronic bill subscribers reached ap-
proximately 19.6 million, a 9.7% increase from the previous year. Elec-
tronic billing service has the benefits of improved security of personal information and reduced use of resources such as paper. For these 
reasons, the number of electronic bill subscribers has been steadily 
increasing over the years. The new electronic bill subscription rate has also been increasing continually and it was recorded at 77% in 2014.127 126
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities3.7 Environmental Investment and Cost 
Environmental Investment and Cost is estimated on SK Telecom’s par -
ent-only basis. The criteria for green purchase cost were changed in 2013 and were retroactively applied to the 2012 data for recalculation purposes. Green purchase cost refers to cost of purchasing prod-ucts with energy efficiency grade, high-efficiency energy certification, high-quality recycled product certification, environmental mark certi-
fication, etc. The green purchase cost has recently increased signifi-
cantly due to installation of LED lighting in offices and high-efficiency relay stations. 
External nature conservative cost is the expense paid for environmental 
voluntary activities performed by employees, such as river purification activity. However, since 2013, the cost is steadily decreasing. Due to 
reduction of hours and costs related to voluntary activities have shifted 
towards talent sharing as of recent years. Meanwhile, other costs were not estimated as the used handset collection was transferred to SK 
Networks in 2013.3.6 Biodiversity
Due to changes in regulations, the number of base stations and relay 
stations in protected areas increased in 2014. Eco-friendly radio stations 
are no longer counted as of 2014.  2012 2013 2014
Devices Sold (thousand units)  11,928 9,838 8,133
Devices Retrieved (thousand units) 885 785 370
Device Retrieval Rate (%) 7.4 8.0 4.5Device Retrieval Rate Device retrieval rate is calculated by dividing the number of devices retrieved in a year by the total number of devices sold. The device 
retrieval rate in 2014 was 4.5%, a 3.5%p decrease from the previous 
year, due to transfer of the "Happy Eco-phone" business to SK C&C.Relay Stations within Protected Areas  
Total Electronic Bill SubscribersElectronic Billing Service Subscription Trend  Unit: Thousand persons, %
61.569.477 1,6051,7861,960
20125001,0001,5002,0002,500
20406080100
2014 2013Rate of Subscription
Base Stations within Protected Areas  600
500
400
300
200
100
2012 2014 2013324
268542Total Environmental Cost (Excl. Green Purchases)  Unit: KRW million  2012 2013 2014
Waste Disposal Service    117 94 101
Education & Training Cost  10 35 13
Miscellaneous   77 0 0
Recycling Service   24 29 24
External Nature    108 18 7
Conservation Cost  
Charges & Taxes    206 148 123
Total Environmental Unit Cost 542 324 268
(excl. Green Purchases)Environmental Investment and Cost  Unit: KRW million
Green Purchase Cost Unit: KRW million
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
2012 2014 20136,0847,368
984300
250200150
100
50
2012 2014 2013197265
207Energy Saving and Climate Changing Cost   Unit: KRW million
Environmental Volunteers Unit: Person, Hours
000
1,8311,748
1,460 1,226
20125001,0001,5002,000
100
500150200
2014 20137431,506Environmental Volunteers Environmental Volunteer HoursOther Disclosures
SK Telecom is committed to complying with regulations of the su-
pervising agencies including the Fair Trade Commission (FTC), Korea 
Communications Commission (KCC) and Ministry of Science, ICT and Fu-ture Planning (MSIP), and undertake management activities, while actively 
reflecting demands made by stakeholders and the government, which 
expect fair market competition. Despite these efforts, however, SK Telecom was subject to the following sanctions from MSIP and KCC, and corrective actions were taken accordingly. 
Date March 7, 2014
Sanctions 45 days of business suspension ordered in relation to the “Failure   
 to execute the suspension of violation (wrongful discrimination of   
 users through payment of excess subsidies for mobile devices)”   
 by the Korea Communications Commission (KCC)
Corrective Fulfilled the business suspension order and reported the result to 
Measures Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning (MSIP) by May 2014
Date March 13, 2014
Sanctions Fine of KRW 16.65 billion, 7-day new subscription suspension and
 corrective action order in relation to the “Case of corrective action 
 on the violation of the interests of the users in relation to 
 the payment of mobile device subsidies” by KCC
Corrective Paid the fine and reported the corrective measures to KCC
Measures by April 2014
 Reported the result of the new subscription suspension to KCC
 by Sept. 2014
Date Aug. 21, 2014
Sanctions Fine of KRW 37.1 billion and corrective action order in relation to
 the “Case of corrective action on the violation of the interests of 
 the users in relation to the payment of mobile device subsidies”
 by KCC
Corrective Paid the fine and reported the corrective measures to KCC
Measures by Sept. 2014
Date Dec. 4, 2014
Sanctions Fine of KRW 800 million and corrective action order in relation to
 the “Case  of correction relation in relation to the violation of 
 the Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act”
Corrective Paid the fine and reported the corrective measures to KCC 
Measures by Jan. 2015List of Sanctions and Measures129 128
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Auditors’ opinion 
In our opinion, based on our audits and reports of other auditors, the consolidated financial 
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the 
Group as of December 31, 2014 and 2012, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards.
Other matters 
We performed the audit on the consolidated financial statements ending on December 31, 2013 of SK Telecom Co., Ltd. and its subordinate companies in accordance with the above account-
ing auditing standards, and used the results of an audit performed by another auditor for the 
assets, liabilities and profits and losses of one company other than SK Broadband Co., Ltd. located in Korea, whose financial statements constitute 21.2% of the Group’s consolidated total 
assets, 11.7% of the Group’s consolidated operating revenue and 33.6% of the Group’s profit 
before income tax. 
Seoul, Korea
February 23, 2015Independent Auditors’ Report
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statement of SK Telecom Co., Ltd. 
and its subsidiaries (the “Group”). The consolidated financial statements are comprised of the consolidated statement of the fiscal position as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, 
the consolidated statement of profits and losses, consolidated income statement, statement of 
changes in equity and consolidated cash flow statement between the reporting period ending on the same day, a summary the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The responsibility of management in relation to the consolidated financial statements 
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated finan-cial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards, and for 
internal control in relation to the decisions to prepare consolidated financial statements that do 
not contain major misstatements resulting from errors or wrongful actions. 
The responsibility of the auditors
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We performed the audit based on the Korean GAAP . This standard requires that we 
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated fi-
nancial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test ba-sis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The selection of a procedure differs based on the judgments of the auditors in relation to the 
assessment of risks for misstatements in the consolidated financial statements resulting from 
errors or wrongful actions. When assessing such risks, the auditors must consider the internal control related to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and fair indications 
of the company in order to design an appropriate auditing procedure for the situation. However, 
this is not to express one’s opinions on the effectiveness of the internal control.An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by manage-
ment, as well as evaluating the overall financial statements presentation. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion.Independent Auditors’ Report
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.:
This report is effective as of February 23, 2015, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this 
report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements 
and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circum-
stances, if any.Financial Statement   |   Financial MD&A   |   Non-financial Statement   |   Non-financial MD&A
Report of the External Auditor   |   Third Party Assurance Statement   |   Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
131 130
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Financial Statement   |   Financial MD&A   |   Non-financial Statement   |   Non-financial MD&A
Report of the External Auditor   |   Third Party Assurance Statement   |   Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
Third Party Assurance Statement
Introduction
DNV GL Business Assurance Korea (‘DNV GL’), part of DNV GL Group, has been engaged by SK Telecom Inc. (‘SK Telecom’) to provide independent assurance over the Annual Report 2014 (the 
‘Report’). SK Telecom is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and preparation, 
presentation of the printed version of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL is to provide independent assurance to the Management of SK Telecom on the reliability of the information contained in the Report and to express overall opinion as per the scope of assurance engage-
ment as defined in this statement. Our responsibility is in accordance with the terms of reference 
agreed on with SK Telecom. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided are complete and true. The intended
recipients of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of SK Telecom. The Report cov-
ers the sustainability performances from the operations in Korea over which SK Telecom has management control, while financial performances are compiled based on the financial control 
approach, unless otherwise stated the performance from subsidiaries, associated companies 
and suppliers are excluded.
Scope of Assurance
The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1
st January to 31st December 2014. 
This included:
· Evaluation of the reporting principles for defining the sustainability report content and 
 the quality in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0
· Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 Accountability   
Principles Standard:2008
· Verification of Statement, information and performance data contained within the Report.· Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the manage-  ment approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing  
 the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report.
Verification MethodologyThe assurance engagement was conducted in line with the requirements of the AA1000 Assur -
ance Standard 2008, Type 2 assurance as well as DNV GL Verification Protocol for Sustainability 
Reporting V4.1 (‘VeriSustainTM’, www.dnvgl.com/assurance/default.aspx). A specific evaluation 
of the information and data on sustainability performance related to SK Telecom’s selected in-dicators set forth in the GRI G 4.0 was performed, as indicated in the GRI Content Index in-
cluded in the Report. We applied a moderate level of assurance as stated in AA1000 Assurance 
Standard(AS) 2008. The audit was carried out in May 2015. The site visits were made to the SK Telecom Head office in Korea. As part of the verification, we performed sample-based audits and undertook the following activities:· challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and 
 assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow 
 and controls;
· interviewed representatives from the various departments;· conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases
 and associated reporting system and associated reporting systems as they relate to 
 selected content and performance data;
· reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment
 report.
Limitation
The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices 
of SK Telecom’s subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-par -
ties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this 
Assurance Engagement. Any financial data and the information acquired from the audited finan-
cial statements and officially filed in ‘DART’ (http://dart.fss.or.kr/) which is operated by Korea Financial Supervisory Service and announced in its website (www.sktelecom.com) are not in-cluded in the scope of the Assurance. Economic performances based on the financial data were cross-checked with internal documents and the audited financial statements. The aggregation 
and calculation process for building economic performances is reviewed and tested by the ver -
ification team. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures 
and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for 
Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data are used for 
the verification. The qualitative statements directly addressed in the GRI Content Index are not verified but the audit team has just confirmed that the indicator is reported in the GRI Content 
Index. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or 
an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement.
Conclusion
In DNV GL’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the report pro-vides an accurate and impartial representation of SK Telecom’s sustainability-related strategies, 
management systems, practices and performance in 2014. Further opinions with regards to the 
following AccountAbility Principles are made below:
Inclusivity
SK Telecom has identified 6 internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Gov-
ernments, Shareholders/Investors, Local Communities and NGOs, Suppliers, and Employees. SK Telecom’s stakeholder engagement activities occurred at the company and business unit 
levels through various platforms. SK Telecom has conducted yearly on-line stakeholder survey 
to identify key interests and concerns of stakeholders. The engagement and communication channels for selected stakeholders are described in the Report. The survey result is reported to 
the corporate citizenship committee under the board of directors. In our view, the level at which 
the Report adheres to the principle of Inclusivity is ‘Good’.133 132
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesMateriality
SK Telecom carries out the yearly materiality assessment. The relevant issue pool is formed by 
analysing the key issues from the global sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics which 
industry peer group considers to be material and the subjects covered by mass media. The issues in the pool are rated by stakeholders via survey in terms of the impact. The prioritization 
is finalized with being weighted by financial aspects such as profitability, capital efficiency, future 
value creation, and etc. As a result, the output of the process brings out 11 material aspects. SK Telecom reports the sustainability performance most relevant to the material issues. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Materiality is ‘Good’.
Responsiveness
The Report provides a comprehensive overview of SK Telecom’s activities. It keeps stakeholders 
informed of corporate decisions in terms of achievements and performance in relation to the 
sustainability material aspects. SK Telecom’s stakeholder survey and materiality assessment were used to determine the type of information that is material to stakeholders. The information 
is considered in the preparation of the Report. The vision and strategy as well as the sustain-
ability governance and performance achieved in 2014 are addressed in the Report as per the materiality assessment result. The communication on progress for UN Global Compact which SK Telecom is committed to support is disclosed in the Report as well. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Responsiveness is ‘Good’.
Findings in relation to specific sustainability performance information:
DNV GL has evaluated the nature and extent of SK Telecom’s adherence to the AA1000 Ac-
countability Principles as described above. In addition, the reliability of data and information is 
evaluated for Type 2 Assurance. DNV GL has interviewed the personnel responsible for the data and information in order to figure out the generation, aggregation and processing of data and 
information and reviewed the relevant documents and records based on which the statements 
in the Report are addressed. Especially the in-depth review is conducted on the reliability of data and information with regard to Water consumption, Waste generation, Accident rate and Ethics 
& Compliance for Type 2 Assurance. The reporting of the management performance presented 
in the Report make it possible to understand the company’s impact in economic, social and environmental areas, as well as the company’s achievements in those regards. SK Telecom has 
developed an effective methodology for gathering the specific information and data respectively 
for reporting. The data owners interviewed are able to demonstrate to trace the origin and the data source of the specific data and information are identifiable. From our analysis of the data and information, and SK Telecom’s processes, we conclude that the data and information in-
cluded in the Report are the results of stable and repeatable activities.Opportunities for Improvement
The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to SK Telecom’s 
management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to 
encourage continual improvement. Without qualifying our conclusion above, DNV GL make the following recommendations;
· The reference of external and internal data and information should be clearly recorded and
 maintained for future reporting and maintaining the consistency in the interpretation of data
 and information by data owner.
Statement of Competence and IndependenceDNV GL is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance specialists operate in over 100 countries. DNV 
GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except 
for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders in-terviewed during the verification process.
27th May 2015
Seoul, Republic of Korea
In Kyoon Ahn
Country RepresentativeDNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd.135 134
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Greenhouse Gas Assurance StatementFinancial Statement   |   Financial MD&A   |   Non-financial Statement   |   Non-financial MD&A
Report of the External Auditor   |   Third Party Assurance Statement   |   Greenhouse Gas Assurance Statement
17th Floor, Singsong Building,
67 Yeouinaru-ro,
Seoul, 150-923
Republic of Korea
LRQA Reference : SEO 6017128
27 March 2015
SANG-KEUN YOO
On behalf of Lloyd's Register 
Quality Assurance Ltd.
This document is subject to the provision below:
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers.
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respectiveofficers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the
‘Lloyd’s Register Group.’ The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not
be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the infor -
mation or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a 
contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or 
advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or 
noncompliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verifi-cation was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they re-
late to the requirement set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously 
the evaluation of control to future periods is subjet to the risk that the processes may becomeinadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them 
may deteriorate.
The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Groupassumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages.
GHG emmisions reported in the SK Telecom GHG Inventory Report for the calendar year 2014
Scope (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) Year 2014
Direct GHG Emissions 7,134
Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 735,750 
Total GHG Emissions 742,884
Data is presented in tons of CO2 equivalentTerms of engagement
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for SK Telecom
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by SK Telecom to assure 
its GHG Inventory Report for the calendar year 2014 and summarised in Table 1 below (here-after referred to as “the Report”). The SK Telecom data as present in the GHG Report have 
been prepared in accordance with greenhouse gas emission s in Korea. The Report related 
to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions.
Management Responsibility
The management of SK Telecom wan responsible for preparing the Report and for maintain-ing effective internal controls over the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility 
was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract 
with SK Telecom. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of SK Telecom.
LRQA’s Approach
Our verification has been conducted in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme 
in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to provide 
reasonable assurance that the SK Telecom. In order to form or conclusions we have:
· Conducted site tours od the facilities and reviewed processes related to the management 
  of GHG emissions data and records· Interviewed relevant staff of the organization responsible for managing and maintaining raw
  and consolidated data and
· Verified the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 2014
Level of Assurance & Materiality
The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a rea-sonable level of assurance and at a 2.5% level of materiality
LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach we have found that the GHG data as presented in the Inventory 
Report of GHG emission and the amount energy used within the Report are materiality cor -
rect, subject to the following qualifications:
· The emissions from some small devices that have no information of the amount and fee of     electricity in the ERP system have been estimated from the similar device data. This is not   considered to be material.137 136
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy OverviewSK Telecom Annual Report 2014   |   Partner for New PossibilitiesGovernance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement AppendixSK Telecom
Annual Report 2014
Partner for 
New Possibilities5.
Appendix
Materiality Report
CEO Statement on Human RightsUN Global CompactSASB IndexGRI IndexNon-Consolidated Financial Statement139 138
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Materiality Report   |   CEO Statement on Human Rights    |   UN Global Compact   |   SASB Index    |    GRI Index   |   Non-Consolidated Financial Statement
Materiality Report  
SK Telecom Materiality Analysis Process 
SK Telecom complies with the GRI guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the 
guides relating to deciding on report topics 
and composing contents recommended by the <IR> framework of the International Inte-grated Reporting Council (IIRC), and selects 
report topics through its annual materiality 
analysis process. “Materiality” as defined by SK Telecom refers 
to relevance in business and sustainability as-
pects and the impact that the level of afore-mentioned topics actually have on SK Tele-
com’s stakeholders and SK Telecom’s ability 
to create sustainable value. For the quanti-tative analysis of materiality, the company M-1.
Evidence of Relevance 
To identify the relevance of each topic in busi-ness and sustainability aspects, the company assessed the relevance of its corporate vision 
and strategy, industry competition issues, the 
relevance of topics to international initiatives, 
assessed the topics in terms of corporate vision and strategies, industry competition, international standards and media exposure, 
and incorporated the impact evaluation of 
stakeholders collected from a survey that targeted those stakeholders that participate each year. The final evaluation reflected the fi-
nancial materiality which considered the risks 
and opportunity factors in terms of financial aspects compared with the previous year and 
its effects on future value creation. 
The materiality report in this report was con-ducted in April 2015.and keywords appearing in the media. The 
assessment was conducted based on doc-
ument analyses, and report topics were pri-oritized according to the assessment results. 
In 2012, SK Telecom declared its new vision called, 
'Partner for New Possibilities', and as a mid-term strategy for the vision, the company has been car -
rying out 4
th To-Be Model.  The company assessed 
whether each topic was a relevant issue to achieve mid to long-term and 4
th To-Be detail strategy.
· Survey details: Vision 2020 relevance, 4th To-be
 Model, BOD Corporate Citizenship Committee
 official reports, past sustainability reports, data
 from analyst meetings in 2014 The company assessed whether each topic was an issue facing global telecommunications com-panies. It also examined the topics that global 
mobile and cable telecommunications leaders 
regard as high priority issues. 
· Target companies: 12 global cable and mobile 
 telecommunications operators 
· Survey content: Core issues in major telecom  munication companies’ annual report and 
 sustainability report 
SK Telecom assessed the relevance of each 
topic based on the initiatives and standards 
deemed to be credible, including the UNGC 
Advanced Level program (for which SK Telecom 
publicly declared its support), ISO26000 (the 
global standard for social responsibility), and the Dow Jones Sustainability includes (DJSI), all of 
which are benchmarks of global sustainability
· IIRC (International Integrated Reporting   Committee) Integrated Reporting Frame Work
· SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standard Board)
· GRI G4 Guidelines· UNGC COP(Communication On Progress)  Advanced Level
· DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index)· ISO26000Topics that appeared in the media in 2014 were 
surveyed. In 2014, total 1,141 keywords were analyzed as the most popular in the articles ex-
cept those related to stock markets or personnel 
issues. · Target period: January 1, 2014 through   December 31, 2014
· Target outlets: 12 daily newspapers including   the Chosun Ilbo, the Joongang Daily, and 
 the Dong-a Ilbo, internet newspapers, 
 TV news and economic magazines  
 
Vision and Strategy Relevance 
Relevance to International Initiatives Telecommunications Industry Issues 
Media Keywords 
Reporting Topics
Prioritized Reporting 
Topics SetM-1. Evidence of Business & Sustainability Relevance
·Assessments of a vision and future strategies,  
 industry competition, laws and international stan- 
 dards, and media exposure 
·Based on document analysis
M-2. Evidence of Stakeholder Impact
·Evaluation of impact from major stakeholders,   including employees, customers, shareholders and  
 inventors, NGOs, partner companies, media, and  
 government
·Based on a survey 
M-3. Financial Materiality Adjustment
·Weighed value reflected after evaluating  the financial impact level in terms of Profitability,  
 Capital Cost, Risks, Market Competition and 
 Future Value Creation01
Shareholder 
Value
03
Supply
Chain
05
Natural
Capital
07
Ethics &
Integrity
02
Customer
Value
04
Social
Capital
06
Human
Capital
7 areas
36 issues141 140
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesM-3. 
Financial Materiality Adjustment
The effect each subject has on creating SK 
Telecom’s financial value on a short-, mid- to 
Results of the Selection of Material Aspects 
Finally, material aspects are prioritized in terms of business and sustainability relevance, stakeholder impact 
and financial value creation, and are reflected in the report. As for the eleven “Core Group” items, including 
“Quality·Customer Satisfaction·Retention”, the management approach method and major data for each subject 
are all made public through narrative methods. Most of the “Material Group” is also reported; however, parts of 
issues were reported only through data. M-2. 
Evidence of Impact 
To identify the impact of each topic on stake-
holders, an online stakeholder survey was conducted. The survey targeted about 357 
parties, including SK Telecom’s six biggest 
stakeholders, the media, and the academia. The survey consisted of questions that asked about the interest and materiality of each ma-
jor issue as perceived by the stakeholders along with general credibility evaluation on SK 
Telecom.  
• Survey period: March 1, 2015 through 
   April 1, 2015 
• Survey method: Online survey
• Responses: 357 peoplelong- term basis were assessed and weighed in terms of 5 aspects, “Profitability”, “Capital Efficiency”, “Risk”, “Market Competition”, and 
“Future Value Creation”.
 
Material Aspect Related GRI Aspects  Location and Method 
1. Quality·Customer Satisfaction Product and Service Labeling p.52
    ·Retention (Customer Satisfaction) 
2. Quality and Service - Based  Product and Service Labeling p.52, p.121
    Marketing Marketing Communications
3. Talent Attraction and Retention  Market Presence p.74, p.115
 Employment
 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
4. Financial Performance  Economic Performance p.26, p.36, p.102
5. R&D·Innovation·Investment   Non GRI p.62
6. Market Share and Market Presence p.48
    Competitive Advantage   
7. Network·Equipment Investment   Non GRI p.58
8. Mid- to Long-term Business Strategy   Non GRI  p.42
9. Convergence·B2B  Non GRI p.62
    ·New Business Model  10. ICT Shared Value Creation   Local Communities p.66
 Indirect Economic Impact 
11. Personal Information and   Customer Privacy p.54
      Privacy Protection
*All material aspects are limited to SK TelecomLocation of Material Aspects in the Report Response composition
NGO
UNICEF 
Child Fund Korea  
Green Help Inc. Global Civic Sharing 
Etc. Shareholders and investors 
Korea Investment & Securities 
Shinhan Investment 
Mirae Asset Securities CLSA
Credit Suisse
Deutsche BankEtc. 
Academia and Experts 
UN Global Compact Korea 
Korean AssociationGlobal Competitiveness 
Empowerment Forum
Seoul National University Yonsei University 
Etc. Media
Kookmin Ilbo
Seoul Economy Daily Korea Economy Daily 
E-daily 
Etc.Government 
Korea Information Society De-
velopment Institute (KISDI)
Electronics and Telecommu-
nications Research Institute 
(ETRI)
National Assembly Etc.
Business Partners
Gammanu
Prain 
Vision ID&C ISL Korea 
Etc. Main stakeholders Shareholders and 
Investors 
Academia and 
Experts 
CustomersPartner CompaniesGovernment NGO
Other
EmployeesMateriality Assessment Results 
Core
Materia l
EmergingReturn to Shareholders  
Financial Performance 
Market Share and  
Competitiveness Advantage 
Personal Information and Privacy Protection Talent Attraction and Retentio n
ICT Shared Value Creation Brand Management
Distribution Chain Management
Human Capital Development  
Reasonableness of Price Plans 
Mutual Growth 
Environmental Solution 
Laws and Regulations Compliance
Human Rights and Labor Diversity  Harmful Contents Blocking  Governance Structure 
Social Contribution  
and Charit yParticipation of  Stakeholder s
Biodiversity
Supply Chain Diversity  Electromagnetic Waves Health Care and Safety Tax Payment and  
Tax System Strategy  Mid- to Lon g-term Business Strate gy
Quality and Service
Marketin g -Base d
Solution of Digital Divide (Regional·Stratum)143 142
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
CEO Statement on Human Rights
Under the SKMS principle, “For the company’s continuous development, the company creates 
value for customers, employees, and shareholders, fulfills a key role in social and economic development, and makes contributions to the happiness of mankind,” SK Telecom aims to ac-
complish its business goals while fulfilling its social responsibilities and codes of conduct. The 
company’s social responsibilities defines its human rights duties towards customers, employ-ees, partner companies, and community.
SK Telecom, as a company that practices a high level of awareness of global citizenship, re-
spects the basic rights of all stakeholders that it encounters through products, services, con-tracts, purchases, and other business activities.
SK Telecom declares its support for the human rights principles stated in the UN Universal 
Declaration Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the Ruggie Framework and pledges to fulfill its human rights responsibilities. SK Telecom will 
make every effort to prevent human rights abuse involving business and avoid complicity in such 
abuses. Furthermore, the company will ensure governance with integrity to take measures and provide communication regarding an organization responsible, under the UNGC Human Rights/
Labor Principles, the operating structure, the monitoring process, and incidents. SK Telecom will 
exercise due diligence to assure compliance of the policy within whole supply chain as well as SK Telecom and its subsidiaries.  
Specifically, SK Telecom, as an ICT provider, is aware of potential human rights risks in the fol-
lowing aspects and will do its utmost to prevent any problems that may occur:01) Human Rights of Employees and Partner Companies (Human Rights in the Workplace) 
• Fundamental prevention of wrong labor practices, such as child and forced labor
• Prevention of discrimination by gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, and race• Political, religious, and physical freedom, and respect of civil rights• Other labor principles recommended by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and
 endorsed by the government: safety/health, working hours, etc.
02) Human Rights in Privacy Policies• Demanding minimum personal information, recording and saving to comply with laws
• Notification prior to saving information, fiduciary duty, and ability to freely delete information• Optimal security system for preventing leaks, including data encryption
• Limited and responsible use of personal information for service/marketing purposes
03) Human Rights in Access to Information & Freedom of Expression
• Obligation to ensure equality of access to services regardless of class/disabilities
• Efforts to bridge the digital/smart divide: education, price plans, and systems• Responsibility for distributed information to protect minors, including children and adolescents• Fundamental support for freedom of expression
04) Prevention of Misuse of Technologies, Services, and Data (Human Rights in Technology)
• Refusal to use technologies, electronic devices, and data for dual purposes
• Prevention of misuse of technologies, such as wiretapping, signal interference, or hacking
SK Telecom always keeps the channels of stakeholder communication open to prevent any hu-
man rights violations. If you have witnessed or experienced incidents of such violations, please 
inform the Company through the appropriate channel. (http://sktelecom.com/en/sktelecom/csr/csr04_02.jsp)
SK Telecom is committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities and pursuing the happiness of 
stakeholders and pledges to take the lead in advocating and complying with the Human Rights principles.
January, 2015
Dong-Hyun JangPresident and CEO  SK Telecom
Materiality Report   |   CEO Statement on Human Rights    |   UN Global Compact   |   SASB Index    |    GRI Index   |   Non-Consolidated Financial Statement145 144
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Topic Code Accounting Metric Cross Reference/Direct Answer
Environmental Footprint  TC0301-01 Total energy consumed, percentage grid electricity, percentage  p.124
of Operations  renewable energy; amount of energy consumed by (a) cellular
  and (b) fixed networks    
Data Privacy TC0301-02 Discussion of policies and practices relating to collection, usage, p.54
  and retention of customer information and personally identifiable 
  information 
 TC0301-03 Percentage of users whose customer information is collected -
  for secondary purpose, percentage who have opted-in
 TC0301-04 Amount of legal and regulatory fines and 
  settlements associated with customer privacy 
 TC0301-05 Number of government or law enforcement requests
  for customer information, percentage resulting in disclosure
Data Security TC0301-06 Number of data security breaches and percentage No violation related to information protection   
  involving customers’ personally identifiable information 
 TC0301-07 Discussion of management approach to  p.54
  identifying and addressing data security risks
Product End-of-Life TC0301-08 Materials recovered through take back programs, percentage of p.126
Management  recovered materials that are (a) reused, (b) recycled, and 
  (c) landfilled
 TC0301-09 Average interruption frequency and average interruption duration -
 TC0301-10 Description of systems to provide unimpeded  p.93
  service during service interruptions
Fair Competition TC0301-11 Amount of legal and regulatory fines and  p.127
  settlements associated with anti-competitive practicesUN Global Compact 
UNGC Advanced Criteria   Cross Reference/Direct Answer
Fulfillment of the UNGC 10 Principles in Strategy and Operation
Criterion 1 Commitment to integrate the UNGC 10 principles into business function and units p.18-21, p.91
Criterion 2  Practicing the UNGC 10 principles across the value chain p.88-91
Definite Human Rights Policy and ProcedureCriterion 3  Human rights commitment, strategy, and policy  p.142-143
Criterion 4  Effective management system to incorporate the human rights principles into p.142-143
 business and management procedures
Criterion 5 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the human right principles in p.88-91,  Interpreted formal grievance
 the business and management procedures mechanism for human rights, and
  evaluation mechanisms for human
  rights/labor/environment operated
  when evaluating partner companies
Definite Labor Policy and Procedure
Criterion 6 Labor commitment, strategy, and policy  p.91, p.119-121
Criterion 7  Effective management system to incorporate the labor principles into business p.121, Through the trade union
 and management procedures and collective bargaining, the labor
  principles are integrated and
  the labor-management council
  holds regular meetings
Criterion 8 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance p.89, p.121
 with the labor principles in the business and management The Labor-Management Council
 procedures holds regular meetings and operate
  the grievance channel for employees
Definite Environmental Policy and Procedure
Criterion 9 Environment commitment, strategy, and policy  p.70-73, p.124-127
Criterion 10 Effective management system to incorporate the environmental principles into p.70-73, p.124-127
 business andmanagement procedures
Criterion 11 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance p.70-73, p.124-127
 with the environmental principles in the business and management procedures
Definite Ethics and Compliance Policy and ProcedureCriterion 12  Ethics commitment, strategy, and policy  p.96, p.99
Criterion 13  Effective management system to incorporate the ethical principles into business  p.96, p.99
 and management procedures 
Criterion 14 Monitoring and evaluation mechanism to ensure compliance with the ethical principles p.96, p.99
 in the business and management procedures
Activities to Support the More Broad and Comprehensive UN Objectives and Goals
Criterion 15  Contribution through key businesses to help achieve the UN objectives and goals p.66-69, p.123
Criterion 16  Strategic community investment and charity work to help achieve  the UN objectives and goals p.66-69, p.123
Criterion 17 Public engagement and communication to help achieve the UN objectives and goals p.66-69, p.88-91
Criterion 18  Partnerships and outside initiatives to help achieve the UN objectives and goals p.66-69, p.88-91
Governance and Leadership for SustainabilityCriterion 19 CEO’s sustainability commitment and leadership  p.18-21
Criterion 20  The Board of Directors’ selection and oversight of sustainability agenda items p.88-91
Criterion 21  Stakeholder engagement p.88-91UN Global Compact Advanced Criteria IndexSASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) Index
- Telecommunication Standards
Code Accounting Metric Cross Reference/Direct Answer
TC0301-A Wireless subscribers  p.31
TC0301-B Wireline Subscribers  p.34, SK Broadband, one of the major subsidiar- 
TC0301-C  Broadband Subscribers 	ies of SK Telecom, offers various range of   
  wireless and fixed-line service . 
TC0301-D Network traffic, percentage on cellular network, and p.34, p.60
 percentage on fixed network
TC0301-E Network bandwidth capacity, percentage leased  p.60, In terms of Korea’s mobile carrier, SK  
  Telecom possesses its own network, and it  
  mandatorily leases network to MVNO operators  
  by following “Electrical Communication Busi- 
  ness Act”Activity Metric
Disclosure Metric
p.5, p.125, no fine charged related to customer 
information protection 
p.5, p.125, no legal restriction related to cutomer 
information protection 
Managing Systemic 
Risks from Technology 
DisruptionsMateriality Report   |   CEO Statement on Human Rights    |   UN Global Compact   |   SASB Index    |    GRI Index   |   Non-Consolidated Financial Statement147 146
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
GRI Index
GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures • Reported /   Not Reported  •  Reported /   Not Reported
Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/OmissionIndicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/Omission
Strategy and Analysis
G4-1 CEO Message   p.18-21 
G4-2 Key Impacts, risks and opportunities   p.94-95 √ 
Organizational ProfileG4-3 Name of the organization   SK Telecom Co., Ltd.  √ 
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services  p.22, 57 √
G4-5  Location of the headquarters   SK-T Tower, 65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea  √
G4-6 Number and name of countries the organization operates  p.160 √
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form  p.4, Corporation  √
G4-8 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of   p.22, over 95% of Revenues are generated  √
 customer and beneficiaries)  from Republic of Korea.
G4-9 Scale of the organization   p.22-29, p.102-109, p.154 √
G4-10 Total number of employees  p.119 √
G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements   p.121,  As stated in Article 35 in Labor  √ 
   Union & Labor Relations Act, 100% of the 
   target for collective bargaining agreement 
   is covered with 50% of labor union 
   membership
G4-12 Organization’s supply chain  Major suppliers include Single Device  
   Supplier, System Supplier, Network Ope-
   rator, Platform Operator and Contents 
   Provider
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organiza-  p.24-25, 34 √
 tion’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain
G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach is addressed  p.92-95, SK Telecom supports precautio- √
   nary principles, and it immediately respon-
   ses to risks which can have huge influen-
   ce on people’s life through UNGC Lead 
   activities, even though it is cannot predict 
   climate changes 
G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters,   p.90-91 √
 principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes
G4-16 Memberships of associations  p.2 √Identified Material Aspects And Boundaries   G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements,  p.32-35, Entities list is included in p.6 √
 and whether any entity is not covered by the report   the 2014 Business Report
G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries  p.138-141 √
 and the application of reporting principles on the process 
G4-19 List of all material aspects identified in the process  p.138-141 √
G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization limitation related to  p.138-141 √
 the Aspect Boundary within the organization
G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization limitation related to  p.138-141 √
 the Aspect Boundary outside the organization
G4-22 Any restatements of information provided in previous reports,  Specific attention indicated as notes  √
 and the reasons  if necessary
G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope   Specific attention indicated as notes  √
 and Aspect Boundaries  if necessary
Stakeholder Engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged  p.89, p.140 √
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders  p.88 √
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement  p.89, p.138 √
G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders, and how   p.89, p.138 √
 the organization has responded to those topics
Report ProfileG4-28 Reporting period   p.2-3, FY2014 √
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report  p.2-3 √
G4-30 Reporting cycle (Annual,  biennial)  p.3-4, Annually √
G4-31 Contact point  p.162 √
G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option  p.1, Comprehensive N/A
G4-33 Policy and current practice with external assurance  p.1 N/A •
•
•
•••••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
••
•Materiality Report   |   CEO Statement on Human Rights    |   UN Global Compact   |   SASB Index    |    GRI Index   |   Non-Consolidated Financial Statement149 148
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesIndicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/OmissionIndicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/Omission
Governance
G4-34 Governance Structure of organization   p.80-81 √
 including the highest governance body and its committee 
G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and  p.84 √
 social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives 
 and other employees
G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or  p.82-83 √
 positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and 
 social topics
G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest   p.89 √
 governance body on economic, environmental and social topics
G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committee  p.82 √
G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also   p.80 √
 an executive officer
G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body   p.82-23 √
 and its committees
G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of   p.83 √
 interest are avoided and managed
G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the develop-  p.80 √
 ment, approval, and updating the organization’s purpose, value or mi-
 ssion statements, strategies, policies and goals to economic, environ-
 mental and social impacts
G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance bo-  p.90-91 √
 dy’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics
G4-44  Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance  p.87 √
 with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics
G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management   p.89, p.92-95 √
 of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities
G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of   p.84, p.92-95 √
 the organization’s risk management processG4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic,   p.84 √
 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities
G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves   p.87 √
 the sustainability report
G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest   p.87, p.90 √
 governance body
G4-50  Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to   p.84, p.86-87  √
 the highest governance body, and policy to resolve the concerns
G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and   p.87 √
 senior executives and remuneration policy performance criteria
 and highest governance body and senior executives’ relevance to 
 economic, environmental and social goals
G4-52 The process for determining remuneration (Participation of remuneration  p.84, p.87 √
 advisory committee, independent management performance, relationship
 of remuneration advisory committee with organization)
G4-53 How stakeholder’s view and sought and taken into account   p.87 √
 regarding remuneration (Includes vote result and suggestion for
 remuneration policy)
G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s   p.87 √
 highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation 
 for all employees (excludes the highest- paid individual)
G4-55 Ratio of the percentage in annual total compensation for  p.87 √
 the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median percentage 
 increase in annual total compensation for all employees
 (excludes the highest- paid individual)
Ethics and IntegrityG4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as   p.96, please refer to √ 
 codes of conduct    http://www.sktelecom.com/ethics 
G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and   p.98 √
 lawful behavior
G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical  p.98 √
 or unlawful behavior (System report, whistle blow system, hot line etc.)   • Reported /   Not Reported  • Reported /   Not Reported
••
•
•
•
•••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
••
•
•
•
•
•
•151 150
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesIndicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/OmissionIndicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/Omission
Economic Performance 
DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.26-29 
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  p.36-37 √
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to   p.70-71, p.94-95 √
 climate change
EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations  Applied to all full-time employees as De- 
   fined Constructions or Defined Benefits
EC4 Financial assistance received from government  p.36-37 √
Market Presence
DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.119-120 
EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to  SK Telecom provides entry level wages  
 local minimum wage  higher than local minimum wage in all 
   regions and operations, and does not 
   discriminate due to employee’s gender. 
   However, entry level wage ratio to mini-
   mum wage was not disclosed due to 
   our internal information policies
EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community  In Korea, all senior management were √
   hired from the local community (100%)
Indirect Economic Impacts 
DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.66-69 
EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and   p.60-61, p.66-69 √
 services supported
EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts  p.60-61, p.66-69 √
Products and Services  DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.62-65, p.70-73 
EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products   p.72 √
 and services
EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials (by category)     N/A Not applicable 
Employment
DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.119-120 
LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover  p.119-120 √
 (by age, sex, region)LA2 Benefits provided only to full-time employees which are not provided to  p.120 √
 part time or contract worker
LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave  p.120 √
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.74-77 
LA12 Composition of Governance bodies and breakdown of employees  p.80-81, p.119  √
 according to gender, age group, minority and other indicators of diversity
Local CommunitiesDMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.66-69 
SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,   Over 95% of the revenues are generated from  
 impact assessment, and development programs  Republic of Korea, and SK Telecom fully im-
   plemented social engagement program 
   in Korean local community
SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on   No significant actual/ potential impact on 
 local communities  local communities found
Product and Service Labeling DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.52-57 
PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s   p.121 √
 procedures for product and service information labeling 
PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and   p.121 √
 voluntary codes concerning product and service information labeling
PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction  p.31, p.54 √
Marketing Communications DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.52-57  
PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products   0 case, SK Telecom does not sell  
   any banned or disputed product
PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and   p.127 
 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications
Customer Privacy DMA Disclosures on Management Approach  p.52-57 
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of   p.54, p.121, Among total 46 complaints registered,  √
 customer privacy and losses of customer data   no case related to customer information violationGRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures • Reported /   Not Reported  • Reported /   Not Reported
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•153 152
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesIndicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/Omission
EN3 Energy consumption within the organization   p.124-125 √ 
EN5 Energy intensity   p.124-125 √ 
EN6 Reduction of energy consumption  p.124-125 √ 
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source   p.125 √ 
EN11 Operation that possesses, leases and manages in protected areas,   p.126 √
 regions with high biodiversity value or neighboring regions   
EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)  p.124 √ 
EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)   p.124 √ 
EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity   p.124 √ 
EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions   p.72, p.124 √ 
EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method   p.125 √ 
EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary   p.73, 0 Cases, no fine or penalty paid √
 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
EN31 Total environmental protection expenditure and investments  p.126-127 √
EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using   p.122 √
 environmental criteria
EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed,   p.89, Among total 46 grievances registered,  √ 
 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms  no issue about environment was reported
LA6 Type and rate of injury, rate of disease caused in work, rate of work leave,   p.121 √ 
 rate of absence, number of death in work (by region, sex)
LA9 Annual average hours of training per employee   p.120-121 √
 (by sex, employee category) 
LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support   p.120-121 √ 
 the continued employability and assist employees in managing 
 career endings 
LA11  Rate of employees receiving regular performance and career development  p.77, p.116 √
 (by sex, employee category)
LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using   p.122 √
 labor practices criteria 
LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filled, addressed, and   p.89 √
 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms   GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures - Other Disclosures • Reported /   Not Reported
•
•
•
•
•
•
••
•
•
•
•
•
•••
•
•
•
•Indicator Description Reported Cross Reference Assurance 
   /Direct Answer/Omission
HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents   p.91, p.142-143, SK Telecom observes prohibition  √
 of child labor and measures taken   of child labor through human rights policy, 
   and prevents child labor by including it 
   into supply chain policy
HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk  p.91, p.142-143, No areas of business with  √
 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor  the possibility of serious incidents of forced 
   labor. SK Telecom disclosed the human right 
   policy and included forced or compulsory 
   labor criteria into the supply chain policy 
HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to  p.91, p.142-143, SK Telecom applies human  
 human rights reviews or impact assessments  right policy to all operations and relevant 
   supply chains
HR10  Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria  p.122 √
HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filled, addressed, and   p.89, Among total 46 grievances registered, √
 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms   no issue about human rights was reported
SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks   The corresponding number and percentage  
 related to corruption   is not applicable
SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures   p.96 √
SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken   p.97 √
SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ beneficiary  No donations to political parties or politicians 
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and   p.127 √
 monopoly practices and their outcomes   
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary   p.127 √
 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 
SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for  p.122 √
 impacts on society
SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and   p.89, Among total 46 grievances registered, √
  resolved through formal grievance mechanisms  1 social issue was reported
PR1 Rate of products and services evaluated for safety effect for   p.121 √
 further improvement
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and   p.127 √
 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services • Reported /   Not Reported
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•••
•
•
•
•
•155 154
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesBusiness & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
Non-Consolidated Financial StatementMateriality Report   |   CEO Statement on Human Rights    |   UN Global Compact   |   SASB Index    |    GRI Index   |   Non-Consolidated Financial Statement
Non-Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 
 31st 30th 29th
Assets   
 Current Assets 2,689,913  2,817,782  2,589,699 
  Cash and cash equivalents 248,311  448,459  256,577 
  Short-term financial instruments 143,000  166,000  179,300 
  Short-term investment securities 197,161  102,042  56,401 
  Accounts receivable - trade, net 1,559,281  1,513,138  1,407,206 
  Short-term loans, net 67,989  72,198  75,449 
  Accounts receivable—other, net 305,990  388,475  383,048 
  Accrued revenue 6,354  5,682  4,147 
  Advance payment 51,619  9,112  3,366 
  Prepaid expenses 86,070  82,837  76,016 
  Derivative financial assets -  - 9,656 
  Inventories, net 23,694  24,596  15,995 
  Assets classified as held for sale -  3,667  121,337 
  Advanced payments and other 444  1,576  1,201 
 Non-current Assets 20,022,549  20,009,637  19,659,803 
  Long-term financial instruments 69  7,569  69 
  Long-term investment securities 608,797  729,703  733,893 
  Investments in associates and joint ventures 8,181,769  8,010,121  7,915,547 
  Property and equipment, net 7,705,906  7,459,986  7,119,090 
  Goodwill 1,306,236  1,306,236  1,306,236 
  Intangible assets, net 1,928,169  2,239,167  2,187,872 
  Long-term loans, net 38,457  39,925  49,672 
  Long-term prepaid expenses 28,551  23,007  21,582 
  Guarantee deposits 156,807  152,057  149,373 
  Long-term derivative financial assets 67,728  41,712  52,303 
  Deferred tax assets -  - 123,723 
  Other non-current assets 60  154  443 
Total Assets 22,712,462  22,827,419  22,249,502                        Unit: KRW million
 31st 30th 29th
Liabilities and Equity   
 Current Liabilities 3,378,046  4,288,073  4,343,086 
  Accrued payables—other 1,086,485  1,556,201  1,509,456 
  Unearned revenue 39,148  43,599  46,693 
  Withholdings 801,119  574,166  552,380 
  Accrued expenses 615,488  653,742  600,101 
  Income tax payable 91,315  104,564  52,267 
  Unearned income  92,783  178,569  252,298 
  Derivative financial liabilities -  21,170  -
  Current liabilities 50,456  66,559  286,819 
  Short-term borrowings  200,000  260,000  330,000 
  Current long-term borrowings 211,863  622,703  555,106 
Long-term non-trade payable 189,389  206,800  157,966 
 Non-current liabilities 5,792,195  5,223,938  5,529,368 
  Debentures 4,655,137  4,014,777  3,992,111 
  Long-term borrowings 80,147  85,125  348,333 
  Long-term payables-other 657,001  828,721  705,605 
  Long-term unearned revenue 19,544  50,894  160,820 
  Defined benefit obligations 15,555  22,886  34,951 
  Derivative financial liabilities 130,889  100,210  63,599 
  Other non-current liabilities 27,676  19,537  99,355 
  Deferred tax liabilities 144,876  44,601  -
  Other non-current liabilities 61,370  57,187  124,594 
 Total Liabilities 9,170,241  9,512,011  9,872,454 
Equity   
 Share capital 44,639  44,639  44,639 
 Other paid up capital 433,894  433,894  (236,160)
 Retained earnings 12,996,790  12,665,699  12,413,981 
 Reserves 66,898  171,176  154,588 
 Total Equity 13,542,221  13,315,408  12,377,048 
Total Liabilities and Equity 22,712,462  22,827,419  22,249,502                        Unit: KRW million157 156
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesNon-Consolidated Income Statement 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 
 31st 30th 29th
Operating revenue 13,012,644  12,860,379  12,332,719 
 Revenue 13,012,644  12,860,379  12,332,719 
Operating expense 11,275,484  10,890,695  10,657,331 
 Labor cost 588,635  598,885  508,226 
 Commissions paid 5,591,245  5,333,869  5,576,763 
Depreciation and amortization 2,095,702  2,006,896  1,724,707 
 Network interconnection 771,786  770,125  796,580 
 Leased line 370,549  412,217  431,522 
 Advertising 213,605  237,291  209,804 
 Rent 377,112  362,659  330,611 
 Cost of products that have been resold 457,049  399,810  295,757 
 Other operating expense 809,801  768,943  783,361 
Operating income 1,737,160  1,969,684  1,675,388 
 Finance income 82,276  81,196  381,930 
 Finance cost 293,338  422,764  533,198 
 Other non-operating income 37,422  47,618  161,756 
 Other non-operating expense 184,177  417,252  133,647 
 Gain (losses) related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, net 57,593  37,685  5,510 
Profit before income tax 1,321,750  1,220,797  1,546,719 
 Corporate tax 293,209  310,640  303,952 
 Net profit for the term 1,028,541  910,157  1,242,767 
Earnings per share   
 Basic earnings per share (in won) 14,262  12,837  17,832 
 Diluted earnings per share (in won) 14,262  12,837  17,406                        Unit: KRW millionNon-Consolidated Statements of Income 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31 
 31st 30th 29th
Net profit for the term 1,028,541  910,157  1,242,767 
Other inclusive gains and losses (118,086) 22,515  (176,744)
 Re-evaluation elements of the vested benefit obligations (13,808) 5,927  (10,838)
 Gain or loss from appreciatio of tradable financial assets (66,103) 4,795  (146,203)
 Gain or loss from appreciation of derivative products (38,175) 11,793  (19,703)
Total inclusive gains and losses for the term 910,455  932,672  1,066,023                        Unit: KRW million159 158
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New Possibilities 31st 30th 29th 
Cash outflows for investing activities      (2,942,006) (2,924,971) (6,339,097)
  Increase in short-term investment securities, net     94,802  45,031  - 
  Increase in long-term financial instruments      195,700  275,913  243,494 
  Acquisition of long-term investment securities      2,522  7,500  - 
  Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures   28,801  9,313  4,425 
  Acquisition of property and equipment      210,060  206,791  3,131,483 
  Acquisition of property and equipment      2,319,016  2,201,354  2,883,630 
  Acquisition of intangible assets       91,060  179,069  72,328 
  Increase in long-term loans       45  -  22 
  Cash outflows due to business overtake     -  -  3,387 
  Increase in other non-current assets      -  -  328 
Cash flows from financing activities      (798,911) (436,749) 973,161 
 Cash inflows from financing activities      801,035  1,529,858  3,934,051 
  Proceeds from short-term borrowings       -  -  330,000 
  Proceeds from long-term borrowings       3,552  96,455  1,986,800 
  Issuance of hybrid bond       -  398,518  - 
  Issuance of debentures        797,364  1,014,859  1,530,714 
  Cash inflows from derivative transactions      119  20,026  86,537 
 Cash outflows for financing activities      (1,599,946) (1,966,607) (2,960,890)
  Repayment in short-term borrowings, net      60,000  70,000  - 
  Repayment of long-term borrowings       12,814  457,110  1,650,000 
  Repayment of long-term non-trade payables      207,668  161,575  92,158 
  Repayment of debentures        629,940  621,976  558,184 
  Payment of dividends        666,802  655,946  655,133 
  Interest on hybrid bond       16,840  -  - 
  Outflow of cash due to transaction of derivative products 5,882  -  5,415 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   (200,095) 191,961  (638,945)
Cash and cash equivalent at beginning of the year  448,459  256,577  895,558 
Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (53) (79) (36)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  248,311  448,459  256,577 Non-Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
The 31st As of 2014.12.31 
The 30th  As of 2013.12.31 
The 29th As of 2012.12.31  
 31st 30th 29th
Cash flows from operating activities          3,221,433  3,022,473  3,161,516 
 Cash generated from operating activities      3,580,032  3,315,722  3,668,720 
  Net profit for the term 1,028,541  910,157  1,242,767 
  Adjustment for income and expenses      2,886,389  3,120,427  2,249,241 
  Changes in assets and liabilities related to operating activities  (334,898) (714,862) 176,712 
 Interest received         20,954  29,695  45,748 
 Dividends received         13,048  20,641  30,567 
 Interest paid         (224,119) (246,632) (265,355)
 Income tax paid        (168,482) (96,953) (318,164)
Cash flows from investing activities      (2,622,617) (2,393,763) (4,773,622)
 Cash inflows from investing activities      319,389  531,208  1,565,475 
  Decrease in short-term financial instruments, net     -  -  35,416 
  Decrease in short-term investment securities, net     30,500  13,300  455,700 
  Collection of short-term loans       197,925  279,815  273,147 
  Decrease in long-term financial instruments      2,522  -  -
  Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment securities    54,218  29,762  449,720 
  Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures -  1,808  88,602 
  Proceeds from disposal of investment property     -  -  61,186 
  Disposition of tangible assets 25,677  3,148  187,560 
  Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets     1,127  965  2,811 
  Disposition of non-current assets scheduled to be disposed of 3,667  190,393  - 
  Collection of long-term loans       3,660  11,727  10,689 
  Proceeds from disposal of other non-current assets    93  290  644                        Unit: KRW million                        Unit: KRW million161 160
Business & Strategy Overview Governance & Leadership Financial & Non-Financial Statement Appendix
SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesGlobal Network Investor Information
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-999, Korea
Tel. 82-2-6100-2114
DATE OF ESTABLISHMENT
March 29, 1984
PAID IN CAPITAL
KRW 44,639 million as of December 31, 2014
NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES
80,745,711 Shares as of December 31, 2014
SECURITIES LISTINGS
Korea Stock Exchange: 017670.KS(Common Stock)
New York Stock Exchange: SKM(ADS)
London Stock Exchange: SKMD(ADS)
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
Kookmin Bank
Securities Agency Business Department,
36-3, Yeoido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, KoreaTel. 82-2-2073-8110
Fax. 82-2-2073-8111
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES
Citibank, N.A. 
388 Greenwich St., 14th Floor, New York,
NY 10013, USATel. 1-212-816-6855
Fax. 1-212-816-6865AVAILABLE FILINGS
Form 20-F
Form 6-K: Quarterly Reports,
Proxy Statements, 
and other material announcements
ANNUAL GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING
Friday, March 20, 2015, at 10 AM
SK Telecom Boramae Building, Boramaero 5gil 1,
Gwanak-gu, Seoul, Korea
COMPANY WEBSITE
www.sktelecom.com/en
INVESTOR RELATIONS
65, Eulji-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-999, Korea
e-mail: skt.ir@sk.comKoreaSK Telecom Co., Ltd. 
65, Eulji-ro, jung-guSeoul 100-999, Korea
Tel. 82-2-6100-2114
U.S.
SK Telecom Americas
310 De Guigne Drive,
Sunnyvale,CA 94085, U.S.
Tel. 1-408-328-2900
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
New York Office10F , 55 East 59th Street,
New York,
NY 10022, U.S.
Tel. 1-646-737-3462
China
SK Telecom
(China) Holding Co., Ltd. 
25F , SK Tower, No. 6 Jia,
Jianguomenwai Avenue,
Chaoyang District,
Beijing 100022, ChinaTel. 86-10-5920-7777Japan
SK Telecom Co., Ltd.Tokyo Office8F , NBF Hibiya Bldg., 1-1-7,
Uchisaiwai-cho, Chiyoda-ku,
Tokyo 100-0011, Japan 
Tel. 81-3-3591-3800
Vietnam
The Representative Office ofSK Telecom Co.,Ltd.
in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Unit 1212A, 12F ,
Diamond Plaza,
34 Le Duan Street,Ben Ngha Ward, Distrct 1,
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Tel. 84-8-3822-9145
Malaysia
SK Malaysia
Representative Office
Suite 53A, Level 53,
Vista Tower, The Intermark,
348 Jalan Tun Razak,
50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
Tel. 603-2166-9011SK Telecom Annual Report 2014  Partner for New PossibilitiesSK Telecom
Annual Report 2014
Partner for 
New Possibilities
Participants of SK Telecom
Ethics Management Team Jung-Ah Kwak
Operational Support Team Sang-Hyun Park
 Ji-Hye Lee
Management Support Team Sang-Hoon Han
 Mo-Kil Jung
 Byung-Don Lee
CEM Team Hye-Sung Kim
Information Security Hyun-Tae Kim
Planning TeamMarketing Strategy Team Soon-Kwo Kwon
 Hyung-Bae Lee
Distribution Planning Team Kyu-Jin Shim
 Pricing Team
 Seung-Ho Han
Solution Strategy Team Dae-Woo Kim
Network Strategy Team Il-Hoon Kim
Access Network Lab Seong-Keun Kim
Technology Strategy Team Sung-Taek kim
 Jung-Kuk Jang
Product Planning Team 1 Tae-Hee Wang
Convergence Planning Team Min-Yi Kim
Healthcare Strategy Team Tae-Gi Kim
Corporate Development Joon-Yub Lee
Strategy TeamCorporate Strategy Team Hwan-Seok Choi
Growth Strategy Team Hwan-Seok Jeong
 Byung-Joon Jun
Accounting Team Dae-Hoon Kwak
Tax Team Tae-Seuk Kim
Procurement Planning Team Joo-Young Lee
Corporate Partnership Team Sung-Soo Kim
Compliance Team Jeong-Min Choi
SKMS Team Dug-Ro Lee
EMD Team Ji-Eun Lee
Labor Relations Team Bong-Rae Cho
Talent Mgmt. Team Jong-Yo Kim
 Yoon-Ah LeePlanning & AdvisoryKorea Productivity Cente
Editing & Design
Media Brain 
Photograph
Noon Pictures
Printing
Iljin PrintingPublication Date
July 2015
Publishing
SK Telecom
Publisher
Dong-Hyun Jang
Production Responsibility
CFO Yong-Hwan Lee 
IR Team  Jeong-Hwan Choi
 Min-Joo Kim 
 Jung-Hyun Kim
 Hye-Seung Han
Contacthyeseung.han@sk.comYou can download this Report as a PDF file from 
the official website of SK Telecom (http://www.
sktelecom.com)To contribute to resource recycling and environmental protection, 
SK Telecom used Forest Stewardship Council’s FSCTM-certified 
paper to publish the 2013 Annual Report and print it using soy-based 
ink certified with the FSCTM Chain of Custody (Certificate No.: 
C110010). The company also participates in the Carbon Neutral 
Program run by the Korea Energy Management Corporation to offset greenhouse gas emissions generated from the pulp and energy used 
to print reports.
Despite the company’s varying efforts to reduce environmental impacts, since the process of making and printing in paper generates 
pollutants, this Report is published both in print and as an interactive 
PDF file. SK Telecom plans on reducing resource and energy use and 
using more interactive PDF files that contain a lot more information 
than in the print version due to lack of space. We encourage our readers to access this Report as a PDF file instead of the print edition 
to save resources and protect the environment, while accessing a lot 
more information more conveniently.HR Team Chi-Hong Park
 Ji-Hye Park
 So-Cheon Yoon
Values Development Team Myung-Ju Kim
Policy Development Team Hyun-Joon Lim
Business Cooperation Team Seong-Yeon Ryu
 Won-Suk Lee
PR Planning Team Uk Jeong
 Jung-Han Doh
 Soo-Hee Jung
PR Team 1 Yeong-Min Baek 
Technology Cooperation Team Won-Seok Yang
 Min-Seok Jang
CSV Planning Team Dae-Ho Kim
 Seung-Hee Lee
CSV Operation Team Hyung-Eal Jang
Office of the Board of Directors Jin-Sok Lee
SK Hynix Ki-Sub Yoon
SK Planet Jin-Hyuk Kim
SK Broadband Baek-Hyung Lee
SK Telink Han-Ki Song
 
 
 
 
 